-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Cry 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/farcry2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible amount of freedom to approach each mission.
 50 square kilometers of visually stunning African landscape.
 Hefty single-player campaign should take at least 30 hours.
 Diverse reward and upgrade systems feed off each other very well.
 Robust map editor on all three versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story does very little with politically-charged setting.
 Traveling for long stretches can become tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,836 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although you can't say the same for the plot, Far Cry 2's first-person action squeezes every last 
 drop of potential out of the unique African setting. 

  In Far Cry 2's chaotic world of mercenaries, gunrunners, and armed militias, you'll find yourself 
 dropped into a dizzying web of shady clients and paper-thin alliances. All manner of names and 
 faces are introduced during the course of the storyline, but the real star isn't anyone brandishing 
 a smuggled weapon in search of blood diamonds; it's the daunting and awe-inspiring 50-square kilometers 
 of African landscape that make up the game's open-world setting. Aside from providing the opportunity 
 to soak up an amazing sunset, Far Cry 2's free-roaming terrain brilliantly harmonizes with the 
 first-person combat. The diverse landscape and myriad environmental factors work alongside a wide 
 assortment of weaponry to give you tremendous freedom to approach each mission. Combined with solid 
 multiplayer, Far Cry 2's sheer breadth of action provides you with plenty of reason to stay lost 
 in the African wilderness despite an underwhelming plot and the occasional sense of tedium in navigating 
 from one location to another on the gargantuan map.  

           Far Cry 2 is quite the looker.      

  Far Cry 2's story is filled with potential. 
 You're a mercenary working for a client who's sent you to an unnamed African nation engulfed in 
 civil war, and your job is to take out a notorious arms dealer known as "The Jackal." He quickly 
 proves to be an elusive figure, so you'll need to begin working for various warring factions that 
 the Jackal has armed so you can trace the supply line back to your target. The two primary organizations 
 at the heart of all this bloodshed are the militaristic UFLL and the revolutionary APR. You'll 
 spend the bulk of the story working for these two groups, getting to know their power structures, 
 and taking on all of the violent tasks they throw your way. Complicating things is the fact that 
 your character has malaria, which means you'll need to occasionally play nice with the more ragtag 
 Underground, the only group with the medical connections necessary to keep your potentially life-threatening 
 symptoms at bay.  

  Each story mission can be played in multiple ways. There are 12 potential buddies randomly scattered 
 throughout the storyline who you can befriend (nine of whom are available to choose as your silent 
 protagonist) , and they're often keen to tack on their own interests to the quests handed out by 
 the UFLL and APR. Instead of just taking out a target, you have the option to earn extra reputation 
 points by working alongside your buddy to first squeeze any remaining assets from the soon-to-be-deceased. 
 This also earns you the ability to increase your level of companionship with that buddy. It's a 
 neat reward, but it doesn't shed much light on their backgrounds. But that's par for the course; 
 the main story is delivered in such a rushed, quick-and-dirty way that you never feel very involved 
 in the game's overarching conflicts. The plot is less  Blood Diamond  than it is early Grand Theft 
 Auto, a long roster of changing faces that scroll by far too quickly to capitalize on the politically 
 charged setting.  

  Although disappointing for a single-player campaign that could easily drain more than 30 hours 
 of your time, any shortcomings in the plot are mostly forgivable thanks to Far Cry 2's overall 
 structure. The game is organized in a way that provides a daunting amount of freedom to explore, 
 earn currency, and wreak havoc on the game's landscape and its denizens. It's all laid out in a 
 manner typical of sandbox action games. Pulling out your map reveals a collection of icons that 
 signify available missions and points of interest that you can meander toward at your own leisure. 
 Among these are dozens of side missions that you can take on, with various forms of rewards. Delivering 
 transit papers to trapped refugees earns you malaria medication, destroying rival convoys for gun 
 merchants unlocks new weapons for purchase, and performing assassinations for mysterious voices 
 at the other end of your cell phone rewards you with diamonds. You can also rough up militias stationed 
 in small camps and turn their dwellings into your own safe houses. The side missions can feel a 
 bit repetitive when played through in rapid succession, but they offer a great change of tempo 
 when sprinkled throughout the main narrative. But what's most clever is how their differing rewards 
 intermingle so wonderfully with your needs in progressing through the story: Malaria pills keep 
 your HP and stamina up, diamonds buy you new weapons and ability upgrades, and safe houses provide 
 temporary shelter to stock up and save your game.  

           With so much ground to cover, you'll be spending a lot of time driving, boating, running, 
 and swimming.      

  The freedom of choice that goes with selecting which mission you want to perform carries over to 
 how you execute them, and that's where Far Cry 2 really shines. There are a variety of factors 
 that affect the way you approach each mission, from the number of people you need to kill, to the 
 landscape, to the weather and time of day. If your job is to take out a key figure hidden deep 
 within a militia camp in the jungle, you'll do well to take a nap at your safe house until nightfall 
 and silently stalk your prey under the cover of darkness. If it's a windy day and you need to take 
 out a bandit outpost in the dry plains, you can start a fire from far away with a flare gun and 
 let the breeze and arid conditions collude to spread the flames toward their camp, finishing off 
 the survivors with a sniper rifle. Need to clear out a bunch of scattered guards? Why not shoot 
 an oil drum near an ammo stockpile and watch as the bullets erupt in every direction like deadly 
 pieces of popcorn? Of course, you can also get up close and personal with pistols and machine guns, 
 but the moments in which elaborately planned assaults succeed are some of the most gratifying points 
 in the game. The whole process of staging an attack only becomes more intricate and rewarding as 
 you slowly upgrade your safe house into a full-blown armory and unlock new weapon and vehicle abilities -- all 
 done through the gun shops.     

  The sheer variety of weapons plays a big role in your ability to craft a personalized approach 
 to each mission. For every situation, there's a weapon ideally suited to delivering mercenary justice. 
 From the AK-47 to the Molotov cocktail and the remote-detonated improvised explosive device, they 
 all feel like weapons that could easily be plucked from the civil wars of Africa. Furthermore, 
 your weapons will cycle through an authentic level of wear and tear, particularly those picked 
 up from ragtag militiamen; secondhand weapons will show dirt, frequently jam, and eventually break, 
 which means that it's best to buy them from the shop. All of the above makes for a uniquely desperate 
 and makeshift style of combat compared to other first-person shooters.  

           Fire is often your best friend, but not when it's raining or a mission takes you to a 
 dense jungle.      

  If there's one drawback to the combat, it's that it tends to be a little too forgiving after the 
 first few hours of the game. Your health is divided into several individually regenerative bars 
 like Resistance: Fall of Man, but once it gets low, you can inject yourself with a syrette for 
 added health (though if it's really low, you'll first need to perform a slick self-heal such as 
 yanking bullet shells out of your leg or snapping a broken arm back into place) . You can eventually 
 upgrade the amount of ammo and health you have to further tip the odds in your favor, and even 
 have a buddy rescue you whenever you die (though you need to keep an eye on him because he can 
 be permanently killed in a scuffle) . Most of the challenge arrives when you're looking at your 
 map in search of the next mission and then get surprised by a bunch of roadside bandits while you're 
 driving one of the game's numerous run-down SUVs or river boats (which exist alongside hang-gliders, 
 trucks, licensed Jeeps, and dune buggies as the types of vehicles you can operate) . However, there 
 are still very few moments when you don't feel like an everyman caught in a nasty situation, and 
 that sort of improvised payback is what makes Far Cry 2's combat so engrossing.  

  Visually, Far Cry 2 is a stunner. Though not as technically amazing as the jungles of Crysis, Far 
 Cry 2's depiction of the sprawling African wilderness makes up for it with environmental diversity 
 and intimidating scale. Several landscapes are represented here: dense forests, rolling plains, 
 arid deserts, craggy badlands, and even shantytowns and hut villages. You'll see trees swaying, 
 the charred remains of a brush fire, and several forms of wildlife running around. It all looks 
 incredible in the transitional period of the day-night cycle when the sun is falling or rising 
 through the horizon and everything is cast in a warm glow. The game also sounds great, with tribal 
 music accompanying you at all times, from a relaxing ambience in calm situations to a rapidly escalating 
 roar of drums in battle. The voice acting during mission briefings feels strangely hurried (as 
 if it's some trick to squeeze more dialogue onto the disc) , but that's largely offset by excellent 
 enemy banter during combat.  

  Adding to Far Cry 2's value is the 16-person online multiplayer. The gameplay modes on display 
 are nothing terribly special (you'll see variations of Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the 
 Flag, and Territories) , but the fighting captures a lot of the appeal of single-player, including 
 vehicles, fire-based weaponry, and a great sense of scale in each map. But what sets the multiplayer 
 apart is that you don't need to settle for the included maps; each version of the game comes with 
 a deep but intuitive map editor capable of letting you create everything from dense urban locales 
 to sprawling forests. And downloading new maps is simply a matter of seeking out featured selections 
 or hitting "download" when a Quick Match search lets you know that you don't have that one yet. 
 Such uninspired gameplay modes are certainly a letdown, but the map editor has great potential 
 to inject loads of lasting appeal into Far Cry 2's online component.  

           The map editor is easy to use, but capable of making great maps.      

  Although the 
 original Far Cry was available only on the PC for the first year and a half of its existence, Far 
 Cry 2 will see an expanded audience with the PC, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 versions all available 
 out of the gate. However, its roots are clearly on display when taking in the differences between 
 the three platforms. Far Cry 2 looks best running on a PC, with clearer textures, better foliage, 
 and less pop-in. The console versions also suffer from the occasional loading hitch when you're 
 driving into a highly populated city. Another key difference is that the PC version lets you save 
 anywhere you want, whereas the 360 and PS3 games only let you use predefined save points. However, 
 the latter difference isn't quite as lopsided as the graphical disparity; saving anywhere gives 
 you more room for experimentation in approaching your missions, but the console versions provide 
 a more clearly defined sense of consequence that adds extra tension to the combat. You'll definitely 
 want to go with the PC version if you've got a system capable of approaching the hardware requirements, 
 but the differences aren't so great that you won't have a blast with either console version (which 
 are virtually indistinguishable from one another) .  

  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a game in which you can quite literally get lost for hours at a time. But 
 that feeling of exploration is precisely what makes the game so much fun; your creativity never 
 feels stifled when approaching a mission, and the game's overall structure of side tasks, friends, 
 rewards, and upgrades is a diverse ecosystem rivaling the landscape itself. No matter whether you're 
 a PC fan whose played through the similarly structured Crysis or a console owner new to the world 
 of open-ended first-person shooters, you won't be disappointed by Far Cry 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (150 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The story begins with that you get a mission to kill a guy named the Jackal. You are sent to some 
 place in Africa to complete your mission. It turns out that the Jackal is clever, and that he is 
 trying to kill you too...
  
  I must say that the graphics and the milieu were just amazing and realistic. Many cool weapons 
 that can be bought with diamonds you get as a reward from missions. Then we have the day-night 
 circle. Also the weather varies in this game. Sometimes the sun shines in the jungle, and sometimes 
 it rains as hell. There are wild animals running in the world, which I found was very nice. The 
 fun thing in this game was to do the boring missions, but in reward you got plenty of diamonds 
 for new weapons and weapon upgrades. And on the way you explored your way to your next object, 
 you could search for diamonds with your diamond detector" which you always had with you. The lamp 
 started blinking more the more closer you got the briefcase with the diamonds in.
  One thing that makes this game special is the map making mode. You can make own Far Cry 2 stylish 
 maps, which is cool. Then you can share them on the world (like Littlebigplanet) .
  There were a few nice vehicles such as the boat and the glider.
  
  Afterwards it turned out 
 that there are many bad sides too; Repetitive missions (all missions goes like this; drive-repair 
 your car-kill the object) . The driving is boring, because you have to drive so long distances and 
 there's no fast travel system except the bus, but sometimes there is a very long way to the bus 
 too. The cars feel very unrealistic. But it was funny to unlock places (by going to the house and 
 kill the Jackal's men) while driving from a place to another. 
  One thing that gets really frustrating is the quickly respawning enemies in the guard posts. Believe 
 me, I wish I could've changed the respawning time somehow. 
  Far Cry 2 felt somehow so soulless. The story sucked and so did the characters and their voice 
 acting. There are many bugs too which makes your save file corrupted for example: Doors not opening 
 to the only quest available) . I didn't suffer this, but in case I used many save files.
  
  In the end, we have the multiplayer. I tried it once and got bored. Nothing special. I don't think 
 I'll ever play this game again. There's no chance, you will replay this game through after playing 
 once through the story (if you ever finish the story) .
  
  Who would I recommend this game to?
  Actually, I'd say get Fallout 3 instead of this. (You can 
 read my review of Fallout 3 too) . But if you really wanna try this, I'd say you should rent it 
 first (if it's possible in your country) . If not, then buy it when it's price is lower.
  
  + Graphics
  + Huge open world
  + Map-making mode
  + Realistic weapons
  + Time and weather 
 changes
  + Diamond detector
  + Glider feels good
  
  - Repetitive missions!!!
  - Quickly respawning guards
  - Long distances
  - Story
  - Bad voice acting
  - Uninteresting 
 characters
  - Bugs
  - Multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickboy333
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Straight to the point.
  
  Pros:
  - Great graphics, exept for soldiers that are far away
  - Long storyline
  - GREAT environment, 
 and quite varied (Dunes, oasis, jungle, etc)
  - Decent multiplayer : You can level up and buy better weapons. It can be fun to play in large 
 jungle maps, although they are not often played for some odd reason.
  - Bonus missions at the end increase game length.
  
  Cons:
  - Boring storyline on which your 
 decisions really have no effect on.
  - Clunky gameplay and bugs, from the typical "stuck" somewhere bug, to the lengthy healing scene, 
 and finally the VERY ANNOYING pop out of nowhere enemies on jeeps that kill you instantly.
  - Hard to go around in the environment, air vehicles absent (WHY ??) , the glider doesnt count. 
 This makes it very tedious to move around.
  - Loading/saving times long.
  
  Overall a GTA game with FPS style of gameplay. I feel the first far cry was better and much more 
 entertaining.
  Is it worth the buy ? In my opinion NO. You are better off with Fallout 3 or Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most open world out there... there are hundreds of missions to complete, 
 hundreds of kilometer to drive, hundreds enemies to kill, hundreds of thing to glow up... and hundreds 
 of hours to expend...
  
  Graphically, this game is great... advance physics, good lighting, and everything in the jungle 
 seems to be alive...
  
  Sound is well performe.
  
  Story is not very deep but do it works well.
  
  Music is highly related which the country the 
 game takes place.
  
  Gameplay is standard,
  
  The game might feel repetitive some time...
  
  There is not checkpoints but there are plenty 
 of place where you can find to save it.
  
  I did not take my time to complete this game completing all the missions, I just accepted and completed 
 main missions. That's why it just took me less than 20 hours to beat it... otherwise it might take 
 me more than 40 hours to complete all the missions around there.
  
  It was a good experience... Innovative game who has tired to do the same in a shooter game...
 
  
  I just played a single match in the multiplayer options and it seems to be very fun...
  
  I recommend this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Solid Action- The gunplay and the weapons are solid, and make for some spectacular gunfights. The 
 health system is a mix of both recharging shields and health packs which neither make the game 
 just a quest for the next health pack or make you feel as an invincible super soldier, achieving 
 a good balance. Overall the main gameplay is not bad.
  
  Presentation- Africa is rendered beautifully in this game, definitely one of the best looking games 
 released in 2008. The world is huge and really gives you the feeling that you're trekking across 
 the African savannah. Some of the cutscenes are also amazing to watch, such as taking a piece of 
 shrapnel out of your leg, fixing a dislocated joint, or watching as your buddy rescues you from 
 death. 
  
  Fire- Anything can catch on fire and spread, making the molotovs, the flamethrower, and the flare 
 guns some of the deadliest weapons in the game. And it all looks amazingly pretty.
  
  Cons:
  
  Long and Tedious- Although the action and gameplay is solid, the missions are brutally 
 repetitive and there is not much point to the game once you unlock all of the weapons you want. 
 The main story is touted as being over 25 hours long, but should've been only seven or eight hours.
 
  
  Disappointing and Annoying- Before release this was supposed to be a game where you, the player, 
 take on of the two sides in an ongoing war and affect the outcome. However, that's not the case, 
 as even though you do work for both factions in the game, EVERYONE in the game is against you, 
 and enemies frequently respawn once you leave an area for five seconds. This is disappointing, 
 not to mention annoying later on when you're just trying to drive to a mission area and have to 
 get out of the vehicle every two seconds to fight off enemies who attack.
  
  Multiplayer and the Map Editor- Multiplayer is solid, but can't hold a candle to other similar 
 games such as the Call of Duty series. The map editor is very user-friendly and broad, but can 
 only be used for custom multiplayer maps, which means no user-created single player maps.
  
  Voice Acting- Everyone in the game talk very fast without any pauses between sentences. What 
 a way to destroy most of the presentation.
  
  Malaria- The worst aspect of the game, every once in awhile the game will force you to stop whatever 
 you were doing and do a stupid fetch quest to get some pills so your character doesn't die of malaria. 
 This should have been left out.
  
  
  Overall: C+ (One of the biggest disappointments of 2008, being tedious, repetitive, and in some 
 parts annoying.) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoop_rogg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the original, so naturally I obtained this one as well.
  
  The story starts to draw you in at first then starts to get repetitive kind of like Assassin's 
 Creed, and the ending is pretty weak.
  
  Awesome selection of weapons.
  
  Could have been more vehicles in the game, without having to buy them.
  
  I worked so hard 
 to get all 221 diamonds, they don't give you a trophy just for that, you have complete all the 
 main missions as well, and then you get... a bronze trophy.
  
  Graphics look good, except for some of the screen tearing, that I don't believe should happen in 
 games now days. Like RE5, Killzone 2, Dead Space, all have super graphics, and no screen tear.
 
  
  Sound was really good in this game; I love how real they got the sound of the trucks, and the gun 
 fire.
  
  Bugs - Sometimes you can't open cases. There is this one nasty bug, you get this mission where 
 you have to save one of your buddy's, after you save him, it won't show as completed, and you have 
 to either start the game over if you only have one save, or start from a previous save.
  I had to replay about 8 hours of the game thanks to that bug.
  
  You should have a good time 
 playing Farcry 2 if you like huge free roaming games, and don't mind a weak story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanashiro
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw a trailer of Far Cry 2, I thought: man, what graphics are those? And when I 
 got the full version, I said: man, what the f*** are these graphics? So, the graphics are fantastic, 
 and I can say that a thousand times, because it's totally true.
  First, the basic of the game. You can chose who you wanna be in the game, and the first option that 
 you have is a Brazilian guy, from Sao Paulo! And that's where I live o/
  Getting back to the game, you're there to kill a guy, that sells guns and ammo for two big factions 
 of there. And in after 2 minutes, you allready meet him, but you Malaria is hard on you, so you 
 can't even go there and kick him. As he was thinking that you weren't going to survive, he left 
 you there, but you, of course, survive. And from that moment on, the game really begins, you can 
 catch a weapon, go out you hotel and kill as many guys you can. But you're really sick, so you are 
 beated. Someone saves you, you do some missions and you can go on with the game, doing whatever 
 you want. You can choose the missions that you're going to do. You can do missions for those 2 factions, 
 where you win some diamonds, and with it you can buy weapons. You can do missios for the gun's guy, 
 and after you complete it, he'll bring you new weapons, anyway, you have a lot of things to do 
 here. You can also make friends here, that will help you in bad moments for you. If your health is 
 gonne, they can rescue you from death.
  The game has crazy graphics, you know what I wanna mean. The sounds are great, when you stop in 
 the middle of the jungle you can hear the animals and the wind. As a FPS, you can move very well, 
 and the buttons are great. You have a HUGE map here, and after some hours playing, moving on the 
 map can become a boring thing. But with come things, like buses, that takes you to some places, 
 the things aren't so boring, and the action doesn't stop, you'll see that a lot of cars with gang 
 members are after you at any moment.
  Now multiplayer. You can play with other 15 people in a Deathmatch, Team Deatchmatch, Capture the 
 Diamond and Uprising, and as you gain levels, you gain diamonds, and with the diamonds, you can 
 upgrades 6 tipes of weapons, and with every upgrade, you win a new weapon to use.
  
  So, if you're a fan of FPS you can't miss this game. The multiplayer will keep this games months 
 and months on your console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelestialSnake
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is set in a 50 square kilometer region of africa that i dont even know exists. You play 
 one of 8 or 9 charachters, each with his own bio, and your mission is to hunt down the Jackal, 
 an arms dealer supplying the two opposing factions. 
  As I loaded up the game, I was really excited, and my excitement lasted for about 2 hours, then 
 I realized that I had done everything I could. The missions tended to be repetetive, and the only 
 reason I played through was to get the trophies, which were really hard to get. Mission after mission 
 was pretty much the same, especially if you get help from your buddies, which takes forever, and 
 half the time I just went to do the main mission, but anyway. 
  The graphics are super shiny, just like everything else these days, and the fire mechanics were 
 good, but using it to your advantage isn't really necessary because enemies never really run from 
 you, which is the only use the fire has. Although i did have fun slicing a guy with a machete, 
 leaving him lying there half dead only to be burned alive by the fire.... and I did like the "Good 
 night sweet prince trophy", which was where you have to kill one of your buddies with a bullet 
 to their head.
  All in all, Far Cry 2 is like an apple, the first bite is the best, but then it gets kind of mushy 
 and gross. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun for the most part. Most of the time, missions are assassinating people, blowing 
 things up, and delivering contraband. The African backdrop was done well, along with the sound. 
 Setting the landscape on fire with Molotov's seemed like a weekend in Iraq, but it was the jungle, 
 and this jungle is huge. How do you find your way around you ask? By an annoying map that does 
 not work well while moving, especially driving. This was one of the biggest disappointments I found 
 in this game. 
  Other than than, it's not bad. There are South African Mercenaries, and factions are trying to 
 eliminate each other with civilians caught in the middle, with a CIA minded boss character named 
 the "Jackal". 
  Finding his recordings and listening to them gave the feeling of Colonel Kurtz in "Apocalypse Now". 
 You do get to have a few partners throughout the game, who will help you out when the going gets 
 nasty. There are upgrades to the weapons, and skills for them to match. But you have to earn them 
 by finding diamonds, and doing lots of dirty work for undesirable individuals. 
  I spent way too much time walking and finding medicine for a disease I had. Driving from mission 
 to mission was redundant. There is a bus service, but sometimes it does not help much. 
  It definitely has the Far Cry theme going but, I'd say the older version on the original X-Box 
 was more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. When I got it during the holidays it was the first of 
 my new games that I put in my playstation. I could not wait to start, and at first I thought it 
 was pretty cool for being so realistic and the graphics were pretty good, but then I got this creeping 
 feeling I always get when I don't really care for a game, and about an hour into to it I turned 
 it off because the gameplay is really repetitive and annoying. It basically is like this: You are 
 a guy, you are in Africa, you have to kill the Jackal, but first you have to do missions, to do 
 missions you have to drive around this really boring landscape that is really pretty much the same 
 all over, dotted all over the place are outposts of the two main factions who shoot at you even 
 though you are working for them, even if you pass through successfully they will chase you in cars 
 and once you have to fight them they are almost invincible and your gun jams up every five minutes. 
 I summed up the gameplay there. This game did not hold my interest long at all even though I wanted 
 to like it and give it a chance. After two hours I put it down and did not play it all for a long 
 time till I traded it in the other day. Pretty disappointing.
  
  Graphics: 7.0 The graphics were the only good part about this game, which isn't saying much. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 1.0 The gameplay is boring and repetitive and after awhile you see its just plain abysmal.
 
  
  Story 5.0 The story didn't really hold my interest at all, but it wasn't as bad as the gameplay.
 
  
  Replayability 1.0 This game has no replayability whatsoever, after about two hours I was done for 
 good. 
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 2.5 A very mediocre and boring game that barely held 
 my attention when I did play it. Not even worthy of the bargain bin. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a game that lots of people like and others hate. Its one of those cases where it really 
 depends on wich type of gamer you are, but still, i'm an all around gamer, so this review should 
 be objective and informative for most people.
  
  
  Graphics / Sound - Far Cry stands out for its graphics, pure and simple ! Although it may not have 
 that PC kind of look like other games such as Uncharted and MGS with lots of details and polygons, 
 polished if you may
  ; Far Cry has its own charm ... The sunset, the trees, rocks, ground, weapons and light effects, 
 especially fire, are all very realistic and carry this African feel with them. When you're running 
 in deep jungles while the sun is right above your head, you will understand what im saying !
  Explosions and smoke effects are also a plus.
  When it comes to sound, its as you expected : 
 Nice weapon sounds, explosions, foliage breaking, cars rolling around, all very good. Props to 
 the NPC dialogue wich can be a bit stupid from time to time but still is good.
  Too bad the dialogue with friends while beeing debriefed can be quite fast, as if the person you're 
 talking to is in a hurry.
  Overall, graphics and sound accomplish and go beyond.
  
  Gameplay - Far Cry is, like i said, a free-roaming FPS. It's a game where you get your mission, 
 and its up to you how to finish it. Guns at your disposal, cars and bus stations make it easier 
 to go around the actual 50 km2 of land !
  Just don't be annoyed by the fact that at first, and sometimes after, you will have to drive and 
 run ... alot !
  Help rival factions, mercenaries and gun sellers in several missions and get diamonds ( not dollars, 
 here its Diamonds ) in return to buy new guns, manuals and gadgets like more morfine syrettes and 
 more grenades.
  When facing ennemies, they will react well, trying to flank you and grenade you to death, or also 
 try to run you over with their cars. Its good IA that'll keep you always on the lookout and immersed 
 in the experience.
  Things like a GPS that blinks green when diamonds are around and map that your character physically 
 holds in his hand are also a plus to get you into the game. So, in total, gameplay is pretty damn 
 well good.
  
  Story - Basicly, you're a mercenary that, along with others that you will later be friends with, 
 is chasing a well known arms dealer, called ''The Jackal''. You get thrown in a war thorn country 
 in a God forsaken place in Africa, struck with malaria, to catch that bad guy. The rest is up to 
 you to find out =D
  
  Multiplayer / Others - Multiplayer is, like singleplayer, something that you will start to understand 
 and eventually start to like with time. Both single and multiplayer are pretty different from other 
 shooters. In multiplayer, you get a wide variety of maps, well constructed and coherent, about 
 6 classes ( Assault, Sniper, Guerrila - guy with shotguns and close-quarters, Saboteur - guy with 
 silent weapons, Heavy - not the name of the class, but you understand ... guy with light machine 
 guns and others, and finnally, Intimidation - again, not the name of the class, but this one carries 
 all the flamethrowers and other weapons that carry a big scary look ) .
  Each class has different weapons but none has any perks or such, wich differs from other shooters 
 in MP, but the fact that anyone can revive a downed teamate ( given that he wansn't immolated, 
 headshoted or blown to hell ) also is different from other shooters. It's an innovative multiplayer 
 feel. Now the game modes are a bit like most of games : Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the 
 Diamond ( flag =.= ) , Capture And Hold - 3 zones in the map can be captured; when they all are 
 belonging to one team, find the ennemy captain and kill him so the game ends.
  
  Basicly, this is multiplayer summarized. Other features include a very very good and diversified 
 map editor wich can be played in non-ranked matches and be posted in the Internet ; other promotional 
 and additional content also avaiable. 
  
  So, like i said in the beginning of my review, Far Cry is a game that people wont like at all and 
 others will love. But still, give it a try, let it flow, be warned that bugs and errors can happen 
 but don't let that p*** you off : Don't miss this experience for anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattLayden
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  FARCRY on the PC was an amazing game that was detailed in it's environments and had a decent storyline 
 that entangled it's players. FARCRY 2 is a sequel in which the settings are in Africa this time 
 and boasts that it is so detailed that you can do anything.
  
  The graphics are above and beyond phenomenal, the lighting details really grab your eye. 
  
 
  The story isn't as politically charged as it should be considering where they have placed you 
 as a player. And you can choose who you want to play as well, with more then a few characters to 
 choose from. 
  
  The big problem with this game are the controls. The best way to describe them are 'sluggish'. 
 Playing online is hard to do when it takes forever to turn your character while running through 
 the jungle. 
  
  The game is all style over substance and is pretty to look at, but horrible to play. The same motion 
 control is being used in Killzone 2, I only hope that that game isn't as bad as this one. 
  
  As FPS's go, this one isn't high on the list, but it is something to try if you really want 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been saving for over two months for Far Cry 2 for Playstation 3. When I first played I was 
 addicted to it and not disappointed at all! Far Cry 2 has alluring graphics, deep and fun missions, 
 the weapons look realistic, fun driving schemes but hampered down with long load times.
  
  Far Cry 2's main attraction is the location. The hot African wilderness is a fascinating and grand 
 location to play in. The graphics in Far Cry 2 is just plain good. Once you have a look at the 
 rag-doll physics and amazing wilderness in Far Cry 2, you would just want to jump in!
  
  All the missions in Far Cry 2 are very fun, especially the main missions, since they act as the 
 storyline. However, missions such as 'The Underground' can be a bit prolonged and boring. Overall, 
 missions in Far Cry 2 are very good and awesome.
  
  The weapons in Far Cry 2 really do pack a punch! The shotgun can literally smash enemies away and 
 the flamethrower does a great job and is your best friend throughout the game. One annoying feature 
 in Far Cry 2 is the machine gun. It is really hard to aim and fire accurately, but it can be considered 
 to be very realistic. Another realistic feature is the weapon jamming and wearing. These all look 
 great on the small screen and make you feel like your in the character's shoes.
  
  Sailing, driving and flying is a critical point in Far Cry 2 since there are over 50 kms to explore 
 in the game's virtual word, walking won't get you anywhere. However, it does get quite annoying 
 when you drive a long distance and get run over and have to drive over there again.
  
  However, Far Cry 2 does have long loading times and takes around 2-3 minutes to load the game to 
 where you last saved. But it is actually not too much to ask because after all it does feature 
 a 50 km enviroment to travel around.
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a must for any gamer who adores a solid, realistic 1st person shooter with 
 a slight taste of vehicle game-play. Just give it a good try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getter_Robo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is one of those games that's definitely worth the money. This game will give you a ton 
 of game play hours and is paced by how you play it and there no need to hurry and beat the clock. 
 
  
  Graphics/Detail:
  The environment was rendered using actual landscape in Africa. Sounds and terrain are represented 
 in great detail. The bark on the trees, the sound of the different foliage as you walk through 
 it, the animals that walk the plains and the beautiful sky totally put you into the game. You can 
 be in the thick jungle, on a dirt road with the sunlight barely peeking through the trees, then 
 come out into an opening with mesas, water and grass, a totally different landscape than what you 
 were in. You can't help but want to just go wherever you can see just to look at it. At dusk, to 
 watch the sun fall as it emits a glow across the sky, onto the terrain, makes you feel like your 
 actually there in real time, and I swear as I walked through some barren areas during the day, 
 I can imagine what it would be like to be stranded in the immense heat. Everything in the game 
 has been designed to detail so buildings and towns have a different look and feel, and in no way 
 does any of it look cookie cutter. Even trash and debris are placed to give realism of the plight 
 in some areas and to give you the presence that "this area is/was, occupied" 
  
  Gameplay: 
  The controls are easy to understand and easy to use. The aiming controls are good 
 for analog sticks and won't frustrate. On a side note, I would prefer aiming tweaks for accelration 
 and turn speed as well. A lot of these shooters impliment acceleration in the turn speed, so when 
 using analog sticks, the aiming will either be a little twitchy or a little aggravating when trying 
 to snipe someone who's on the move or aim fast at multiple targets. This doesn't take away from 
 the game however as the aiming works good enough.
  
  The enemy AI is is smart and will flank you. They will aggressively attack by running from cover 
 to cover to get an advantage, or hop into Jeeps with mounted guns and come after you. The harder 
 the difficulty the more aggressive they are. At times, the enemy would hide themslves in brush 
 or behind cover, as you would in the game, so it's a real cat and mouse at times. 
  
  Yes, as you have heard, there is a lot of travelling to be done. Some people are complaining because 
 they state it's too excessive and a pain. I, for one, don't mind it at all. Because of the scenery, 
 it's a nice break from the action to drive from one location to the next. It also helps you become 
 accustomed to the locations because of the vast and different landscapes and hidden and unmarked 
 roads. Also there are hidden briefcases of diamonds and tapes scattered throughout the entire game, 
 so it's in your best interest to explore and go off the beaten path. If you want to travel faster, 
 you can take a bus to the intended location and travel from there. 
  One thing that's a little annoying about the game are the road checkpoints. They will be located 
 on your map. There are a few within an area, but the game isn't littered with an overwhelming amount. 
 To officially complete them, you have to scout them at least once. If you need to raid them for 
 anything that's useful or have to drive through them because you can't drive around them, you will 
 have to clear the hostiles. After you leave that spot and return, they will repopulate again, almost 
 immediately. It's a minor annoyance because you may have to travel the same area a few times in 
 a row becasue of the mission or the need to go to a safe house or buy a new weaopn. It's fun to 
 blow stuff up and take down the enemy, but they could have reserved the respawn for, let's say. 
 a 12-24 hour period. All in all, it's tolerable.
  
  During the game you will acquire friends that will help you in missions and help you at the time 
 of need. This adds some decision making in the game as you can forgo using them and just do the 
 mission on your own, and not obtain friend status with each one you meet as well. Because they 
 are loyal to you, you also can lose them as friends if they die. Along with this, you are in need 
 to be in touch with the Underground, as they have the much needed malaria pills that keep from 
 dying. During the game you will become sick and need to take them to regain full awareness. 
  
  There are main missions and a lot of side missions as well, so there's plenty to keep you busy. 
 With the diamonds you earn from missions in the briefcases, you will be managing your weapon purchases, 
 storage containers, weapon upgrades, and repair manuals for vehicles and weapons.
  
  There are some great lighting effects throughout the game. Between the fires, explosions, and environment, 
 it's always something to look at. 
  
  Sound:
  A real great job here. The ambiotic events are all around you; rustilng of foliage from walking 
 and wind, animals footsteps, birds, people talking and calling you out from cover and the tribal 
 beat that plays in the background. Explosions and weapons are done very well also. Really nice 
 and clean sound.
  
  I can see some people mark this a lower score because it can be repetitive. Your shooting, driving, 
 raiding, and blowing things up. You have to remember it's a shooter/adventure game, and not meant 
 to be anything else, so just take it in and enjoy. I felt the overall contents, atmosphere, environment 
 and sound, made this game a highly reccomended title.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmalignancy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 takes place in a fictional modern-day Central African nation in a state of anarchy and 
 civil war. The player takes control of a mercenary on a lengthy journey to locate and assassinate 
 "The Jackal," a notorious arms dealer.
  
  I believe that Far Cry 2 is very underrated, it has many interesting concepts that make it an overall 
 fun game. FC2 is slow at first, but the pace quickly picks up once you get the hang of the environment. 
 A common complaint about this game is the mercenary fights that break out every few minutes. These 
 can be avoided by using stealth, crawling behind bushes and going around intersections will get 
 you where you need to be with very little conflict. It also encourages you to take over guard posts.
 
  
  What is very interesting about FC2 is the everlasting effects of your actions. If you burn down 
 a tree or field, it doesn't grow back. It stays burned forever. If you blow up a car, the charred 
 remains will always remain. The game runs in 24-hour cycles. You play through dawn, day, dusk, 
 and night. Throughout every hour of the day, the environments look amazing. The shadows are impressive, 
 as they move as the earth rotates. The bushes move, and can be chopped apart, the clouds in the 
 sky move, the grass and trees blow in the wind.
  
  What also impresses me is the realism in this game. You must physically hold a map if you want 
 to use it, and it doesn't pause while looking at the map. If your car breaks down, you must briefly 
 repair it by tightening a few bolts on the engine, if you receive a serious injury you must dig 
 the bullet out of your body, snap a bone back in place, disinfect a wound, or pat yourself out 
 if you catch fire. You also have malaria throughout the entire game, and must take a pill every 
 30 minutes (real time) to combat the effects. If you run out of these pills, you must complete 
 missions to get more. Your guns will also start to jam after being overly-used or submersed in 
 water. These can all be annoying at times, but it makes the game seem so much more realistic.
 
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a good game to play if you like games where you have the freedom to do whatever 
 you like, whenever you like, however you like. There really are no boundaries to what you can do 
 in this game. It's like Grand Theft Auto in the setting of Africa. The gameplay is said to take 
 over 50 hours, I'm only nine hours into the game and I'm loving it more every minute. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 wasn't as brilliant as I expected it to be, but it still paid off in it's unique open 
 world design set in Africa. The most positive thing about it is it's visuals/graphics. Every corner 
 on the map will offer splendid detail for you to explore and find diamonds which will then be used 
 to buy supplies and weapons. In the jungles you will hear the lifelike sounds of the wildlife and 
 often you will see gazelle and zebra grazing around in the fields.
  The gameplay is good and there is plenty of weapons to choose from when unlocked. Missions can 
 be taken on to unlock new weapons or be paid in diamonds. Unfortunately the downsides of Far Cry 
 2 have quite a big impact on the gameplay itself. For example when you encounter a guard post and 
 wipe out all the enemies all you have to do is go round the corner, come back, and all the enemies 
 have respawned again. This can become annoying when you have a target on the opposite side of the 
 map. But overall it is a great game.
  
  Story- 2/5
  Characters- 2/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 4/5
  Length- 5/5
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: 
 Beautiful visuals, Great Africa setting, Good weapon choice, Complete a mission however you want 
 e. g. Stealth or Assault
  
  Bad Points: Enemies respawn to quickly, Gameplay can get repetitive, Too many guard posts, story 
 won't interest you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  The competition in the FPS genre has never been higher, but certain developers are always up to 
 the challenge. Take Ubisoft Montreal, for example, who have delivered a highly anticipated sequel 
 that is entirely unlike the original title. Therefore, perhaps the most important aspect of Far 
 Cry 2 is this: if you were a fan of the first entry, this doesn't necessarily guarantee that you 
 will enjoy the sequel. However, this new style may actually appeal to more next-gen gamers as it 
 emphasizes freedom over the standard linear style of play. You'll go through a simple tutorial 
 at the start, but after it's over, a whole wide world awaits your exploration, and while it's certainly 
 not as expansive as Grand Theft Auto IV, it's certainly intriguing in a backwater, intimidating, 
 Crocodile Dundee sort of way. There's very little wrong with this particular production, and although 
 the small flaws have a way of detracting from the overall experience, most will be more than satisfied 
 with the result. What we have here is an engaging, absorbing, atmospheric adventure with plenty 
 of replay-ability. Considering the original Far Cry was initially developed with the PC in mind, 
 any future iterations for consoles will be dissected by the graphics aficionados that won't let 
 the tiniest imperfection slide. And while it's true the PC version of Far Cry 2 - using the highest 
 possible settings  does look better overall, the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions hold up admirably. 
 There's plenty of great detail, the changing times generate accurate shadows and lighting alterations 
 in the environment, and the developers up the ante by focusing on solidifying the little things. 
 The character design isn't all that fantastic  especially in most of the NPCs that populate the 
 area  and there are several hitches and glitches that mar an otherwise impressive presentation, 
 but all in all, the graphics are about what we expected. We could argue that much of the environment 
 is repetitive, but we're dealing with a bunch of poor villages and towns in the jungles of Africa, 
 so yeah, a lot of it is gonna look similar. Besides, the atmosphere is so involving, it's tough 
 to be critical.
  
  Good voice acting and excellent sound effects make the sound in Far Cry 2 enjoyable, despite a 
 lacking soundtrack that oddly seems understated and even out of place in certain situations. For 
 whatever reason, the music didn't live up to expectations although that's more of a personal gripe. 
 The effects, on the other hand, are spot-on. The resounding crack of a handgun, the shocking impact 
 of the rocket launcher, the resonation of bullets on different objects in the background, the yells 
 of the attacking opponents; it all gels together in a clear, stand-out performance. We found that 
 some characters spoke very quickly, but that's not necessarily a drawbackit was just a little 
 disconcerting, that's all. If they had managed to implement an effective soundtrack to go along 
 with the stellar effects, this would've been one of the best-sounding titles of the generation. 
 But as is, the background jungle sounds work beautifully  especially at night  to drag you into 
 the experience, and all firefights are appropriately emphatic and forceful. That's what great effects 
 do for you.
  
  As we said before, the gameplay is more about the freedom than anything else. You'll have to work 
 your way through a brief tutorial at the start, but it won't take more than an hour and after that, 
 you're on your own. You do have a primary goal, and of course, you'll have to complete the main 
 story missions in order to accomplish that goal, but there's plenty of extra stuff. You have nine 
 characters too choose from at the start of the adventure, and the other eight will pop up during 
 the plot  usually as Buddies  to assist you in some way. You'll suffer from Malaria right from 
 the get-go, which means part of the tutorial will have you securing pills for the disease that 
 causes recurring and damaging symptoms. You'll have to keep yourself erect and healthy if you wish 
 to continue, and that means paying frequent visits to medical boxes  you can carry a bunch of 
 syringes to heal yourself  and keeping those valuable pills in your pocket. You can also visit 
 weapon shops, take extra missions from the weapon vendors, and explore a variety of different locales 
 scattered throughout the jungle. You can use different vehicles and there's even a bus depot for 
 automatic transportation. But that's just the tip of the iceberg. You can upgrade the weapons you 
 purchase or find, and as an added bit of depth, certain weapons (especially those used by your 
 foes) can be old and rusty, thereby causing the gun to jam frequently. This discourages you from 
 picking up any weapons in the field, though, so it's typically better to rely on anything you buy 
 from weapon vendors, which are guaranteed to be brand-spankin'-new. And instead of a standard inventory, 
 you have four simple slots: one each for primary, secondary, and special weapons; everything can 
 range from a machete and the smallest handgun to automatic rifles and rocket launchers. You can 
 pick up explosives like Grenades and Molotov Cocktails, and as we talked about when analyzing the 
 sound, everything sounds exactly as it should. Moving about is easy enough, but we did find the 
 default movement to be too slow, and assigning the Run command to the L3 button is a terrible idea. 
 Think about it: you have to press down on the same button you're using to move your character about. 
 It's just cumbersome and annoying. But at least the movement scheme is almost entirely smooth, 
 so that's good news.
  
  You may have heard negative reports of the PS3 version suffering from additional frame rate issues, 
 but we couldn't find too many examples of that. Having access to the 360 version as well, we didn't 
 really notice a significant difference between the two versions, although the PS3 version was more 
 prone to a frame hitch during intense firefights. We maintain that it was a rare occurrence, but 
 it should be mentioned. As for the rest of the gameplay, it's our opinion that it took many shots 
 to drop an enemy, and most foes were absolute crack shots for some reason. Perhaps it's in how 
 we played, but it almost seemed as if every single bullet fired from an enemy's weapon struck our 
 character. The good news is that the Syringes you carry completely restore all your health, and 
 you'll need it when you find one of those diamond packages and piss off the roving guards in town. 
 And considering the freedom involved, you can approach just about any mission however you see fit; 
 you can drive right into the midst of it, or you can jump out of your vehicle en route and sneak 
 your way into the area. It's in this freedom that people may find an absolute gem of a game or 
 an adventure that lacks direction, depending on your viewpoint. Sometimes, in between important 
 quests, we were left doingwell, not much of anything, besides exploring the jungle. Thing is, 
 there's very little to find except for those valuable diamonds  you find them with an electronic 
 locator  which can be used in trade for new weapons, and you might be wandering aimlessly for 
 a while. Some people like this, as they say it will remind them of a MMORPG or a GTA title, while 
 others will just want to get on with the action. Those who do take to this style will revel in 
 the ability to befriend a bunch of buddies, hold safehouses, upgrade weapons, and accept any number 
 of missions at any given time. How valuable is the "buddy?" Well, here's a good example: we had 
 just got our first "best buddy" in the game, and not long after, we became involved with an ill-advised 
 battle in the middle of town. We died quickly but instead of the "Reload Checkpoint" screen, we 
 found ourselves dragged to safety by our buddy. She came in, laid down some cover fire, and dragged 
 our character into the jungle to heal and recuperate. How cool is that?
  
  Far Cry 2 is a surprisingly ambitious FPS; we say "surprisingly" because the original FC was nothing 
 like this. There are no special feral powers, we're certainly not in an island paradise, and again, 
 that freedom and customization is all fresh. The controls are smooth and accessible (with the exception 
 of that stupid L3/Run mapping) , there are plenty of weapons and upgrades, and above all else, the 
 little enhancements ramp up the level of engrossment and absorption. Sneaking through the underbrush 
 at dusk, viewing the enemy camp from a crouched position behind a tree, and determining your approach 
 is a nerve-racking situation. The jungle noises are always there, you can hear the guards talking 
 (and they're not brain-dead, although the AI can be questionable sometimes) , and with the setting 
 sun, everything feels quite authentic. Even stopping at a safehouse and setting your watch to sleep 
 and heal yourself feels innovative, as does the freedom, Buddy system, and unique environment. 
 There are recurring technical issues, however, and the aforementioned "aimless wandering" tended 
 to happen a lot for us. Furthermore, the character design isn't so great, and due to featured player 
 freedom, the storyline takes a definite backseat.
  
  However, in regards to the multiplayer aspects of the game, they don't stand out as much as the 
 single-player campaign. But that extremely in-depth map editor is a huge bonus for those who love 
 micromanaging the tiniest elements of the experience. At the end of the day, Far Cry 2 is most 
 certainly worth playing, and one of the better October releases out there. There are a ton of them, 
 but this one really oughta be near the top of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 you are a lonely strange guy in the heart of Africa. There are 2 groups named UFLL and 
 APR and the story is built on to these groups and a weapon seller named Chackal. UFLL and APR is 
 always fighting they are in a war and they get their weapons from a guy named Chackal. Our mission 
 is to find that guy who armed the both sides and biggest reason of the war.
  
  Lets come to the game. it's hard to describe the game shortly it is good, nice and also it is boring. Enviroment 
 is good in the game they show Africa  and weather effects 
 all are good and there isn't any problems about that.
  
  Gameplay is fair. Combat is good no problems with the controls also. But the movement style is not 
 good enough. in Ps3 movement controls are not good especially running is nearly useless. it is normally 
 binded to R3 or L3 not sure about it but u have to press it to run. So normally while controlling 
 ur character it is not easy to hold that button pressed maybe u can change the key controls but 
 other controls are important too so u won't change the controls. Also when u run it doesn't effect 
 your speed much it is nearly same as walking and you get tired quickly. So according to me running 
 is useless.
  
  The story is classic u can see this story in many movies also. Africa or another country civil war 
 and a man or a group who armed people etc. Story quests are not bad they are enough i think but 
 side quests are so poor and boring. Always the same kind of quests. Nothing special you always do 
 the same thing in the side quests. For weapon quests you find a convoy and destroy them and u do 
 this in all the weapon quests. Every time same quest i mean....
  
  You have buddies in the game this part is beautiful. They are normally captured you go to the enemy 
 bases kill the guards and rescue the buddies. After that they are your friend and ready for service 
 :) You use 2 buddies in the game normally.1 buddy is used in the story line quests. For example 
 you go to make a quest and he calls you and gives you another quest which is directly combined 
 to the main quest you do. if you do these buddy quests too you get extra reputation and trophies. (trophies 
 are a reward system of ps3) Also if you do these quests in some parts of the fights you fight to 
 the enemy with your buddy arm to arm. He can get wounded and fall on the floor and you can save 
 him with your health kits etc. if you don't he will die and you won't see him in the game again 
 :) it is realistic in a way if he dies you won't see him again but it dissapoints you especially 
 if he dies while he is helping to you and if you can not help him :) The second buddy is named 
 rescue buddy if you get wounded or killed (what ever u say) u fall on the floor he comes and grabs 
 you and gets you to a safe location. He fights with the enemy at that part and you heal yourself. When 
 you are ready he stays there until u kill all the enemy and you are safe but ofc he can die too 
 :)
  
  The travelling part of the game is one of the worst i have ever seen!!!! it is really BORING!!!! they 
 give you a quest normally and mostly it is not in a short distance. Maybe you spend 10 minutes for 
 going to a quest location. Because you always see enemies in the road they stop you and you have 
 to fight with them so u loose time after u kill them you see another enemy group you fight again 
 you loose time again after u kill them too you go for a period and you see an enemy group again 
 you fight again this really sux!!!! You fight with 100 people to go to a quest location. They always 
 stop you and you can not travel in the game always fighting. After a while it really starts to make 
 you bored. So travelling part of the game is really one of the worst i have ever seen!!!! Even you 
 can quit the game just because of this.... Because it is really booring.
  
  The other negative point of the game is it is always the same. There isn't any improvement in the 
 game. Always the same. After u start the game don't expect anything from the game because it'll be 
 the same at the end too.... No improvement no additions.... So this game can really make u bored 
 after a while.
  
  Weapons are good and detailed. There are enough weapons in the game. After a while they get old and 
 starting to make problems to you like not shooting etc. But in sniper mode there is no shaking hands 
 or holding breath speciality. You can aim easily. Your aim never moves. Throwing grenades or molotov 
 coctails are enjoyable because explosions and fire are really enjoyable and good designed in the 
 game.
  
  i told that the story is fair but at the last part of the game it'll make u shocked the last part 
 of the story is impressive and good. There'll be a part about your buddies at the last if you play 
 it you'll see it. But generally story is fair quests are fair side quests are poor....
  
  Multiplayer mode: yeah i liked that part. it reminds me my days i spent in counter strike :) it 
 is not like counter strike but it has been a long time since i played a multiplayer game in that 
 kind. you gain lvl as you play so you get new weapons etc as you play. it's like in CoD 4. There are 
 different scenarios in multiplayer mode like death matches or team death matches. According to me 
 it is enjoyable. But there is a big bug in multiplayer mode and it completely ruins the joy of multiplayer. in 
 multiplayer mode as you play as you kill you gain lvl or rank whatever u say and as you gain rank 
 you get new weapons and stuff etc. But when you log out of the game you can loose all the statistics 
 you did in multiplayer (rank, the count of your kills etc.) For example you start with rank 1 you 
 played you killed and you become rank 3 and get new weapons etc. After you log out and login again 
 you can find yourself rank 1!!!! Thats really pain and i think the only reason for this is Ubisoft. As 
 a result they failed in mutiplayer. it was happening in GTA too. 
  
  As a result game is good but also it makes you bored too quickly. Because as i said before there 
 won't be any improvement in the game so it is always the same. The travelling part is Disgusting!!!! You 
 can not go to any location you'll always have to fight until you go to a place. You kill enemies 
 in a guard zone but they respawn too quickly so you'll have to fight with them when u are returning 
 back. Buddy part is good. As a result the game is good but not enough so i am aganist to spend 60 
 dollars for that game..... if you want to see that game and if you have possibility to rent Rent 
 it first don't buy it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac8317
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has great visuals and pretty in depth missions. The environment is the best I have ever 
 seen as far as a outdoor one goes. The story does not even follow part one at all. So, those of 
 you looking for a continuation will be disappointed. Weapons selection is very good but you must 
 unlock the ones you need. I really love the introductory mission because I had no idea it was a 
 tutorial. And I really think being hindered by a weakness adds to the challenge. It really makes 
 you feel vulnerable and reminds you that you are human. I think the PC version will pay better 
 dividends for people like me because we can MOD the game. Me personally I would love to have seen 
 a 'real' Part 2. I really loved the first far cray and I remember how stunned I was at the graphics. 
 My 512 9800XTX could barely keep up sometimes. I current own the PS3 version of this game but i 
 will be sure to get the PC version so I can get to Modding it. I would recommend at least a 920 
 i7, 6gb DDR3 3 triple channel and SLI/Crossfire of at least 1024mb each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Hiya
  
  This game right off the bat looked and felt grate... and that's where it ended, after the flash 
 entrance you i felt it went bland. 
  
  I could see what they were aiming for but they missed by a long shot, considering you can attack 
 missions anyway you'd like, most of the time one option is always the best and 9 times out of 10 
 you end up fighting head on anyway.
  
  Controls were good, driving got really boring quick as did the boat rides on foot controls were 
 abit stiff. Environments are really well done, you really do feel you are driving through a 3rd 
 world country. But you hardly have the time to take it all in because you are constantly watching 
 for patrols, if there wasn't so many, and having to avoid guard posts gets really boring fast. 
 
  
  Mulitiplayer isn't much better, too many poor connections out there, driving looks stiff to other 
 players i really enjoyed the game for the first few hours but after that it loses it's shine
  
  I wouldn't recommend to anyone expecting an enaging game because this just becomes run of the 
 mill far too quick. 
  
  BD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2's plot is that you (a merc) have been set into africa which is war torn with fighting 
 on both sides and an arms dealer called the 'jackle' who u must kill.
  
  the plot is very bland and not to interesting.. but it doesnt worry me.
  the gameplay is highly 
 realistic for a game. the weapons jam, collect dust and have great noise of the gun to back it 
 up. u can use 3 different weapons and have a machete which is very fun. u can sprint like in the 
 COD games and its just got great first person shooter gameplay.
  
  the missions are pritty much all the same, destroy this, kill him and kill them. alot of people 
 complain about this but i say "DUH.. its africa" thats what u'll expect. but its not a problom 
 for ppl like me and like that sort of stuff so the missions wont confuse u.
  
  the bad thing in this game is that its the PS3 version and u can only save ur game through safe 
 houses and by finishing missions which is annoying.
  there is alot of long traveling to certain locations and the bonus and main missions are too far 
 away oftern. u can catch busses for fast travel but they are spaced too far apart.
  
  u will have buddies which is cool as they can rescue u in battle which will reduce frustration 
 ith the save points and can help u on missions.
  however on ur second playthrough its a glitch or somthing but they end up shooting u and trying 
 to kill u if u get resqued. if u want to play it again delete ur profile for it so the glitch wont 
 happen.
  
  and u can get diamonds in which u can buy better weapons that wont jam so easily. its also got 
 a nice selection of trophies and the scenery. its brilliant, its so well done with a great sun 
 rise and sun set, the trees cand plants can be shot off and can burn, the fire is so well done 
 and u can use it to ur advantage. the game is just superb i recomend it to any one who doesnt usally 
 get tired and frustrated with games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbud420
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Aside from having a nice environment, there's nothing else worth checking out. The story itself 
 is basically non-existent and you just run around from outpost to outpost killing the same exact 
 bad-guys over and over. If you've done 1 mission, you've done them all and there really is no boss 
 fight. After you select a mission you follow your map to find the next fight. Along the way you 
 stumble across small villages and crap, even if you've been there before the bad guys re-spawn 
 and you have to waste your time killing them again. Heal-up, reload and continue driving. Every 
 15 seconds your car breaks-down and you hop out with your wrench and tighten 1 bolt on the radiator, 
 wow, amazing that it fixes it every time. The fact that your map doesn't show where any bad guys 
 are, or friendly's for that matter, it makes it very difficult to know where the shots are coming 
 from. Sometimes you'll be sitting there for minutes just trying to figure out where some guy is 
 shooting your from. It's quite annoying and lame. I cant believe gamespot gave this game 8.5..... there's 
 just no way. Maybe 3 years ago, this game could have gotten an 8, but now, just having a nice environment 
 to look at, doesn't mean an automatic high score. The standards have increased. I think for a game 
 to get an 8 or above means it must have a good story.... memorable characters, and yes also nice 
 graphics. This game shouldn't even be mentioned with Far Cry 1... this is nothing like it. If you 
 enjoy meaningless roaming with little to no satisfaction upon completing a mission, then you might 
 like this game. If you are expecting this game to be anything like Far Cry 1... stop right there, 
 because its not, as I found out. Its a waste of money and time. I'm not even 15% done with the 
 game and I'm already selling it and going to the store right now to buy something else. Peace. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _OKO_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:18 am PT
Review:  Since the release of the highly anticipated Far Cry back in October, I had been looking forward 
 greatly to get some hours in on Far Cry and see what the hype was about. Last weekend, I managed 
 to get myself a rental of the game from Blockbusters. Needless to say, I'm incredibly disappointed. 
 
  
  After nestling down on my PS3 and inserting the shiny BRD into the disc drive, I was drooling in 
 anticipation. After the opening cut scene, which is your main character of choice (you have a number 
 of choices from the start up menu, you can choose between 5 different characters) , I was almost 
 instantly bewildered. Here was a game with so much visual substance, an incredible sprawling open 
 world and I just feel so little has been done with so much potential.
  A very simple and boring gameplay mechanic of running and gunning. I feel there is a distinct lack 
 of gripping story and enjoyable gameplay. I found myself immediately having to drive from one side 
 of the island, to be attacked every two minutes I drove, it became increasingly boring and frustrating 
 wiping out tiny convoys of annoying AI. 
  I've given Far Cry as much attention as possible, but apart from a shining and resounding graphical 
 system, it is a game with much to be desired. There was so much potential with the storyline and 
 the formation of an incredibly vivid and wild playing field and Ubisoft have really missed the 
 mark here by creating a very bogstandard shooter. Disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WutTimeIsIt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  basically you have side missions and main missions. first ill start with the side missions - these 
 are not useless side missions that you see in other games, each one rewards you well and they are 
 all connected if you want to earn things. for example, want more weapons? do the weapon shop side 
 missions, but you need diamonds to purchase these new weapons, so do the assassination missions. 
 want more things in your safe houses? gotta do the buddy side missions. personally i only tried 
 the side missions and just went on to the main missions because of lack of playing time and more 
 of a challenge.
  
  Randomness - you will encounter this frequently throughout the game with tons of little details 
 and different environments to keep you wanting to explore rather than do missions. 
  
  Dont like long driving? get to the nearest bus stop, and not only will you go to basically anywhere 
 on the map, but you will get a chance to save your game.
  
  lots of weapons, once purchased you can pick them up at one of many armories around anytime.
 
  
  one thing i didnt enjoy was so many gaurdposts around, but you can easily just avoid them by driving 
 right through. i would just ram right through a set up post, get one car following me, not stop 
 until they shot my car to the point it wouldnt move anymore, kill the two peeps that followed, 
 then used their brand new car to continue, this really speeds up the process.
  
  online is awesome.... just the right pace, and lots of variety of beautiful lush environments
 
  
  overall this game was fun, addicting, and worth writing my first review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well Far Cry for the PC and stuff did'nt live up to the sales. And neither has 
  Far Cry 2 which is a shame. Far cry 3 has been confirmed and hopefully that will live up to its 
 expectations. But the Far Cry series get treated badly and
  get reviewed poorly which I dont like at all. Its got a great open world, has swearing, drugs and 
 blood and violance for sandbox gamers. Youve got a cool online as well. I m really annoyed at the 
 crap that gamers through into Far cry 2. Its annoying. I love them and cant wait until Far cry 
 3 comes out. This review was mainly about sharing a point about how Far Cry 2 is underapprieciated. 
 Yes there is better games out there but still, Far Cry 2
  has produced a good enough standard for me to get entertained. See yah next time for some more 
 posts, blog news and reviews at the best website
  ever... Gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game had great potential to be a pretty good game, but the repetitive gameplay and the unvaried 
 missions and environments really hold it back.
  
  The graphics are probably this game's bright spot. They are very decent and I think they were considered 
 for best graphics of the year here on gamespot. However, it is all downhill from here. The environment 
 looks about the same anywhere you go. Now this wouldn't be bad if the environment wasn't so ugly. 
 It is either an ugly jungle or dead savannah you see which is not that fun to be in.
  
  The gameplay is the most important part of any game in my opinion and this game doesn't quite cut 
 it. Basically I can describe every mission in one sentence and here it is. Drive somewhere to destroy 
 something or someone. Yep that is about what every missions consists of. Sounds repetitive? it 
 is. Also, another downside is that 99% of the people you pass will shoot at you and even chase 
 you until you kill them. Honestly I have no idea why they even shoot at you because you don't do 
 anything wrong. Since they shoot at you while driving, the bullets damage your car and you will 
 find yourself hopping out of the car about every minute and repairing it.
  
  I would not recommend this game unless you are a HUGE fan of games like Oblivion because this is 
 basically what it is except modern and with an African setting. However, the gameplay is much more 
 vaired in Oblivion as well as you can level up skills. So even Oblivion fans might not enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  No one really knows what happened to Jack Carver, the macho oozing Hawaiian shirt wearing tit of 
 a protagonist that graced our screens in the original Far Cry. A man who after having 400 mercenary's 
 shoot at him and him still surviving in the understatement of the century says, this isn't my day. 
 Thankfully he is back in Far Cry 2, oh wait no he isn't, Instead you are given the choice of several 
 characters, two of which look the same (who coincidentally also both look like Jack Carver) , one 
 is a token black guy who isn't really black, one is an IRA squealer (who seems completely out of 
 place in a game set in war torn Africa, to say the least) and the others are forgettable to say 
 the least. Thankfully your character is silent throughout the game *sigh* meaning you can insert 
 quick witted quips after shooting someone with a shotgun in the head and muttering something about 
 unleashing your load on their face....
  
  The game starts off with a very annoying talkative cab driver, just like the ones you'd find here 
 in London, he doesn't seem to notice that you don't really fancy talking, so instead he makes up 
 for your silence by talking about pretty much everything he sees, which may be informative for 
 some but the less retarded of us would probably find annoying. Why thank you Mr Cab Driver, I did 
 indeed NOT know that the weird metal object floating in the sky was a plane... In other words, 
 Far Cry 2 does not get off to a great start.
  
  That said it doesn't exactly get much better from then on, towards the end of your cab ride, you 
 fall sick with malaria, (the mosquitoes probably thought they ought to put you out of your misery 
 instead of letting you suffer for much longer) and you end up on a hotel bed drowsy and weak, taunted 
 by the man you actually came into this country to kill. An elusive arms dealer named the jackal, 
 now the story gets slightly better here but then it seems to disappear for most the game. I could 
 never quite understand why in order to kill The Jackal, you had to do some completely unrelated 
 missions before going after him, personally I'd rather grab my shotgun and go Dick Cheney on his 
 arse instead of getting some faction guy's shopping, blowing up a van then getting a weaker gun 
 than the one I originally had to finally kill the bastard. But I guess that's just so we don't 
 feel ripped off by this game. However I really would have liked to see in the first five minutes 
 you actually come into a country and achieve what you set you out to do. Seeing as you meet The 
 Jackal in the first five minutes of the game (in which he gives you a gun) wouldn't it have been 
 great for your character to just turn round and blow his brains out and then the game complete 
 screen to come up?
  
  Far Cry's Graphics are great, the lighting is particularly impressive, however the real star of 
 the show is the fire, the fire in the game, although ugly at times, spreads extremely realistically, 
 and being a dry season, it spreads gloriously. The character models can be good, on some of the 
 enemies there shoddy, but overall it does the job of keeping you immersed. One thing that frustrated 
 me was the lack of ability to see anything underwater, meaning you didn't have a clue what was 
 going on when you were holding your breath. The screen would also sometimes go fuzzy when you ran 
 for long periods, now I don't know about you relatively obese people out there, but when I run, 
 even if it's for a ridiculously long time, my heart beat raises, I sweat, I sometimes shake, but 
 I NEVER GET FUZZY EYESIGHT. What was the need Ubisoft? Honestly...
  
  The game play in Far cry two is ok, it really doesn't compare to the original, there is some latency 
 on the controller meaning that often you will swing a few cm's off your target even if you stop 
 aiming physically, however thankfully FC2 has 'borrowed' ideas from other games such as when aiming 
 down the iron sights, your automatically snap on to a nearby enemy. The game has a few cool features, 
 like the sliding into cover, and switching from driving to a turret with the touch of a button 
 using some really slick animations. However the reason the game takes so long to complete is that 
 the maps are huge, too big in fact, you spend more time driving around than you do anything else, 
 which for an FPS is not a good thing... The truth is that Far Cry 2 cannot decide on what it wants 
 to be, ending up exactly where its predecessor left off, a schizophrenic experience. On one hand 
 it aims to be realistic, even eliminating the much needed reticule by default, *although the reticule 
 is awful even when on so you aren't really missing much. To navigate you have an awful map that 
 is hard to look at and move, every now and then you have to take malaria pills, which again is 
 frustrating and when you are seriously hurt you do a cool animation to fix things back into place, 
 like removing bullet wounds etc. But on the other hand, there is a great whopping health bar, one 
 injection cures you back to full life, there is an ammo counter, and enemies take five or six shots 
 to down, and that's not just my bad aiming, that's how many hits they take to kill. If this game 
 intends to be realistic, than why doesn't Africa create a united army and take over the world, 
 they don't even need body armour! The amount of hits these guys can take...
  
  The main problem in Far Cry 2 is that the AI is awful, your buddies although useful at times, often 
 die on you in a missions, and I was particularly attached to one Algerian buddy only to have him 
 get mortally wounded three times, I saved him each time but on the 4th time I shot his brains out 
 myself. Cruel? Probably, needed? Definitely. I personally imagined that the guy I was putting out 
 of its misery was one of the lead AI designers at Ubisoft. Sometimes your buddy seems to get shot 
 out of nowhere, even though you haven't been shot at, leading you to question if your so called 
 friend accidentally shot himself in the chest when holding his rifle backwards...
  
  Which leads me onto yet another problem, aside from the controller latency issues, the gunplay 
 in Far Cry 2 is mediocre at best, crappy if I'm being honest. Enemies are hard to see during the 
 day, even harder to see at night. And most of them wield a shotgun that can hit you from a mile 
 away, they all seem to have welded binoculars onto their eyes as they'll see and hit me ages before 
 I even know where they are. (For reference I played this on normal difficulty.) The guns all feel 
 as though they are lacking power, and some guns make you think that you are probably better off 
 just using your blunt machete, you'd probably get them killed quicker...
  
  Overall Far Cry 2 isn't a bad game, but it isn't a good game either, instead fading into the grey 
 line of mediocrity, like Cher, or my homework. Its gunplay mechanics are average at best, and although 
 it is a really good looking game, nothing really justifies the price tag. It feels like a half 
 developed game, it's got a few good features, but the rest needs polish and some of it needs a 
 lot of work (AI Team I'm looking at you here.) I couldn't recommend it to anyone as a good shoot 
 em up, not even a deaf dumb and blind kid, as I get the feeling that even they would sense somehow 
 that the game they are playing is crud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I waited with anticipation to get this , and once I got it I was disappointed, the positives are 
 the graphics which are good, especially seeing the grass on fire and the beautiful design of the 
 surrounding areas but that's about it, the action is disappointing and repetitive very repetitive 
 in all that you do, the area is vast and you find yourself driving for an age to get to your missions 
 and this does become tedious, also if you buy a gun from the gun store, eventually it will rust 
 and jam and same goes for any weapon you pik up from an enemy , it will be rust and jam and the 
 weapon jamming in a gun battle will only ensue that you WILL die, and this is also very frustrating.
 
  
  The whole game in my opinion is just too tedious and frustraying.
  
  on multiplayer the weapons don't feel right and trying to kill a fellow enemy will take time and 
 practice and the whole layout of trying to join an online game is well what's the point you will 
 ask your self eventually...............
  
  I've said enough about this game disappointing , tedious in travel, and highly frustrating and 
 by the way if you don't die by bullets then the malaria wil kill you when you have no pills to 
 find for this............. Don't buy this , don't bother and now I have togo to game and trade it 
 in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soar57
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Opinion: A very immersive game that makes you feel like a hardcore merc.
  
  Story: The story of Far Cry 2, (or, at least what little story there is) is that you are one of 
 several playable PMCs that travels to a fictional African country that has been torn apart by civil 
 war. Your main mission is to kill "The Jackel" a dangerous arms dealer that has armed both sides 
 of the conflict. By pure bad luck, you get a nasty case of malaria right off the bat. When you 
 are indisposed, you see the Jackel himself going through your stuff. He doesn't kill you, instead 
 he sets off a firefight in Pala. You fail to escape and are picked up by a UFLL litieunet.. From 
 there, everything changes. I could not tell you what happens next due the randomization of the 
 sitiuation. Player Choice is big in this game. Throughout the course of the game, you do differnet 
 jobs for the APR and the UFLL. You do meet different Buddies that help you.
  
  Pros: Many weapons that can be used to stir up major trouble, Beutiful environments, over 50 hours 
 of gameplay
  
  Cons: Game gets repetitive at times, Difficulty level possibly not everyone, Occasional glitch, 
 Confusing story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krycek9mm
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  I am basing this review on getting past halfway on a really long game. 
  This game is similar to Assassins creed in many ways but not nearly as innovative or as fun to 
 play.
  
  The gameplay is fun at first, playing with fire and trying out the weapons and exploring are kind 
 of entertaining. The terrain is varied and it's fun to be able to approach missions in many ways. 
 But we have seen most of this sort of thing before (except for the fire propogation) and it has 
 been done both better and worse. The map is just so big and inconvenient to traverse that playing 
 feels like a chore. You don't really get the benefit of feeling like you're in a huge map because 
 you rarely see large vistas, your perspective just always seems limited.
  
  The missions are repetitive, regardless of the objective, it's usually shoot one person or another, 
 blow up something, escape. Though you are free to approach it in any way, it always feels the same 
 because the enemies always know where you are. I've tried being stealthy but it doesn't seem to 
 matter. Your choices end up being A) pick them off from a distance, B) go in on foot, C) go in with 
 a vehicle, or D) try torching the place first. 
  
  The weapons don't really have much personality, they're run of the mill and don't convey a visceral 
 sense of power. Again the fire weapons are fun but it can only entertain you for so long. The weapon 
 degradation, vehicle break-down, and self healing don't really add much. They seem so routine and 
 it counteracts the intended realism when any vehicle damage can be repaired by tightening the same 
 nut over and over again.
  
  The characters were well performed and seemed more original than most characters you would expect 
 to see in FPS, but you don't really get attached to them, and most of the characters you interact 
 with don't have any kind of story, they just dole out missions so I feel like they were under-utilized.
 
  
  The enemies seemed bright enough except with huge flaws like convoys driving in circles instead 
 of to any particular destination and it seems a little excessive that anyone you see anywhere other 
 than cease fire zones will immediately shoot you on sight. It would add some suspense if you didn't 
 know who was hostile.
  
  The graphics were sophisticated, but the environments they were rendering were just not interesting 
 to look at.
  
  After getting a couple hours past the halfway point I stopped playing because I didn't feel any 
 sense of purpose or improvement. I felt like I was playing at 30 hours about the same as I was 
 at 5 and the story was so un-engaging that I didn't care about the main enemy. I had all the weapons 
 unlocked and improved but it wasn't enough of a change to keep me playing. Despite being a better 
 made game, I prefer Mercenaries 2 to Far Cry 2 because it's just more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunzyMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing far cry 2 since I got it Christmas day, after I saw alot of people complaining 
 about and saying that its boring I was a little worried that maybe I would play it for one or two 
 days and never see it again, but I didn't and i'm glad to say its a really good fps.
  
  Graphics are really sharp and crisp and the way the world is rendered just so beautiful, looks 
 so fantastic and realistic, from the water textures to the skybox it all really looks amazing.
 
  Can really sit back and imagine you are there.
  The player models and vehicles are done very well also.
  Weapon models and textures are really 
 great, nice metal and wood textures make them seem so real.
  
  The map is massive, if you haven't played it yet I can tell you the map is bigger then you think!
 
  Its been created really well and makes you feel like your in the jungle or the desert.
  There are many trees, grasses, mountains, dunes, plants, animals, buildings, lakes, rivers, water 
 falls and much more so it really seems they worked hard to make the world as good as they could.
 
  I played fallout3 and cod and I saw alot of glitches, items floating, brushes flickering but with 
 farcry 2 you really get the sense this is a polished game.
  
  There are quite a few different weapons to buy and unlock but you will need to play the game and 
 get quite far to get some of the more fun ones.
  There is a dart rifle like maybe you would see a vet shoot a lion to sedated it and it's really 
 deadly, I love this weapon because its really great to sniper a few guards and still be unnoticed 
 due to the silencer.
  It's a first person shooter and it dosen't disapoint when it comes to first person shooting.
 
  The explosive weapons make for some nice chaos when they set large areas on fire.
  
  The missions can get repetitive but thats really up to you and how you choose to attack certain 
 locations and people.
  You have the weapons so if you want to go in all guns blazing then go for it, if you wish to sit 
 on a rock and sniper them, then thats cool also, maybe you like to play with fire!
  There is a lot of driving from mission to mission, so much so that it feels like just driving to 
 a mission seems like a mission in it's self, alot of missions :o
  People complained there is too much traveling around, but personally when im traveling through 
 this beautiful country with the sun shinning them i'm happy.
  Don't walk it will take hours!
  
  Multiplayer.
  I was really surprised to see that they have 
 done a really good job with this game when it comes to playing online, there are vote options for 
 swapping teams, extending and not playing maps and also banning tk (team killers) this maybe normal 
 in the pc world but on ps3 its nice to see such options.
  The multiplayer maps support all weapons, you can drive around and run people over, be a sniper, 
 assault gunner, machine gunner etc so for that I'm very happy about, seems to be something other 
 fps mp games have failed on (cod5) .
  
  Things I think could be improved.
  Damage scale, takes a lot of bullets to kill enemy and would make the game more realistic if they 
 died from less damage.
  Ai, most of the time the computers ai is good but from time to time they will be standing next 
 to you doing nothing and a weird one I see from time to time is ai facing the oppisite direction 
 to you but when they fire there gun its hitting you, quite weird.
  The map can be confusing at times and a lot of the time dosen't zoom in enough.
  Aiming seems 
 pretty hard when your moving, seems like one tiny movement on the thumb pads and you all over the 
 place, maybe I need to play about with options on that one.
  It has a slight arcade feel to the game I would personaly like it to be more realistic in game 
 play.
  
  In all I think its a great game and the online mode is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondasM
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:38 am PT
Review:  No matter how you feel about Ubisoft, one thing is certain, they do deliver top quality games. 
 This addition is nothing less of that. The sandbox gameplay and quasi destructible environment 
 both add immensely to the fun factor.
  
  But come on, let's cut to the chase. First of all, this is not a run'n'gun FPS, you do run a lot 
 because the area of the game is spread on a huge area but it's wiser to use your head before your 
 trigger finger in this game. The pace of the game might not appeal to the "Halo Youth" (not there 
 is anything wrong with it :) ) which slower and somewhat more tactical, if one can say that. The 
 side quests are OK but they tend to get repetitive after one point and in my case I couldn't bear 
 to finish them all. The main quests however are quite varied with a couple of "Oh Snap" moments, 
 which keep your interest alive to finish the game.
  
  I have spent nearly 30 hours of pure offline play to complete the main quest and a good amount 
 of side quests, but if you really want to finish everything in the game this duration can reach 
 up to 40 - 50 hours including finding all of the diamonds sprinkled around the whole map.
  
  As I've mentioned earlier the area of the game is monumental, the whole map is divided into 
 smaller maps and sometimes into even smaller maps and you have the complete freedom to set your 
 pace for continuing the main quest. You can do all of the side missions if you don't feel like 
 pursuing the main quest or you can finish the main quest as quickly as you can but beware once 
 you finish the main quest there is no going back. So if you are keen on finishing every single 
 quest you have to concentrate on that before finishing the main quest.
  
  I would be lying if I commented on the on-line play because I have played it once and there weren't 
 any connection or lag problems, it seemed to be quite good but I haven't invested proper time in 
 it because frankly none of my close friends were playing it on-line. However I would recommend 
 this game for its offline play without hesitation, if you are into a solid FPS without the run'n'gun 
 factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  Heyz.
  
  Story
  Story is kinda boring. Your a hired to kill an arms dealer called The Jackel and will have to work 
 for the 2 factions to get to him.
  
  Singe Player
  Rather repetive, get a mission, go to the place and blow up something or kill whoever although 
 this can be done in many ways. You'll have to do ALOT of traveling to get to your objective so 
 you'll be doing lots of driving. When you dont have a mission you can go around doing what you 
 want. Getting safe house's whic you aquire by killing the two or three enemys around it, doing 
 gun missions so you'll be able to purchase new guns, doing missions where you intercept a phone 
 call and will have to go kill someone, or getting pills for your malaria.
  
  Gameplay
  The first person is done really well with no camera jumping and seeing your character pulling bullets 
 out of him, cleaing a wound, clambering into the backseat of a car to get on the gun all from first 
 person view really makes your feel like your that character. The fire is really well done and will 
 spread in the direction of the wind. You can use this to trap your enemys in fire or move them 
 out of cover so you can get a clearier shot on them. As you go along the story you'll get buddies 
 you can do missions for and when they like you enough they will sometimes come to your aid and 
 save you if you get killed. Sort of like a second life. Your buddies can also die though so if 
 they get injured you'll have to heal them, but if you have nothing to heal them with you'll have 
 to cure them with a bullet to the head.
  
  Guns
  There is a huge variation of guns, snipers, machine guns, flamethrowers, rocket launchers, pistols, 
 shotguns ect. You can carry 4 weapons. A primary weapon like an assult rifle, shotgun or sniper. 
 A secondry weapon being a pistol, SMG or mines. A heavy weapon like a flamethrower, heavy machine 
 gun, or silenced sniper. You also carry a knife. You want to buy weapons instead of using enemy 
 weapons because the enemy weapons will jam quickly and explode.
  
  Multiplayer
  The multiplayer only has a few modes being Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Diamond and 
 Uprising. You can choose between 5 classes that you can upgrade for every level you go up.
  
  Map Maker
  Map maker is really good and you can make some really really good maps and then 
 play them online.
  
  Overall
  Overall Far Cry 2 is an amazing game thats brings a nice breath of fresh air to the bloated FPS 
 genra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:33 am PT
Review:  When I first heard the news that Far Cry 2 wouldn't take place in the Caribbean I went through 
 all phases of grief: shock, denial, bargaining, anger, depression, guilt (well, maybe not guilt) , 
 acceptance and hope. Let's face it, the setting made the first game memorable, because the genetic 
 experiment gone awry story was as original as butter on toast. Hearing it would take place in Africa 
 actually gave me something to hope for. Africa is largely untapped material in video games. I couldn't 
 wait to see how Ubisoft Montreal would use its multicultural "expertise" this time around. 
  
  The final outcome is somewhat diluted. Though the game has glimmers of greatness, it falls 
 flat as soon as your character gets into the thick of things. Far Cry 2 is a mindless, repetitive 
 action romp sprinkled with touches of originality. The game is fun in general, unfortunately it 
 missed a great opportunity to make something more of itself. It hacks through its first few minutes 
 of substance like a machete-wielding bushwhacker offering players nothing more than an elaborate 
 shooting gallery with movable targets on an African backdrop. 
  
  
  THE RIDE THAT NEVER WILL BE
  
  After selecting the look of your character's arms the game 
 starts with a taxi ride to a hotel. A talkative cab driver gives you a free tour of the region. 
 You can immediately smell war in the air. We see processions of villagers heading for safer grounds, 
 militia convoys hustling, brushfires raging and checkpoints keeping drivers on edge, all this while 
 propaganda spouts on the radio -- a great first five minutes. You get the impression the game will 
 be epic in every aspect. Unfortunately, reality sets in fast. Far Cry 2 is a run of the mill shooter 
 with marginal depth. After the first plot-driven gunfight the promise of substance vanishes like 
 a hare bolting into tallgrass.
  
  Your character is taken in by one of the two militias (APR or UFLL) and told to kill some poor 
 saps in a nearby camp. A brief tutorial explains how to fix vehicles and use the map. Ten minutes 
 into the game and we are ready for the first mission, which in essence could also have been the 
 last since they all look alike. It's all about killing people. It doesn't matter who they are; 
 if it walks on two legs, it deserves a bullet to the head, at least in the game's rationale. 
 
  
  One problem though: there is no rationale. Anybody you meet is a "bad guy". Why? Because this is 
 an African country during unrest, silly Before this topic derails, let me clarify that Ubisoft 
 made sure to add plenty of white people. The game clearly goes out of its way to avoid any racial 
 backlash. Not that it matters. What matters is the loose setup. A short ride in a taxi and the 
 land is free of bystanders, ready for mindless action. It seriously lacks a human touch. Emphasis 
 should have been put on what Africans go through when warmongers and "Lords of War" mettle with 
 such a rich continent. Basically, the game needs more of the cab driver stuff. Instead, Far Cry 
 2 is a guilt-free playground for Western males. Like the header says: "The ride that never will 
 be".
  
  
  PALA-POW! 
  
  Much like a GTA game, Far Cry 2 is mission-based. Players can roam around at will doing as they 
 please, even after accepting a mission from various locations on the map. Sadly, there's not much 
 to do while free-roaming. As stated above, there are no civilians -- nothing to interact with. 
 Anybody you meet outside of demilitarized cities, like Pala, is a foe. Towns only act as mission 
 depositories and the occasional assassination. Stepping outside city boundaries puts everybody 
 at risk of you putting a bullet between their eyes. Why? Because you are the only competent warrior 
 in the region; everybody else is cannon fodder waiting to pass through your crosshair. It's the 
 closest thing to a human safari as you can get.
  
  Your character meets "buddies" through the course of the trivial main story that can assist you 
 while you off mercenaries. Buddies give alternate ways of completing missions and can help you 
 out of a jam. Your friends add slightly more depth to the game, especially the one that saves your 
 hind when you get downed in a fight (the effect is quite realistic and deserves praise) . You can 
 even save injured buddies by giving them meds, but that's where the profundity ends. There are 
 but three mission types: Kill, Destroy and Deliver, with the last two always involving a healthy 
 dose of the first. 
  
  As mentioned above there are "assassination" missions in cities, though in theory only. You can 
 lob a grenade next to your mark; if he doesn't get injured, nobody gets their panties up in a bunch. 
 Whack your target in the back of the head, on the other hand, even with a silenced weapon and no 
 witnesses, and you get a shootout with the local militias. Huh? 
  
  AI is hit and miss. It seems Ubisoft tried to add a stealth element to all the foliage and night 
 cycles. And though stalking around crouched in grass gives you cover for the most part, enemies 
 are too quick to realize where shots are coming from. Furthermore, opponents sometimes behave like 
 total dolts during shootouts, even in daytime. Players will often spot targets crouched, ready 
 to attack, biding their time for an opportune shot even mumbling to themselves naught but five 
 feet away. Eh? 
  
  The common currency is diamonds. One can find them in briefcases spread out in the wilderness with 
 the help of a tracking device, but missions are what mainly get you the sparkle. The rocks are 
 used to buy a rather impressive arsenal and upgrades. Guns picked up from downed opponents will 
 often jam and prove unreliable. Purchased weapons are more dependable and look nicer. 
  
  
  OK, SO THE ACTION IS FUN
  
  You can drive or take a bus (I guess the fare is paid in diamonds?) 
 to your missions. In the process you come across various blood-soaked intermissions. The region 
 is peppered with checkpoints (shooting gallery #1) , camps (shooting gallery #2) , facilities like 
 train depots and meat factories (shooting gallery #3) and bad guys in various vehicles (mobile 
 shooting gallery #4) . I might be forgetting some but you get the gist: the savannah is teeming 
 with "bad people". After repeating the same assignments for 10 hours, and having to pass the aforementioned 
 "shooting galleries" every in-game mile or so, players begin exhibiting symptoms similar to their 
 malaria-stricken character. To say gameplay is shallow is an understatement. 
  
  At least the action is good. Ubisoft's Dunia engine produces crisp fighting. Shooting is smooth 
 and precise, save for the occasional missed shot due to blocky collision around trees and shanties. 
 Objects are not badly designed; enemies simply take good cover, which requires precise aiming to 
 pick them off. Opponents will react differently depending on where you hit them, accentuating the 
 fine animation. Downed targets sometimes manage to squirm out a few shots from the ground if they 
 are not properly dealt with. Wounded enemies will even help their mates, adding another dimension 
 to sniping. Most of the fighting will be done from long range using sniper rifles, but some parts 
 require close combat. In all, loads of fun, but because of the repetition it's only fun in short 
 bursts. 
  
  The game clearly focuses on how you approach your targets, not what you do to them (the latter 
 is mundanely obvious) . A few cosmetic missions involve getting information out of characters, though 
 getting to said characters unfortunately always leaves heaps of rotting carcasses in your wake. 
 Forgive my griping, but when a game plasters the taxi part in every trailer, one gets the impression 
 production value will be more elaborate, at least in-between all the fighting. 
  
  Like in the first Far Cry, vehicles play an important role. For a developing country, it seems 
 the locals don't care much about their rides -- they are freely lying around in the most convenient 
 of places. Not that there's anything wrong with that. The maps are rather large and require vehicles 
 to traverse. Boats, Jeeps, dune buggies, luxury SUV's, even hang gliders are there for the picking. 
 Driving around is one of the highlights of the game. Controls take some getting used to but are 
 particularly realistic, especially when bringing the map over the steering while driving -- a neat 
 feature that adds a certain "laissez-faire" feel to the whole African experience. 
  
  
  NO AFRICAN SETTING IS COMPLETE WITHOUT EARTH AND FIRE
  
  Speaking of graphics, Far Cry 2 boasts 
 some of the prettiest open terrain seen in a while. Although jungle areas are scarcer than in the 
 previous game, the savannah and desserts are exquisite, as well as the canyons and lakes. Ubisoft 
 also did a phenomenal job with vegetation. Everything moves in the wind, even tree barks. Smaller 
 plants can be cut down with gunfire. Remember the scene in Predator when Arnold and his gang unloaded 
 into the jungle after Jessie Ventura got zapped, and how the foliage was razed in the process? 
 You can do it here too. 
  
  Even more impressive are the fires, which quite frankly produce the most lifelike effects seen 
 in any game to date. Together with wind it can be used to draw out enemies or corner them. Flames 
 spread from grass to trees so realistically it's almost eerie. 
  
  Night and day cycles aren't just esthetic; your visibility and the response time of enemies are 
 affected by it. Weather changes, like windstorms, completely alter the landscape. Graphics are 
 truly the immersive part of Far Cry 2. 
  
  Ubisoft cleverly plays with the First Person perspective by integrating gameplay with graphics. 
 When NPC characters frisk you, the game actually shows you being frisked in first perspective. 
 Switching from the steering wheel to a jeep's mounted gun gives players a glimpse of the character's 
 body as he slides into position. Furthermore, your character has malaria and needs to take pills 
 every so often. Again, graphics creep into gameplay to add more realism, especially when you get 
 dizzy spells before a crucial moment like taking a covert shot or while driving. Knocking on doors, 
 accepting mission files, taking your medicine, looking at your map or watch, all of it enriches 
 engagement, which is a plus. 
  
  Sound has a distinct African feel. Ambient drum scores as well as a few other movie-like tunes 
 kick in when fighting. On a down side, "action" music is initiated when your character shoots, 
 even by accident. Tunes could have also used more African vocals similar to the game's astounding 
 intro song. Furthermore, a few actors sound like they were taken off the street and forced to read 
 lines at gunpoint, and NPC's exchange lines too quickly during fights. I know they are supposed 
 to create a sense of exhilaration, but the effect is rather comical.
  
  As you would expect from a Montreal product, various languages and accents are present, including 
 Afrikaner. Enemies are often heard communicating, adding to the realism and giving the player a 
 tactical advantage. Extra driving effects like clunking sounds, rocks hitting the frame and breaks 
 squealing also spruce things up. Africa is literally alive with sound, from exotic birds to the 
 brush flowing in the wind. Oh ya, and you can hear monkeys doing their "thing" too. Nothing beats 
 monkeys, except hearing someone talking about monkeys in a foreign accent, which sadly there's 
 none of in the game. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  As was the case with Ubisoft Montreal's Assassin's Creed, you wish Far Cry 2 had offered more. 
 Action is repetitive, especially when the game presents the title in such a profound way in the 
 first few minutes of gameplay. Had it added more natives and means to interact with them, Ubisoft 
 might have had a game of the year candidate. Instead we get a pretty, above-average shooter with 
 a virtually non-existent plot. As shooters go, this one is a nice addition for fans of plug-and-play 
 titles. Missions are bountiful and action takes seconds to get into. But for those wanting substance, 
 the game will somewhat disappoint. In solo Far Cry 2 plays a bit like in multiplayer: you get a 
 quick action fix with little depth content-wise.
  
  GRAPHICS: 92
  The savannah never looked better. Fire needs to be seen in action. Awesome graphics and weather 
 effects. First person perspective used to the fullest.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 80
  Action puts emphasis on instinct rather than tasks because everything revolves around shooting 
 and blowing stuff up. Missions are repetitive but fun.
  
  PRODUCTION: 75
  Nothing gets more human than civil war in Africa. Sadly, Far Cry 2 feels more like a playground 
 than a crisis. Ubisoft got lazy here.
  
  SOUND: 89
  Nature is alive with sound. Heart-pumping scores set the tone, even when they shouldn't. Various 
 accents are nice though not perfect. Music needs more African vocals.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 85
  Solo mode lasts over 20 hours if one focuses on side-missions but repetition 
 can turn some players off. Online play extends the fun as one would expect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is definitely one of my top favorite games of 2008. AMAZING graphics and settings. From 
 deserts to dry forests, you will wish that you could take screenshots. Intense, blood pressure 
 rising gameplay. Especially if you play on hardcore or infamous levels, you will need to strategically 
 plan everything from what weapon to attack with, where to attack from, where snipers, ammo, health, 
 grenade, molotovs, or even get away vehicles are located. And when engaged in battle.... gun jamming, 
 ammo shortages, health levels, cover and enemy location..... the realism of gunfights are astonishing. 
 Enemies react to any move you make. This game is about as real and intense that an open world game 
 will get.
  
  However, as always, there are a few setbacks. The storyline seems rushed, no cutscenes, and you 
 never really get that feeling that you were apart of the world. Everyone bottom line wants to kill 
 you, unless they are emotionally involved. You get a sense of paranoia as you go into cities, and 
 sometimes it will freeze, immensley setting you back.
  
  In my opinion, this great sandbox is worth a hundred bucks. Just make sure you have time to play, 
 and the patience of occaisonal freezes. Otherwise, get your hands on a copy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TariqShata
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostfaceL94
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I was actually thinking of buying this game.....
  But after i played it at a friends house for a couple of hours.. i changed my mine INSTANTLY!
 
  
  First im going to talk about the goods. One thing i really liked about this game is the fire propagation. 
 It gave me the real life feeling of it and it was good idea. The other one was the gun-jamming, 
 feel realistic too but..... (read the bads) And of course the huuuuuugee 50kmsq. map. And the last 
 one, the huge selection of guns ranging from AKs to RPGs. Oh yeah Malaria.
  
  Now the bads. the gun-jamming, although its a great add, can be also very disastrous during a battle. 
 I literally had to chop my enemies off alot of times with my machete because the gun jammed at 
 me all the time. Another thing i hate is the distance of each missions. It takes time going to 
 the place of the mission but going there and getting ambushed by military posts...... thats another 
 story.... If you do try run away, they will chase you anywhere you go. 
  
  This game had the potential to be a great game. But it was just executed poorly by Ubi. It did 
 have some good in it but it was overshadowed alot by the bads. So is this game really worth $60? 
 ummmm no.... Maybe a rent if you want to try it but, for your own good, do not buy this game.
  Thanks for reading
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaudreault1978
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Premirement tout les bons commentaires que j'ai vu et entendu parraisaient extraordinaires, super 
 graphiques etc... bien sa ma pas mal dcu! Jouer en solo c'est pas mauvais, mais c'est toujours la 
 meme chose... tu va voir un gars, tu parle avec lui, il t'envoie a quelque part tuer un autre gars, apres 
 sa tu va voir un autre ami qui te propose une autre mission..... Cest pratiquement pareil que GTA4!! 
 quoi que les graphiques sont exellents.
  
  Les controles de la manette sont pas bons dutout et sont assez dur a contrler, c'est tout a fait 
 le contraire de COD4 qui se manient tres bien
  
  Le multijoueur est encore pire! Les connexions ne sont pas bonnes, et c'est assez dur de trouver 
 une bonne partie, et quand ont tire sa prends parfois 1 chargeur complet pour tuer l'ennemi, et la 
 partie suivante c'est plus facile, c'est dommage...
  
  J'ai not 5/10 seulement parce que le mode solo n'est pas si pire mais aurais pu etre beaucoup 
 mieux et c'est tres tres gnreux je voulais voter 3/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefieldfoo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Jungle drum beats. Car chases. Grenades that explode in a fifteen foot radius. Weapons that rust, 
 jam, fall apart, and often need replacing. Enemies that run in fear when fired upon, or regroup, 
 split up, and otherwise assemble for battle in interesting ways. Every weapon imaginable. Completely 
 non-fire-retardant environment. HUGE map.
  
  What more could you want? 
  
  Farcry 2 simply takes the FPS to the next level in every way. Forget the story. You are a mercenary 
 and you need to go kill people, who's paying doesn't matter. That's all you need to know. Leave 
 the rushed dialogue and vague mission briefings behind and you'll find yourself playing one of 
 the most fast-paced, blood-splattered, and vicious games on the market. 
  
  What makes this game a must-have is the AI. You're enemies will take a few shots, writhe on the 
 ground for a few seconds if not completely taken care of, and if left to recover, they will get 
 back up, hobble around and regroup with their mates, ready to take you on again. If you succeed 
 in scaring the hell out of them, your enemies will whimper behind a bush screaming that they want 
 to go home, or become emboldened and claim that they're completely ready to take you on and demand 
 for you to "show yourself". Enemies aren't the most brilliant tacticians, but they do know when 
 they have the upper hand, or when they need to hide their carcass behind some fortified concrete 
 if need be.
  
  Another surprising aspect is the sound of this game. Head shots have a sickening splatter sound 
 to them, cars rev up and spin on the dirt roads just before the driver tries to get an easy rode-kill 
 out of you if you're not paying attention. Gun-jamming sounds like the real thing, and explosions 
 are always oh so satisfying. 
  
  One downfall of the game is also what makes the game so good. The HUGE map. Halfway through the 
 game you think to yourself "i have this map covered, i have a bunch of safe-houses, and i know 
 where everything is" and BAM, they throw a COMPLETELY new map at you, and you basically start the 
 game from the beginning. In short, you will spend a LOT of your time driving in this game, but 
 with constant road blocks, suit-cases full of diamonds to search for and add to your revenue, and 
 the only occasional (sarcasm) car chases by other mercs, you won't get bored easily driving or 
 boating across this excellent terrain, if you don't mind staring at scenery for a good couple of 
 minutes.
  
  It is the little things that make this game SO good. When you are near death, you have the option 
 of filling up a little health by pulling bullets out of yourself, or removing shrapnel from a hand, 
 resetting broken bones, etc. Your buddy (aka guardian angel) can come to your rescue if you die, 
 and in a brilliant cut-scene, pull you out of harm's way, all while the bullets fly. Cars and other 
 transports will smoke out, and you can actually pull up the hood and repair the car (by tightening 
 a magic repair-all nut that apparently is in every vehicle in the world) and your car gets dusty 
 after a few miles of rough terrain, doors dont close after getting a nice grenade too close to 
 the chassis. Grenades and explosions send boats and cars flying through the air, etc.
  
  All of these things make Farcry 2 a MUST HAVE.... because once you start to look and notice, it 
 is the little things that keep you hooked on it. With the free-roaming, search-and-destroy feel 
 to this outside-the-box-shooter, Farcry 2 hits all the good marks.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshalldbdx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, well, well, never thought i would see a FPS quite like Far Cry 2. This is such a good FPS 
 and i really have no idea how ubisoft are going to top this one off. FPS and Far Cry fans you want 
 this game in your collection and let me explain why so.
  
  So you start of the campaign picking a character of your liking. Once that is done you start the 
 campaign. A civil war has risen in Africa and a man that goes by "The Jackal" has distributed both 
 sides with weapons. You are sent to Africa on a mission to find and kill this guy. The place has 
 been abandoned and only the UFLL and APR fighters have stayed behind. On your way to your destination 
 you experience the symptoms of malaria and faint. You find your self in front of the Jackal on 
 a bed in a room but your to weak to do anything. Again you wake up and are in the middle of a gun 
 fight between APR and UFLL. You escape but faint again. You wake up to find that a UFLL Lieutenant 
 called Anto Kankaras saved you and you are to repay him the favor by working for him. From there 
 you are free to do various missions in the game with the main intention of doing what it takes 
 to find a kill The Jackal.
  
  THE GRAPHICS in this game are just amazing and thats not a surprise coming from the makers of Crysis, 
 Ubisoft. The resolution is very sharp and almost everything in the environment looks very realistic. 
 Also the interaction with the environment is fantastic examples when you walk through the grass 
 it waves, if you blow up something the impact will more all thing around the impact area including 
 trees, if you start a fire it will move in the direction the wind is blowing it. And the fire leaves 
 beind embers and ashes in the places burned. All these little things the people dont notice are 
 what make it such a good game.... well sorta
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is pretty awsome aswell. You have a choice of doing your mission in what ever time 
 period you feel is best, You can go all out and cause massive damage with explosions and fires, 
 or you can do it in stealth and not make attention towards your self. In this game there are many 
 things in the environment that you can use as a weapon for one you can start a fire and if there 
 so happens to be an ammo pile in the way well guess what.... BOOM! the pile goes off..... a jeep..... BOOM! 
 sky high hope it lands on someone. The missions you get usually require you do kill or destroy 
 something. ***The thing i disliked was the lack of you being able to prone. It felt like you were 
 exposed to the AI almost all the time. 
  
  They usually send you to another place on the map and did i mention that the map is HUGE!!! Yep 
 unfortunatly this is Far Cry's biggest advantage over FPS's but also its biggest disadvantage. 
 ***The game requires you to do a lot of travel which gets boring after a while. Fortunatley Ubisoft 
 kept the players awake by adding guardposts in the middle of the roads and by reducing the amount 
 of travel by taking a bus to the area of your target. the weapons in the game are very realistic 
 and i dont just mean the look. If your gun is old it will look old and will have a tendency to 
 jam. You can go to the gunshop and buy upgrades for weapons for the cost of diamonds which you 
 gain from doing missions or by finding suitcases that are scattered through out the world of Far 
 Cry 2. And we all know the rewarding feeling of getting a new weapon :D
  
  The health also adds a very interesting spark to the game. if you get injured to the point of bleeding 
 in this game unlike other FPS's where you just grab health and vuala! here you actually see yourself 
 heal yourself ex: if you get shot to the point of bleeding and heal yourself you will see the guy 
 pull a bullet out of.... well almost where ever. which is pretty gross but awsome at the same time.
 
  
  THE SOUNDS of the game are pretty realistic and makes you feel like you are in the desert, wasteland, 
 grasslands, or jungle. The sound is great everything fits in well and pretty much everything makes 
 a sound. You can hear fire crakle, hear your enemy reload his weapon, or animals in the distance. 
 When vehicles get damaged they dont sound or look the same as when they did when it was in good 
 condition. The sound really helps you in stealth missions and the voices fit almost everyone..... almost 
 lol.
  
  OVERALL this game is great and most of the people the give this game such a negative review are 
 bashing it for the few flaws that the game seems to have. I just wish Jack Carver was in this game 
 =/ lol. This game is for anyone who enjoys FPS's, if your a Far Cry fan, or if you plainly love 
 causing massive destruction to AI and the environment. well thanks for reading my review and i 
 hope i made your choice in video games easier well till nest review!!!! TA TA FOR NOW!!!!! ;)
 
  *** = negative
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics. Amazing environments, awesome guns. Loved the maps. Great environment, graphic, 
 sound, gun design. Disastrous gameplay. It is so sad that this had so much potential, and then 
 they make the gameplay just plain stupid. EVERYBODY wants to kill you. Really? No stealth at all. 
 You mean to tell me that you kill one person at night with a melee weapon and EVERYBODY wakes up 
 (even a mile away) and they come to kill you. The lack of realism is ridiculous. I could go on 
 and on. What's amazing is the amount of time these developing teams spend on design, and NOBODY 
 thought, geez, maybe when you're in stealth mode, no one can hear u. WOW. To the ubisoft and whatever 
 other developing company was involved, FIRE those game developers or at least don't let them smoke 
 recreational drugs while working. WORST GAME EVER!!! so sad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommy863
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is far from another FPS, it is original and mind blowing. It has a huge world full of 
 enemy camps to secure or avoid. There are more then plenty of exiting and intense missions and 
 side missions that include assassinations, underground missions (to get medicine) , and arms dealer 
 missions (destroying convoys) to unlock weapons. Not to mention, there is a massive selections 
 of weapons that you can upgrade (reliability, accuracy and ammo) . The weapons also show dirt, jam, 
 and break. I have not complete the game but I am 54% done and I have played for about 25 hours. 
 The multiplayer is great too. There are four game modes to choose from or make a custom game, with 
 lots of big maps and five classes that can be upgraded. There is a really deep map editor where 
 you can create and publish maps, but it takes lots of time and effort to do. The story may not 
 be the best (find and kill "The Jackal") , but the fantastic gameplay, stunning graphics, great 
 multiplayer, and deep map editor, all make up for it, to make a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iHak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game has been purley been underrated on multiple game sites. It will make you play this game 
 for 40 hours + on single player, and even more hours on the multiplayer.
  I have also tried the map editor, and its a realy good add on to the game. Even though it maybe 
 difficult to get use to but its worth it. The story is realy solid and will get you playing the 
 single player for hours, and has no glitches of wat im aware of. 
  
  The good:
  
  - Great Single player
  - Awsome environment
  - Superb amount of weaponry
  - Great Online
 
  - Great Map editor
  
  The bad:
  
  - Getting to missions are a problem as you would have to drive long distances, and it can be a 
 pain. - Also the randomly attacks by pick up trucks with turrets on them.
  - Online sometimes can be a pain, as the Far cry 2 server sometimes can disconect you.
  
  Thats 
 it, in my opinion i rate this game a 9.0/10 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  FarCry 2 takes place in the African Savannah, although it is in no way related to the previous 
 entries in the FarCry series, FarCry 2 is still worthy to the name. 
  FarCry 2 a huge open-world shooter in which you play as a mercenary-for-hire affected by malaria. 
 You are given the task of finding a highly dangerous war criminal known as the Jackal who is responsible 
 for funding a civil war between two African factions. Once you find him it is your objective to 
 terminate him, the campaign is a long journey full of exciting gunfights, relaxing drives through 
 the African outback and fire. Fire is a major part of FarCry 2, with the new fire propagation system, 
 fire is an extremely useful tool which is very cool to play with. You can smoke out enemies, burn 
 down hideouts and take down entire forests with the push of a button. Fire is awesome and it looks 
 really good, then again so does everything else in the game, FarCry 2 successfully manages to make 
 you feel like you're a part of the jungle, hunting baddies. The environments and lighting all look 
 very realistic and really suck you in. 
  The gameplay is pretty original and very realistic as well. The guns all have their own unique 
 feel to them and are all fun to experience with, also a gun's reliability is very relevant in this 
 game; a purchased weapon is very reliable whereas an enemy's dirty and used weapon isn't and is 
 more prone to jamming and misfires. Also the malaria can also become an issue because you will 
 occasionally need to stop and pop a pill so that your vision doesn't become too fuzzy. In FarCry 
 2 the health system is also rather new, your health bar is divided into 5 segments which regenerate 
 as long as they are not completely drained, yet when you get down to the last segment of the health 
 bar you will need to take a break and heal yourself by prying a bullet from your flesh with some 
 pliers or bandaging up a wound also you are given a handful of syrettes which will bring your health 
 back up to 100% at any time.
  The online play in FarCry 2 is what you'd expect, it has the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 and capture the flag modes, but capture the flag is known as capture the diamonds. It works well 
 and you are also given a map editor so that you can build your own custom maps however you want 
 and submit them to the online community if you so choose. A map rating system is also included 
 so that you can easily find the best of the best.
  FarCry 2 is an excellent shooter with a refreshing blend of old-school and new-school gameplay, 
 great graphics and story that evolves however you want it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  alot of people will be mad because i hate but this game is so stupid its more than stupid my friend 
 owns far cry instince on x360 so i really wanted to get the second one and all i got was this bullcrap. first 
 of all 90% of the enviroment is trees and roads 7% water and buildings and 3% people. the cool thing 
 is the map but you can essily get lost if your car blows up also you cant bring weapons in a building 
 if there are good people in there or your billions of safehouses. Now the map edidtor is just broken 
 and destroyed im pist cause they got rid of the hangglider which was te funnest part there and 
 if you raise the water level really high and put buildigson there and lower it down a gain it will 
 just stay same with vechicles unless u touch them. overall people have different reviews of it 
 but i think the game shall burn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  if you like mercenaries 2 or mercenaries 1 then you love this! its just like mercenaries in many 
 ways only its an fps (first person shooter) its hard to explain but ill break it down for you: its 
 a mixture of grand thft auto, mercenaries 2, and call of duty. it has a golden gun in it!!! a golden 
 ak-47!!!!! you can buy some with diamonds, you hunt for diamonds, and this game is problably the 
 most realistic game i have ever played, guns get jammed after a while, they rust, break, you look 
 for medical boxes, the only none realistic part about this game is the way he performs surgery on 
 himself you can see how he does this is on youtube, type in far cry 2 surgery, but the only disappointing 
 part of this game is the online, its terribly disappointing, very bad, you get killed way to easy, but 
 when you try to kill someone your out of ammo, but the story mode is great!! especially the buddy 
 system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_XYZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not, I LOVE First person Shooters. They are great and truly the best thing since 
 someone invented the shoe.
  
  There are Personal Favourites in the FPS genre for me. Half Life and Call of duty are good contenders 
 (Halo is not because its SOOOO Overhyped) but the true winner of the Greatest First person game 
 of all time was Farcry for PC.
  
  I hadn't been keeping up with the Farcry news as of late. Apparently Ubisoft Montreal owns the 
 License instead of Crytek. "That's all right" I said, "Ubisoft know how to make games like Rainbow 
 Six And Splinter Cell. I'm sure this will be just as Epic."
  
  A good few weeks have passed and I must say this game is in my trade in pile because it isn't an 
 excellent game. Not bad, but shallow.
  
  The story is that you are a Mercenary, you choose who you want to be (But the Character from the 
 original Farcry isn't one of them) , and you are sent to kill the Jackal. Plot twists occur, things 
 get in your way, Blah Blah Blah, we've heard it before.
  
  You will see a flaw of the game as soon as you look at the case, you won't notice it at first but 
 later you might. The name. Why is it Called Farcry? In the original, "Farcry" was the name of a 
 new steroid gone wrong and it was also called that to show off the swanky new Cry Engine. There 
 is no Cry engine in this one, or any super Steroids. 
  
  Also the game is repetitive, the mission objectives ALWAYS involve go here, Kill this guy, Go here, 
 Blow that up, Go here, Threaten him, Die, Try it ALL OVER AGAIN! What the Hell? Where's the variety? 
 You are allowed to subvert missions to make them either easier or harder, but it just means do 
 the same thing but in a different place!
  
  The true moments of the game where I thought I was playing Farcry was right at the end of the game 
 where it all gets from free roaming to linear combat with numerous entry points just like Crytek 
 would have liked it. 
  
  It is still fun, but where's the games soul? Probably with Crytek as they put the soul in Crysis 
 a much better game, but still not as good as Farcry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyWormy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I was actually pretty happy when I got Farcry 2. After hearing what people were saying about the 
 game I was kinda nervous, but it did not disappoint me. It is an open world FPS with a pretty straight 
 basic story. You are a foreigner and you are trying to kill the "Jackal". A famous arms dealer 
 in Africa. He is behind the whole war in Africa. Selling to two factions fighting each other. The 
 single player is pretty top notch. It is an open world, when you are not on an assignment you can 
 explore the world of Farcry 2 which is in Africa of course. It is a pretty big world and it is 
 possible to get lost in it, but if you do you can find your way back. (Hopefully. LULZ jk.) The 
 multiplayer is really buggy though, not buggy.... but it does have problems, from spawning to the 
 server problems a patch should come out soon. It's a good thing the MP isn't the main part of Farcry 
 2. I would highly suggest this game to anyone who is a fan of the Farcry series or likes to explore 
 and try something new and refreshing. I know I did.
  
  ~DeadlyWormy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viking_1298
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The first Far Cry was annoying. First of all, the environment looks like something out of a holiday 
 destination and second you die, a lot. Getting killed in that game was so easy that it will litterly 
 drive to the point of frustration. But at least the graphics are okay. However its sequel was much 
 more to my liking. You're set in a war torn Africa ruled by corrupt military organizations and 
 warlords. You'll play once again as Jack Carver who has recently been coming down with malaria. 
 So not only do you have to kill a war criminal (known as the Jackal) but you also have to find 
 a cure for that disease you've been coming down with. Graphic wise Far Cry 2 is the best I've seen. 
 The lush foliage not only move very realistically but the light and shadow adds more to the realism. 
 Also there are animals which is cool too. Learning how to master the game however can be a bit 
 confusing. Compared to most shooters learning how to play the game takes some getting used to. 
 That flaw however is really minor so and it's not too hard to figure out. I do like it better than 
 the first one because in the sequel you get to burn things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  let's get something straight: these other reviewers just gave FAR CRY 2 bad reviews because it was 
 not a holy grail made by God like they expected it to be. in fact, FAR CRY 2 was my most anticipated 
 game of 2008, and it is my favourite game of 2008! 
  
  STORY:
  
  FAR CRY 2 chronicles the story of a apparently mute character (out of the 9 playable mercenaries) who 
 is sent from the U. S by a client (they are paid mercs, your charecter) to africa in a state called 
 Muanzo to hunt and kill the jackal, an arms dealer breaking the law and selling unauthorized guns 
 to 2 warring factions, the UFLL and the APR. and thats about as far as it gets in 50 hours.
  
  GRADE: D+
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  gourgeous, gourgeous graphics were the first thing we noticed 
 about FAR CRY 2 back in 2006, and they remain great. day and night cycles, perfect fire and life like 
 weapons highlight the experiance, not to mention the immersive and life like state of Muanzo.
  
  GRADE: A+
  
  SOUND:
  
  great attention to sound means that you can hear birds, drive 
 jeeps and fire bullets, and FAR CRY 2 has them all.
  
  GRADE: A
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  FAR CRY 2 has a slow ,expansive game in it, so take cover, reload, and aim well, the cars handle well, and 
 SIXAXIS allows you to steer with the controller.
  not for you if you are a halo junkie.
  
  GRADE: A-
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Top Notch graphics = check
  Gameplay = error
  Fun Factor = error
  Good storyline = error
  Replayability = error
  
  If you base your taste of games on graphics, 
 then this game might attract you. Because the gameplay and fun were taking out of the mix... not 
 to mention the tons of glitches around the game.
  
  Let's start with the bad... so i go from one enemy checkpost to the next. On the first one, i kill 
 everyone, and i leave to the 2nd one. Killed everyone as well, and headed back to the first one, 
 to get some ammo or syringe drug to cure me. My surprise, everyone i killed suddenly is alive. 
 
  Another glitch was when going to my hideout, 2 soldiers were floating on mid air... floating! Plus, 
 they had their arms wrapped around them... so what else can you do, but shoot them. So, i did and 
 to my surprise, i die.
  When trying to get the intellingence dude to give out the false coordinates, got outside bullet 
 spray everyone, corpses all over the place... and when trying to make my way out on a boat, from 
 another corner of river, another boat starts attacking me. I grabbed the boat and turned it around 
 so i can engage on a fire fight... guess what, no boat... gone! Then i go to a village, to be stealthy, 
 i use the machete and chopped down the innocent deadly soldier. One problem, he didnt' scream or 
 make any noise, but i guess his body was the alarm. I was surrounded in 5 seconds. Oh and the map... it's 
 awful. Everything looks like far away. I think what Ubisoft was going for was a "Mercenaries" 1st 
 person shooter... but dude, this game is as boring as a math lecture.
  
  Story... well the usual stuff. You are hired to kill some guy named the jackal. From the beginning, 
 the dude seems kinda a nice since he doesn't pop one on your head and then leaves you to die from 
 your illness. After this, things get kinda off... factions here and there... buddies, enemies, restriction 
 areas you cannot shoot, bars... nothing extraordinaire. In other words, you will not play or stay 
 playing this game for the story, thats for SURE. 
  
  Am paying $60+ dollars to get entertained people!... this game has the settings and all the "soldier 
 of fortune" look going on, but i was totally off. Again, without a doubt, graphics and looks are 
 great... but it's not about that. Yes, graphics are part of the reasons why, you buy either a PS3 
 or an XBOX... but Ubisoft, focus more on the FUN my friends, that's where the beef of it all is. 
 I made a HUGE mistake on this one... so am selling it.
  
  Rent it... if you haven't played any of the shooters out there and if you haven't ever played "Mercenaries"... and 
 the key word here is "RENT IT". If you fall on the categories mentioned above, then big time skip 
 it.
  
  Ciao! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archis88
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  FAR CRY FAR CRY! not really as good game as everyone thinks it is Multiplayer is good but there 
 are unbalanced classes and after every match most of the time host has ended the game
  Then everyone can swap teams so most of time all high levels go in 1 team and low levels get in 
 other which is really annoying because you can do anything then there are many lags i don't know 
 if its only for me but you get so rarely in games which aren't lag but and there aren't enough 
 multiplayer moods to keep you busy only 4 and there are some other issues but overall multiplayer 
 is fun if you get into good matches 
  
  good things are that you can play other peoples maps but not in ranked match so every time you 
 go in other players map you have to start over again and most of weapons are feel right and are 
 fun to use the fire spreads like crazy which is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE_PS3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Ok, so it should have been the perfect game, but.. it wasnt! The main thing is the map is too big! 
 The games best features turns out to be its worst. Firstly you get a mission, you there realise 
 that its so far away. Ok you say ill find a jeep? Cant find one, ok ill run. 5 minutes of running 
 and you find a camp. You use 3 of your injectors to heal yourself as there shooting you and you 
 find a jeep when you have killed them all . You get into the jeep and keep driving to the mission 
 point. You find another camp, seeing as you only have 2 injectors left you try and drive on but 
 they follow you. You use your last 2 injectors healing youself. You finally get to the point, and 
 oh look you have no injectors left. You die. Game over. You load last checkpoint and do it all 
 again, every mission after the starting ones i have done this, this has got to be its worst feature 
 ever. This is why is dislike this game much. However it has to be said that some good features 
 have come of this. The online is pretty decent, and there are trophies to collect. But as most 
 of them are in single player I have to say that i have 8% of them. Not a good game imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I chose this game over Fallout 3 and Resistance 2 but I was soon regretting this decision. This 
 game may look great because of its graphics, but to be plain honest, it is just boring. No cutscenes, 
 no story, no exciting stuff, no nothing. I'd have to change my weapons every now and then to keep 
 myself from falling into depression. 
  
  Bad stuff: Boring, repetitive, you spend half the game driving around and bumping into stuff, some 
 glitches made me have to start over from my load save and one glitch were I accidentally saved 
 after completing a mission, I got stuck on a truck and couldn't get off so I had to start from 
 another save location which was 7 hours backwards. It is really short paced and not addictive at 
 all. The map seems big at first but you'll find yourself knowing the map by heart and some missions 
 are carried out in the same battlefield short after you've beaten the mission in that area. The 
 online is heavily flawed... the bad stuff is endless...
  
  Bottom line is that I gave this game a 7.5 that it earned from graphics and length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altmoonster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I am not much for reviewing games, but I feel I owe it to the Far Cry 2 developers to review their 
 recent entry. Simply put, this is one of the best game I have ever played. It has a enveloping 
 atmosphere, an intelligent storyline, and is technically refined.
  
  The greatest accolade I can bestow is that I actually finished it, while completing a good number 
 of the ancillary missions on the way. The only reason I am not giving it a 10 is because I encountered 
 a glitch that wouldn't let me progress in the main story about 80% of the way in, however I just 
 loaded a prior save to overcome that obstacle. The fact that I am still giving it a 9.5 after encountering 
 that glitch should speak volumes.
  
  One final point, to all those that complain about the 'bullet resistant' enemies you encounter 
 along the way: Bear in mind that you, the player character, are also able to take quite a few bullets 
 before going down. The fact that your enemies share this trait should be seen as a reasonable compromise 
 to the alternative, which would be frequent reloading after the many times the wife-beater clad 
 fighter get the drop on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beekayjay
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Be forewarned: this is not your ordinary shooter. As you may surmise from the rest of the reviews, 
 this is a game you will either love immensely or hate entirely. Those who fall in the first category 
 will love it for the ambitiousness of the immersive atmosphere: in the game, you are a foreign 
 mercenary dumped into a backwater African country suffering from the threat of civil war. Ubisoft 
 have gone to enormous lengths to make the environment feel as real as possible, and have given 
 you enormous freedom in a 50 square kilometer world. If you are looking to just to experience what 
 it might be like to be a gun for hire in a developing African nation without the constraints of 
 a tight script and story, then this is for you. 
  However, because this is such a radical departure from the traditional FPS (most are on-rails, 
 linear experiences where the pacing is purposefully scripted to crank the adrenalin constantly) 
 there are many who will think that this game is a failure. Indeed, measured against the classic 
 FPS formula, this just doesn't cut it: the pacing is plodding and slow at best. 
  But it must be remembered that the whole point was to make something absolutely unique: a FPS shooter 
 with the free roaming pace of GTA. Before considering purchasing this game, you MUST keep this 
 in mind. The single player campaign is NOT going to be COD4 in Africa. In addition to combining 
 sandbox game elements, there are also some RPG customization elements as well. In the end, the 
 experience amounts to something more along the lines of a second life or career, and less of a 
 rollercoaster, adrenalin rush action movie. It is this very distinction which is at the heart of 
 why you see this game getting 9's from some, and 1's from others.
  
  But I will say to those who do find the game's style appealing: even measured against what the 
 game attempts to do, it is still far from perfect. Just like GTA4, it lacks enough depth to make 
 the sandbox experience empty and unsatisfying. It is still an amazing thrill however, to travel 
 across these amazing African landscapes, but one can't help but feel that they are still just a 
 bit too empty and lifeless to truly be realistic, convincing and interesting in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indu1990
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  When the first game came out, i didn't except anything good from it. But it turned out to be one 
 of the best first person shooter games. I set my hopes high for this game and it didn't disappoint 
 me.
  
  Bad:
  At first i didnt agree about the problem, that travelling long journeys is boring. But when i had 
 played that game for about 10 hours, it came boring. There are too many diamonds too. You have 
 to find 221!!!! diamond cases. That is just too many. And the story is so bad. There isn't any 
 connection at all to the politics.
  The voice acting is poor, very poor. The character you play doesnt talk .
  
  Good:
  Game 
 has absolutely perfect graphics. I dont believe how good the graphics are! The sounds are great 
 too, except the voice acting. The best thing about the game is the map editor. Thats just WOW! 
 Multiplayer, and many different weapons are absolutly great That you can play many different characters 
 is absolutely. Thing that you can heel yourself, that weapons jam, cars brake and you can fix it 
 makes you feel that you are in the game.
  Overall:
  The game is a great sequel to the first game, but it has some mistakes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2, probably the only game I've played which is fully set in Africa, as soon as I played 
 the very first mission at a friend's house, it just... blew my mind, it was friggin' awesome, the 
 setting, the gameplay, the music, it just fitted perfectly, to make up a very, very cool game that 
 should not be missed.
  
  While many people complain about the story, I really don't think it's all that bad, I mean, sure 
 it's not outstanding, but it's not horrible either. Again, the setting is awesome, just staring 
 at the savanna makes you feel like if you were in Africa, the music that plays fits perfectly, 
 and... well, it's a fantastic experience.
  
  Now, the gameplay is what really makes the game so cool. I, personally, think that playing a First-person 
 shooter in a console is particularly difficult and frustrating, however, Far Cry 2 makes it so 
 easy and fluid I didn't even thought about it, and the control scheme is simply superb, it's so 
 simple and easy to memorize you'll get the grip of it in no time.
  
  Something I really, really like is that you'll see your character's hands for everything. By this 
 I mean that if you must heal yourself, you'll see the character injecting himself with a syrette, 
 or snapping a bone back in it's place, or taking a bullet out of his arms with a knife. If you 
 get a call from a buddy, you'll see his hands taking out the cellphone and answer.... etc. you 
 get the idea, I'm not gonna describe every single animation.
  
  Now on to the bad aspects. what first comes to my mind is the enemy AI, it's incredibly annoying 
 and a bit unrealistic. Example: you're trying to sneak apst an enemy outpost, you think you're 
 well hidden between the many plants in the jungle, when suddenly you hear some guy shouting something 
 in "African", and everyone starts shooting at you, and I don't mean in your direction, but directly 
 at you, even that far off sniper that shouldn't even be able to see you. Seriously, i'm not joking, 
 this happens all the time, but who the hell cares? the rest of the game is awesome.
  
  And also, the story mode ends the game, I mean, you can't like, continue after you complete the 
 story missions, you have to start a new game to obtain all those trophies you didn't got, and starting 
 a new game isn't really all that exciting since the game takes too long to complete, which is good. 
 So, a word of advice, make multiple saves, just in case. And, you're buddies can and WILL die, 
 which really sucks.
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is an amazing experience that shouldn't be missed by anyone who enjoys first-person 
 Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Everybody was talking about Farcry 2, The game looked Absolutely amazing but when u finally play 
 it will be really surprised about what u get.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are well good for the most part but there are A LOT of bugs and glitches all round the 
 game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay was a complete disaster to me, it just doesn't feel right in terms of controls and weapons, 
 etc.....
  
  Story:
  Story was really the worse part, it was shallow and its all about killing people in Africa... It 
 was really bad... sadly!
  
  Online:
  Sucks....
  
  Overall: We all didn't get what we expected from a previously great and fun game (Farcry 1) . If 
 u want a new FPS Buy Resistance 2..... since Resistance 2 has 60 player online and Story is amazing.. 
 don't fully trust gamespot on the 8.5, this game looks good but when u play it, u will be disappointed 
 and surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kmoney88
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Positives: Really good graphics and animation really makes you feel like your a mercenary in Africa... 
 you can look down and see your feet when your driving for example... there are a lot of cool little 
 things that make this game different... when you get really hurt and close to death you can stabilize 
 your health by pushing one of the bumper buttons and you'll take your knife and pull a bullet out 
 of your leg or snap your broken arm back into place or something pretty neat like that. Another 
 thing that makes this game feel realistic and unique is the fact that you can kill any of your 
 "buddies" you meet during the game and they are dead for good. You can't bring them back once you've 
 put a bullet in their head. A few more positives are a good variety of weapons, setting things 
 on fire is fun, and weapons can jam in the middle of gunfights.
  
  Negatives: where to start.... worst multiplayer I've ever played, in story mode, I played on the 
 Hardcore setting and the AI was ridiculously smart at times - for example: I was hiding under a 
 bridge when a truck passed overhead and somehow they enemies knew I was there, jumped out and killed 
 me. Campaign is awful, the characters are lame and the conflict that is going on between the two 
 factions is really, really uninteresting. Any vehicle that passes you will chase and shoot at you 
 until your dead or until you kill them, which gets really lame when your actually trying to get 
 something done and have to drive a good distance and you run into 3 or 4 vehicles along the way 
 and have to stop and deal with them. Like the gamespot review said, traveling long distances gets 
 tedious and frustrating at times.
  
  All in all - negatives outweigh the positives for me. It was really fun for the first couple hours, 
 but after all the neat little things like arm snapping, bullet wounds, and gun jamming get common, 
 your stuck with a mediocre shooter on a huge map with little more than a bunch of trees and bushes. 
 Go rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flarvii
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  What's the worst game you've ever played? I can make a list of the games I hate but I'll just continue 
 with this review, now imagine it getting worse every time you advance in the game. Now picture 
 Far Cry 2 which must be a close match.
  I started playing Far Cry 2 with high expectations and they were dramatically lowered as I got 
 closer to finishing the game but I was wondering if this followed in the same path of Far Cry 1 
 as my friends keep on telling me about... But they were right about how the game drags it along 
 attempting to lengthen the game for a few hours.
  
  I think I'm going a bit off track so let me back up a bit.
  
  When Far Cry 2 was released I 
 was overwhelmed with glee that Ubisoft has released a game that improves AI and makes it harder 
 for companies like EA to continue releasing linear games. Sure the game engine "Dunia" can generate 
 a mission were you kill the guy that gave you your first mission or something and Dunia generates 
 these by your past actions in the game but then again there are only so many combination in everything 
 and once you've figured that out the game just becomes linear again. Sure it's got a choice of 
 whether you save some drunken people -e. g, your "Buddies"- or save the orphans at the church, but 
 why do I have to choose? You're most likely going to save your "Buddies" at the bar anyway and 
 continue to the second district. And the AI -from what I can tell- hasn't made a HUGE improvement 
 (I got a phone call from my Buddy saying that he needed help but to get to him I needed to go through 
 an entire outpost or leave my Buddy there to die. Obviously I chose the second choice. When I cleared 
 the outpost I accidentally started a bush fire and a very realistic bush fire to a point, but I 
 rescued my Buddy only to watch him walk through the fire to get some ammo. That is not improved 
 AI) .
  I'd like to point out that there is no non-linear way of making a free roam world and if you have 
 found a way of doing that then congratulations! You deserve a medal in the art of bull****ing.
 
  Moving on to the graphics and this is probably the most talked about thing in the entire game. 
 But who cares about the graphics of a game when you can't even admire the programmers work for 
 five minutes without being shot at, yes I even timed myself of how long it takes -standing by the 
 road- for an enemy to drive past me and no joke it was 2m 34s. I'm going to say something at this 
 point: I HATE MINDLESS VIOLENCE IN GAMES WITH STORY LINES, sure Unreal Tournament is a good multi-player 
 game but this is mostly for single player. It basically comes down to "I've seen it all, and done 
 better".
  Game play: This has a lot of game play issues such as the lack of UI where it's needed, sure it 
 did better than Dead Space but you must be joking about the currency besides that fact that it's 
 rough diamonds it got worse because you have to search for heaps of briefcases full of them, but 
 no, it doesn't end there, Ubisoft made it so that the cases with one or two diamonds in it have 
 enemies surrounding the case.
  The storyline was a bit... non-existent. The bits of the storyline that I got:
  A guy named "The 
 Jackal" is an arms dealer and sold weapons to factions in some random (yet somewhat unnamed) country 
 in Africa, and the faction names are the UFLL and the APR. And you get malaria and... That's when 
 the writers thought that the graphics department could blind everyone so that they could hide the 
 extremely repetitive missions.
  After you've finished the tutorial the game makes you do heaps of missions that involve going from 
 one side of the map to the other, but since this is an open world game you have 50km to walk per 
 district. And if you do missions for this arms dealer near a bar then you get heaps of weapons 
 that make it so that you finish missions with literally one button press.
  
  To sum it all up:
  This game was boring and unimaginative and there are heaps of questions to 
 be asked:
  Why should I spend hours getting my Buddies reputation up when they will be killed by either me 
 or the enemy?
  Why should I do missions for one faction when they all seem to hate me?
  Why should I bother collecting diamonds when the weapons that you start off with tend to be better?
 
  Why isn't the story explained in more detail?
  Why should I even bother buying and playing a game that wasn't even worth renting?
  And how come 
 there are RPG elements in this game when it wasn't supposed to have them?
  How come my enemies can drive faster than me in cars and the speed magically disappears when I 
 hop into it?
  And why do my enemies somehow know exactly where I am?
  Most of these questions are the result of a game that I can't even figure out who to recommend 
 it to. But if you do like this game then say hi to Thor for me because you're obviously a mythical 
 creature.
  
  Reason for the rating:
  +1.0 Because that's the lowest score that there is in Gamespot.
  +0.1 Because of the bush fires.
 
  +0.4 Because you get to overthrow the government. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off, showing off the graphics and the theme of the game. You start off with no 
 knowledge of what to do, to defeat a bunch of tough enemies. When you fall to your death, you get 
 rescued and have to work for a group ( I don't even remember what they are called.) They put you 
 on the main missions, but there are side missions you can do for diamonds, and new weapons. You 
 might be amazed by the graphics and realism of the game, but only for about an hour. The game gets 
 boring really fast, and your lucky if you can get through half the game, because it gets that boring.
 
  
  The main problem is the lack of a story, you just start off, all you know is that there is some 
 kind of rivalry in Africa, and you have Malaria. Basically, you don't know what your fighting for, 
 and just are, why not leave the country? No one knows. This game was a big disappointment, good 
 thing it was only a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiusername
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 starts as a very exciting game, the sceanery is beautifull, the sun rises in Africa are 
 simply amazing!. Apart from that, the idea of an open world game makes it even more inviting to 
 be played, the cars you drive are good with some options like the jeep, the buggie and the old 
 car from melicias, ... oh right and a truck in some mission close to ending the game! but to be 
 true you spend most of the game playing the melicia jeep and it gets boring after awhile. The river 
 boats are really nice and easy to be driven which makes the watter fights very exciting for awhile. 
 There is also the radical flying thing which, honestly, doesnt make much sense on this game, it 
 sure saved me some time once for a buddy rescue but after that the atempts of flying the thing 
 ended up in big crashes. Did anyone figure out how you fly the freaken thing?...
  The armory is really cool also, during the game development with the right amout of diamonds you 
 can buy some great guns, but always remember to upgrade or buy the accuracy for them otherwise 
 it will end up crashing and eventually you loose the gun.
  The missions aren't that dificult, and the sceanery where they take place are really beautifull, 
 most are lost citys in the midle of the jungle or the desert in Africa.
  So, basically, Far cry 2 has all the ingredients to be a good and exciting game, where does it 
 fail?
  The missions get very boring after the first couple ones, you spend most of the time in the midle 
 of the jungle looking at the map and part of the action only comes when u check on a guard post 
 or safe house if its not saved yet (did i make any sense?) . The missions take place in very beautifull 
 areas in Africa, they are usually too far from the place where the mission is accepted, and after 
 you get the mission completed u have to circle around the map to get minor missions or return to 
 the starting point (far as hell) to get another major one! It's ok the first 2 or 3 missions, but 
 after that it turns into a routine, a very boring routine actually, it made me quit on the game 
 for awhile (and yes there is a bus you can catch, which makes it alot easier and faster to return 
 to the starting point to get another mission)
  The malaria disease is just another minor aspect of the game, they make it sound as an important 
 detail but i see it just as an add to the story calling for more envolvement, you kind of end up 
 forgetting you have malaria during the game anyway! from time to time you have to do some passport 
 delievering in trade of medicines for malaria! (cool first times, routinicly boring after it)
 
  And then you get close to ending the game (80% or so) , thats when the excitment returns, lots 
 of action, in my opinion the entire game should be like that, much more story on it and envolvement, 
 but no, u have to wait and suffer with boreness till u get to around 80% of the game. 
  The end is simply disapointing though, was expecting lot more from it, not much story after u end 
 it, so it kind of feels frustrating to think you wasted alot of time on the final 20% of the game 
 for nothing!
  In resume, the game wins in the sceanery and machinery but it would be so much better if you didnt 
 have to spend so much time walking around in the midle of nowhere looking for missions which get 
 much like a routine and not exciting! 
  By the way, the game crashed a couple of times on me, not sure what to think of it as it never 
 happened to me with any other PS3 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  If I had to choose one word for Far Cry 2 it would be painfully boring. The game does a lot of 
 things right. The shooting mechanism is great, the first person view is pretty immersive, the enemy 
 AI is alright, they are not the brightest but they make up in number for it, the graphics are impressive, 
 the game's story line is serviceable. But with all the good the game has way too many flaws as 
 well. Depending on what you look for makes up your opinion of FarCry 2. The animation system is 
 stiff and the character models looks really awful when you compare it to the gorgeous surroundings. 
 The game plays great but then there is one awful issue that just killed the singleplayer game for 
 me. Its the long long driving. Like from point A you drive to point B and any human being that 
 sees you starts shooting at you. It just gets too frustrating considering this game still uses 
 the last gen checkpoint system:| There just isn't too much to do in this world. Its a huge empty 
 world. The fire effects are impressive etc. but again its a total eye candy nothing more. They 
 should have made a linear game with branching paths that would have been more interesting.
  My second biggest issue with this game is why is it even called Far Cry 2? It has nothing to do 
 with Far Cry 1 not even a close resemblance they just used the name to sell this game.
  
  Apart from the singleplayer the multiplayer is pretty good. There isn't much lag and the multiplayer 
 is pretty intense. There are some issues i had with the progression system. I was on level 5 and 
 next time i logged in i was at level 2. So apart from that there is also an amazing Map Creator 
 which is awesome. I don't know to which extent will it be successful but it is easy and great to 
 use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slaymanio1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  For toes ho like long games then Far cry 2 is one. A lot of weapons and items in the game. Cool 
 and long single player and a very fun map editor. The 2 only disappointments in the game is the 
 multiplayer because all most no one is playing for a game that sold 1 million and more world wide 
 and the map editor is missing objects and stuff. In general the game is fun and the fire propagation 
 is a good idea but the A. I is bad and stupid. You can lose the feeling of a cool game playing with 
 this or you can be addictive. I hope Far Cry 3 will be better and will be following the story line 
 of Far cry 1. Far cry 2 is a original Fps nothing more and the missions are repetitive and long 
 when you have to drive your car for 10 to 15 minutes to get to your mission location. But they're 
 buses in the game but they will not take you to the precise location. The graphics are cool but 
 not amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boron1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Boron1995 - Far Cry 2 Review (Note: This is a full length review)
  
  
  Far cry, the sensational revolutionary shooter released in 2005 marked the beginning of a new era 
 of FPSs, beautiful and amazing gameplay. Three years on, Ubisoft takes on the role and releases 
 Far Cry 2 (let me make something clear, Crytek WAS NOT involved in making the game, however 2% 
 to 3% of CryEngine is used) , and guess what, it is pretty darn good. 
  
  It is just what it says, a huge sandbox game sprawling with enemies you want to will AND stuff 
 you REALLY want to blow up. The game's story is simple: hunt down and kill The Jackal, a notorious 
 arms dealer who's been supplying arms to the two dominant factions in the game's African setting: 
 the APR and UFLL, who are vying for control of the nation. The story may seem bland at first, but 
 soon when you get into it you will discover a few interesting twists and turns and after that, 
 there is still a load of things you can do, such as get every trophie and acheivement possible 
 (trust me, it adds up to a huge amount) . So, in the beginning you and your indian-accented driver 
 well, drive, to your hotel, and guess what, you get malaria as you arrive. And so, you faint and 
 re-awake, greeted by The Jackal (who acts like a smart-arse) . You get thrown out (after a interesting 
 tutorial) to the 50km2 land in front of you. The story progesses in missions and then there side 
 missions and underground missions (missions in which you must carry out a set of instructions to 
 recieve malaria medicine) . During these missions you will encounter people called "buddies", people 
 who help you (in various ways, such as missions) , call you, and sometimes rudely stand by your 
 bed as you had slept. Buddies are of course, NOT invincible so if you randomly leave an area where 
 your buddy is during a mission and return to find a truckload of enemies, well, I don't think he 
 or she will be standing (or sitting, for that matter) . If buddies get mortally wounded you must 
 either heal them (using syrettes, the first aid in this game) , or comfort them as they die, mercy 
 kill them, or simply leave them. Of course if you leave them they'll die, but since the developers 
 included a nifty organizer you can check their condition, living, missing, mercy killed or dead. 
 Of course if you get along with them you will build up your history with them, as in their disposition.
 
  
  Onto other things:
  
  Graphics:
  As you guessed, the game is disgustingly bad. I mean INCREDIBLY good. The graphics are just right, 
 with huge draw distances, nicely detailed rocks and buildings etc. and great-looking shadows. The 
 graphics suit the African setting Perfectly, although it is annoying to keep seeing the same thing 
 over and over, but hey, it's a sandbox game. The PC version (as always) has the upper hand, with 
 better anti-aliasing, better textures etc. and there are medium system requirements:
  
  System Requirements:
  
  Minimum: 
  
  Microsoft Windows Operating System: Windows XP with 
 Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista
  CPU: Pentium 4 3.2 GHz, Pentium D 2.66 Ghz, AMD Athlon 64 3500+ or better. 
  Graphics Hardware: 
 NVidia 6800 or ATI X1650 or better; must support Pixel Shader 3.0,
  Memory: 1 GB 
  Hard Drive Space: 6 GB of free space
  
  Recommended:
  
  Microsoft Windows Operating System: 
 Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista
  CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo Family, AMD 64 X2 5200+, AMD Phenom or better
  Memory : 2GB 
  Graphics 
 Hardware: NVidia 8600 GTS or better, ATI X1900 or better
  Hard Drive Space: 6 GB of free space
  
  Of course you may have to upgrade your computer a bit. 
 But hey, the system requirements beats Crysis. The game looks great on the console versions but 
 the anti-aliasing isn't as snappy and there are a FEW low textures, it's still the great Far Cry 
 2 experience. You will definitely like the graphics, with the depth of field and huge explosions 
 and beautiful waterfalls and wildlife etc. Note that the only thing used from CryEngine is (by 
 my reckoning) Polybump. The game runs on a engine called Dunia. The game also has a very slick 
 day and night cycle and storm and rain effects.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game gives you a huge number of real world weapons, including assault rifles, sniper rifles, 
 RPGs etc. and the player can carry three weapons at any time. A major gameplay and annoying feature 
 is that these weapons degrade over time. Weapons become dirty and jam and eventually become completely 
 unusable. Although it is sometimes epic and frustating during a huge firefight to see weapons jam, 
 it still is immersive. A rather slick thing you can do is slide while running. It does feel Hollywood-ish 
 to run along bulidings and slide very stylishly into a hole in a fence and then run and slide again 
 behind the door of a building and sit there, while the uncertain enemy searches for you. You can 
 actually hide in the game, like behind rocks, cars, buildings etc. The game doesn't have a guided 
 cover system, but you can improvise. The music in the game is generally good, and the fast-paced 
 anklets music gets you running, however sometimes there isn't any music at all, and you'd wish 
 you could play music from your hard-drive. The AI in the game is good and better in ways you won't 
 notice, it basically is the Usual. It is funny sometimes (and strange) to be standing next to a 
 enemy and they're shouting about finding you. They take cover, exchange ammo etc. but a annoying 
 yet good thing is that they fire RPGs at you if you are too far away, and even ram you with a car 
 and give chase. You also have a map that you can use (and will use very often) .
  Saving the game is no problem on the PC version since you can save when you want, but on the console 
 versions they are all pre-defined which is annoying, since you may have to occasionaly drive halfway 
 across the map for a save point. Since this is one huge game you WILL be swimming, running driving 
 etc., and a annoying thing is that you will be doing these over and over if you die (unless you 
 cleverly saved your game at the right time and place) . The game's "fast travel" is buses that allow 
 you to travel to any other bus station. The game can be repetitive, with cars, and occasionaly 
 enemies. By the way there are also some cool yet somewhat inconvient heal animations 
  The casual gamer may find this slightly annoying but a sandbox gamer will be fine with it. The 
 vehicles in the game are the usual: cars, jeeps and a few hidden gliders (that are a lot of fun 
 to use) . A few AI quirks are that allies and enemies may stand, say, behind a rock and shoot right 
 through it to reach the enemy on the other side (of course this never works) . You can purchase 
 ammo from arms vendors. There are interesting extras, like finding Jackal tapes or the 221 diamond 
 briefcases hidden in the wild. The game's dialogue is occasionally funny, like hearing a faction 
 leader talking about dressing their soldiers up as women and forcing them to act like animals or 
 using children as an excuse not to fight in the most useless of times. 
  
  Far Cry 2 is a great game with good gameplay that sandbox lovers will, well, love, but if you are 
 still
  in doubt I recommend you get it in the bargain bin. I recommend the console versions for people 
 with not so powerful computers.
  
  And there is my review. I know that I have missed out on a few things and hey, this is all I can 
 give for now. Please excuse my grammar and spelling mistakes. 
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Rent this game first. Its not horrible, but this game has nothing to do with the first Far Cry 
 game from Crytek. This was a sad attempt by ubisoft to sell the game to a lot of people who played 
 the hell out of the original. What a mistake I made, because I fell for that little trick.
  
  The game and story is very loose, and not well fleshed out... Thats the game, really. 
  The 
 AI and combat is un-relenting. All guns can fire on targets from a ridiculous distance allowing 
 the enemy AI to shoot you before you see them. That works for the player as well, but the odds 
 are not in your favor here. The AI can also see you through the dense jungle foliage with what 
 I assume is their Jungle vision x-ray goggles. The weapons degrade over time. An interesting concept, 
 but for the fact that the enemy guns never jam when they are firing at you, but the second you 
 pick up their fallen firearms they are always jamming on you. 
  There are some major glitches that may occur during the game. A few glitches specifically deal 
 with NPC interactions that are broken. Without a solution the game is unable to progress any further 
 leaving the player stuck, and ending your game. This happened to me. Good luck trying to get a 
 straight answer out of Ubisoft support, they have better things to do like counting your money. 
 
  Play this game if you must. I admit to having fun while it lasted despite a lot of weak elements 
 in the game. However please be wise with your money and buy a better made product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrucifyKillRot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  The game looks great, and Im not really sure what to think of the story. All the features give 
 a reason to play, until the controller is in hand waiting to be put down again. The enemies were 
 hard to see, not only that, it took tons of bullets to kill them. People are saying it's like Grand 
 Theft Auto in Africa, yeah not really. It felt like a game someone would have to beg you to play, 
 almost like a job, except your not getting paid, instead wasting time. The missions, like a broken 
 record, the same every time. The idea of being able to roam around freely sounds cool, then ten 
 mins later your stuck wondering whether there is a point to this. The heath system was different 
 from most games, well not really, the healing animation where he spends time prying bullets out 
 of his body, was a cool touch, although very inconvenient at times. Oh and don't get me started 
 on the random outbreaks of Malaria. This game was fun for maybe the first hour, although this is 
 just my opinion of this game. It's worth a try, but thats really it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  If you played the original Far Cry game when it came out, then you should have a clear checklist 
 of things that you hope the devs included, but don't actually expect to find. I am telling you 
 right now, to throw out that checklist. The only way this game really relates to the original Far 
 Cry is the first person perspective you play it from and the fact that you shoot things with guns. 
 Apart from that, this game is pretty far off course from the original, which isnt as bad as you 
 might think.
  
  Story wise, this game isn't exactly immersive. You know that you are a mercenary who has been hired 
 to take out the Jackal, an arms dealer supplying both sides of a conflict in Africa. Apart from 
 that, there really isnt much of a story. You can listen to some audio tapes of the Jackal giving 
 a sermon (he is really just rambling on them) but you end up turning them in for Malaria medicine 
 anyway, so I don't know why you would bother. 
  
  Once you figure out that the story isnt worth commiting thought to, your next thought should be 
 "well how is the gameplay?" I am happy to say the gameplay in Far Cry 2 is excellent. There's a 
 good variety of weapons, tons of quests, and lots of terrain. You can spend a pretty good deal 
 of time just driving across the game world, taking out guard posts, securing safe houses, and looking 
 for briefcases full of diamonds (which act as the currency in this game) . The nice thing is that 
 no matter how you like to play, there are weapons for you. Like to keep your distance and pick 
 people off? There is a great selection of sniper rifles. Like to spray bullets from medium distance? 
 Grab an assault rifle. Like to run up and blast your foes in the face? There are shotguns. If you 
 cant find a way to play this game, then you are just plain difficult.
  
  Graphically this game is very impressive. The landscape is well detailed, and the weapons all have 
 a unique look and feel to them. There are actually a fair amount of enemy models as well, so you 
 won't notice them repeating over and over (looks pointedly at Uncharted: Drake's Fortune) . Perhaps 
 the most impressive visual effect is the fire which spreads realistically across the grass and 
 into the trees of the landscape. The fire is good looking, as are the effects of it's spread. Pyros 
 will definatley feel right at home in this game.
  
  Now I have to talk about the things in the game that I didn't like. I know, this part sucks. However, 
 the gripes are mostly minor, so it isnt a huge deal. First off, though there is a ton of terrain 
 to explore, there really isnt much IN it. I mean, quest locations and objects are all over the 
 place, but the open space in between is just empty. It isn't like in Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion 
 or Fallout 3 where you couldn't walk more than a few feet without finding something to explore. 
 In this game, there just really isnt a bonus for exploring . There are also these patrols which 
 go around pretty regularly, and they can be a real pain in the neck. Imagine trying to sneak into 
 an enemy base only to have a patrol car come up behind you with it's chaingun blazing. There goes 
 the element of surprise.
  
  In the end, Far Cry 2's shortcomings are drowned by it's amazing gameplay and production values. 
 The feel of each weapon is magnificent, as is the look of everything, right down to the blood that 
 comes gushing out after shooting a foe. The game will keep you entertained for a while (probably 
 about 20-30 hours) and if you can look past the lengthy commutes from place to place, and the lack 
 of a decent story, then Far Cry 2 is a game that you will probably come to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  going into the sun soaked jungle for the first time in this game was amazing, the sheer amount 
 of time put into the presentation would give anyone the impression of a well polished game. but 
 don't get me wrong the gameplay is awesome and the sound will blow away your house but, a few glitches 
 in the AI and some stupid gameplay decisions made the game not shine so brightly with polish. the 
 first rant is the AI is practically mind readers in the fact if you silently kill a guy with a 
 machete they all magically heard it and they all know exactly were you are. the second thing is 
 the stupid convoy's patrolling the streets make walking around deadly, but the worst part is when 
 they see you they try and run you over but 90% of the time they miss and you can easily gun them 
 down. the last thing is the ending which ended on the most insipid note i have ever seen, it was 
 terrible for an already confusing story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IvanTarutin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is something incredible, something that has never been done before, something special, 
 unique. This game has amazing graphics, perfect gameplay and storyline. In this game the map is 
 in your hands, so you can go wherever ou want to. Almost like GTA african style the game brings 
 to the heart of Africa where the civil war is the major problem which has affected everybody in 
 this place. In this game you are in some sort of an Assassin, whose mission is to kill the arms 
 dealer "The Jackal". You actually had to spend no more than 10 minutes in place, but everything 
 has gone wrong. And now you are working for everybody just to find out where that jackal is. All 
 in all this game is great, sorry for my mistake, not game but ART is perfect, there are no smilar 
 one's. I'm telling you, you won't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaled104
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  when i first bought the game i thought it would be mind-blowing with the extreme action, but when 
 i started playing i was a little bit disappointed for some reasons. 1- he graphics wasn't up to 
 the level of what other games are. even when an enemy is shooting from between the bushes i had 
 a hard time locating him.
  
  2- the action wasn't that exciting i sort of was just going through the game to finish it. and 
 se the ending.
  
  3- the ending is very disappointing and un meaningful.
  
  4- no cutscenes.
  
  5-almost all the missions in the game were exactly alike, you just go and 
 kill some one. it's kind of boring after the first two missions.
  
  what i liked bout the game is the variety of weapons used and the thing with the friends where 
 you do them favors and the pay it back by reviving you. and the idea of buying and expanding your 
 arsenal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quad-rider101
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Drive around in hope of completing missions.
  
  Get intercepted by local guerrilla forces.
  
  Attempt to fight hostiles after having transportation 
 is ventilated by enemy fire.
  
  Die, thanks to flawed basic FPS mechanics.
  
  Repeat! 
  
  =)
  
  ...
  
  =o
  
  Seriously, this game is terrible and should be avoided 
 at all costs. It cheapens a gamer's available time by consuming it through aimless driving in search 
 of progressing through the game's weak story. All this trouble COULD of been avoided by just a 
 simple menu screen, but UbiSoft decided it was best by navigating a POINTLESS map.
  
  When you do find combat, it sucks terribly and you'll wish you just kept driving around in your 
 hatchback. 
  
  Don't be 'amazed' by the graphics because everything looks wrapped in cellophane.
  
  Just stay 
 away from this sinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegizisback
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  this game has recieved nearly univeral praise-and i just cant understand why.
  even basic things like wanting to be stealthy with a sniper rifle isnt going to happpen, half a 
 mile away crouched in a bush scoped in on someone with a assualt rifle, they will still spot you! 
 and even IF your lucky to get a shot of then believe me when i say everyone will know where you 
 are from then.
  the action is okay though and the graphics are half decent (the games two redeeming features) but 
 my biggest gripe with the game is the travelling, it can honestly take 10 mins to get from one 
 location to the other and its just tedious, gun shop owners can give you missions-doesnt matter 
 what one you go to though on the map its ALWAYS the same person offering you the exact same mission, 
 the game feels like its sandbox for the sake of being sandox-it would have been better as a linear 
 game. if your vehicle cacks up in the middle of nowhere then expect a long trek walking doing absolutely 
 nothing, sounds bad? it gets worse, vehicle types... probably about 6 i came across.
  usually i can sit and play a game for 5-6 hours at a time if its any good, i couldnt manage more 
 than 1-2 at a time.
  if you can live with the flaws get this game, if however driving around endlessly doing nothing 
 is going to put you off, stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Far-Cry 2 is an amazing experience with a very large open world african setting to explore and 
 lots to do.
  
  You start the game as a mercenary of your choice (up to nine to pick from) on a mission to kill 
 an arms dealer known as "The Jackal". Long story short, the mission goes awry fast after you contract 
 malaria and are visited by The Jackal himself. After the initial set up, you are free to explore 
 the world as you see fit.
  
  The games story is nothing new, but like Bioshock there are some literary references in place (notably, 
 Friedrich Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil and Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness) and features 
 collectible audio tapes detailing an interview with The Jackal as well as the recordings of your 
 Predecessor. The most interesting aspect of the story is The Jackal, who's story is that of an 
 arms dealer supplying both sides. Meetings with him often signify some sort of major change in 
 the story, and his voice acting is done exceptionally well (with the occasional odd sped up speech 
 that most of the people in the game seem to suffer) . His views are interesting, and he presents 
 you with some powerful themes (such as the will to power and the nature of war) .
  
  While the tapes mostly explain interview excerpts with The Jackal, they are very interesting and 
 at times shocking. The predecessor tapes detail the quest of a man before you to find and eliminate 
 The Jackal as his actions become more immoral and he edges towards insanity, almost paralleling 
 your own mission.
  
  The gameplay is mostly shooting and driving from location to location (which can be a bit boring) 
 and is at its heart, simplistic. The shooting controls are reminiscent of the Call of Duty series, 
 and let you aim down the sights of your weapon.
  
  There is a generous variety of weapons, all with simple accuracy and reliability upgrades that 
 can be bought, but feature no customization of any sort. You can carry four at any time, including 
 your machete you can have a primary, a special, and a sidearm all selected with the d-pad. Although 
 you can pick up weapons from enemies, it best to buy them "new" as they tend to jam and break easier 
 with more use. You can tell when the weapons are starting to degrade when rust and dirt start to 
 form and the color seems to fade. When you buy a weapon you can store them in save house lock boxes, 
 and can pick up new, infinitely refilling ones at the weapons shop for free after your initial 
 purchase.
  
  Your health is a bar with refilling sections (like in Resistance) and can be brought to full status 
 with use of a syrette. When you reach your last bar, you will begin to bleedout and will require 
 a longer, more surgical animation, from patting down a flame to pulling out a bullet.
  
  The graphics are amazing and the game world is equally astounding, with a large variety of jungles 
 and deserts, as well as plenty of animals roaming the plains and roads. The game also features 
 a dynamic day/night cycle that also changes the actions of the AI in the game world, and can greatly 
 change how a mission plays out. There are no civilians to be found in the open, which sometimes 
 leaves the world feeling empty, but the game still gives you an otherwise amazing world with beautiful 
 weather effects to boot.
  
  The AI is varying, oftentimes using clever teamwork to take you down and utilizing grenades, vehicles, 
 and nearby cover. Other times they will stand out in the open and take long pauses of action while 
 you mow down their allies. Just as well, even when you just seem to be driving by, minding your 
 own business, they always seem hell bent on your demise, chasing you and shooting you until either 
 them or you are dead. Depending on your reputation, dialogue amongst them and actions seem to change, 
 which is an interesting effect (although its probably just me) . 
  
  Like in GTA, you can do missions for several different contacts and factions (notanly the APR and 
 UFLL, the main factions in the conflict) and can do work for your buddies who you can find within 
 the world.
  
  The so called "buddies" are other mercenaries in the conflict who, like yourself, are working for 
 and against the factions, and can help you out in a mission as well as offer you assictance should 
 you be downed in battle. Buddies can be found in certain areas of the game world, usually being 
 kept hostage somewhere but can also be accessed in missions or presented in the story, while there 
 are some interesting set points in the world that can give you a new one. I do remember finding 
 one buddy on the verge of death after a plane crash, and will never forget the surprise of seeing 
 it happen. Like you, they will also need occasional assistance with missions, and will sometimes 
 require your help if they go down in a gun fight. When a buddy is killed they are gone forever, 
 giving you a sense of urgeny to help them, and since they are the only friendlies you come across 
 throughout the game as well as some of the most developed characters, losing a buddy has a more 
 significant impact than in any other game I've played. If you are unable to provide adequate medical 
 care, they may need to be euthanized with a sidearm or can be eased into passing with some more 
 medication. 
  
  The missions are fun to partake in, and usually have a wide variety of ways to undertake them (as 
 well as a secondary option, usually presented by your best buddy) . Since some mission locations 
 are a bit far, you can choose to take a bus to your destination. Bus stops are located on the corners 
 of the map, as well as the center, and can help get you to your location quicker, but are only 
 useful when you can drive to one quicker than the location itself.
  
  The game also has multiplayer options, with simple modes like Deathmatch and capture the diamond. 
 The matches have a ranking up system and features several classes you can shoose to upgrade. The 
 real gem from multiplayer comes from the option to create and download user maps. The map creation 
 system is a bit like in Tony Hawks Pro Skater, and gives you access to several different items 
 from buildings and structures, to vehicles and machine gun nests.
  
  Far Cry 2 is a great game, but isn't without its flaws. There are a few bugs present in the game 
 and some clipping issues that can cause an AI to get stuck on or inside of something. The driving 
 you must undertake to get from place to place is annoying, and seems to have been an effort to 
 pad the games already large length. Buddies can sometimes go down a bit too easily, and brand new 
 weapons sometimes jam after only a few clips, and can even break down after not even a days use. 
 The story often has long stretches of inactivity while you do missions for the factions, occasionally 
 reminding you of your objective with some sort of verbal reminder from one of the characters, or 
 an audio tape. I also found it odd that Ubisoft chose to call it Far Cry 2, despite the complet 
 lack of absolutely anything reminiscent of the original or its expansions. Just as well, the ability 
 to choose different characters is pointless as you will still be treated the same, and will have 
 no name amongst the other characters and would have been done better if you were just given some 
 simple customization options, or one pre chosen pre created chosen character specific for the role.
 
  
  Multiplayer can be equally problematic, with a bit of lag and the inability to join a game in progress. 
 After a match, players are almost always booted back to the menu, and sometimes a simple action 
 (such as getting in a car or reviving a teammate) cannot be performed.
  
  Despite its flaws, Far Cry 2 is an amazing game with very good value and is most certainly one 
 of the best games this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I've just completed the main storyline in this game, and it has taken me around 20-25 hours. To 
 me, that is quite epic. Usually FPS's come along these days with 6 hour campaigns and nothing worth 
 having you play through it again, but Far Cry 2 breaks the mould. Not only is the campaign lengthy, 
 but theres a lot of interesting and enjoyable things to do aswell as this.
  For starters, there are 40 odd side missions to be getting on with. These include convoy missions, 
 which give you the task of destroying a truck which is delivering weapons to your employers rivals, 
 assassination missions which you recieve via comms towers and 'underground' missions which, when 
 completed, provide your main character with much needed medicine.
  This is something else that Far Cry 2 does thats completely different to anything else out there. 
 It gives you malaria. The first thing you are given isnt a nice new weapon or someone to kill, 
 but a very nasty disease. Don't worry though, this doesnt mean your character is going to be a 
 hobbling wreck throughout the game, it simply means you have to keep an eye on how much medication 
 you have and when symptoms break out during a fire fight, it can make it even more tense.
  Another thing that impresses in Far Cry 2 is the healing system. You have 5 bars of health, all 
 of which recharge apart from the last one, in which you have to heal yourself manually. This involves 
 an animation where your character performs basic first aid on himself, such as fixing a dislocated 
 arm, or removing shrapnel from his leg. The injuries are varied and great fun to watch. It also 
 adds a touch of realism to the firefights, but doesnt make it so realistic that you constantly 
 have to be healing yourself.
  One thing that Far Cry 2 defientely gets right is the environment. The game is set in a rural part 
 of South Africa. There are thick jungles, long white deserts and villages made of mud huts and 
 scrap metal. It is all very beautiful, thanks mostly to the dynamic weather system which makes 
 watching the sun rise almost as beautiful as in real life. Graphics wise, you will be hard struck 
 trying to find a game more beautiful than this. Not only are the environments attractive, but they 
 are interactive too. Everything you think would be flammable, is. Grass, trees, wood, even people 
 burn when set alight by flame throwers or petrol bombs. Its incredibly fun to use this addition, 
 and works brilliantly throughout the game. Its even affected by the weather, such as wind and rain.
 
  Enemy AI is mostly good, with the odd feeling that some of them just stand there, soaking up bullets. 
 And they do take quite a lot of bullets, which is weird for a game that prides itself on its realistic 
 nature, so headshots are essential. The variety of guns is impressive, with rifles, shotguns, pistols, 
 grenade launchers and some other special weapons being fun and impressive to use. All weapons degrade 
 after use, which is a nice touch. There are vehicles to drive too, with even a hang glider thrown 
 into the mix, and they all feel awesome to drive. You have to get yourself to your missions, and 
 the map (s) are huge so it seems like a daunting task at first, but you soon get used to it. 
  The map really is massive in Far Cry 2, and its far from empty too. There are over 200 diamonds 
 to find scattered around in all sorts of places, and its generally just fun to walk around and 
 check out the locations. Multiplayer is good fun, with a levelling up system that doesnt work that 
 well but is a nice addition anyway.
  The game does have some flaws. For example, there are guard posts friggin everywhere on the map, 
 and it can be hard to avoid them. This is annoying because they shoot you on sight, and sometimes 
 when youre just trying to get to a mission you dont want to have to deal with 5 firefights before 
 you even get there. Another niggle is the voices. They all, for some reason, speak really really 
 fast. This sounds stupid but its really off putting to begin with, and just seems like they rushed 
 it towards the end. There are also some odd graphical glitches, but nothing that ruins the atmosphere.
 
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is immense. Its fun to play, its beautiful to look at and it will last you 
 a good 30 hours, 40 if you want to see and do everything. Theres also a brilliant map creator which 
 personally i didnt use much, but people who are into it can create some fantastic things with it. 
 Basically, get this game if you like shooters, get it if you dont. You will definetely get some 
 enjoyment out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkknot
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  First of, I'm South African and i speak Afrikaans. Not the biggest and well known language in the 
 world but hey, so you can imagine me playing for half an hour and after my first encounter with 
 the local rebels i hear the "bad guys" screaming in Afrikaans at me... instant classic in my books!
 
  
  (if you want any of the quotes translated, I'm your guy. hehe)
  
  Okay back to the game.
  
  Most reviewers who gave a bad score moans about the distance you 
 should travel for a some mission... as in real life, that's why there are bus stations, plus there 
 are random cars standing around in the game. just make sure if you pick a car that it has a gun 
 strapped to it, comes in useful if you approach a road block or camp.
  
  Graphics in the game is some of the best Ive seen. Living in Africa you have a rough idea how the 
 environment looks like... the game matches it in every way. its brilliant. you cant find anything 
 wrong with the graphics, from weapons to buildings, everything is just right.
  
  As someone that is not the biggest FPS fan i really paid attention to the game play. Its understandable 
 that you can't run forever especially when you have malaria, but it gets annoying if you run out 
 of stamina after a short distance of running. 
  
  Shooting people is also a bit weird, no physical damage occurs to the recipient of your bullets, 
 its just blood splatter and that's it... it would be nice if you can blow someones arm off or something 
 to that affect. 
  
  although driving gets you around it doesn't feel as real as the rest of the game. weapons are also 
 a bit weird, i had an old sniper rifle that i used, one shot and the person is dead, when i bought 
 a bigger and 'better' sniper rifle it took like three shots to kill someone... it doesn't make 
 sense.
  
  the storyline is okay and believable, if you look at the current state in which central Africa 
 is at the moment. The voice acting could have been a touch better and some of the characters feel 
 a bit shallow.
  
  Overall I will give it the thumbs up and surely a game to have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamlyons87
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to playing this game when I brought it, I absolutely loved the original 
 Far Cry and I was expecting great things.
  
  When you turn it on, it looks impressive.
  
  The cut-scenes look beautiful, especially the fire effects, and when you get a chance to walk 
 around properly, it looks amazing.
  
  But once you've been playing it just a few hours, you realise that looks is all this game has for 
 itself.
  
  
  To put it bluntly, Far Cry 2 feels like they spent a week planning and designing it, years working 
 on beautiful looking graphics, and then a few weeks afterwards adding gameplay elements.
  
  Take the enemy AI for example... we're using next generation consoles nowadays. Why am I paying 
 for a game where enemies stand there as I point my gun at them? Or run... continually... for as 
 long as you choose to leave it... into a wall... while you pop bullets into them?
  
  The AI is shocking. Even main support characters will be left walking around in cycles not doing 
 anything. Enemies in vehicles will ram themselves into walls again, and again, and again.
  
  
  Then, take into account the sound. My god, the sound. It doesn't have directional sound! 
 I kid you not, if you hear someone shout "he's over here!", you cannot tell what direction it's 
 come from until the first bullets hit you.
  
  Even my dad noticed this and commented on it. I actually checked that both left and right sound 
 inputs were properly connected to my TV to make sure it wasn't malfunctioning.
  
  I thought games mastered this years ago? Clearly not.
  
  
  How about the fact that the voices 
 of characters doesn't get quieter as you walk away from them?! How does a game get released today 
 that still does that? I swear, with no exaggeration, voices will sound as loud as they do 1ft away, 
 as they do 40ft. No exaggeration.
  
  
  There are also many bad gameplay choices they've made in this game. Like the fact that you have 
 to drive for miles in between locations to complete your missions, in terrible handling vehicles 
 where you can't see properly out the front window. (Although admittedly, no far cry game has ever 
 nailed driving) .
  
  I like a bit of realism like anyone, but not when it ruins the gameplay. An idiot made the decision 
 to make this as expansive and open as it was.
  
  
  The only silver lining to this game is the multiplayer and map editor. I played that for a bit, 
 it was really fun. If they'd released this game as just an online multiplayer shooter, for half 
 the price, it would be an amazing game.
  
  But unfortunately, I resent paying 40 for a broken, buggy, rushed game that I have to play online 
 all the time. I've taken Far Cry 2 back since and had my money back.
  
  As my friend is doing sometime this week too.
  
  
  If Far Cry 1 was the Mary Poppins-type 
 figure that came into your world, making it a better place and making your bed - this release of 
 Far Cry is the relative that soils the bedo. What a shocking disappointment.
  
  Buy it if you fancy playing lots of online gaming (although you have to complete the main story 
 to unlock all the bits you need in multiplayer) .
  
  If however, you fancy a game that's actually enjoyable. Don't buy this.
  
  Whatever good work 
 Far Cry did, it has been undone in more than equal measures by Far Cry 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Far Cry 2. You can read Gamespot's review for the good stuff. But, here I'll 
 point out what they failed to. In some cases I'll elaborate on what they failed to get into aswell.
 
  
  A large area for a sandbox FPS is definitely true when it comes to the square miles of terrain 
 that's available. But, it's really not filled out that well. Safehouses, one main city, weapon 
 stores, cell towers, and one bar; is pretty much all you will find here. In between them all? A 
 lot of grass fields of nothingness. 
  
  The game is extremely repetitive. Get a mission that does have details to make it seem unique, 
 but its more of the same: Go to said area, kill everyone, get something, get another mission. Even 
 this would be OK since the action is really good and the enemy banter is top notch. But, even when 
 you're en route, you'll pass a guard post after guard post. It doesn't matter what faction they're 
 with cause the second you come close, they start shooting. In between those guard posts, another 
 car may come to interrupt your travels. What happens then? You guess it, another short gun fight. 
 Rinse and repeat, and there you have it. That's the game. Not even in side missions will you find 
 respite. They are just more of the same. Go there, kill everyone, mission complete.
  
  The lack of many things that have become standard today are lacking as well. The AI of enemies 
 isn't too bad, but you start to notice they're simply programmed to point and shoot. Sometimes 
 they'll cleverly take cover or look to flank your position, but that's a rarity making you wonder 
 if it's just a coincidence that you ended up between two gunners. Also, there's barely any vehicles 
 in the game. A dune buggy, a car, and a jeep with a gun turret. That's it. 
  
  The weapon damage system is a good thing in theory, but even that falls short due to repetition. 
 There is not one weapon from an enemy that won't be beat up and jam frequently. So, you find yourself 
 traveling to far away safe houses or stores, just to make sure you don't jam up. 
  
  The story also has the potential to be great, but even that is simply repetitive mission briefings, 
 with voice acting that flies by so fast, you can't possibly know what's being said without reading 
 the captions. Also, you don't have any dialogue for your own character. You just listen, accept, 
 do the "Kill Everyone" mission, and then get another one. 
  
  At it's base, this game feels like it could have been MUCH more. Unfortunately, playing this makes 
 you feel like you're testing in the earliest phases of the Beta. 
  
  If you like FPS games, I would rent this. If you don't typically enjoy FPS games, steer clear. 
 There's nothing new here besides Africa.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henriquez63
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Despite not liking the first farcry, i decided to pick this one up. I didn't expect it but Farcry 
 2 blew me away. It is a great game. Yeah the story looses it's edge after about two hours but it 
 still managed to keep me going. The driving parts do get tedious to travel long distances but if 
 you manage to run into some outposts it gets you back into the experience. The weapons perform 
 like real weapons would, jamming after long use or if you get them dirty. 
  
  The multiplayer doesn't have the lasting apeal call of duty does, but you will get lots of time 
 out of it. Once people start getting comfortable with the map editor, you'll start to see incredible 
 multiplayer levels. The map editor is huge, you can make everything in the single player game and 
 you might see some levels omaging other games like Call of Duty 4.
  
  All and all this is a great game. You can easily get 50 or more hours out of this experience (which 
 is rare for the games now-a-days) . You have to give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and vey original. The original is that you can start fires and its a first 
 for a long time that the AI actually thinks. This game is difficult but for the right reasons in 
 that the AI is amazing. The colors and the graphics are vivid and clean. I was a little upset that 
 you didnt get super human powers but its not even anything to talk about. There could of been more 
 animals. Just think how cool it would be if you are stalking a checkpoint in the jungle and a lion 
 came out of now were or you are driving through a savaana and an angry rhino attacked. These would 
 definatley ad more to the African imagery and add to suspense but those are suggestions. The game 
 is great everytime I pick it up to play it I get suck in. If you want a great game that is original 
 from your average shooter and is extremely difficult because the ai is awsome pick this game up 
 . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 as people knows it, is an open-world First Person Shooter. Very rare in the past have 
 a game been done like this, perhaps this was the first in a console? Whatever the case, this game 
 brings new ideas which some company may follow in the future. But as what FC2 stands now, it certainly 
 is a tad disappointing.
  
  You may be happy to know that its african settings, opened ended with gorgeous graphics. Fact is, 
 only half of it is true. The graphics here is one of the best i've seen in my years of gaming, 
 but at the same time the environments are too repititive and there's very few landmarks in the 
 game, make you feel that the levels and quite cheapscate. The missions here are very repitive as 
 well, it's expected cause it's shooter and not RPG in this case.
  
  Graphics:
  One of the best for PS3 and probably on par with crysis. There's no noticeable lags in the game, 
 but after an hour of playing, you're likely to feel giddy due to the driving mechanics and the 
 switching of driving to the mounted MGs.
  
  The environments looks really good, you come out from indoor, you sight is likely to be overbright 
 like in realife counterpart. Weapons looks great but it seems there's a lack of weapon color. The 
 greenary environment are the best and the water looks very real.
  
  Gameplay:
  Most of the time, you would be killing guys to complete ur missions. That doesn't sounds that bad 
 yet. So comes the bad part, all the time, there would be people trying to kill you while you're 
 travelling, i'm really puzzled as to why, in the long run, it makes the game real annoying and 
 time wasting.
  
  Too much travelling needs to be done, it makes the game very slow as half of the time ur travelling 
 instead of shooting someone. Also you do a lot of missions on ur own, there's no helping at all 
 which makes the game really dull in comparison to a shooter like COD5.
  
  Even with all the cons, you will be enjoying the game while it last. You won't be going back to 
 play the second time as even with the first play, it's pretty boring and slow paced. The shooting 
 mechanism is good, the accuracy is there unlike Fallout 3. The driving part is great but more variety 
 of vehicles needed to be add in like say bikes?
  
  Audio:
  Gun shooting sounds really nice but sometimes you find them a tad too loud. The background music 
 does it's job by making the game more adrenaline. Conversations are clearly and well heard by players 
 and there's subtitles to accompany them. The format used here is DD just in case some of you are 
 wondering. The audio also makes use of your 5.1 surround especially the dialogue part.
  
  In the end, Far Cry 2 does some things really bad and adds fresh ideas into the genre. If only 
 they could fix some of the annoying things found in the gameplay, i might be a little more motivated 
 to complete the whole game. As for where it stands, it's half broken. You u really don't mind the 
 problems and wants to enjoy something fresh but at the same time repitive, this game might just 
 be for you, if not, look elsewhere. I have to mention that the difficulty here is quite annoying 
 espeically when forces u don't even know runs up to shoot at you for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zander18
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a great game that is a lot of fun. It has a massive single player campaign that has 
 everything you could imagine. The game lets you make your own choices as to what missions you complete 
 and how you do so.
  
  The story is based in Africa where you are playing as a foreigner who is hunting down the 'Jackel". 
 He is an arms dealer who is gearing up two organisations that will soon begin an open war. Your 
 mission is simple: to kill the 'Jackel".
  
  Along the way you will meet many friends and enemies and complete many nail-biting missions. You 
 will have to drive assault vehciles, boats, jeeps etc. There is so much to do in the 50km square 
 gameplay area. 
  
  Far Cry 2 is a great game that deserves more credit than it gets. I highly enjoy playing it and 
 looking forward to more long hours playing it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Far Cry 2 is a lot of fun - in short bursts - but its too shallow for my taste!
 
  
  I've really tried to give Far Cry 2 its due. I've spent almost ten hours traversing the African 
 landscapes killing almost every human being I see. No matter how much I play and no matter how 
 hard I try, I just can't seem to get into the game. It's very - 'Surfacy' in the sense that the 
 missions are just so generic in the 'go there - kill everyone you see along the way - and then 
 kill everybody else' way. 
  
  I'm a fan of first person shooters - always have been. I find it's difficult to wrong with them. 
 Even mediocre shooters are fun to play because, well, they're shooters, but Far Cry 2 is just boring. 
 Sure the graphics are lovely. Sure the day and night cycle and weather conditions are a nice addition 
 to the shooter genre and sure malfunctioning weapons add a sense of reality to the title, but these 
 things don't make a bad game good. 
  
  I'm an audio producer - and one thing I always tell my clients is: 'no amount of production can 
 make a bad song good'... and that is exactly what we have here. All the bells and whistles in the 
 world can't make a boring game fun. Sure I'll dive in once in a while - but the lack of character 
 depth, emotion and story will just kick me right out again. 
  
  Oh well... they can't all be gems!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrodoZHobbit
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  So many glitches. Gameplay is terrible. Weapons lack the feel of... power. I was messing around 
 on easy and it took 5 shots to the head with a SHOTGUN to kill him. What? You heard me. You can 
 start shooting people and an entire town will start after you except like one guy who will just 
 stand there and not move no matter what you do. Guys will face the other way and shoot... and the 
 bullets HIT YOU. How did you let this happen UBI. If you stand on a hill and look down through 
 a scope and pan the grass moves as you pan. Not new grass the same grass you were looking at a 
 second ago in the same exact spot on the screen. The only reason it gets a 4 from me is because 
 it looks great. Ubisoft blew this game so bad. After watching all the previews I figured definate 
 9 but they just flat out blew it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Okay so I was very excited about getting this game. At first, I was impressed. The scenery and 
 graphics were amazing. The story also seemed to take off on a good start. Voice acting was also 
 impressive. As soon as the game started I was eager to check out the whole town I was in and get 
 to know people to add to my "buddy list." But it was not like GTA. You actually cannot make friends 
 whenever you want. 
  
  Also, I also found out that the "town" is really big and it take too much time to get from one 
 side to another. A good thing is that they give you some cars to drive, but once that car is damaged, 
 whether you crash it or it gets shot at, you are basically screwed having to make the rest of your 
 journey walking, which really does take a looong time. Sure you might come across another car to 
 steal, but then again, you might not.
  
  The scenery is indeed beautiful but once you are into the game, scenery is not as important and 
 carrying out missions. This game intentionally places missions on opposite sides of the town adding 
 some artificial length to the game. Missions only take about 2-3 mins to complete, but of course 
 driving to those missions take all the time. 
  
  Many reviews stated that the long drives and trips to missions get really boring. I disagreed with 
 them at first. But let me tell you, a few days into the game and I was getting sick of it. It gives 
 you a dull and boring feeling. I tend to want to finish a game to feel fulfilled and proud of myself. 
 But when it came to this, I wanted to finish it just to get it over with. FInally, I yanked the 
 game out of the machine and returned it. 
  
  Developers should have known that gamers want to play and not drive or walk around admiring scenery. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I loved the original Far Cry, Far Cry Instincts and Instincts Evolution games. While this game 
 has nothing to do with the original Far Cry games, its still an excellent, smart and tactical shooter. 
 It may have it's flaws, but the good points more than make up for them.
  
  Story-The story isnt the best Ive ever seen. Its more or less Apocalypse Now! mixed with Mercenaries 
 1 with some pretty cool twists and decisions to make along the way.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is a shining point. The gunplay can be a little hit or miss, with enemies 
 taking way too many shots or your guns not being very accurate. The gunplay is so satisfying though. 
 Watching bodies fly after a grenade launcher hit, or using a flamethrower to destroy and enemy 
 encampment is pure gold. I didnt like the traveling aspect all that much. It was a pain to get 
 from mission start to each objective. I oddly also liked the travel though, because it made the 
 game seem a little more realistic than your average run of the mill shooter. The missions can get 
 a little repetitive, but theyre still fun to me.
  
  Audio/visual- The audio is a mixed bag for sure. The guns sound great, and so do the sound effects 
 and music, but the npc dialogue is not very good. The npc's will rattle off a whole paragraph worth 
 of text without pausing. They speak as if they are always rushed and there is no time to use punctuation 
 in their speech. The graphics are excellent. The weather effects down to the look of fire is great. 
 The player models are also good too.
  
  Fun/Value-This game is really fun for people who like tactical shooting and are not hug fans of 
 run n gun shooters. The main story takes roughly 30 hours and there are a lot of sidequests too. 
 The multiplayer is good, but nowhere near COD4, MGO, or any other top flight mp game.
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 might not be anything like the original FC games, and it has its share of flaws, 
 its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1G_B055
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  As stated above i havent played farcry1 but the story to this game is easy to pick up on. The game 
 its self is really fun and i wish i skipped school today because as i sit here in study hall, writing 
 this reveiw, i really really wanna play. I like the area of exploration. it's large and youre not 
 seeing the same bush over and over again (no pun intended) . Though ive only played for about 3hours 
 i can see this is a game i will grow addicted to. I hope it isnt as bad as Mercaneries 2 was... 
 where its fun at first then dies after 2 days.
  Today when i get home i plan to mess around with the map editor to make a kick ass map for this 
 weekend when i play online.
  
  If anyone wishes to play with me im always looking for PSN friends that lo ve playing Farcry2 and 
 Metal Gear Online.
  
  PSN: Oneofthepatriots
  MGO: Oneofdapatriots
  
  9/10 ~~! B1G_B055!~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrn442
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of stiff competition out there for great shooters right now (thankfully) , but I 
 feel this one deserves more credit than it seems to be getting. Personally, I find all the main 
 points of complaint with Far Cry are what make it exceptional.
  First off, yes, I have a couple of issues. Typical to FPS, there are some control/access issues. 
 For a guy that can jam a Leatherman into his calf to pull out a bullet, you think he could climb 
 a rock taller than two feet. Also, the PS3 version does experience some slowdown. That being said, 
 there is magic here that should be appreciated.
  You can jam a Leatherman into your calf to pull out a bullet! These near death animations (are 
 there are so so many) is a great addition to the FPS canon. They are very disturbing (like resetting 
 your leg in three places, pulling shrapnel out of your arm) , and after about 80 hours of playing 
 I am still seeing new ones. Amazing! 
  One thing I find people complain about is the travelling distance, but I don't see this as a negative. 
 Given that many times you have to go through 3 checkpoints and a random number of roving assault 
 vehicles to get to your destination-in addition to the lack of autosave-you have a real sense that 
 you may not make it to your destination alive, and that really heightens the tension and sense 
 of urgency. (Have an assualt vehicle? Not anymore! You just blew it apart trying to save your ass 
 from a shotgunner.) And when you do finally reach your main goal, having started with a fully-stocked 
 arsenal, you might be down to just one gun, which changes your preferred strategy. Also, if you 
 like to explore and get immersed in a game's environment, the fact that tiou 
  Which bring me to my last point. Unlike many shooters (Resistance series being a prime example) , 
 this game's assault senarios play out differently each time. In this game, you don't have the "first 
 I'll shoot those two people next to the barrel, then pivot 40 degrees to hit the guy one the stairs" 
 that so many of these games employ. Given the AI can flank you from two hundred yards away, come 
 straight at you, duck and cover, or anything else they can possibly do, you can have the exact 
 same spot and same four guys to get through, and it play out differently every time (I am repeatedly 
 experiencing this currently and it is as exhilirating as it is frustrating) .
  If you are looking for a game this gives you a direct path to the action, something to just burn 
 through and toss aside, this isn't it. If you want to immerse yourself in an environment and glory 
 in what it actually may be like to be a mercenary in an all too realistic African country, you 
 will get a lot of enjoyment out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nibustan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  I love this game it's got everything; a good engine, amazing graphic, indeed a nice map editor, 
 multiplayer rocks and i could go on.
  
  But of course there's also bad things, like the long time you have to drive just to accomplice 
 a quest who takes less time, the load time when you travel with bus is very long (i think) and 
 if you won't drive 10 minutes you'll have to take bus so you need to use it alot and i think another 
 bad thing is in the multiplayer you can't keep the level when playing player made maps, the only 
 thing that bothers me with the AI is that it drive you over so many fu***** times. Weapons are 
 very and the fire is awesome. The map editor lets you make many awesome maps very easy and i've 
 already made some, i think is enjoyable. This is a well done and long fps who will attract anyone 
 who loves that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murko74
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I bought this title on the strength of the first game and the first few reviews I read. What a 
 mistake. The multiplayer is fun but the load times onto a match and the re-spawn times plus getting 
 kicked back to the main menu after each match is so annoying it makes the multiplayer almost unplayable!!!. 
 There is no dedicated server for this game, in this day and age that is simply unacceptable!!, 
 especially for such a big title.
  
  The single player game is boring and repetitive, you have zero interest in the character or his 
 motives. About the only reason to play this game is to unlock and try new ways to kill bad guys 
 that regenerate every 10mins. I could go on and on about the problems with this game but just check 
 out the Far Cry 2 forums with all the misses in this game. This title could have been awesome if 
 the developer didn't make this game so half-a#*ed but that doesn't matter what matters is they 
 built up one of the most anticipated titles of the year and suckered us all. 
  
  Save your money, buy Dead Space or Bioshock. Or if your looking for a good multiplayer buy COD 
 WAW or Resistance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I only rented this game because i hadn't played the first one i wanted Resistance 2 and Little 
 big Planet. Enough with that, let's get to the game. To put it simply, it is amazing. This game 
 strives to be as real as possible without making any mistakes along the way. 
  
  Story: The story line is confusing but with the selective mission style gameplay, it does a good 
 job of keeping the player interested. Unlike most over-the-top story lines, Far Cry 2 manages to 
 keep the momentum up while mostly withdrawing over-the-top moments that may have hindered the overall 
 game experience. This I think, is the best part of the story; it is so real.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are amazing and what really surprised me is how they fit this size of a 
 map on the xbox 360 because the map size is massive. There is endless space to explore and no invisible 
 walls whatsoever. The lighting is great along with the shadowing with the different times of the 
 day. I experienced some pop ins every now and then but compared to the big picture, it was a very 
 minor problem.
  
  Gameplay: This has to be one of the best parts of Far Cry 2. As with the story, the gameplay is 
 extremely realistic with a very limited HUD and it is absolutly astonishing how Ubisoft intergrated 
 everything into it. The ammo obviously has to be shown on the HUD but it only appears when you 
 are reloading or switching guns. The map idea works well but only to a certain extent, after awhile 
 it began to become confusing and hard to locate certain objectives. With the overall realism of 
 the game i guess actually looking at your map in game without pausing was a good idea. The shooting 
 is great, the shooting sounds are great and there is a very broad selection of inventory throughout 
 the game.
  
  Multiplayer: I was dissapointed that there was no split screen 1v1 or anything but the online multiplayer 
 is great, nothing really new, but overall a good experience. The map editor is the absolute best 
 i have seen and i think this is what really sets it apart from other online shooters.
  
  Overall: Amazing graphics, Great Gameplay but confusing story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. You will get to play an intense story that keeps you exited and wanting to 
 know what happens next. It will keep you at least 40 hours playing if you finish the story. This 
 game is very realistic though. This means on one side of the bargain that it is hard, but it also 
 means there are plenty of satisfying situations that can be pretty gore. If you get hit hard and 
 need to heal then most of the time you have to do it by say pulling out a bullet. This is not only 
 interesting to watch, but also gives you a mindset that tells you what you do counts. This is what 
 makes this game so beautiful. The surroundings are also some of the best you will have ever seen. 
 There is plenty of variation, and it is just a picture perfect place. You will almost want to take 
 a picture. The game also offers a great map creator that you can really fool around with and have 
 fun. You can recreate almost anything. It feels great to have such freedom. The online has a good 
 idea, but this is also sadly its only drawback at the moment. The server can often be a pain in 
 the a**. It is very tedious at times and what can often happen is that you say lose a rank. Very 
 annoying. Otherwise the best game out there right now. Go and get it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  farcry 2 is hands down one of the most beautiful games i have played on a console. the lush forests 
 are gorgeous, and the dry deserts are deserty. the objective is to kill the "Jackal", but you tend 
 to focus more on killing than actually worrying about the guy. some missions include assassinations, 
 sabotage, etc. you have friends which help yotu throughout, but the only person you will ever need 
 is the rescue buddy. when you start off, you get to choose you character from a list of about 10 
 people. you may choose whoever you feel, but they add nothing new. the dialogue is really strange, 
 but its actually kind of cool. they speak really fast as if they are in a hurry. the ending, is 
 kind of weird. last but not least is the gun play. you have an arsenal of about 20 weapons which 
 you buy over time, and each can be equally devestating. you can shoot a guy with a rocket launcher, 
 and he will go flying, or you can shoot a guy with a silenced weapon and sneakily kill your target. 
 its great
  
  overall: 
  graphics: 9.5
  story: 7
  gameplay: 9.5
  value: 8.5
  overall: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is a lot differen't than the first one no doubt but it changed in a good way. The game 
 is somewhat annoying when travelling from mission to mission with all the crazy people just shooting 
 at you every second you turn, It becomes hell after a while! The missions are repetitive but fun.. 
 You get plenty of trophies which is great! And some pretty good online play. But lets talk more 
 about the game, the story is sort of dumb it's about 2 differen't groups of people hating on eachother 
 and your carried out to do their missions for diamonds which is the currency. The side missions 
 are boring after a while I only did them for the diamonds. The gun upgrades are also pretty cool 
 but the only way in getting them all is from doing the side missions which I already said were 
 reptitive and boring after a while. Overall It's a pretty good game and worth the try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r_jayed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  The first Far Cry by Crytek Studios were a massively enjoyable FPS experience, and the same goes 
 with Crysis, Crysis - Warhead etc. Now, you must be thinking Far Cry 2 would be at least similar, 
 if not better than the above mentioned games right? Well, the answer is a definite no. And the 
 main culprit? It's Ubisoft Montreal.
  
  Lets start of with the graphics, which is quite the stunner even among current gen FPS. The wild 
 savannas, dry deserts, and the lush, tropic jungle will draw you in like no other. The sun rises 
 and sets according to the time and unpredictable weather conditions such as rain, thunderstorm 
 may occur from time to time. Such is the amazing detail that makes the whole gaming experience 
 all the more realistic.
  
  Next, the gameplay, which sadly, is mixed result of good and bad components. 
  
  Keeping up 
 with the realism of the graphics, real world situation occurs within the gameplay. Fires set on 
 tall, dry grass will spread rapidly and level the entire grass field in a couple of minutes. Shooting 
 at a stockpile of ammo will cause it to explode, sending flying bullets of death in every direction.
 
  
  I hear you say, so where's the so called bad components? Well, it's the same thing that made it 
 good, the realism. The game tries to be so realistic it forgets that it's a game. I have no idea 
 why such a hard-ass hero who destroy checkpoint of enemies one after another will easily get tired 
 and suffer from severe blurred vision within a few seconds of running. This aspect made the game 
 so disruptive, that half of the time is spent seeing blurry stuff and hearing your hero running 
 out of breath. Enemies roam around the map either patrolling or simply stationed in one of the 
 checkpoints scattered throughout the map. Every 5 minutes of driving will end up either as
  
  a) You see a jeep mounted with a machine gun and before you know it, it's spraying you with 
 bullets.
  
  b) You inevitably have to drive thru a checkpoint of 4-6 enemies, with some of them using a mounted 
 machine gun.
  
  Now both scenarios are no big challenge, it's just that they happen so frequently it gets boring, 
 fast. Furthurmore, since driving is such a large part of the game, you will find your drive get 
 slower if it gets hit by a few stray bullets. And you HAVE to get off and fixed it, otherwise it 
 simply won't run. It's like GTA with cars that go below 60km/hr.
  
  The fire-fights in the game are no better, despite the advanced AI, these enemies almost show no 
 human traits. They charge at you blindly, without any fear even as bullets fly right by them. Throw 
 a grenade at their feet, and still they come charging. Watching the team mates get headshot on 
 after another seems to pose no fear on them. Basically you're just fighting a bunch of Rambo-wannabes 
 who have no knowledge of the tactics shown by the enemies you've seen in Crysis.
  
  Speaking of which, the enemies are plain dumb and stupid. The only problem you might have with 
 them is either you have no idea where the hell they are, or they simply outnumber you 10-1. Other 
 than that, each of them can be easily picked-off by a well placed headshot. Or my personal preference, 
 charging right up to them and cut them up with a machete. So much for the smart 'AI'.
  
  Now, it's not all about realism though. Some parts of the game might leave you laughing at the 
 sheer stupidity of it. The hero, despite being a stamina-challenged mercenary, has amazing displays 
 of endurance. Got shot with a gun and the bullets is stuck in your thigh? No problem, he simply 
 sticks his trusty Swiss Army Knife and DIGS out the bullet, and resume the firefight, hopping and 
 running about. He has even shown feats of regeneration ala Wolverine by snapping back twisted joints 
 and on occasions pushes the lodged bullet through his arm. Gory, gritty, but totally unrealistic 
 and stupid.
  
  However, there are time when you really get injured and have no time to perform your regenerative 
 capabilities. This is when the game introduce a nifty feature with your Africa buddies who will 
 help you from time to time. If you meet certain criteria, instead of dying and restarting from 
 a last save you will find your buddy coming to the rescue. It's amazing how sometimes they predict 
 your downfall and arrive in the nick of time, avoiding the bullets from the same enemies who defeated 
 you. 
  
  But sadly, your buddies are no smarter than the enemies. They ignore your movement and prefer to 
 venture off alone, and if their unlucky, they get hit themselves and now it your turn to save them. 
 You can choose to either save them, or abandon them. Which is pretty darn obvious choice. Given 
 the abundance of health packs in the game there's no reason not to save them in the first place, 
 unless you enjoy watching them writhe in agony, or you prefer to end off their misery by the means 
 of delivering a well placed shot to their helpless heads. Either way, it's a useless feature catered 
 to those who enjoy mindless violence and cruelty.
  
  Enough about the gameplay, let's move on to the story. Without spoiling anything, let's just say 
 your goal is to hunt down a weapons dealer going by the name of "The Jackal". Sounds cool, but 
 it really isn't. You'll find yourself doing scrappy little missions a little like GTA style, which 
 doesn't really help flesh the story. Unlike GTA, whose side-missions even have a interesting little 
 story to them, missions in Far Cry 2 shouts "repetitive". All of them follow among the lines of 
 "Drive" "Look for Target" "Kill" "Return" format. And it's old really fast. Kind of like Assassin's 
 Creed's side missions, and it's no surprise as both come from the same company.
  
  So by now you should know the story is not the stronger points of the game. Even the often biased 
 Gamespot has given the story a thumbs down, albeit leniently.
  
  I hear fanboys crying, "But there's loads of COOL stuffs you can do in the 50 km square map of 
 Africa! The story doesn't matter!". Well here's the list of miscellaneous stuff you can do:
  
  Hunt for animals (Sounds cool, doesn't it?)
  
  Takeover safehouses (For you to erm, have 
 more savepoints and beds to sleep in)
  
  Spread fire to the forest (Wheee!)
  
  Drive a car around
  
  Drive a boat around
  
  Search for diamonds (Utter stupidity, diamonds 
 in Africa are now kept in nice looking briefcases and scattered in sometimes, a dense bush or a 
 small cliff)
  
  Buy a gun (So that gun jamming don't get you killed in a firefight, apparently new guns never jams)
 
  
  Upgrade your gun
  
  The list could go on, but im afraid you might be bored to death. You see, the so called miscellaneous 
 things to do are just a bunch of uninspired ideas to fill in the void left behind by the weak storyline. 
 No matter how cool hunting zebras with a rifle sounds, it get old quickly. Animal hunting have 
 little to no effort put in as all animals immediately hits the ground no matter what form a damage 
 it takes, be it a slight knock from your jeep or a cut from your machete, it's that lame. Ubisoft 
 could take a lesson or two in making the hunts more exciting from the makers of the age-old Carnivores. 
 Put in some lions or cheetahs that can actually put up a fight, instead of weak grass-chewing herbivores 
 that simply act as moving targets. Getting a shot is as unrewarding as the missions, you simply 
 get to satisfy your voyeurism by staring at the stiff body of your kill, and move on after you 
 had enough. So why hunt when there's no reward?
  
  After this lengthy analysis of Far Cry 2, I hope many of you open you eyes and stop getting orgasms 
 from the pretty graphics. Admit it, this game despite having impressive graphics, is totally broken. 
 8.5 from Gamespot, and a number 10s and 9s from the players, speaks much about the expectation 
 of a game nowadays, pretty graphics and mindless gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: worldjdogg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and vey original. The original is that you can start fires and its a first 
 for a long time that the AI actually thinks. This game is difficult but for the right reasons in 
 that the AI is amazing. The colors and the graphics are vivid and clean. I was a little upset that 
 you didnt get super human powers but its not even anything to talk about. There could of been more 
 animals. Just think how cool it would be if you are stalking a checkpoint in the jungle and a lion 
 came out of now were or you are driving through a savaana and an angry rhino attacked. These would 
 definatley ad more to the African imagery and add to suspense but those are suggestions. The game 
 is great everytime I pick it up to play it I get suck in. If you want a great game that is original 
 from your average shooter and is extremely difficult because the ai is awsome pick this game up 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phtartist9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the vehicles are fine and handle well, the weapons are great and the upgrades 
 are satisfactory. The action is more realistic than most games. I like the buddy concept which 
 saves you from having to redo an area or travel the map again if you did not have a safe house 
 near to save your game during your whole trek.
  
  The game is well rounded except for the missions being so damn far from where you are each time. 
 It became annoying that every time I was driving the jeep to my destination, I would have to drive 
 cautiously to see if anyone was up ahead or on the road. If so, I would have to mount my jeeps 
 weapon or get out and hide so I could come up on the perps and kill them before they got me. This 
 got annoying to me. One time I swam the whole route just to get where I could reach a safe house 
 and save my progress, then swam to my mission area. This way I wasn't bothered by getting shot 
 at constantly !!!
  
  The trips between missions are too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesryan99
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  its an ok game but just go into the water and get to the last health bar a few time it goes to 
 a stupid healing actoin that has nothing to do with drowning like i did it a few time and for some 
 reason the healing was pulling a metal bar out of my hand or leg and one when i unbroke my arm 
 and finger it was so stupid i was wondering how you get metal bars and break you arm from sittin 
 under water for a few seconds.
  
  another problem is you kill a camp and walk away or complete a gunshop or assassination mission 
 in the camp or if you walk away for a few mins the camp will respawn. i beat the gunshop mission 
 in the middle of a camp and right after i saved everyone in the camp just respawned and tryed to 
 kill me. another problem is the enemys aim i seen a guy shooting me yet he wasent even faceing 
 or aiming at me. and the fact the can hit you almost every time with auto fire from a mile away 
 with a machine gun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adrianberggreen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game if you got an 60gb ps3 or higher. If lower, trees and objects will 
 suddenly pop-up
  into the distance. Exept for that its a real masterpiece.
  You can go wherever you want ,kill evryone u want and you choose who you want to be friends with.
 
  Like in GtaIV you could choose who to kill , but in this one its alot more of that you can ALWAYS 
 choose.
  And ofcourse there is the map editor.
  Its really the best editor ive ever seen too.
  You can build whatever you want to.
  
  You 
 might have noticed that i used alot of time finishing the game and thats because its just too much 
 other side missons to do wich is a BIG plus.
  
  Fire propagation is also awesome and just beautifull!
  Shooting different body-parts does affect 
 the dammage the enemy takes, and if the weapon is strong enough the enemy will fall down and scream 
 in pain .. until a buddy shows up and helps him then u know what to do... whats video decieving your 
 enemies.
  Buy this game you wont regret a second! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3_guy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  great overall game, it draws you into the world and with all the immersive technology like fire 
 propigation and real interaction with the enviroment. The map editor is fairly user friendly look 
 up the maps The Great War and Bottle Neck there realy good. Only thing i would change is the damage 
 scale its unrealistic how you hit a guy with a .50cal in the chest and he lives to fight again. 
 this game deserves the 9.5. The multiplayer although not up to the same level of progression as 
 cod4 (this means im comparing leveling systems not the game so calm down fanboys) it is still fun 
 as there is a infinite variety of maps and chaos due to fires, ammo crates exploding, general explosions 
 and vehicles. All of this make this game worth the $60. Also add me on psn kilmachine234 and download 
 maps made by "A Lugar Production" such as The Great War, Bottle Neck and Church vs Army. I am currently 
 working on maps send me any request for maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  FarCry 2 is a open-ended, sandbox style game. And while the number two is adjoined to this game, it 
 is not a sequel to the first FarCry.
  This game looks great on the PS3, from the lighting to the effects of the water you will not be 
 dissappointed by it. Also a new feature in this one is the abiity to shoot a propane tank more than 
 one time. Which in essence can make them a dangerous weapon at your disposal. And hurling a grenade 
 at the grass or a molotave cocktail will create a huge fire that actually spreads through the grass 
 as the wind changes. This is a very cool effect.
  Also in FarCry 2 you will encounter friends throughout the game. These friends will help you to 
 do missions another way or come rescue you from certain death. But they can either be killed, or 
 become missing. These facts make it more realistic and give you a sense of urgency when battling 
 side by side with them.
  But FarCry 2 does have it's downsides. Most of all is the amount of damage the guns do. At times 
 you will get up on a turrented humvee and think that you will mow the enemies down like grass, while 
 actually they require alot of bullets to take them down. More often than not causing the gun to 
 heat up and shut down mid-fire. Same happens with the regular hand-held weapons. They feel inaccurate 
 and the damage they deal seems off.
  Also the AI tends to be able to spot you from too far away or from thick cover. But this is ok, as 
 you can sneak past them. It is pretty cool to see one of the AI's comrades picking up an injured 
 friend and then shooting them both with the sniper rifle, fun stuff.
  FarCry 2 comes with a map editor on all versions and multiplayer. Who doesn't like making their 
 own maps?
  FarCry 2 is another good game from Ubisoft and looks amazing. If you can look past the weapons doing 
 inconsistent damage then FarCry 2 is a must play. Espically if you enjoy doing whatever you want, whenever 
 you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is somewhat like an RPG with great shooter mechanics. I only rented FC2 but in these 
 few days I want to sell a kidney so I can buy this game. Campaign is your hired to kill a black 
 market death dealer who supplies weapons and vehices to two groups in Africa bitterly fighting 
 to the death and you'll be caught in between the action. PS3 owners it does have trophies and lots 
 of them. The campaign lets you freely wander around the African savanna but mostly every where 
 you go you'll either be fighting either African group. Whats nice is the buddy system which if 
 you die your buddy appears at your side picks you up and brings you to cover and will help you 
 fight off the baddies no matter where you are. Another nice thing about the buddy system is they'll 
 tell you other ways that will help ease your journey in completing an assignment. For example you 
 have to fight special mercs and your first buddy you free tells you that you can attack their informent 
 and if successful you threaten him and he lies to the mercs and tells them to go to this city where 
 you'll have an easier time ambushing them and completing your assignment. You can hijack enemy 
 car or boats and if the cars damaged just pop the hood and repair it. The coolest thing about FC2 
 is that if severly injured press L2 and you'll pull out bullets, shrapnel out of your body either 
 by pliers or a knife. If on fire press it and you'll pat out the flame, if hurt from a fall pop 
 your leg back into place to heal yourself. Guns can jam so upgrade or get new ones. Whats nice 
 is you can betray either side and join with the other or both and complete the game. (there are 
 trophies for those)
  Online is fun and no lag. You can drive vehicles and to heal yourself pull out them bullets, etc. 
 There are class designed weapons and as you level up you get diamonds the African currency which 
 you can buy new weapons and secondary fire arms. Classes are Commando (assault rifle to minor heavy 
 weapon) , Guerilla (flamethrowers and shotguns) , Saboteur ( the 2nd sniping class that has better scopes) , Assault/heavy (Machine 
 guns to rocket launcher) , and finally sharpshooter which has a lessened zoom scope for more closer 
 combat battles. The modes vary from deathmatch to TDM, Uprising (haven't played) CTF where you'll 
 try to capture enemy diamonds and one with the most win. Nice thing is if you start a fire in a 
 grassy map the fire will spread a little and can or will kill the enemy.
  Graphics 9/10
  Story 10/10
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  Total-27.5/30 A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Carge-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 looks good, lets clarify that right now. From the dynamic weather and lighting to the 
 animations this game is great to look at. Unfortunately the same can't be said for the gameplay. 
 The game is marred severely by repetitive mission design, tedious driving sections, abysmal AI, 
 a poor story and questionable design features. 
  
  The game opens up with a jeep ride into the town of Pala, where your character is meant to assassinate 
 an arms dealer known simply as "The Jackal". This is basically the plot. Inexplicably the Jackal 
 finds you in Pala while your half dead from Malaria, a disease which plagues you the entire game, 
 and explains that without even given the chance to kill him; you failed.
  
  After a mild shootout the game continues with seemingly random, disjointed missions that have little 
 to no relevance to the mission you did before. Instead of easing you into the different kinds of 
 missions the game throws you in at the deep end. A great deal of freedom of choice yes, BUT it 
 doesn't really feel like your progressing at all.
  
  A main story mission will play out along the lines of; You get your mission from one of the two 
 factions in Pala to drive to some stupidly far away location to the objective handed to you. You'll 
 then get a phone call from a "buddy" asking to see him first before you continue. Sometimes your 
 lucky and he/she is near to the location you needed to go anyway but usually they are a good distant 
 apart; sometimes at opposite sides of the map. Your buddy will then give you a different objective 
 vaguely related to the one the faction asked you to do. You'll drive to the mission and be shot 
 to pieces by liberally placed checkpoints, guard posts and (if your really lucky) patrolling jeeps. 
 By the end of it all you'll expend all your ammo, grenades and health syringes before you even 
 reach the mission objective. No missions appear to be local to where you get them so driving for 
 10-20 minutes to the objective becomes a chore after the 2nd or 3rd mission and this pattern doesn't 
 change much through the course of the game.
  
  The AI itself sounds quite competent, you'll hear guards communicate between each other about whether 
 you're in cover or not, whether they can draw a bead on you and so on. However when it comes to 
 facing the AI you'll find noticeable flaws. Enemies will be so dead set on shooting at you they'll 
 ignore being burnt alive or even a live grenade at their feet. Some enemies will ignore you while 
 you shoot their comrade in the head. The AI also becomes frustrating when snipers can see you clearly 
 even in thick shrubbery or behind a tree and equally have no trouble whittling down your health 
 while you ask yourself "Where the @%!$ is that gunfire coming from?" or "How the hell can he see 
 me?".
  
  The weapons in this game are quite shoddy for an FPS, some weapons shoot so far away from the cross 
 hair it isn't worth using them or don't seem to be lined up properly. On several occasions I had 
 lined up a head shot (with the iron sights) with a pistol from about 15 yards without the guard 
 seeing me; to my dismay the shot would fly over his head every time.
  
  However my biggest gripe with the game is the fact your character has Malaria. You have only a 
 few pills to quell the effects of the disease which will periodically hit you every 40 minutes 
 of play; give or take. Not only does obtaining more pills involve a lengthy drive from one locale 
 to another to simply give in some books (a chore in itself) but it completely ruins the premise 
 of exploring an open world environment. Imagine GTA IV where Niko would have to stop every 40 minutes 
 from driving to fill up the tank at a gas station? It would completely ruin the flow of the game 
 and the same thing happens here. It's a mystery to me why it is in the game at all.
  
  In closing all I can say is that Far Cry 2, despite an amazing level editor, has several huge flaws 
 that ruin the experience. The whole package feels rushed, or half arsed. In the same sense Assassin's 
 Creed's missions were nearly identical in delivery the same thing happens here. Coincidence or 
 not both Assassin's Creed and Far Cry 2 are made by Ubisoft Montreal and both have repetitive missions 
 structures.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1q1q1q2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  when i first started playing Far Cry 2 i thought "WOW look at the shadows, look at the environment, 
 look at the graphics!!" and i was happily playing the game until there was this level which no 
 matter what i do a cannot complete! i tried loads of different ways but the smart AI just blitz 
 me. I'm a man of great taste but if i can't complete a level in a game after a certain amount of 
 tries it starts to bore me and after getting this game not even 2 days ago its a disappointment 
 to me because i know it is a good game but this level just frustrates me.
  
  Graphics - 9/10 - some things look like Amiga graphics.
  
  Story - 8/10 - the story is rather 
 random as in its nothing to do with number 1... at all.
  
  Re-playability - 6/10 - roaming the Large map just isn't enough and the online is far from Call 
 of Duty 4 standards the only thing i would go on it to do is the Map Editor!
  
  Music - 9/10 - it suits the environment, but can get repetitive.
  
  Overall - 8/10. 
  a very 
 good game which will change the open-world genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_2_tha_Zee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a great game, there is such an good feeling of reality when playing, from the trees 
 swaying in the wind and the birds singing to the truly amazing fire effects that just make you 
 want to torch the hell out of everything. 
  I do agree that the navigation can become boring at times when you have to get from one end of 
 the map to the other, but there are so many ways you can travel and with such good graphics, weather 
 fronts and changes in times of day it is hard to get upset about this minor floor. The only thing 
 that would have made thing easier would have been the GTA waypoint style naviagtion but hey its 
 a monor gripe.
  The driving mechanics are good, with a failry limited variety of vehicals available , you soon 
 get used to the best way of travel.... (still havn't found a glider though : ( ) So far the story 
 is ok, as many reviews mention there is a lot of potential there so am hoping for the best but 
 from what I have read am expecting the worse. For me though the game is about how you, the player, 
 approach the missions in front of you, as to how the game pans out. A couple of friends have the 
 game and have approached in a totally different way which has ment different outcomes from missions 
 as well as different friends helping you out at times of trouble (I nice touch in the game) You 
 also kind of grow atatched to your buddies and when they become injured when trying to save you 
 it adds an interestig twist as suddenly you have to save them or make a harsh decision to leave 
 them if you are all out of drugs or if you are just sick of the friendship.
  
  To sum up I would say its COD4 crossed with GTAV and did i mention the fire effects ? If you are 
 into open world shooters with truly great graphics and some unique elements then this is the game 
 for you. With so many great games out at the moment is is a tough decision on which ones to go 
 for so my best advice is buy them all and make Far Cry 2 one of those buys ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 sucks. A good friend told me that far cry sucked but I had to see for myself. Yup he 
 was right it sucked. Thank goodness I rented it first. PHEW!! Lucky for me I wasn't drawn in by 
 bull reviews from Gamespot and IGN. Thank goodness 30 hours of gameplay didn't sucker me into a 
 purchase. SAVE YOUR MONEY. Go buy Dead Space, or wait for Resistance and Gears. The premise for 
 the game sucksthe malaria infection is lame; he runs 5 steps and gets tired. The 'tactics' are 
 all terrible. The driving is a mess and the FPS experience is whack. I've played a few FPSCall 
 of Duty, Bioshock, Resistance, Turok etc etc and Farcry stands up to none of them. What a waste 
 of my time, taking this rental back todayimmediately, pronto, right now. Yuck, this game makes 
 me want to vomit in my mouth. UBISOFT  YOU SUCK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caprisun12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off, after you have picked your character out of a group of 12, in a car ride through 
 an unnamed African country (reminded me very much of COD4's opening) , and it is here that you get 
 an idea of how vast and expansive this game world is, but it is here that i first got the impression 
 that this game was going to fall short. The introduction was just missing something, the scenery 
 wasn't varied or beautiful enough to make looking at the vast landscape a good introduction, and 
 there is really nothing going on, and since you can tell a lot about a game from it's introduction, 
 i could tell that this was going to fall short.
  
  Okay so lets start with the story, and there is only one word to describe it, crap. It really is 
 a major disappointment, and when compared against the cinematic and quite frankly stunning story 
 of COD4, Far Cry 2 just doesn't even compare, and this is from the storyline, which never really 
 gives you any indication of what your fighting for or why, right the way down to the voice acting, 
 which somehow always feels rushed and not like people talk. And this really quite shocking story 
 telling (i cant stress how much of a let down it is) really does take away from the whole game's 
 experience, as you never really have a purpose.
  
  But whatever, i mean i game can get by without a good story yes? Yes it can, but only if it has 
 some other excellent redeeming features, like game play, and again, i just fell that Far Cry 2 just 
 falls short again. Don't get me wrong, scorching people with the flamethrower is very satisfying, 
 but you just never get the same feeling of power and that your bullets are really affecting you 
 enemies as you do in games such as Fallout 3. The shooting is still very good, but i have spent 
 the past several months with COD4 as my FPS of choice, and after a game with such amazing shooting 
 play, you can't ever really go back to anything less can you?
  
  Also i feel i must say something about traveling. You will spend a huge amount of your time walking 
 or driving from one location to another, and since the map is so large this can take far too much 
 time than it is worth, and sometimes you just feel that your time is being wasted completely when 
 you drive halfway across the map to just destroy one truck, and then must go all the way back. 
 This would work is there was stuff to explore on the way, but there isn't, and apart from colonies 
 of enemies which becomes repetitive fast, there is really nothing to see or do.
  
  I know it seems that i am attacking this game, and in a way i guess i am, but it still is a very 
 good game, and definitely one of the best FPS out there. But it is just missing that x-factor that 
 could have separated it from the pack, weather that be excellent gun play of an immersive story, 
 and it is this that could have turned it from a good game, which it is, into a great game, which 
 it isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  You don't find the Jackal, Jackal finds you! 
  
  Short review, this is Far Cry 2: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=tLUN5OExP_s
  Video is not made 
 by me, but its freaking awesome. Imagine even better maps than this.
  
  It has a lot to offer. 
  
  Games are getting bigger and bigger all the time. And storage space 
 is what we need nowadays. Games not only are getting bigger at environment, but also highly detailed 
 textures are needing a huge amount of space.
  
  
  Far Cy 2 shines with its physics, graphics, map eitor It's a very huge game. 
  
  
  Story:
 
  You're thrust into an unnamed African country being torn apart by two warring factions. Your mission: 
 To kill The Jackal, an arms dealer who's fuelling both sides of the conflict with weapons, and 
 making a mint as a result. Easy!?
  
  You can pass the "gameplay" part if u already know everything about this game and read the "comparison" 
 part
  
  Gameplay:
  You can mess around on 50 square kilometer area, its definetly bigger than Oblivion! And over 50 
 hours of gameplay. AI keep watch, eat, sleep, smoke, and not only that, but they also care for 
 their buddys and do other stuff (watch "Deceiving Your Enemy" Trailer) . The revamped health system 
 incorporates five health tabs, each one of which can "heal" automatically if you rest. But once 
 one is empty, it requires using one of your limited supply of healing items to refill it and heal.
 
  Btw, when u reach to the edge of Far Cry2s map, the game reacts kinda like we have seen in GTA 
 (like the unlimited amount of water) , in this case the desert that marks the edge of the game, 
 the desert doesn't put up an invisible or shimmering wall; feel free to go in it, but you'll inevitably 
 pass out (Awesome) and end up crawling back to "safety".
  But don't think you aren't able to use some transportation, infact this game has many vehicles, 
 up to 12, theres buggys, glider, jeeps, boats etc
  In Far Cry 2 you have to get money to get new weapons, forexample searching diamonds! Your guns 
 may jam during a hot battle, which then need to be fixed, by punching it a few times : ) . 
  
  Theres many awesome animations, like reloading, picking up objects, healing yourself, fixing 
 a car, ofcourse shooting, etc, they all are visible onscreen, that means you can actually see how 
 your character body moves (especially a hand) to reach certain objects. Its all because to make 
 you feel like you are actually in Afrika, in the real, breathing, living world! 
  
  In Far Cry 2, there are Over 30 healing animations, they all can be pretty brutal, forexample if 
 there happens to be some sort of sharp metallic object inside of your leg, then your character 
 can pull it out, with very gore richful movement. 
  U don't have to pause the game to locate yourself, because you can bring out map during the gameplay.
 
  When u are badly hurt, and there happens to be a buddy of yours, he will come to help you and 
 carry u to safety. 
  
  And thats not all, it also has map editor, like the original game had, but FC2 has much deeper 
 map editor, who dosent want to make its own level? its own world! which is only limited by your 
 imagination! Create it, test, and share with others, and take a spectacular online match through 
 your creation.
  
  Comparison:
  I was very worried how far cry 2 plays and feels, because I recently played Resistance 2 beta, 
 which surprised me by feeling little bit off, aiming was bad aka unresponsive, not so tight etc, 
 I even didn't know that a shooter game can be so inaccurate, and unbalanced, something what I haven't 
 used to and haven't expirenced long time, (but hey, it's a beta) .
  
  Back to FC2. But no fear, in Far cry 2 you will be blessed with very tight, responsive control 
 scheme, the shooting, aiming, all are very well done. similar to cod4.
  
  Its a a slower game than cod4, not that theres anything wrong, but enemys die slower, and its atmosphere 
 is more like chill. 
  
  
  Graphics: 
  Visually its a gorgeous game, highly detailed textures, fantastic weather system. Fire is very 
 realistic .Though Facial animation is worse compared to uncharted, but still it will do its job! 
 Far Cry 2 has fire propagation, everything real time dynamic, vegetation reacts to everything in 
 the world (it even grows!) and much more!
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Lets say I expected a lot more from multiplayer, don't get me wrong its awesome, but. First of 
 all theres lag, not always but if it is, it makes online unplayable!!. Then connecting to game 
 is a pain in the ass, it takes quite long time to connect, after the game ends you have to start 
 the connection thing all over again. very stupid thing!
  
  
  so, Feel free not to finish the story mode, you are forgiven. 
  Theres 14 maps available. But 
 you will probably create your own! 
  
  There are six categories to choose from: the Commando is an all-rounder with a machine gun and 
 molotov cocktails; the Guerrilla gets a shotgun; the Sharpshooter is the sniper class; the stealthy 
 Saboteur gets silenced weapons; the Rebel a flamethrower; and the Gunner gets access to all the 
 heavy artillery.
  Combat is certainly close to COD4, but enemys takes longer to kill, if you get shot up but don't 
 die, you'll have to find some cover and use L1 to dig the bullets out of your flesh using a knife, n 
 like in singleplayes its. leaving the enemy plenty of time to close in on your spot. 
  
  You can also play tactical here, save a injured friend, and enemys kill isn't counted, but its 
 extremely dangerous. Then again this could be the deciding factor that brings you victory.
  
  Aside from standard and group-based deathmatch, there's Capture the Diamond. Here each team 
 is randomly assigned a leader, who must then occupy and take over three control points on the map. 
 Once this is done, the opposing leader must be assassinated in order to claim the win. 
  
  Strange thing is that players are unable to pick up weapons from the bodies of other mercenaries.
 
  
  
  Pros:
  
  Being able to create your own map, and enjoying it online, true living, breathing world, Great 
 sence of freedom. This game will suck u into for many weeks. Nice physics, graphics. Awesome online, 
 which means createing your own map gurantees that u wont get bored after singleplayer is over.
 
  
  
  CONS:
  I suggest u to play Far cry 2 on easy mode, then its not so painfull when its your first time playthrough.
 
  Health drops by nothing, the slow health recovery system means that you often won't get the time 
 to heal yourself. The problem is that this animation, which takes about five seconds to complete, 
 is interruptible by enemy fire. Then you die and reload from the last time you saved, usually miles 
 away in a Safe House.
  
  The combat is at first frustrating, but stick with it, it gets better.
  
  I firstly thought 
 that im giving up on this, but I still earned diamonds, upgraded my weapons, experimented. And 
 after this opening hours of punishing gameplay, the FC2 starts to show its much brighter side!
 
  
  The enemies are bit dumb. Infact a bit ridiculous, how can a shirtless guy take so many bullets 
 and still walk away from the scene alive? why is it that the enemies never get a gun jammed, and 
 after I pick up their gun, it jams on me? And whats up with malaria, u have to use L2 to take malaria 
 medicine, oh, well, its probably there to make sure u can handle the first gameplay hours. : )
 
  
  And I really hope they will fix the serious multiplayer errors, long loadings, lag etc
  
  
  
  Summary: 
  But despite the cons, the FC2 starts to show its much brighter side after 
 you have learned African rules to survive!, so stick with it. Still Far Cry 2 puts a very high 
 expectations for ALL upcoming games because, weather sytem, physics, visuals, gameplay, awesome 
 map editor etc, they all make it a MUST Buy. True next gen game.
  
  I cant rate Far cry 2 higher than this, because it sometimes feels like unfinished product, especially 
 from multiplayer part (very long loading times etc) . if they release the patch to fix the serious 
 online problems, then i probably will change the score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok. i first thought the game was awesome. The first missions looked incredibly good and the graphics 
 too.
  But, its a very glitchy game. Such games where there is an enormous world to explore usually have 
 these problems. Such as the glichy Oblivion.
  First, its difficult to climb stuff. Mountains, wooden boxes, houses, etc. Its as if you character 
 is a fat cow with no ability at all.
  
  Graphics look very sweet, thats the best aspect of the game, weapon variety is wonderful and the 
 enviroment feels really alive. Thanks to DUNIA engine.
  You have lot lot lot of freedom to do whatever you want , when you want it.
  Sound/Music is amazing 
 and special effects such as explotions are flawless.
  Multiplayer is really fun too.
  
  The story is crap. So simple that it will make you cry. You are a guy that visit Africa and suddendy 
 discover the whole place is infested with guerrilla gangs. So you have to kill every single buddy 
 youll meet until you kill the Jackal who is the man who armed everybody there.
  Another important thing Ubisoft forgot, was the fauna. I mean, you are supposed to be in Africa... 
 and the game only has a couple of zebras, warhogs, and chickens... thats stupid. At least they 
 would have included rhinos, lions, etc. But the most annoying of all is that there are no FISHES 
 in the water. I mean, WTF, the rivers are completely empty!.
  
  The water effect is good, not impresive really. The problem starts when you dive in it. You cant 
 see a thing, its as if the water was poluted or something : (
  
  Well thats it... a game with a lot of marketing, but the final product is not THAT pefect as everybody 
 thought.
  
  Although all this negative facts, i think its far better than Crysis. This game is ambitious.
 
  If you want to play a huge game, with glitches/bugs here and there... and just have fun exploring 
 the world of FarCry2, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonym72
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Frankly, driving in the jungle is very dull. And there is SO MUCH OF IT. The enemy knowing where 
 you are and respawning at the same point is annoying. Creeping around in the dark is pointless. 
 You can't see anything. Far Cry was great because it was light, bright and escaped the Doom "peering 
 into the inky blackness" We're back there again, and we have to work way too hard to get the the 
 few fun bits of this game.
  
  Your character isnt very maneuverable and can only carry one type of each weapon. The map screen 
 is infuriating in that it covers up most of the screen (minimaps make sense, even on a 50 inch 
 plasma) and you spend most of your time wondering what the hell you are supposed to be doing. In 
 the dark. 
  
  I think the testers got excited about seeing sunsets and driving over plants. Its just not interesting.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trombonedude13
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start by listing the things that really make this game stand out beyond other games 
 of its class.
  
  --GRAPHICS ARE INSANE: The environment just sucks you in from the start. The mixture of wildlife 
 sounds, lush green foliage, numerous species of animals, and weather effects are what make this 
 game. Some of my favorite parts are just sneaking through the forests, sniping people out and running 
 to another vantage point.
  
  --WEAPONS AND SOUND EFFECTS ARE INCREDIBLE: There are so many weapons in this game, that even by 
 the time I beat it, I had still not collected all of them. The sound of a grenade exploding in 
 a village, and hearing the shrapnel and boards falling from the sky afterward, is just so satisfying 
 in the weirdest ways. The variety and look of each weapon is also worth noting. For instance, while 
 loading a grenade launcher, the gun doesn't simply just disappear off the screen and reappear reloaded. 
 There is a specific animated sequence for every gun. And it's quite accurate if I might say.
  
  --THE POINT OF VIEW IS VERY UNIQUE: In this game, you really do see things from the point of 
 view of your character. For instance, when you health gets low say after being shot, the first 
 step to healing yourself is to pull the bullet out. Then use a medic kit. If you catch on fire, 
 you have to put yourself out. Get caught in a grenade blast? Pull out at shard of metal lodged 
 in your leg, and then heal. Even things like looking at a real map in your characters hand instead 
 of having a separate screen pop up are very pleasing. Being rescued by a buddy is also quite exhilarating. 
 If you die, and one of your buddies is rescue-ready, he will actually come bring you back to consciousness 
 and help you fight off your offenders. At times he may even sling you over his back and carry you 
 to safety. Finally, getting in and out of a vehicle or entering a building is completely animated. 
 You never just pop in a vehicle after requesting to enter it. He literally opens the door, gets 
 in, closes the door, and turns the key to start the engine. Very nice.
  
  Next I will list some aggravating and disliked things.
  
  --THE WAY THE VEHICLES HANDLE: Now 
 I've played every type of game there is, including racing games, and the vehicle controls and feel 
 could have been better. Acceleration is almost instantaneous after entering a vehicle even though 
 you can see that the vehicles are manual transmission there is no shifting of gears. When turning, 
 the vehicle drives like a block. There's no drag to turning or stopping. 
  
  --DISTANCE TRAVELED IS A BIT MUCH: Not much else to add to this one. There can be such thing as 
 TOO BIG of a game. And you can bet anything that the next mission you go to, is gonna be as far 
 as possible away from you. I'm talking like 30 mins real time to get from the bottom left corner 
 of the map to the top right corner. The ability to take the bus is limited only to the four corners 
 of the map. This should have been expanded a little more. Maybe a bus stop every few miles or so?
 
  
  --GUNS JAM TOO MUCH: Now in the beginning of the game, the guns jamming after extended use were 
 really cool. But towards the end, it gets unbelievably hindering. I mean, I would buy a new weapon, 
 go fight one battle, and in the middle of firing, it would just explode. Just like that. (Hint 
 Dart Gun) I know having them wear out is realistic, but after 10 mins of game play? Come on. This 
 definitely could have been eased up on a little.
  
  --ENEMY PROXIMITY WAY OFF: What I mean by this is that say for instance I'm hiding in some brush, 
 and I can see an enemy camp no less than 100 yards away. When the enemies would speak, it was like 
 they were right behind me. No lie. At times, I would swing around thinking there was someone was 
 right behind me, and the guy would still be 100 yards away. It may just be a glitch in the game, 
 but it's definitely distracting when in the heat of battle. 
  
  --REPLAY VALUE = 0: There is no replay value for this game. There is a point in the story missions 
 that, if you save after entering, and thats your only save spot, you cannot even go back to the 
 rest of the game. You are stuck playing in the confined limits of the last mission. SAVE BEFORE 
 YOU START THE LAST MISSION! This means if you haven't collected all the diamonds or done the rest 
 of the side missions, you will not have a chance to do so after entering the last mission. 
  
  SUMMARY: This game overall is worth playing for the graphics/environment/and raw destruction, 
 but not worth 60 dollars mainly because it has a short story mode and lacks any possibility of 
 replay value. It took me 34 hours to beat this game on normal difficulty. That includes collecting 
 the side items such as diamonds ONLY when I came across them. I did not find all diamonds, lookout 
 posts, or complete all buddy missions. I also rented this game over a 10 day period and was able 
 to complete the above stated. There are a lot of other things that I did not list that may contribute 
 to your purchase of this game. This includes the map editor (which I used for about 5 mins) , and 
 the multiplayer (which I played for around an hour and was very pleased) . I did not get to use 
 the map editor much, but from videos that I saw of other created maps, the possibilities are endless 
 and that may be reason enough to buy this game. This review mainly reflects the single-player campaign 
 and not the map editor or multiplayer. Please feel free to let me know if my review accurately 
 reflects the game experience you may have had. Thanks UBISOFT for adding another great game to 
 the Far Cry series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmern
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite awesome, its a good story behind the main character. and what the missions are 
 supposed to lead to is a quite good mission at the end. You are freely to go where ever you want 
 to. 
  
  The graphics are awesome, you can do what ever you want to in each mission: Stealth, ambush, demolition, 
 sniper and even a kamikaze :) 
  
  The weapon choice is a huge amount of different selections, its everything from a flare gun to 
 the biggest heat seeking rocket launcher you can probably find, you can even upgrade alot of your 
 weapons and your armor. 
  
  I personally like to go with a sniper and a flare gun. The flare gun gives me the opportunity to 
 call backup from APR again UFLL and make a huge chaos in some hard missions. You have a wide choice 
 of tactics to bring down the single person or even blow up a whole city for that case.
  
  I loved the game and i give it a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shluh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  First off : I was waiting for this game for the past 4 months. Nothing else could interest me but 
 Far Cry 2, basically I was all hyped up.
  
  Graphics
  
  There's nothing much to say about it except that it's really beautiful. I have the feeling I'm 
 really there, in the Africa. Great locations, Flora animation, ...
  
  Sound
  
  I love the sound, Drums play when the action is about to begin or no sound with just the wind and 
 the trees making their noise around you.
  
  Game play
  
  This is the only negative aspect for me personally because I'm an avid FPS'er but on the PC. I've 
 just recently bought the ps3 with gta4 which i love and decided to go for FC2 because i didn't 
 want to upgrade my PC (again) .
  I'm just not used to the console way of playing an fps, I think there ain't enough reaction time. 
 But with time comes practice so i don't see it as a negative point that will hold me back from 
 playing this nice game.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Overall I was gonna give this a 10 and i thought it would be an editor's pick but after playing 
 it myself I gave it an 8.5. It's a fun game, great graphics and action but it doesn't immerse me 
 into the story like i belong. It's not addictive (imo) .
  
  hope this helped :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamermaster001
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that this is possibly one of the greatest and most gorgeous games ever made... 
 but i just couldnt shrug the feeling that the game was never fully finished.
  
  Although Far Cry 2 is suppose to be one of the most realistic games going and regarding guns, healing 
 yourself and the day and night cycle it is... but on the other hand you have retarded AI that seem 
 intent on either killing themselves or ignoring you as you pepper them with bullets. 
  
  For example i was doing a mission for the APR where i had to blow up a gas tanker in a railway 
 area, so i grab my sniper, Guided missile rocket launcher and flare gun and run off to the railway 
 area. so there i am looking at my map and i decide hey it might not be a bad idea to fire a missile 
 from a distance and guide it to where i 'think' the gas tanker is and hope for the best. i fire 
 off my missile and who would have guessed the whole goddamn rocket launcher breaks in two leaving 
 my missile sail harmlessly into the mountans in the distance. now i recalled seeing a sniper in 
 the roof tops earlier so i'm thinking well there goes my position... but no the sniper has failed 
 to notice the missile that flew feet from his face and he is bending over tying his shoelace, i 
 stick a bullet in his head for being an idiot. so now i need a new tactic so i fire a few flares 
 into the camp and fires spring up everywhere, i make my way to where the former sniper had been 
 to get a good view of the chaos and what do i see... well firstly i saw an injured enemy being 
 picked up by his comrade and caring him off to safety... or at least i thought thats what he was 
 doing but instead he walked right into a nearby fire and killed himself and his injured mate. i 
 finished off the mission and was making my way to a safehouse when i spot a car coming my way, 
 so i hide behind a rock and wait for them to pass but instead i get spotted through the rock and 
 get hit by machine gun fire.
  
  another case of AI idiocracy is weapon convoies that go in circles continuasly and ignore you when 
 you shoot at them!!
  
  On the flipside Far Cry 2 is still a solid game and has a great map editor which makes for good 
 online play despite only having four game options (deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the diamond (flag) 
 and uprising.)
  
  All in all Far Cry 2 is a great game and will keep you happy for months, i definatly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfriend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  ok i love this game i cannot stop playing this game and im no where to be done with it. yes there 
 are some lil faults i didnt like i wished there was Gore like head shots and everything, Animal 
 blood/gore, and also pred animals like crocs and lions, and maybe even traps like climbing in trees 
 and a foot trap and pulling people up and then walk up while there hanging there knif em... and 
 i wish u could pop tires that bugs me, and a lil more saves but thats why i didnt give this game 
 a ten because no Pred animals no gore if its like rated m for mature should be gore body parts 
 explosins if it had everything i listed this game would be the best game of the year but yet again 
 hopefully for DLC atleast give us deadly animals ad gore.... yes the blood splat is kool but c'mon 
 lol we want more.. oh yeah and we need more vehicles that are faster maybe four wheelers and dirt 
 ikes they have plenty of room to do this to so shouldnt be a problem with space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeJones767
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I've never seen such a wide diverse variety of plant life ever in a video game before... I mean 
 I ride for hours and hours and even more hours, in my rusty broken down jeep observing absolutely 
 nothing but all the beautiful fona... Sometimes I start wondering if they left out the animals 
 and thugs just so I can drive around peacefully for hours and hours and even more hours... Another 
 great thing is how the game helps me fall asleep sooo easily... More developers should leave out 
 action and excitement to help reduce high blood pressure... I luv this game and I'm happy to have 
 worked 2 hours of hard labor to pay for it...
  
  The graphics look great, the story and plot are not interesting and the game has no feel of excitement, 
 action and or fun...
  
  This game is as exciting as a John McCain campain speech... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustap949
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics and its fun to shoot people, but its really hard and it gets repetitive 
 really fast. If you dont like games like the GTA series you probably wont like this. I dont like 
 pointless missions. I like games like COD4 where its somewhat clear what you have to do. In far 
 cry 2 you walk up to one guy and he says you look sick get in this car and drive over to this place 
 and get medicine. Its just pointless. The good things are that the fire effects are amazing. in 
 fact the graphics are great but it doesnt make up for the boring gameplay.
  
  Keep in mind i didnt try the multiplayer, which I am sure would be really good based on the graphics... but 
 I imagine you would get killed a lot because the shooting mechanics are terribly innacurate. Actually 
 that is worth mentioning that during the campaign if you get shot at you get worked because the 
 AI is really hard and when you get shot your aim hurts bad. rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbwasted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a long read, please bare in mind im playing on Hardcore difficulty and havn't completed 
 the game or tried MP. (this is also my first review)
  
  If I had wrote a review for this game a day or two after it came out, I could have easily given 
 it a 9 or 9.5. Far Cry 2 is one of the best looking games I have played in awhile, its slice of 
 Africa is beautifully made with sections of forest, swamp, open desert and plains. The weapon, 
 item and vehicle models and textures are well detailed and the constant 1st person animation and 
 view is great.
  
  Successfully scoping and taking out guard posts and locked safe houses felt great and rewarding. 
 You really can choose to take the missions, side missions, guard posts etc. in any way you want, 
 whether it be charging in all guns blazing, picking off enemies from a distance with a sniper rifle 
 or taking them silently with your machete and silenced pistol or silenced MP5. The missions can 
 seem quite repetitive, Gun store side missions will usually have you attacking a convoy that drives 
 around in circles, Hit man missions that are self explanatory and the main missions will usually 
 see you destroying something their rivals have. Im sure each main mission will have you receive 
 a phone call from a buddy with an alternative way of taking a mission, more than often this alternative 
 will have you stealing something from one place then continuing on to the original task. Whatever 
 it is that you choose to steal (you can choose if you want to take part in these alternatives) 
 will effect the original task in some way.
  
  That's originally what I had in mind for reviewing the game. The above is all still true but playing 
 more into the game uncovers more disappointments. 3 things you will find yourself thinking are 
 "How did that not kill him?" "How did that miss him?" and most commonly "How did he see me?" The 
 1st one is because the enemies can take A LOT of damage, it seems that they can take more than 
 you at some points. If your using a light machine gun or a pistol, don't expect your weapon to 
 give you too much of an edge. Sometimes, you'll plough half a clip into an enemy and it wont kill 
 them, they'll crawl around and somehow get back onto their feet with a pistol (think of a mobile 
 version of COD4's MP last stand perk) and then it will take the rest of the clip to finish them 
 off.
  
  Because of the above, you may decide not to apply such a Terminator approach. This leaves you with 
 the stealthy approach, this is where the last 2 thoughts come into play. The main one being "How 
 did he see me?" even after saving up and spending 45 diamonds on the "stealth suit" you can still 
 expect to be seen the majority of the time. It is possible to evade being seen, it then comes down 
 to taking out that enemy that will eventually spot you, so the only option is to take him out. 
 Your initial response would be to pull out the machete and hack him while no one's looking, or 
 to pull out a silenced weapon and pull of a head shot. 1st the machete, you can easily get right 
 up behind an enemy in position to mince him up. Simple, right? not really, as the initial 2 slice 
 combo wont kill him, it will put him to the floor, then he will start screaming and shouting alerting 
 the whole camp. You then have to do a finishing move to finish him off, while his comrades have 
 spotted you and are already shooting you. What could have worked here is a simple one hit kill, 
 maybe cutting his throat or stabbing him while covering his mouth. The silence pistol wont do much 
 of a better job, its inaccurate so once the first shot has flown past his ear, he'll spin around 
 and start shooting alerting everyone. If you do manage to cap him in one shot, 8 out of 10 times 
 the others will have somehow become immediately aware of this and then begin shooting you or searching 
 for you.
  
  With the stealth element being so easily corrupted and with its failure launching you into an awkward 
 gunfight (awkward because you would have probably crept halfway into the camp and be surrounded, 
 as well as not having the preferred weapon load out) Far Cry 2 can have you feeling more than slightly 
 annoyed at times. Especially if you spent time planning an attack, trekking to the location and 
 purposely doing it at night, just for it to all go belly up because someone spotted you 10 metres 
 away behind a tree because every piece of shrub makes a noise when you come into contact with it 
 but without hiding in the shrubbery you will be spotted. Other annoyances are the enemies weapons. 
 Its a nice detail having the enemies guns in bad condition, being rusty and occasionally jamming, 
 its just odd that these guns only jam when in your hands and not the enemies.
  
  When i'm in a dense jungle area and the enemy are aware of my presence, they will always get the 
 first shot off. Il swing round to the direction of the bullets (that are always hitting their target) 
 all I will see is muzzle flash, leaving me thinking about how they actually saw me. Sometimes the 
 machete wont work, and the enemy will be shooting the sh*t out of you while you wave the machete 
 around a few inches in front of their face.
  
  This annoying Warren Clyde (this could be a different character for you) guy always has an alternative 
 plan ending in you saving him from some stupid unnecessary gunfight he got himself into, making 
 it worse that he decides to arm himself with nothing more than a shotgun. Sniping is good, using 
 the bolt action sniper rifle will see you killing most with one shot, unless the enemy is under 
 20 metres away from you, then the sniper rifle will just wound them (yeah, this confused me a lot) 
 Enemy 
  
  Patrols are always faster than you, if an enemy car spots you it makes some sort of loud dinosaur 
 slash machine thing sound. If you charge past a guard post in a vehicle, deliberately driving through 
 the desert/jungle out of the way of the guard post the enemy will always think it more important 
 to chase you down and kill you, rather than actually guarding the guard post.
  
  Because I havn't played all of the story I can't have much of an opinion on it. Although from what 
 I have played, it doesn't seem to be much of a war. The only war is everyone V's you. Ive never 
 seen the factions fight each other, whenever your fighting someone its never clear what faction 
 your fighting. I can only recall on there being some sort of "cease fire" but this doesn't seem 
 right, as your always being shot on sight.
  
  Overall I would recommend Far Cry 2. Past the flaws I mentioned and the fact that the beautiful 
 land is limited due to their being enemies everywhere, it is definitely a different game with a 
 lot of potential and new ideas. Combined with the beautiful visuals and immersive game play, its 
 not a bad game at all, the issues I have can probably fixed with a patch, fingers crossed enough 
 people feel the same so that UBI do something about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad-onwheels
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Breath-taking gameplay althought it could be improved through a bigger variety of weapons and a 
 bigger variety of vehicles. Stunning graphics and scenery, guns are well created and seem realistic. 
 Love the different styles of playing i. e stealthy approach with snipers or silenced weapons or 
 ,guns blazing using expolsives, explosive and more explosives. Map editor is a must have- easy 
 enough to be fun and detailed enough to be a computer program. Different small additions such as 
 fixing vehicles, unjaming weapons, using the watch as an alarm and healing your self make the game 
 even more realistic and well... just plain fun. AI is not particularly clever but is are great 
 in other aspects. Overall thoroughly enjoyed having great fun playing! it still wasnt as breath 
 taking or addictivly amazing as bioshock or as quick, responsive or realistic as cod 4. A MUST 
 BUY oh and loving the machette 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick_nick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game for my PS3, and if i had to describe this game in one word it would be REVOLUTIONARY!, 
 cant complain about anything really, the game is amazing from its realistic A. I to its breathe 
 taking graphics, the guns are amazing and have a realistic feel i love shooters and i hate when 
 games make guns all retarded like the damage or the gun doesnt even look like the real thing but 
 this game did a great job with the guns its awesome the sound of them too are great, feels and 
 sounds like your shooting its just awesome hahaha, the character animations are brilliant, controls 
 are good, multi-player is fun, running around in africa is amazing lol so much better then far 
 cry 1 thats for **** sure. if you own a playstation 3 or what ever you must get this game its definitely 
 something everyone should own i dont know how you can go wrong when buying this game im sure many 
 people would agree with me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace3507
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  OK first lets get this out of the way far cry 2 is nothing like the first far cry, except for the 
 name its totally different. For whatever you have heard its true the game is probably the first 
 game, to actually put malaria onto your character. but if your thinking oh crap i gotta take time 
 out of fighting to take these damn pills your right, but its not as bad as you would think so. 
 The malaria occasionally pops up but it just adds depth to the game. Now for the weapons there's 
 your usual machine gun shotgun pistol and the list goes on but the fire is probably the true star, 
 based on the wind direction and right amount of fire you could take out a entire enemy base without 
 using any bullets! the story takes a back seat to all this, but its still good. its just it could 
 have been better, but you still get to pick your character from nine different mercs. then of course 
 there are vehicles like hang gliders, jeeps, boats and even a SUV. if your wondering yes, the area 
 you can explore is huge, its rpg length. all in all its a crazy game that you must play. in case 
 you have been living under a rock it comes out for the ps3, xbox 360 and pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is simply fantastic. It is an experience that i haven't had in a long time. This game 
 offers u the ability of choice and choices is something that gives you freedom. You are dumped 
 in a 50 kilometer area in Africa and your mission is to simply take out "The Jackel". 
  But its not like you are given any help as to how you get to him or how you will take him out. 
 After a small tutorial, you then are on your own, but being alone is also one of your choices. 
 You have the choice to befriend one of the given characters, or ignore them and even let them die 
 in battle (if your that heartless)
  But the freedom is what makes this game feel so great. You are not put along a path so it's up 
 to you on how you are going to do things. And probably the best thing in the whole game is it's 
 ability to engagae the player into the game. With no cutscenes (AT ALL) you feel more like your 
 are actually in your character's world (you can choose from a number of different characters in 
 the beggining) . When you die, if you have a friend to help you, you can get pulled out of battle 
 and find a way to save yourself (but don't leave your friend or he/she might die by the enemies) . 
 The only purpose of having a map out of the pause screen is because to help the player feel like 
 this experience is real. There are plenty more things in the game that i could say but then i might 
 be typing here for a long time so all i have to say is that this game is definately a "BUY".
  Oh, almost forgot, i only have one complaint - the map.
  It can be hard to drive and look at 
 the map sometimes and do anything else while looking at the map. (but thats just a minor thing) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamespreston
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game makes you feel like you are actually walking across the Savanah plains, or creeping through 
 jungle undergrowth. The sounds, the lighting, the weather and the physicality of the gaming world 
 took my breath away. The weapons pack punch and dont feel under-powered, and the enemies are aggressive. 
 Whilst the story is a bit weak, i didn't particularly care. You get so swept up in the actual game 
 world that story, characters and missions are background noise. The freedom to approach each and 
 every mission as you please is brilliant. Why attack in broad daylight when you can sneak in up 
 close and personal under the cover of darkness and dispatch your foes with silenced weapons. Why 
 wait till darkness when you can park your jeep at the top of a hill overlooking an enemy base and 
 shower it with hot firey death with your mounted machine gun, setting fire to vehicles and propane 
 tanks, further increasing the chaos! The choice is truly liberating, no two people will play this 
 game the same way. You get to impose your own personal style on the game, you truly PLAY the game. 
 And then there is the fire. If you didn't like fire before this game, after playing it you'll want 
 to burn everything you see! (not literally of course, that's called arson and is pretty illegal!) . 
 The game accurately models how fire spreads and, if you wanted to, could easily kill all the enemies 
 you face by using hot, fiery mother nature as your ally.
  
  burn baby burn, farcry2 is the business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lm_pitchy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing worth the money and worth playing. the story is good but you do get people 
 chasing you for no reason which can be irritating at times. The online is amazing. its easy to 
 play and the map editor is the best of all. the maps are easy to make and fun to make! 
  The effects in far cry 2 are excellent you can set fire to anything that can be set on fire in 
 real life. I like blowing up things in the game because the graphics for fire is brill and it wipes 
 out the enemy easy. There are lots more things to this game i dunno why they rated it 8.5 i would 
 give it a 9.5! Some people didnt like this game because of the gta effects in the game. It is a 
 bit like gta because you have safehouses and bubbies in the game. I would say its a mix of call 
 of duty 4, GTA and assassins creed. All good games. 
  Before i got far cry 2 i was always on call of duty 4 and you no how good that game is! but now 
 im on far cry 2 alot its not because its new, its because its good and very addictive! 
  I like being slealthy on this game because you always win but if you go barging in with your AK-47 
 you will just die. So its best to hide with your MP5-SD and your dart sniper and take some out 
 then sneak around the edge and take them out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is in Africs. The country is in a raging civil war, and you're job is to kill a notorious 
 arms dealer, the Jackal. As you progress things become more fuzzy than clear. 
  
  You can pick up missions for either the UFLL or APR, who pay in rough diamonds, the in-game currency. 
 Side-missions include assassionations, rough diamonds again, buddy missions which increase reputation, 
 underground mssions which give you medicine for you dreadful Malaria and Arms dealer missions to 
 unlock guns.
  
  You can also acquire diamonds by exploring. When you're near one, a special GPS system will start 
 flashing and the more skkll it takes to get, the bugger it pays out. There are also Audio tapes, 
 which pick up like Diamonds, but don't beep when you near them, making them decisevely harder.
 
  
  The visuals are good, I played on a 720p HD. The ground is pretty grainy but everything else is 
 beautifully done. Fire propogation is beautiful and is adds tacticul elements.
  
  The Ai works tactically and talk to each other. if you hide they'll taunt you, search in groups 
 and give you a hard time. Thankfully you have buddies. One can be on hand for you incase you die. 
 He'll pick you up, heal you and re-arm you. However, if abuddy of yours is wounded in battle whilse 
 you're around you can heal them, put them out of their misery or abandon them. All but the latter 
 give you trophies.
  
  My only criticisms are that half you're time spent doing missions is travelling. There is a bus 
 system that travels large distances, a river sytem and roads but the bsu station is too far from 
 most objectives to be useful, the river sysstem is only handy for some and on the roads yo'ull 
 get stopped at a guard post or attacked by another traveller, who are all, strangely enough, armed. 
 Aswell, the AI can be stupid, but mostly reactive.
  
  The map editor takes some getting used to, but if the fan base is loyal enough it could get strong. 
 However, with so many it may get soon overcrowded.
  
  I haven't had a chance of the multiplayer because I can't connect to a game. It'll try to connect 
 you to games and oull you out, and overall it'll take you 5 minutes + however picky you're teammates 
 are at readying up.
  
  At the end of the day, the trophies will be enough to get most people going, but it willl be dependent 
 on the few creative ones out there.
  
  I give it 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedzub11580
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Not as good as i thought. i cant go prone, no zoom function, driving from gun fight to gunfight, 
 transportation is annoying, when your trying to stay quite and you have to spend about 10 full 
 minutes to go to your next mission. stealth upgrade from weapon store didn't do anything expect 
 steal 45 diamond from me. i can't even see sniper w/out my monocular and he saw me and starts shooting 
 even with the upgrade. 
  
  NO STORY..,. the story is in the manual, you have to read it, the game really doesn't tell you 
 anything. Its not an involved story. Seems like your playing because you are told to not because 
 of the story. 
  
  UBISOFT if you are reading this... the prince of persia games were amazing i played all three all 
 three are 8.5 and above. that had story, it had excitement, i hope the new prince of persia isn't 
 dissapointting. dont betray me now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leamg2000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Right firstly lets get this straight. I havent Finished this game yet but i fealt compelled to 
 write this review. Im not compelled because its an amazing game that i just had to share with everyone, 
 or the fact its rubbish and want to warn everyone against it. no. Its because this game could be 
 great but you learn very quickly that the game gets old really quickly missions repeat themselves, 
 they usually involve you either killing someone, Blowing something up, driving somewhere or just 
 finding someone. But no matter what your doing everyone you run into just seems to want to kill 
 you. Contrary to what your told at the begining of the game the militia do no "keep to themselves" 
 most oif the time in fact sometime they go out of theyre way to find and try and kill you.
  
  Like i said before i havent finished the game yet so therefore i cant vouch for whether it 
 gets any better from where i am. But in my opinion that seems unlikely. 
  
  There are a nuber of good points about the game the weapons look realistic they behave realisticly 
 and even jam when dirty/old. different weapons have accuracy ratings and this adds another element 
 of realism to the intense fighting that you come across, ans trust me sometimes the fighting gets 
 pretty intense. 
  
  The enemy Ai is actually rather good which was a surprise to me. Theyre inteligent. They try to 
 outflank you and if your in a sniping spot you better keep moving because they will quickly find 
 you. Most games of this scale dont really deliver great enemy ai. Mercaneries 2 is a prime example 
 but maybe im biased because i hated that game from the moment i first played it. But even the big 
 budget games of this scale dont deliver amazing ai, take grand theft auto 4 for example. Great 
 game? yes. great story? yes. Great fighting system? yes. Great driving controls? yes. Great characters? 
 Yes. All in all, a great game. But the enemy ai had the habit of shooting in places you werent 
 and of just standing in the open on occasion. That is why i find the ai so impressive in far cry 
 2 because they act like real soldiers.
  
  I don't know if i'd reccomend anyone to buy this game... It has its moments for sure when you just 
 think 'WOW this is a good game' but almost everytime you do get those moments they happen again 
 an then you think ' seen this before.' 
  
  If i could sum up this game in 1 word it would be... Good. Its a 'good' game. It has loads of things 
 that make you want to play it. But it doesnt have that 'It' factor that so many games have these 
 days.
  
  I do like this game but to be honest id recommend waiting for Fallout 3 because that game seems 
 to me to have that something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chillibluffs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is a revolution in first person shooters. It doesnt take long before you are neck deep 
 in this game. You can track down a guerilla in your datsun 120y, light a scrub fire, shoot a zebra, 
 swap your rusty jammy shotgun for a flame thrower or trade uncut diamonds on the black market. 
 There is no where you cant go. Background interaction is immense. Fire loooks real. Some times 
 distance between missions can be tedious but it adds to the tension. Sound is awesome, music and 
 bird noises are like none i have heard before.
  Vehichles are a little annoying, as soon as you start one and drive 20 metres there is a small 
 army on your ass, that is always when your AK47 jams and your malaria kicks in, really gets the 
 heart going.
  Multi player is really good. I personally think it is better than COD4 multiplayer. Big maps and 
 limited lag. Most of the modes are rip offs of COD4 but work well.
  
  Buy it! Ill see you in Afrika! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bielzabob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  i was so excited when i got this, put it in the xbox and was almost instantly disappointed. after 
 the years of effort ubisoft have put into this, it seems to me that they rushed the speech into 
 the last 40minutes. every... single... person. sounds like an uninterested robot that has never 
 heard of commas or full stops. they just run off the schpeel like the actors were dragged in off 
 the streets.
  on top of that i find it impossible to connect to my character, he doesn't speak at all, that was 
 the best part of Far Cry, the sarcastic wit of someone that's lost everything. I'm not saying change 
 is wrong but i feel that they have digressed on this. 
  on the plus side though this is without a doubt the most beautiful game i have ever played, the 
 diversity of the landscape and the thought they have put into the small things almost makes me 
 understand why they forgot to improve on other points, because they where having too much fun with 
 this element.
  
  all i can say is please someone tell me they are making a patch to solve the painfully bad acting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sivus_2000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game will be definitely one to talk about in the few years to come. It's dynamic way of keeping 
 the entire story on a 50km2 map with no loading in-between travelling through them (Except on a 
 few Occasions) along with Crisp Graphics, Terrain which reacts to the player, and realistic fire 
 Propagation are the main things that should be pointed out on such a great game.
  
  The game play is non-linear so you can choose which missions to undertake before going onto the 
 main storyline. This also apply's to how you want to approach a mission as well, such as waiting 
 until night time and arming yourself with stealthy gear such as Silenced MP5's and Dart Rifles. 
 Or going in guns blazing with an RPG destroying and burning the Beautifully abundant Terrain in 
 the process.
  
  There is so much depth into the game that the developers probably put everything you would be looking 
 for in a shooter.
  
  The Map Editor is one of the most robust and simple you'd find in any game, and is a blast to use.
 
  
  The Games Combat System although is somewhat harder to use then other shooters such as "Call of 
 Duty 4" it feels a bit clumsy when you pop into the iron sights and half a seconds afterwards it 
 jumps onto an enemy, unlike in Call of Duty 4 it instantly jumps onto an enemy. This can lead to 
 players already aiming in a direction and with the sudden late jump have them clumsily aim at an 
 unintended direction.
  
  Other then some small bugs and Odd occurrences the game overall is a Masterpiece and should definitely 
 be considered buying for any platform.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_giac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  so i bought this game 2 days ago and have been playing it pretty much nonstop until now!
  
  the story mode is great, it tasks you with various missions such as demolishing convoys, assasinating 
 specific targets, stealing diamonds ect.
  
  my only real complaint with the story mode is how you have to walk/drive everywhere (exept for 
 taking the occasional bus.)
  sometimes just to start a mission you have to spend 5 or so minuets driiving to it.
  
  my only 
 other comlaint is the lack of saving anywhere.... but these are both very easily forgivin once 
 you get into the groove.
  
  the multiplayer is some of the best ive ever played.
  its better than cod4 in my opinion (shock) and trust me i played A LOT of cod4.
  the gametypes 
 are: DM, TDM, capture the diamond (captre the flag)
  and uprising
  uprisin is my personal favorite because its very tactical.
  
  one player on each team is selected 
 as captain and has to go capture all three control points.
  once thats done your team assasinates the other teams leader to win the match..
  
  I cant explain 
 how much there is to do in this game
  bottom line
  BUY IT
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unr2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I will just begin with saying that Far Cry 2 is an amazing game, however I believe it's potential 
 was not fully realised. 
  
  Graphics: This is by far the best aspect of the game. The engineers have done a fantastic job of 
 creating a powerful graphics engine. The textures are beautiful, the animation is top notch and 
 the lighting is perhaps the best I have ever seen in a game. Walking through a leafy forest during 
 midday, you will actually be able to differentiate between the individual rays of light moving 
 through the tree leaves. The explosions just have to be seen, especially at night time. You acutally 
 feel like you are in a desolate, unfriendly place.
  
  Sound: Another spectacular achievement. The sound is all top notch, even though the vioce acting 
 sometimes sounds like it has been sped up 1.25x normal speed, which sounds weird.
  
  Gameplay: First the good, the range of weapons available is good, the variety with which each mission 
 can be approached, with either a stealthy or bloody plan during night or day is a new concept and 
 which works very well in the game. The enemy AI is okay, they will flank you and team up on you. 
 You'll here them talking each other up during gunfights. However, too often I've come across enemy 
 soldiers and they'll just stand there doing nothing. I can walk upto them in full sight and just 
 knife them to death. 
  
  Now the bad, the story is horrible. There is no character development, no seeming progression in 
 the narrative or any indication of moving closer to some goal. Hence I do not feel engaged at all 
 with this game, each mission feels like a mini game on its own, instead of being part of a larger 
 story. Previous reviewers are right in ascertaining that this is like GTAIV, in that you choose 
 and are given missions, unlike GTAIV though, there is no character development or narrative. Also 
 those of you expecting an intense fps experience like Call of Duty, this is not the game for you. 
 This game has intense moments here and there, the erst of the time you will spend travelling to 
 a mission point. This game is more about the hitman experience, including travelling and not just 
 shooting. 
  
  I will not be doing any of the side missions as I am just no that engaged into the story, i am 
 just doing the main missions and that's it. So all in all, I have reviewed this game on the basis 
 of it's individual parts (graphics, sound) and not on a whole as it would get a lower score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strings64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The great thing about Far Cry 2 is that you don't HAVE to do anything, you are free to explore. 
 It looks fantastic and the gameplay is just as good. Plus taking down huge loads of 'badies' with 
 the cover of night and sniping someone from the bushes feels so cool. the only bad point about this 
 game is that it rushes into the story way to quick and you dont realy understand whats going on.
 
  But overall I would say that Far cry 2 is well worth playing and you should definetly pick it 
 up :)
  
  so here are some a's to pass the time. aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa 
 aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaa 
 aaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the first game in the series though the port to the PS3 was certainly nothing to write 
 home about. However, the second reiteration of this title shares only the name as this is a new 
 game from the ground up. Essentially, its a sandbox style game where you choose the missions you 
 wish to work and scour the countryside claiming new safe houses with each successful eradication 
 of the dwellers who already reside there. First and foremost the graphics really stand out, this 
 is hands down one of the best looking games on the PS3 to date. The action feels right and the 
 motion blur when running is quite frankly stunning. Guns feel right when you fire them and the 
 sounds, one of the best features of the game, truly create an immersive experience. I have not 
 yet played the multiplayer component of this game, but I can attest to the value of the single 
 player thus far, (about 10 hours in.) Overall, if you are looking for an immersive open world style 
 first person shooter then you really can't go wrong picking up this title. 
  Graphics - 8/10 
  Sound - 9/10 
  Gameplay - 8/10 
  Its a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  How can you take one of the most successful FPS franchises and flip it upside down on purpose? 
 What the hell Ubisoft?! 
  
  Okay so I was fine with the open world gameplay, enamored with a plethora of weapons, thrilled 
 at the amazing graphics and 24-hour clock. I've played about half way through the game, attempting 
 to do all of the missions available be them side or story but I think I'm done now. I've been ambushed 
 hundreds of times at the same checkpoints that I've reconoitered and killed everyone at. This easter-egg 
 hunt for diamonds is just repetitive and boring. I'm plain sick and tired of being mortared ON 
 MY WAY to a mission start (not even there yet) . Being ambushed by a two-man .50 cal turreted vehicle 
 is survivable and repetitive so it makes perfect sense that to make it less repetitive Ubisoft 
 gave those same trucks 40mm grenade launchers and rocket launchers! Less painful when you die faster 
 I guess. And don't get me started on repairing my vehicle and having some road raged !@#$!%$ come 
 tearing down the countryside in his beat up car and ramming me thus killing me. I've had it. All 
 of this on Easy setting! Even a quick save option doesn't make up for these flaws!
  
  I play the PC version and by god it's ground-breakingly beautiful but that's about it. The guns 
 are fun to look at but the gunplay in the game was overpolished. It feels like you're playing a 
 cartoon. Hard to believe that Ubisofts QA department didn't catch that. I remember the original 
 Far Cry, one of my all time favorites, the gunplay was polished but still felt rugged enough to 
 be a realistic shooting experience. 
  
  You know, the original story to Far Cry, as Island of Dr. Moreau as it was... was still interesting 
 and funny all at the same time. The relative humor that was the Mercenary taunts were a nice addition. 
 And the game still played for at least twenty hours! The original (PC 1.0 release) was such a success! 
 What happened to caring about the storyline? This story is flat! It's got near to no substance 
 and is further damaged by the micro-machine speed talk that each of the other players use when 
 talking to you. 
  
  Do yourself a favor, get Dead Space instead, or just wait for Fallout 3 in a few days. Far Cry 
 2 is a perfect example of a development studio focusing on graphics instead of gameplay. What a 
 loss! I'm suprised Gamespot gave it above a seven. Well, on to the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killed-bill
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 for the Playstation 3 is by far one of the biggest gaming disappointments this year. 
 Maybe, it's because I believed the Far Cry 2, hype. After having been spoiled with the likes of 
 Call of Duty 4 and Playstation 3 exclusive Drake's Fortune - I was really looking forward to adding 
 Far Cry 2 to my arsenal of games.
  
  There's no doubt that in some ways Far Cry 2 is absolutely incredible, but those few magical moments 
 unfortunately don't rescue Far Cry 2 from tedious game play - been there - done that - mechanics.
 
  
  GTA - Africa
  
  I love First Person Shooters - in fact, I've literally just finished Bad Company, and whilst that 
 game didn't have the graphical prowess of Call of Duty 4 (or even Far Cry 2) , it was indeed a very 
 enjoyable and often funny game. However I'm not into Grand Theft Auto (GTA) style games - and this 
 maybe where the problem lies as Far Cry 2 can be likened to GTA.
  
  This review can be read over at my blog:
  http://playstation3-ps3-killed-bill. blogspot. com/2008/10/far-cry-2-why-far-cry-2-is-most. html 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joedirt1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is probably the best FPS on PS3 with The most amazing graphics you will see in awhile. 
 You MUST rent this game first the player reviews are always different, there could be a 10 over 
 there and a 6 over there. Your player is set on an unnamed nation in africa where there are violence 
 between 2 factions. You are a mercenary sent to do one thing, to kill "The Jackal". The jackal 
 supplies the weapons for the 2 factions creating war. The plot... well there really isn't a story 
 plot which can create bordom, but if youfigure out the main missions it is very fun. The guns are 
 awesome. the thing is last time i checked when you get shot you fall down... IT TAKES HALF A PACK 
 TO KILL A GUY!!! 
  gameplay-8/10 
  GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING. 
  graphics-9.75/10 
  the fact that you have malaria can change things drastically. so RENT FIRST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I have edited this review on a couple of occasions and after finishing the game have these thoughts.
 
  
  May (i. e. will) contain spoilers.
  
  The Story
  
  Spectacularly awful. I mean, bad on a level that is frightening. 
  
  Let's sum up. You are 
 a mercenary who is hired to kill an arms dealer who sells weapons to both sides (umm don't they 
 all?) and yet as a character work for both sides yourself? Your buddies will save you, but then 
 betray you. The Jackal is really just trying to end war in the region by killing everybody. Apparantely, 
 a group of refugees in WARN TORN AFRICA will be safe in the next country over after having to bribe 
 the guards to let them in (cause they aren't corrupt or anything) and then, I am supposed to shoot 
 myself because war is bad.
  
  Riiiiiight. 16 game days, about 14,000 rounds fired, at least 500 kills, and I am going to shoot 
 myself because war is bad.
  
  AI
  
  AWFUL! How many times do you need to sneak up, fire off a shot, and have a mortar immediately fired 
 at your exact position before the controller heads (at great speed) towards the tv? Everybody you 
 pass will immediately, attack you with complete disregard for tactics. Enemies can catch up to 
 you in the exact same vehicle you are getting away in. 
  
  MISSIONS
  
  Boring and beyond silly. I have to kill four people to get a bottle of malaria pills? How exactly 
 does that guy keep getting trapped in a house with four guards. What are they guarding? I blow 
 up convoys for the arms dealer just for the right to buy better guns?? 
  
  
  It's the type of game that needed a writer and somebody to talk some sense into the programmers. 
 Instead of making cool leaves and gazelles, how about making people who react somewhat realistically? 
 How about a story that makes some semblance of sense?
  
  Very dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memo786
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is a amazing game graphics are spot on give that to them, not a game out there with graphics 
 like it that i can think of its Just amazing. The gameplay is great but there are always things 
 that are just not right. i hated the whole thing about having to take malaria tablets which was 
 just so annoying, also when you run it goes blurry wen you run out of stamina whats that all about? 
 
  
  Its a free roam game with alot of ground to cover which is a very unique thing added to the game 
 but it just doesnt feel right as it being a FPS. the one thing that gets you annoyed is you having 
 to travel across the map to get to places and vechiles arent that fast and plus you will get into 
 combat with someone on the way and if you die your going to have to start all the way from the 
 start where you saved the game which gets on your nerves. One Other thing is killing an enemy is 
 so ridiculous its so unrealistic takes like half a round to kill off someone.
  
  another small point which is absoloutely stupid is that there is not Melee attack you have to change 
 to your machete which is so lame. The Map editor is really cool feature which you can waste hours 
 on which is real fun and easy to use.
  
  Overall the game is great worth buying recommend to Rent it first, but some things will annoy you 
 to hell but its one of them things like marmite either you love it or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEPh1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Whats there to say.... Far Cry 2 is just that good. The Story is so rich with detail it makes you 
 feel like you are in a true war in Africa. The immerison within the game is outstanding and even 
 when you come out of immersion during a save point seeing the changing of time is just amazing 
 in my book. Map Editior really puts you in the seat of a game creator and with a range a possiblities 
 the idea is only a power button away. And multiplayer has a rich substance that we've seen in Call 
 of Duty 4 and Rainbow Six. Capture the Diamond and Team Deathmatch are my two favorites and love 
 picking people of with my Dragnov SVD..... Granted somethings are alittle difficult but this game 
 runs some with all it detailed colors poping out a once.... with the fire growing in the African 
 war of Far Cry 2, one thing is for shure the flame will never die within this game. It is a must 
 pick up for first time gamers or veterans of the sport, and expect this one to be in the running 
 for 2009 game of the year.... Im dEPh0ne and watch out you might be my next headshot in Far Cry 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paskari
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Man I just played the game for 2 hours, and it is weird.
  
  Most of the time you keep looking at your map and deciding whether you're lost in the jungle or 
 you're really lost in the jungle. 
  
  To make matters worse you walk slower in certain terrains, even though you're already slow to begin 
 with.
  
  So I'm minding my own business hanging around town, but then, holy crap, the mission is on the 
 other end of town. So I run on the asphalt and I am slow as $hit b/c I have cancer, and I run for 
 what seems like an eternity and finally get to the desert. Now the guy gets really slow, and it's 
 essentially a crawl. Then I try to hike up a sand dune, and the guy succumbs to his illness and 
 literally moves at the speed of moss.
  
  I can never see the enemy, and the bullets look like they are coming from all sides. 
  
  The 
 game is much like GTA, in that you have to go from street to street to complete different missions, 
 but it's never really done well, and occsionally what happens is you'll find yourself wandering 
 through the desert.
  
  Graphics are AMAZING for vegetation but looks like Contra on the NES when looking at your map.
 
  
  Also, you can tell it's a Far Cry to the bone b/c it's got the same irritating AI as in the first 
 one. The enemies blissfully sprint away as I am shooting them. Last I checked, people fall down 
 when they get shot, this fukers just keep dashing away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostsinner
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Happened to be excited for the release of this game. Once I embarked upon the adventure this M 
 rated game had the blood and lacked the intelligence. 
  
  Basic problems such as the Ai is programmed to run into each other. The dialogue as the story progressed 
 got worse. Nothing kept me intrigued to play other then getting all the weapons so I could have 
 fun raiding small camps. That's all there was though. Small camps, and they all looked the same 
 varying from 5-20 people. Even while the game was on INFAMOUS the Ai still ate dirt.
  
  Also you get a "great" weapon system. Pointless to put that much effort into such a grand selection 
 of weapons when all it does is get annoying by making you run back in forth between buildings. 
 The same buildings that are in fourty other spots on the map. Much like Assassins Creed with repetitive 
 boring game play. All thanks to someone not giving a damn about quality and cared alot about a 
 pocketbook. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djballer24
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very well. The game play is ok. But it gets boring. Not a whole lot of weapons. 
 It takes half ur ammo to kill someone. The flamethrower and burning the fields and crops and what 
 not is pretty cool though. THe side missions can be boring and annoying. I was just expecting this 
 game to be so good. Sure you can roam wherever you want but the map is that huge. I was expecting 
 this game to be like missions left and right killing people and big explosives and waht not. It 
 does have some of that but, its not like amazing. There is like no real story to the game which 
 i think is the major flaw. You just do whatever mission you want. It should have at least some what 
 of a direction to assist you. I was dissapointed in the online mode to. Not many game types to choose 
 from and only 2 are actually any fun. Overall its just an ok game. It was way over hyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keitha313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is another highly anticipated game, I would suprisingly agree with everything Gamespot has 
 said so far...
  
  My own view of it goes as so, The graphics are fantastic although their are the very few couple 
 of rough edged mistakes (note i've only seen one) which im sure werent ment to be their but thats 
 not really graphics... The flame effect and how everything you'd expect to catch fire actually 
 does just kind of blows my mind its amazing what they have done.
  So overall in graphics department id score them 9/10
  
  Next the story im not to sure on it 
 to be frankly honest its not something that intrested me i dont think the storyline was thought 
 out that well, But the game does constantally try to make an effort and atleast they didnt try 
 to go back to a ridiculous alien invasion or whatever the last far crys were about....
  Id only rate storyline plot 6/10
  
  Gameplay is great im loving every second of it and you 
 just cant really get bored of the game because theirs always something else to do... That includes 
 creating maps wandering africa for diamonds assasinations and so many other things including all 
 the trophies and multiplayer modes...
  
  Right thats all the good stuff said about the game now my gripes which i really hate to do but 
 i have to do it....
  
  I really hate the fact that you cant go prone anymore in Far Cry it just doesnt feel right having 
 to crouch all the time thats my opinion an ambush with a sniper rifle isnt the same if your not 
 prone.
  Next would be how the enemy in cars always detect your exact location after you have shot at his 
 vehicle, It doesnt matter how concealed you are or whenever you took the shot at them whilst they 
 were not facing in the same direction as you it doesnt matter they always detect your exact position 
 and try to knock you down which is rather annoying.
  Multiplayer can be abit frustrating aswell it doesnt feel as smooth as it should and you can be 
 their for a rather long time trying to kill someone.
  
  Thats all gripes done but all in all this game is a MUST i recommend everyone to buy it, It is 
 a great game no matter what and remember no game can ever be perfect no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDumb1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a really good game, don't get me wrong, but it could have been better. 
  
  The Good:
  The graphics are the most noticeably good thing about this game. It looks EXTREMELY 
 realistic and pretty and you won't mind staring at it for hours, though it is too bad you will 
 end up doing that. The gunplay is challenging enough while not being cheap, delivering on making 
 the player feel human, something not many other FPS games do. Everything in the world feels real, 
 from the AI to the physics, without being TOO realistic to enjoy. Real-time weather and day-and-night 
 cycles only add to the immersion. By the way, the game is one of the most immersive games made 
 yet, right up there with Dead Space, making you feel like you are in the world. Now onto the bad...
 
  
  The Bad:
  I'll save the worst for last, so I'll start with the story. Its not the story that's bad, its the 
 fact there isn't one. This wouldn't normally be a problem, but it makes you push yourself to finish 
 the game (not saying it isn't fun) because you just don't have any motives. No reason. Also, traveling 
 long distances is absolutely TERRIBLE in this game, the only thing saving it from being a borefest 
 being the occasional enemy camps and breathtaking scenery. This wears off, though, once you learn 
 to make good use of the bus system, but sometimes, a bus stop just isn't close enough. Now, for 
 the worst problem with Far Cry 2: THIS IS THE MOST INCONVENIENT GAME EVER MADE!!! *clears throat 
 and settles* allow me to explain. There is no checkpoint system, so if you die, usually through 
 a cruely designed cheap death, you go back to the last save, not the last checkpoint. What this 
 means is, if your last save was 20 hours ago, it sucks to be you. This wouldn't be that big of 
 a deal if saving spots weren't so few and far between, and if the deaths weren't so cruely unfair.
 
  
  All in all, this is a great game. While the bad parts certainly don't ruin it, they do keep it 
 from being a 9 or a 10 even. You should definately buy the game, because a renal isn't enough to 
 take everything in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henkys
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Dear sir / madam,
  
  Everything the GameSpot review tells you is correct.
  The game actually is rather emmersive, yet it doesn't hold it for a long time. 
  
  Control 
 problems and a "not-yet-finished" feeling make this game a bit of let down, considering it's highly 
 anticipated nature. 
  
  I will dicribe you every category and my compliments and complaints.
  
  ===
  Graphics:
 
  As the water in the first Far Cry was the reagent to where all other games were compared, it now 
 is the fire. Well deserved, however confirming once again that graphics make out such a big deal 
 in Far Cry that it is the first aspect to my complete review.
  
  I'm playing on Playstation 3. I notice some slight pop-in and some tiny misfits within the characters 
 faces that don't yet make it visually awfull, but still worth noticing for those expecting paradise 
 eye candy. 
  
  It gets an 8.5 in my opinion, mostly because I keep in mind how much data needed to fit on the 
 disc. (Xbox 360's DVD has to fit it, too)
  
  ===
  Gameplay:
  
  Hard to get used to. Controls are terribly alligned and the reaction is way to quick, even with 
 the slider put all the way to the left. 
  
  Still I tried to make the best of it, but even halfway the game I still was bungling with the controller.
 
  
  Stealth is a tough approach, but not undoable. After all, if you think stealth with controls in 
 the back of your head, Splinter Cell must come to your mind...
  
  The cars drive wonderfully on the other hand, and the switching and firing with the jeep mounted 
 machine guns also works like a charm. It's not a complete hell.
  
  The RPG elements within Far Cry 2 do make it more diverse and motivating. In a way that counts 
 just as much for the overall gameplay experience as the controls do.
  
  7.0 for the gameplay.
  
  ===
  Audio
  
  Playing with only the front stereo speakers of 
 a Sharp LC37X20E I'm not complaining. You clearly hear what you need to hear. It's the volume of 
 the different aspects that can be annoying. 
  
  Also, you might notice "sound palette transfer zones" when you walk from a desert area to one more 
 faunatic.
  When you know this, you can hear it clearly. This is what gave me the "not finished" feeling.
 
  
  5.0 out of 10 here. 
  
  ===
  Final words
  
  Far Cry 2 scores 6.5 points in my review.
  This game okay, and even technically impressive, but 
 it just wasn't worth the wait. Let alone the hype.
  
  Regards,
  
  Jeroen, Noord-Brabant, Holland, Europe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donksyjohn
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Was absolutely hanging to get this game after watching the youtube and gamespot trailers. So got 
 home with PS3 Special Edition box and put the Disc in. 
  Played it for 10 hours now. Im pretty dissapointed.
  
  Loved; Graphics; Worth getting the game 
 just for the brilliant visuals.
  Weapons; Awesome mix of guns and the gun malfunctions are a great addition.
  Fire; What can I 
 say- unreal. Lighting up and trapping enemies while covering your escape is tops.
  Map Editor; Had a little go last night.. ^&*%%! Awesome.
  The ability to make your own map is 
 reason enough alone to get this game. Very simple and jumping in to test how your map burns and 
 how the Grendade launcher bunker works against the vechicles is nice.
  
  Hated;
  Malaria; it adds nothing to the game. (yet) . Every now and then the screen goes funny and you have 
 to push L2 to take your pills. Not cool.
  Enemy graphics; The enemies sometimes look and move dodgy. Their actions and A. I. can be hit and 
 miss. At one point they were going to come get me in a vechicle, but they couldnt drive well enough 
 to negotiate the required 3 point turn manouvre. And i was waiting with an RPG.. Dissapointing.
 
  Repetition; Did i just get the same mission with the same voice and dialogue?? Yeah. Go to a phone 
 tower and you get this dodgy voice going on about a "target of opportunity'. I cant stand hearing 
 the same **** in a game.
  Lonely; Its a MASSIVE map. Sometimes you have to walk 5 kilometres to find a car, then drive 20 
 to kill someone.
  Gets kind of boring, which was the last thing i expected from this game. Why not a few more animals??
 
  Maybe some friendly giraffes? Packs of Wildebeast. Pythons. Make swimming more fun by adding some 
 Nile Crocodiles. Is that too demanding.
  No Storyline; Well so far im just running around killing everyone i come into contact with... Well 
 nearly anyway. I wish there was more civilians. Why not see some friendly villages, refugees trodding 
 along the roads?? Maybe see the militias commit some crimes against humanity to make killing them 
 much more satisfying... More interaction would be good... why cant we talk to people?? All these 
 empty environments with retarded militia waiting to be killed then come back..
  Im really frustrated that i paid $125 for the special edition of this game. 
  
  
  Why cant 
 I lie prone??
  Why does it sometimes take 2000 rounds from the mounted weapons to drop someone? I keep shooting 
 them and they stand their and take it.... pppfffft.
  Why cant I jump over some tiny ledges?
  Im playing away, killing everyone in a fishing shanty, 
 and i get some subtitles saying "help, they will kill me" cant hear anything so im looking around, 
 i keep getting these subtitles about "come, help you have to do something" spend ten minutes looking 
 around for who to help then I find out it was my buddy from &*%^@&% knows where asking for help. 
 Then in my stats I have abandoned them. Man this game has some seriously ridiculous design flaws.
 
  
  I really cant recommend this game, you probably dont need to spend $125 at Jb hifi for the special 
 edition like me. I think i was all hyped up just expecting the holy grail of video games, one without 
 fault, but I guess its never gonna happen.. After the character graphics of COD4 its kind of hard 
 to go backwards. anyway, its still an good game. I expected to be "immersed" in this game but instead 
 im on this website having a whinge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natemic18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I've only played a few hours of the story, but from what I've played, I really like how it feels. 
 They really make you feel like you're in the persons body, definitely a sweet first person game. 
 The open area and environment is amazing. The blood splatter when you shoot someone is pretty sweet 
 too.
  
  The graphics are very well done. Especially the wilderness or environment, they really did an A+ 
 job on that. The people graphics aren't the greatest but they're still good, and the way that the 
 enemies move around is pretty realistic.
  
  The map editor is pretty sweet also. It's pretty easy to use once you get the hang of what everything 
 does, and it's cool how you can publish your maps for other people to rate and play on.
  
  The multiplayer is just like single player, it's not like there are limitations or anything, the 
 maps are smaller than the one in single player, but they are still big. The gameplay is very fun 
 and entertaining, and I like how depending on how fast you move, is whether or not the enemies 
 will be able to see you as quickly.
  
  Overall I believe this is a great game, and definitely worth buying if you're even remotely interested, 
 you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  In 2004 Ubisoft released one of the best games of the year with Far Cry. After a long 4 years of 
 waiting, Far Cry 2 is finally released!
  
  In Far Cry 2 you have over 50 kilometers of open space to explore. You do not have to follow a 
 set path if you do not want to. Throughout the game you will be able to make friends with other 
 characters in the game and in some cases they will help you if you are about to die. This can come 
 in really handy when you are up against 5 guys and you failed to find cover to patch yourself up. 
 Your friend will come to your aid and drag you to a place where you can get bandaged up. Now he 
 won't always be there to cover your back so do not rely on him or her....
  
  The story is not complicated and in fact its pretty simple. You get to choose one character to 
 play as and you are hired to kill "The Jackal". Now finding him is where the fun part is. Find 
 side missions to find more information of the Jackal's whereabouts. The more missions you complete 
 the easier the battle will be in the end.
  
  
  GRAPHICS = 9.75/10
  
  The Dunia engine is an extremely impressive engine. The graphics are so good that you find it hard 
 to believe that you are playing on a console. Throw a grenade and watch the leaves fly right off 
 the trees and in to the wind. Fires start small and eventually grow in to an enormous out of control 
 blaze. The shadows look very good and really help define the great detail in this game.
  
  SOUND = 8.5/10
  
  The sound effects are nicely done but there is not much that makes me go 
 WOW! You hear the wind blow and tree's branches sway. You hear the crackling of the fire and faint 
 chatter of enemies in the distance. Gun fire and explosions are not too shabby either.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 9.25/10
  
  The controls are just like any other FPS game out there. Very responsive 
 controls and a nice map GPS system. You use your map to locate your next objective and you use 
 your monoculars to locate where enemies are like snipers, etc. Now the game lets you choose where 
 to go and how to do it. You can try to go out and just try to kill everyone you see but you will 
 die and die quickly. You can not just heal yourself in 1 sec and continue to fight. You need to 
 find cover and pull the bullet out or patch your arm or leg up. Then you need to give yourself 
 a shot to heal yourself. You need a good 5+ secs to do all of this so I suggest you take your time 
 and get a game plan before trying to complete your mission.
  
  MULTIPLAYER = N/A
  
  I have not tried this game online yet so I have no score. I do know that the game includes an easy 
 to use map editor and many online modes.
  
  OVERALL = 9.25/10
  
  Far Cry 2 will be an easy contender for "Game of the Year" and if you are a fan of FPS and strategy 
 then this game is for you. The game offers over 50 hours of game play and a pretty sweet online 
 mode with a map editor.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashlive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  My meaning of the game is simple.
  
  Its a great game.
  From the moment i started i was really in 
  the world of Far Cry 2.
  The creaters made a great 
 feeling not only that,
  they made the camera with a really nice filter
  so that you see you are in afrika, this came out briliant.
  
  The animations and grafics are 
 really stunning and the A. I is also good ( you can see this on the site ) .
  The enemy is helping each other when there hurt 
  and they will search you and flank you. 
 
  There was just one thing 
  that i didn't like so much... the story.
  Don't get me rong its a good story, only it feels like, its not finished.
  It started really 
 good with questions that needed a answer.
  but after 10 to 15 hours of play time there was still 
  no twist (what i liked in the first Far 
 Cry) .
  The plot is also not the best i have ever seen, but besides this, its a great game that you will 
 play more than once.
  
  So the Conclusion for me is...
  Beside the little disapointment with the story 
  i had a really great time with Far Cry 2,
 
  its a Great Game that you should play.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
