-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ferrari Challenge Trofeo Pirelli
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/ferrarichallenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of Ferrari models for fans of the car maker.
 Solid race physics.
 Tracks are challenging and fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks variety.
 Dumb AI.
 Poor performance customisation options.
 Sometimes-poor graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 145 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Eutechnyx
Genre: Racing
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Exciting for Ferrari fans, but take away the licence and you're left with a competent racer with 
 only average looks, poor AI opponents, and not enough variety. 

  A racing game focused entirely on one car manufacturer seems like a bit of an anachronism nowadays, 
 and System 3's Ferrari Challenge Trofeo Pirelli certainly feels like a throwback to another era. 
 While most other recent racers feature a large roster of car licenses, Ferrari Challenge is content 
 to bask in its adoration of the Prancing Pony, something made clear right from the game's opening 
 cinematic (featuring slow-motion close-ups of a Ferrari F430, which are practically erotic in nature) . 
 It'll certainly appeal to Ferrari fans, but it doesn't do enough to hold the interest of those 
 whose automotive inclinations run beyond the famed Italian carmaker's stable.  

           Vehicle models look quite good in Ferrari Challenge.      

  Not that Ferrari Challenge 
 is a bad simulator. The game features some impressive race physics and a decent number of tracks, 
 but its sharp focus on Ferraris is simultaneously its biggest strength and most apparent weakness. 
 The result is a game which strives for the level of realism and depth of a Gran Turismo or a Forza 
 but has much less variety. And because it doesn't quite reach the same technical level as its well-received 
 peers, that lack of variety in both vehicles and race types becomes a much-magnified negative. 

  Take the F430 Challenge, the game's main single-player mode. This mode replicates real-life meets 
 in North America, Italy, and Europe, where well-heeled Ferrari owners come together to race their 
 really, really expensive cars. Each meet consists of one qualifier and two races, with the winner 
 over a season determined by who gets the most points from all the previous meets. An entire season 
 of racing will probably take you four hours or so to complete, resulting in well over 12 hours 
 if you go through the three different seasons available. So for that entire time, you'll be driving 
 one type of car, the F430, which might leave even diehard Ferrari fans wanting a change.  

  If you want to see all of the cars the game has to offer you'll have to go through the F430 Challenge. 
 If you haven't already guessed, you'll find only Ferraris in Ferrari Challenge, with the game featuring 
 more than 50 models ranging from modern ones such as the 575-GTC to classics such as the 250 GTO. 
 Most of these cars are unlocked as you progress through the F430 Challenge, with the credits you 
 earn from racing used to purchase them from the in-game store. These cars are used in other single-player 
 events such as the stock-standard quick race, time trial, and arcade modes. More than 20 of these 
 cars also get their own minitournament in Ferrari Challenge's Trophy mode, where you have to drive 
 the vehicles in a series of three races. And while the game doesn't feature the biggest roster 
 of vehicles, it does sport a decent number of tracks from around the world. There are more than 
 a dozen available, including Ferrari's own home track, Fiorano, as well as other well-known locations 
 such as Monza, Silverstone, Infineon, Paul Ricard, and more.  

  While Ferrari Challenge is certainly no arcade racer, it doesn't reach quite the same heights of 
 finicky realism as the most recent Polyphony Digital offering on the PlayStation 3, Gran Turismo 
 5 Prologue. Those new to the racing sim genre are well accommodated, as the game can be quite forgiving 
 even when you drive off the track, and you'll find most instances of lost car control are moderately 
 easy to correct. With assists such as traction control, stability control, and ABS turned off or 
 ramped down, the game can be quite taxing, forcing you to pay careful attention to racing lines, 
 brake efficiently, and accelerate smoothly if you want to stay competitive (or even just stay on 
 the track) . For the most part, the game's single-player modes feature races in which all cars are 
 of the same type, which should theoretically mean you'll have to rely on driving skill rather than 
 incremental horsepower advantages to win races. We say "theoretically" because while the racing 
 here is challenging for the most part, it's sometimes ruined by decidedly blockheaded AI opponents 
 who will doggedly stick to preset racing lines without consideration of other cars on the track. 
 This results in opponents who will sometimes sideswipe, ram, and even try to run your car off the 
 track if you're in the way. This gets frustrating if you're forced into making mistakes, particularly 
 as having cars of equal power in races means you'll find it difficult to catch up to leaders if 
 you fall too far behind, no matter how well you drive.  

  Ferrari Challenge does offer some customisation should you want to tweak vehicle performance, but 
 it's limited to small adjustments you can make to ride height, springs, damper strength, anti-roll 
 bars, or alignment. It's certainly not to the level of other recent racers, and while there's probably 
 less scope to swap or personalise components in super cars like the Ferrari, a bit more depth would 
 have been welcome. More interesting is the game's vinyl editor, which lets you tweak your Ferrari's 
 livery to whatever suits you (and at first glance bears a striking resemblance to the same feature 
 found in Forza Motorsport 2) . You can apply vinyls to practically any surface on the car, and even 
 stack several layers on top of one another. There are hundreds of vinyls available, but there's 
 no option to import your own images or logos to give your car that extra personalised look.  

 
  You can take your pimped-out Ferrari online in the game's multiplayer mode, which can accommodate 
 up to 16 racers at once either online or via LAN (there's no split-screen mode) . Options here are 
 once again limited -- you can select car types, track, duration, conditions, racing lines on/off, 
 or collisions on/off. Our testing resulted in smooth races with little lag, although we were never 
 able to find a completely full game with all 16 players to compete with.  

           Internal views and tracks don't look great, however.      

  The cars themselves are 
 the best-looking elements of Ferrari Challenge, which is probably to be expected in a game which 
 fetes the Italian company's vehicles so much. Car exteriors feature an impressive amount of detail, 
 and while there is damage modelling, you won't see anything more serious than a dented hood or 
 a scratched paint job on your rides. Graphics don't fare so well with cockpit views, however, with 
 rather low-grade textures making the interior look particularly unrealistic. The graphics presented 
 within rearview mirrors is particularly poor, looking extremely pixelated and lacking definition. 
 The tracks themselves are also fairly unimpressive, with stands and foliage short on visual detail. 
 Sound fares a little better -- the baritone revving of the different Ferraris is extremely impressive 
 to listen to, while the game's music soundtrack encompasses a good mix of indie, rock, and dance 
 tracks.  

  If you're a fan of all things Ferrari, then this game's healthy list of classic and modern Ferraris, 
 varied tracks, and solid racing models is probably more than enough justification to make this 
 a must-have. However, if you're a racing fan who is interested in more than just Prancing Ponies, 
 then there are more rewarding and varied experiences to be had out there on the PlayStation 3. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kiesah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  I bought this with some trepidation after reading Game Spot's reviews- makes you realize that everyone 
 has different tastes! I personally think this game is very good at what it tries to do. Make no 
 mistake, this is a true simulation and not Burnout (thank God!- that arcade rubbish quickly went 
 back to the store) . As a big fan of F1 Championship Edition, having an other simulation other than 
 F1 is excellent. I also enjoyed the on-line mode as the people I raced against seemed to be serious 
 racers and the events did not degenerate into destruction derbies (GRID comes to mind-another excellent 
 game but bad on-line mode due to immature players) . My only grip is the damage modeling i. e. almost 
 none to speak of. Damaging your car does not affect handling etc which is a shame. Everything else 
 is spot on especially the handing. And yes, GameSpot I think the progression through the game is 
 very good as well. At present I'm finishing mid-field (all assists turned off) but recently finished 
 a race in 4th place. The sense of achievement was very rewarding. Can't wait to improve and start 
 winning races. For the simulation fan-its a no brainer: get this game. The option to customise 
 your car's paint job is also extensive and a lot of fun. I look forward to more racing games from 
 this developer. All in all, apart from the Ferrari license which, I'm sure, has hindered some aspects 
 of development (damage modeling mainly) , a very good game that takes (enjoyable) time to learn. 
 Well done Eutechnyx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  This is a real difficult game to score. I have only bought it becauseit was less than half its 
 original price. But i i am really pleased i got it.
  
  Graphics- They are not very good. They are more PS2 standard than PS3. Although the cars are very 
 well done and look nice.
  
  Sound- Car engines sound good but as far as music and voices are concerned turn them off as soon 
 as you can.
  
  Physicis - Well, i don`t like the way the cars handle on bumper and third person cameras but the 
 on-board camera is in my opinion the best of any racing game, including Dirt, Grid, PGR3, PGR4, 
 F1 06 and GT5 Prologue. The physics with the on-board camera are excellent, it really makes you 
 feel that you are driving the car for real.
  
  Gameplay- It is difficult because the AI is difficult. In many races is close to impossible to 
 finish 1st no matter how good you are at racing games. Having said that i like the AI. They block 
 you and force you to think how to overtake them. I also like the fact they are not one of these 
 rubber band AIs. So if you want to finish in a good position you better concentrate and be good. 
 Car setting and customasition is very simple and basic. I prefer it this way, i hate to spend a 
 lot of time setting up cars. I am no mechanic and i don`t intend to become one. I also like the 
 fact the game offers you a lot of different and varied tracks to race in. 
  
  In my opinion, as long as you play Ferrari Challenge with the on-board camera, this is one of the 
 best racing games you can buy. It really feels like a proper sym with excellent physics and car 
 handling. You have to think all the time about breaking points, racing lines ,when to accelerate 
 or reduce speed and when to overtake. 
  
  To finish i give Ferrari Challenge 10/10 when played with the on-board camera and i give it 5/10 
 for all the other cameras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhopkins
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  I know exactly what I want to do. It's very clear in my head and it all makes perfect sense. I'm 
 a smart guy. I know how things work and I know what I need out of life to make me happy. I know 
 that I want to live in a small quiet studio apartment with a view overlooking the city. I know 
 I want to spend my free time playing a sim style racer with real cars, real handling and real tracks. 
 I know I want a girl who's smart , creative, beautiful, and smiles when she sees me. That's what 
 I want out of life. 
  
  There's a problem, though. What you want and what life gives you never quite seem to match up. 
 The more you want something, the farther away it gets. And as it gets more out of reach, the clearer 
 it seems. Its an illusion that can trap you. 
  
  Sitting in that small studio apartment, instead of airy and open, it feels empty. Its everything 
 I wanted and nothing that I need. The silence that I thought would be comforting just reminds me 
 that there's nothing here. The view makes me realize that I'd rather be outside than in this box. 
 I wanted a new home and ended up with a new place to sleep. 
  
  To entertain myself, I bought Ferrari Challenge for the PS3. It satisfies all my checkpoints for 
 a perfect racing game. Extremely detailed depictions of cars. Tracks pulled from real world locations. 
 Handling that mimics the best of Ferrari's creations. And I'm utterly disappointed. It looks great 
 but lacks flair. It drives great, but there's something missing that leaves me feeling empty after 
 finishing a race. There's no sense of accomplishment when you complete a challenge or gain a new 
 car. I got exactly what I wanted, but I want more.
  
  I look at the woman who I believed was the one that mattered, and I realize that her smile isn't 
 meant for me. I could keep on trying to trick myself into believing that maybe, one day she'll 
 see me in the same way I see her. And maybe one day she will. But not today. Not tomorrow. And 
 as the days add up, it would only be a matter of time before I wouldn't be able to see the smile 
 at all.
  
  There's the problem. You have to see what's there and what's not. You have to understand that life 
 only gives you so much. The rest you have to take from life. You can either despair over what might 
 have been or you can celebrate what is actually there. 
  
  I like my apartment. It's a lot better than the hellhole I was living in before. And from what 
 I'm told, this is a major accomplishment. It is. I'm glad I moved here. The view is great. 
  
  Ferrari Challenge isn't the greatest racer in the world, but it still manages to put a smile 
 on my face when the AI makes it hard for me to pass, or when I put a custom paint job on any of 
 the 50 different Ferraris I can acquire. Its not Forza 2, but it'll get me through the winter. 
 
  
  She'll probably never feel the same way I do. I guess I knew that from the start. But I saw her 
 smile. I heard her laugh. I made her a little bit happier, if only for a little while. And in the 
 end, that's what I want to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I played this game last night, and I thought this game was all right, but just not what I expected 
 it to be. There are several flaws in this game. I will name three. First, the AI is bad. If you 
 bump someone a little, then the AI will retaliate and hit you. When you try to pass someone, they 
 block you. Grrrrrrr.... IT"S ANNOYING! Second, the graphics can be poorly done at times. Personally 
 I liked the graphics. The graphics looked realistic, which is good, but sometimes the graphics 
 were a little bland. Sometimes on the track in the wet, it was really difficult seeing the track. 
 Some of the times, it felt as though that I had no vision, like I was driving blind. Hmmm. Third, 
 The tutor's voice gets extremely annoying. In the tutorial mode, you can practice your driving. 
 You have a tutor, and unfortunetely I forgot his name. He shows you how to drive the racing line 
 and what improvements you need to make on the track. His gets so annoying, especially when you 
 want to a lap by yourself without any help, he kicks in and talks. I wish I and probably everyone 
 would just shut him up and never have to listen to him again. Lots of Ferraris to choose from inthis 
 game. My favorite is the Ferrari Enzo. Lots of great tracks to choose from. Some of the tracks 
 from the Formula One calendar are in this game :) . Even some from Nascar :) . Overall, Ferraris 
 rule!, horrible gameplay though, annoying AI and tutor, great but sometimes bland graphics, excellent 
 tracks to choose from, and good music. I would suggest renting this game first before having any 
 second thoughts on buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFisty
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  OK, I wanted this to be a good game. Like many other people, I wanted a full fledged racer in the 
 absence of a full fledged GT5.
  
  What a disappointment this game is.
  
  To be honest, you don't have to go much further than the back of the box to see what this game 
 is lacking:
  
  "A more complete package than Gran Turismo 5 Prologue" says CVG. Well thanks for that. What, the 
 way you compared a full game to what is essentially a demo. And actually, I disagree. GT5P, albeit 
 an incomplete "game" has more on offer than FCTP. More modes, more cars, more customisation.
  
  "Over 50 Ferrari cars" says the back of the box. Well System 3 better learn to count because 
 23 cars available on the disc does not equal 50 cars. Sure, I'm guessing we'll be nickle and dimed 
 for "DLC" that will likely just unlock content already on the disc, but if the house you're selling 
 is single story, don't tell people it's double.
  
  "Real life crash damage". Hang on, they've got this all wrong. What they meant to say was "Real 
 life cosmetic damage". No, you won't drop a gear box in this game. The worst you'll do it scuff 
 up the side of your car.
  
  Yes, this game is lacking.
  
  Customisation is basic at best, offering only to modify a small handful of parts to either a "soft" 
 or "hard" setting, and that's only available for one of the 23 cars.
  
  Graphics are passable but far from GT5P's near photo-realistic sheens. Bonnet view puts a blotchy 
 mess right under your nose, while your rear view mirror has all the high definition of a PS1 title. 
 You can't tell what's going on in your mirror until it's right up behind you.
  
  Sound is good, all the usual fare. Songs, all 6 of them, grind after a while and force you to load 
 up your own custom soundtracks.
  
  But while the game does have some good challenges in it, nothing is more challenging than the bone-headed 
 AI you're constantly pitted against. Every race is a "level" playing field where you and your opponents 
 will all be driving the same car. However, for some reason, your opponents seem to benefit from 
 greater acceleration and good ol' "elastic band" physics. In the few short months since this game 
 has been released, it has had 3 software updates aimed at ironing out bugs, among them the "overly 
 aggressive nature of the AI". If they consider the new AI to be more sporting, I'd hate to think 
 what the first iteration was like. Opponents regularly slam you behind, roadblock you, or "stick" 
 to you in a peculiar thing where they grind you from the side and you are powerless to shake them 
 without hard braking.
  
  For the PS3 owner, if you're into trophies, then this will appease you on that front, but be warned, 
 some of the gold trophies and very tough.
  
  For the racing fan, I'd save your money for GT5, even if it is many moons away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaven_rider
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Neither the claimed 1080p resolution nor the good idea of a full Ferrari's collection could save 
 this very poor game.
  Of course the PS3 Dualshock 3 controller does not help (compared to the Xbox 360 controller, the 
 lack of proper ergonomy stands out very fast) , but even with the Logitech PS3 Racing Wheel this 
 game is practically unplayable.
  The graphics, despite of the announced 1080p, are very poor in quality (Forza 2 at 720p and even 
 Need For Speed Pro Street - PS3 version are much, much better) .
  The frame rate is ok, but the physics... It looks like a game made during the past century and 
 simply reformatted to be played on the PS3.
  Cars do thing they would never do in the real world, the handling is sometimes too hard, sometimes 
 simply unrealistic.
  Putting that apart (if you are a real racing games player you would never do and stop reading right 
 here) , the game itself simply isn't fun. There is nothing here to show that someone really cared 
 about the player.
  No meat, only bones and some hard ones to digest.
  If you do not believe a game recently launched can be that poor (specially considering that there 
 are very few racing games for the PS3 platform) , consider borrowing it from someone you know for 
 half an hour.
  You will be emailing me very soon thanking for the money saved.
  Even if you are a racing games fan and you happen not to own an Xbox 360, don't buy it. Do not 
 even bother giving it a try if you have more important things to do.
  It simply isn't worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baskformu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  I want to say thank you to Ferrari for this game. I quite a Ferrari fan, this game has many Ferrari 
 cars from classic to modern. I want to say thanks to the developer, publisher and Bruno Senna for 
 this game. I now have the chance to drive Ferrari Challenge 430 in the Ferrari Challenge Trofeo 
 Pirelli. The car models are quite nice, the game has trophies from update for the game. The multiplayer 
 are quite lagged. The game has Challenge Cards like cards of objectives. I want to say thank you 
 to Pirelli for sponsor the game. The game has a realistic driving physics. Sometimes the game look 
 not so good like the environment. Overall, i am happy with the game. The game features only Ferrari 
 cars. This game is not for someone who wants only Ferrari cars. The game has showroom, time trial 
 mode, rankings, arcade, challenge modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xm14452
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  But the game wont recognize the steering wheel when you start the game. So you have to start the 
 game with the hand controller and then plug the wheel in, then it works fine. so far , I only have 
 a couple days in and its great fun. I don know how far I will go in this game to see if the car 
 setup will work, but it looks like you can adjust about every thing. I cant tell you about the 
 the online part because my stupid ISP sucks so bad that I cant play online games. If you would 
 like to know the name of my ISP you'll have email me, I don't want to trash them here, but here 
 is a hint the name is similar to the guy who flew an 8 engine plane off the water. I like the man, 
 just not this part of it. I think this will be my last review as i am not much of a writer in a 
 old gamer. in fact I know it will sorry folks i don't have any thing else to say I just want to 
 let you know about the controller issue not write a fricking book. s o l o n g f o r k n o w 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Praggia
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I am about halfway through and don't think I will bother completing it. 
  What a load of rubbish. The controls are dimwitted and slow. The cars react rather sluggishly to 
 driver inputs. 
  The Ferrari F430 is a light nimble exciting road machine but in this game it responds like a canal 
 boat. 
  
  The graphics are not great either. No replay available in Time trial mode. 
  
  When watching a replay and the camera cuts to the wheels it looks like the car has sunken and 
 inch or 2 into the tarmac. 
  
  I'm sorry, I bought a PS3 expecting a glorious gaming experience not this 3rd rate rubbish. 
 
  
  Come on guys step up to the plate. 
  Don't they get it? The game has moved on. This is Next Gen so they should apply themselves accordingly. 
 
  
  I think all retailers should have a copy that they demo in store so u can try the game out first 
 before buying. 
  
  Cos it seems that most of the time we get caught.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongo2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  i'm very much enjoying this game. the car handling is excellent, it feels good - it seems like 
 a revelation after the bizarre handling model in 'Grid'. whilst it is realistic and sim-like, the 
 cars are still quite easy to control, and you can drift around corners nicely with a bit of practice 
 (and the tcs turned off) .
  
  as a fan of sim racers it is both fun and challenging, the balance is right. it is very satisfying 
 when you do a good lap. when driven well the cars flow around the circuit nicely, it has a friendlier 
 feel than gran turismo which can just seem plain awquard at times. the collisions also work much 
 better than gt5 - a small bump will not send cars bouncing everywhere like rubber balls.
  the engine and tyre noises are also great and add to the experience.
  
  the graphics are a 
 bit poor in some areas, for example the car interiors are very plain, but on the whole the game 
 looks excellent. the rain effect is particuarly excellent and realistic. the tracks look very good 
 at 100mph!
  
  i actually found the AI to be quite impressive, they will move over to cover the racing line if 
 you are challenging, and will go for the inside of a corner if you 'leave the door open' they can 
 be quite aggresive, so you need to be able to hold the racing line. they will also be aggressive 
 and fight amongst themselves, more so than in Grid. it is certainly much better than GT5P where 
 the cars are pre-programmed and have no AI at all.
  
  the criticisms in the gamespot review are valid, but i don't think they detract from the game as 
 much as they would suggest.
  the main problem i have had is getting to online sessions, the connection seems very unstable, 
 much in the same way as GTA IV was when it first released.
  there are only twenty or so cars in the game, but there are fifteen tracks, all of which are excellent 
 real world circuits (no forza-type padding here) there is a great variety in the cars, from classics 
 with crazy tail happy handling to the swift and stable 360gt, and the amazing fxx. they are all 
 great fun to drive, and each one is a different challenge, as they each have a unique handling 
 character, unlike many other racing games.
  
  despite it's limitations, for me this is the most enjoyable and rewarding racer on the PS3 at the 
 moment.
  i would definitely recommend it if you like sim racers and have been disappointed with Grid and 
 GT5P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandal13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to write a long review for this game but I am going to give my honest opinion since 
 I feel soo strongly that it is being underrated by many of the big videogame review websites. No, 
 Ferrari Challenge: Trofeo Pirelli isn't on par graphically with the likes of GT5 but that's not 
 to say that it looks last gen by any means. I would easily compare it's visuals with the likes 
 of FORZA. I loved FORZA, not because of the graphics, (which at the time of it's release were Great) , but 
 because it was a great racing game and a decent racing sim. That's exactly why I enjoy playing 
 Ferrari Challenge! The gameplay is challenging and rewarding and I think that the track selection 
 is one of the best in any racing game to date. Simulation-wise it's not as hardcore as GTR but 
 still offers great handling characteristics and tuneability. I'm not a huge Ferrari fan, nor am 
 I a huge videogame review megasite, but I am an avid racing videogame fan and I would hate anyone 
 that is, to miss this game. At least rent it to make your own opinion and if you like it alot purchase 
 it. It may not be the best racing game ever but if the company makes enough money to put up another 
 sequel it could be on par with any other top tier racer! Hope this helps any curious race fans 
 with their choice as whether or not to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooby1970
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  I love my racing games, and there's nothing better than a game that comes along that really blows 
 your socks off. Ferrari Challenge certainly filled my desire for a sim-racer on the PS3. It's almost 
 a remake of the classic Ferrari F355 challenge on the Dreamcast, but done with much more style 
 and substance.
  
  First off, this game is not easy! It's not your average arcade racer that you can throw all over 
 the place, and it's not a game you can just pick up and win races with. No! From the start you'll 
 realise that you have to learn how to drive, how to break, when to use hand-break and how to straighten 
 up to take the bends. This game is a car-sim-racers dream, that is undoubtably the greatest car 
 game ever made.
  
  Once you learn how to drive (the tutorial is a must!) then the game take's place over various stages 
 on 16 different world class tracks. It's broken up into different theatres, and when you eventually 
 are good enough to place top 3, you start to unlock various tracks that were only playable in challenge 
 mode and various cars and top-trump-style-gaming-cards. It's all great fun, and the tension when 
 driving through the packs is amazing.
  
  The car AI is the best I have ever seen in a game. It actually feels like there are humans driving 
 the computer cars. They will sense which parts of the tracks you normally use to overtake, and 
 try and stop you. They really do learn how you drive, so it makes the game unbelievably nerve-racing 
 when you're trying to overtake cars.
  
  Graphically, the game is top notch, with probably the best rain effects ever seen in a game. Sonically 
 the game delivers too. Everything about the game is a winner.
  
  One warning though, if you're just an arcade-racing kinda guy, then this game may feel a little 
 hard to you, and you WILL have to put in time to learn the tracks and how to drive the car.
  
  It's fun, its more than challenging, it's a winner in every way!
  
  :) Mark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipenet7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  First I had to edit this review in response to Gamespot's review...
  
  
  First of first can anyone see the score "real racers" are giving to this game? Not some 360 fanboy 
 (i. e. Gamespot) sorry guys!!!
  
  Not just a decent but definitely the best racing game available for the ps3. The handling system 
 and physics, tracks being so perfect with pumps is incredible too. the car pumps up and down depending 
 which track you are. The sense of speed great too. 
  
  Some things still needed to be improved in the next patch but great game! The rain effects are 
 astonishing but what makes this game so good is that you need to be good to drive it. Collision 
 is very real too! It's not like Grid "touch me and fly"! 
  
  You can compete into curves side by side touching each other but still being alive! I really love 
 driving the Ferrari 430 it's such a nervous car! This makes GT5p more like an arcade game compared 
 to FC! 
  
  a Must buy for racing enthusiastic but a Don't touch me for pick and play boys! All said manual 
 gears make me feel as a real life driver! If you can drive this you can drive the real thing for 
 sure!
  
  P. S Saying this is easier to drive than GT5P is just a crap of a joke!!! And giving soo much emphasis 
 (rating the game according) to Graphics is not something a real racing gamer would be doing!
  
  Given the score for PS3 exclusives that Gamespot gives like another PS3 exclusive GT5P got, 
 this PS3 exclusive review falls in the same line! Remember Grid got score 8.0 in here while GT5p 
 7.5 (so the score makes Grid better game than GT5P Gamespot?) !
  
  
  OK HERE WE GO
  I too have a copy and after spending around an hour with it here are my thoughts.
  
  Presentation
 
  The menu system is easy to navigate and looks reasonably polished, the options do take a short 
 while to appear (in reality less then a second) , it is noticeable, personally I don't find it an 
 issue. Its not as 'next-gen' a menu screen as the likes of GT5: P and Grid, but its far better than 
 the un-holy mess that was Enthusia. Certainly not work marking it down for.
  
  A good range of options exist within the game itself, including a nice progression system that 
 rewards certain activities with 'collectors cards', basically top trumps for Ferrari, one that 
 I hope will get patched for the Trophy system. A mini game to play top trumps with them also exists 
 within the game itself - one my 8 year old will love.
  
  
  Sounds
  The music varies a lot, most of it horrible, switching it off was one of the first things I did.
 
  
  In-car sounds are good, with a nice shriek from the engine, a whine from the race transmission, 
 over-run pops as you change down and a good thump as you shift as well.
  
  The rest of the sounds are a bit of a mixed bag, some like the noise from rumble strips is done 
 very well, others like the metal on metal sounds as you make contact as a bit weak.
  
  General sound placement through 5.1 is very, very good, the one exception is when you use the rear 
 view, as despite now looking right at the engine is eerily quiet.
  
  Ignore the music and overall its very good.
  
  
  Visuals
  Let me get this straight from 
 the outset, I was not expecting a GT5: P challenger here, but I have to say it doesn't look shabby 
 at all. The basic colour palette is a bit bright are garish, but with brightness, contrast and 
 gamma adjustments available it can be toned down.
  
  Cars first then, the overall poly count is clearly down on GT5: P, but for the one car I drove it 
 looked good both inside and out, both details and proportions of the cars look right.
  
  Tracks next and I have to say this is the area that stands out, the track I spent the most time 
 with was Monza and track detail is both accurate and good looking, road textures are well done 
 as is the track furniture. Lighting is good and varies well over the track length, I have yet to 
 try the rain effects, but from this starting point they should be good.
  
  Overall the game appears to run at the claimed fixed 30fps and what is being output to my TV is 
 1080P, without a pixel count (which I'm not doing) I can't be 100% sure its not upscalled. However 
 I quite frankly don't care, it looks more than good enough.
  
  Replays look good as well, with the dynamic camera angles doing a far better job than the likes 
 of FM2, but why can't they be saved?
  
  
  Gameplay
  OK now I have only had a short time with the game itself, but it looks like quite a range of modes, 
 events, tracks and cars are available. The main core of it based around the three Challenge events 
 themselves (Italy, Europe and America) , and the event structure is exactly as it should be, with 
 a qualifying session followed by two timed races. The races themselves are flagged and penalties 
 do apply, at present these seem to be fairly done as well.
  
  Set-up options are limited, but that is only to be expected, anyone who knows the series will be 
 more than aware that the real events offer only limited set-up choices.
  
  In all honesty more than enough content seems to be on offer here.
  
  
  Handling
  The big 
 one.........
  
  and its good. First out, my biggest fear that it was using a fixed rotation point is out of the 
 window. With all the aids on you have an easy to drive racer with a strong arcade bias.
  
  However switch the aids to a lower level (or off) and things start to look more promising. While 
 I'm not yet (time will tell) ready to call it a sim, the handling model is surprisingly in-depth 
 and detailed. Load transfer and how smoothly its done are more than present and correct, in fact 
 smoothness can make the difference between making an apex and understeering into the gravel.
  
  Yes that's right, UNDERSTEER, its nice to see a game that remembers such a thing exists, brake 
 to late into a corner (particularly with ABS off or low) or turn in to hard or both and you will 
 be greeted with understeer.
  
  However the opposite is also true, get back on the power in anything other than a straight line 
 with the aids low or off and the back will step out on you. Its progressive and easy to catch if 
 you are smooth, but get the load shifting too quickly at speed and you can end up fish-tailing 
 down the track and into the tyre wall.
  
  Which leads me to damage, to be honest from what I have come across so far its pointless, minor 
 cosmetic stuff is all you get, it certainly doesn't affect the outcome of a race.
  
  I've not yet had a chance to try the on-line side of things, as PSN has been down for most of today 
 (the one time it was on I was playing Buzz - but that is another thread) .
  
  
  The Final Score
  So what would I give it and would I recommend it.
  
  Well first off this 
 is based on a limited time playing it (and please note I have not yet had a chance to play it with 
 a wheel) , but I have to say, yes I would recommend it. While not perfect, the core of the handling 
 model does appear solid and a lot exists to do in here (if and its a bit if, you like Ferrari) , 
 some of the sounds are a bit off and the crash damage is pointless, but for me its certainly not 
 enough to ruin it.
  
  Very glad to have P/X's GRiD for it.
  
  9/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
