-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/fifasoccer09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic gameplay with plenty of depth.
 Be a Pro online mode is great fun.
 Huge number of solo and multiplayer game modes.
 Unparalleled presentation and attention to detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 AI is a bit too good at getting the ball.
 Expensive Adidas Live Season updates.
 Frequently laggy online play.
 Some dodgy AI goalkeeping.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,161 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 13, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 09 plays better than ever before, and a wealth of new modes and features add plenty of longevity. 
 

  UK REVIEW -- It has been a busy 12 months for EA Sports and football games. FIFA 08 was a genuine 
 revolution for the series, with a more realistic pace and improved AI adding some much-needed depth 
 to the gameplay. UEFA Euro 2008 came six months later, further refining this groundwork while expanding 
 the features list with more unique game modes. With FIFA 09 -- the third EA Sports football game 
 in a bit more than a year -- the developers have honed the core gameplay even further and added even 
 more features, game modes, and online elements to the mix. It amounts to an incredibly deep and 
 varied package, and despite a few niggling bugs and performance issues, FIFA 09 is the pinnacle 
 of the series so far.  

           With football this good, you'll want to take videos and upload them online for friends 
 to see.      

  Given the six-month period of time between Euro 2008 and FIFA 09, it's no surprise that the two 
 games play similarly. However, the pace has quickened slightly, passes need to be directed with 
 even greater accuracy, and the referees seem even more eager to dish out cards. The most noticeable 
 improvement is in the physical quality of the players. Attackers point to where they want the ball, 
 defenders direct offside violations to the linesmen, and everyone has lost that plastic look from 
 FIFA 08 that was so off-putting. Although you can still spot individual animation routines during 
 replays, the players now feel as if they're interacting with one another and the ball. As a result, 
 player weight and speed are now a vital part of overall tactics, and combining runs with perfectly 
 timed passes has become the only way to succeed.  

  With opponent AI that absolutely  will not stop  until it gets the ball from you, FIFA 09 is now 
 firmly rooted in simulation territory. Experienced players can still use the left-trigger-enabled 
 trick system to run around players, but unless you're passing the ball around effectively, you 
 have little hope of keeping possession. The result is a game that's heavy on midfield battles -- even 
 the commentators remark on how often possession moves between teams. The AI is particularly good 
 even on the easier settings, not only moving in to take the ball off you, but springing offside 
 traps and adapting their tactics throughout each match. This punishing difficulty forces you to 
 up your game, and you soon start to develop a rhythm and accuracy that can cut through defenses 
 to score some spectacular goals. Only the odd AI mistake from your own team conspires against you, 
 with goalkeepers running to punch a ball that's flying well wide of the goal or the computer selecting 
 the wrong defender for you when the other team is on a break.  

  Adding to the deep and rewarding gameplay is a wealth of new and existing game modes. The new cover 
 feature is Be a Pro: Seasons, which expands last year's BAP mode to cover a full four seasons. 
 In Be a Pro, you control a single real-world player or a custom character instead of an entire 
 team and then craft the career of that player for both club and country over four years. You still 
 have to focus on winning games, but each match carries additional criteria, such as making a certain 
 number of passes, tackles, or goals, which add to your overall experience points. If you're a fan 
 of a certain player, it's great to step into his boots, but Be a Pro is most addictive when you 
 spend time customising your own footballer and putting your name on the back of a shirt. With tactical 
 changes and substitutions happening automatically, the emphasis is on your being the player, and 
 your ultimate aim across the four-year career is to stay in the A-squad and earn the captaincy 
 of your national team. If you get bored of playing as just one player or want to mix things up 
 a bit, then you can opt to control the entire team, and friends can jump in and out as other players 
 if you want support. Be a Pro is worth checking out if you want to see the game in a different 
 light, but even in attacking positions, you'll spend a lot of time waiting for some action.  

 
  Be a Pro really comes into its own when played online. Up to 20 people can join in a single game, 
 and the same passing/tackling/position/goal reward system means you're encouraged to play as part 
 of a team. Be a Pro online is technically well implemented too, with a diplomatic lobby system 
 that lets people jump in and select the position they want to play; the first people to ready up 
 are awarded the captaincy and thus can control the tactics and options for the entire team. The 
 lag is less of a problem on the PS3 than it is on the Xbox 360, but it's still prone to some slowdown 
 on occasion. The number of shouting voices can sometimes make it difficult to communicate, but 
 on the whole it's well implemented and is a huge amount of fun to play.  

           You get only one free league with the new Adidas Live Season feature, but additional leagues 
 can be purchased.      

  New online features aren't limited to 10-vs-10 in FIFA 09. The game also incorporates the Adidas 
 Live Season -- similar to a feature in this year's NBA Live -- whereby real-world stats updates are 
 sent to your console on a weekly basis. The game comes bundled with an access code for one free 
 English, German, Spanish, French, Mexican, or Italian premier league, whereas additional leagues 
 can be purchased either individually or as a set. The stats updates change the ratings of players 
 in the game, so if someone is doing well in real life, he'll become better in the game. However, 
 it also works the other way round, and injuries lower the stats considerably for the period of 
 time that the player's not playing in real life. It's an expensive feature if you want updates 
 to all of the leagues, and it expires in May 2009, but if you're a fan, it definitely adds a bit 
 of drama to your FIFA season.  

  The final major addition to the game is the new custom-tactics feature, which lets you get in-depth 
 with the behaviour of individual teams. You can adjust 11 different factors for each team, including 
 positioning and aggressiveness, and then map your tactics to the D pad to activate during a game. 
 What's more, you can upload these tactics to your online FIFA 09 Locker, which lets other people 
 download and rate what you've come up with. There are 28 slots in total, and you can download other 
 users' data and save it to your storage device. That said, the standard configurations that EA 
 has programmed already mirror the playing style of most major teams; Arsenal have a characteristically 
 offensive style, whereas Manchester United tend to push up from the midfield.  

  Although FIFA 09 offers a lot of new features, the game is still full of existing content from 
 previous games. There are lots of offline game types, such as the Manager mode, which concerns 
 you with transfers and training, and the Lounge mode, which lets you and your friends mess around 
 to create scenarios and challenges. Then there are the online modes, which are comprehensive to 
 say the least. The Interactive League lets you represent your favourite club online against supporters 
 of other teams, with overall rankings tracking each team's progress around the world. There's also 
 a new FIFA 09 Clubs mode where you create your own team and try to recruit your friends to play 
 alongside you. In addition to the standard ranked and unranked games, you can join lobbies to chat 
 with other people before taking games at your leisure, or you can create custom leagues for up 
 to 31 other players to play against. The only sore point is the slowdown that permeates some games, 
 especially since quitting out of a particularly laggy match results in your conceding it.  

           EA's official licenses and attention to detail result in there being a wealth of authentic 
 branding around the game.      

  EA Sports rarely disappoints when it comes to presentation, and FIFA 09 reflects the usual attention 
 to detail. The soundtrack is as large as it is varied, with 42 songs from well-known artists, such 
 as Black Kids, CSS, and Damien Marley. There's also an option to stream podcasts from EA, TalkSport, 
 and ESPN, among others, directly to your console. The commentary is once again provided by Andy 
 Gray and Martin Tyler, who provide great camaraderie with comments such as "That's a great example 
 of what you used to do as a player." Although they occasionally repeat themselves or say the wrong 
 line, there are lots of team- and player-specific sound bites that are delivered in an enthusiastic 
 and authoritative manner. The ESPN news integration is also back, delivering live ticker feeds 
 on your favourite teams and leagues, and even other sports, such as F1 and NBA. Then there's the 
 link to EA Sports Football World, which lets you send videos and photos from the game to share 
 with friends online. Uploading videos is a long process because they're converted to Flash in-game, 
 and www. eafootballworld. com is confusing to navigate and link to your EA and Xbox profiles. However, 
 the number of features here means that you keep discovering new things the more you play and delve 
 into the menus.  

  With FIFA 09, EA Sports has created the deepest, most realistic and feature-packed football game 
 yet. The gameplay hasn't changed a lot since UEFA Euro 2008, but the tweaks and refinements have 
 produced an incredibly rewarding game. There's an almost bewildering number of modes to play through, 
 and the amount of online functionality means that the game should have a good deal of longevity. 
 There's still room for improvement, considering the high amount of lag in certain online matches 
 and some AI blunders in single-player, but if you're a football fan looking for something to last 
 you the entire season, you can't go wrong with FIFA 09.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gta_gamer10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The question was asked out, like it is every year, if Pro Evolution Soccer or Fifa is the best 
 series of football games. This year it was Fifa 09 which triumphed as EA tweaked gameplay and made 
 a great improvement.
  
  Fifa 08 was a poor game with bad gameplay and not brilliant graphics and did not compare to Pro 
 Evolution Soccer 2008. However EA have taken in the reception from the game and have massively 
 improved the game and have triumphed over Pro Evolution Soccer 2009. 
  
  One of the many brilliant changes to Fifa 09 was the graphics. Fifa 08, being the first Fifa game 
 on the Playstation 3, did not have the qualities that most people had expected and they had made 
 it worse than the previous installments on the Playstation 2. However, the graphics have been majorly 
 improved and the gameplay feels and looks alot more realistic and makes the game that much more 
 better.
  
  Again the manager mode is good and calls for an excellent football season. The matches are realistic 
 to real life, with the calender having games played on specific dates and different settings, such 
 as day and night depending on the day of the week the match is played on. The transfer system is 
 also good.
  
  New editions such as adidas live season, which keeps up to date form and stats about every player, 
 and ultimate team, which lets you start from scratch and gain different valued cards, which represent 
 players, to help build and gain the best team possible. Online is also a good point of the game.
 
  
  However some of the bad points in the game is the turning mechanism in matches. Th players are 
 unable to turn properly and this calls for some frustrating moments. Also during the manager mode 
 season some of the simulated matches provide alot of unrealistic scores.
  
  Good Points: Improved gameplay, better graphics, great new editions, good online, impressive manager 
 mode and tournaments.
  
  Bad Points: Poor turning of players capability, simulated matches provide alot of unrealistic results. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __MARK__
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Back on the ps1 and ps2 I was a huge PES fan. EA Sports have really made good progress since the 
 move to the 360/PS3. With Fifa 09 the game play is much improved, the game is more responsive than 
 08 and much better to play. The graphics are of a good standard and fifa, as always, gets all the 
 licenses to make this game feel as realistic as possible. The commentary, graphics and licenses 
 are some aspects in which fifa has always had the edge over PES. Now the game play has improved 
 and rather than one game having better game play than the other, it's a matter of personal preference. 
 
  
  Manager Mode is really good and I like the fact you can start in lower leagues such as The Championship 
 and work your way up. I found Manager Mode quite gripping and fun to play. Playing as one player 
 (be a pro) never really interested me, it's good but I prefer to play as the whole team. Online 
 play again is very good and I rarely experienced any lag, the only downside is finding a match 
 which can be difficult  I recommend using the lobbies rather than quick match. Another downside 
 is when people quit, but at least there is a quit percentage so you can avoid these players.
  
  So the overall positives  the game play is without doubt the best Fifa has ever been, the 
 graphics are good, the game is full of licensed teams and everything about the game is authentic 
 and realistic. There is lag free online play and a very good manager mode. For me the main gripe 
 is that it becomes a little too easy, I don't claim to be the best fifa player. At first I found 
 the game challenging but after a while I regularly won 5-0 or 6-0 on legendary and I even got into 
 double figures on one occasion. I would prefer it as difficult as possible without being scripted, 
 although it was challenging at first so maybe I just became good at the game.
  
  The best fifa yet  alot of PES fans have clearly been converted. It kept me occupied a long time 
 but eventually became too easy. I have now sold it on in order to try out PES 2009. As good as 
 fifa is there is still something that interests me about the game play in PES, but I will have 
 a better opinion on that after playing it a few months. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  Before buying this game I played EURO 08. Not much difference. If you have EURO 08 or FIFA 08, 
 don't buy this game. I am getting the feeling that all EA dose is add a few tiny things and then 
 sell it for $60.
  
  First of all: singleplayer. To play the FIFA : Pro Seasons for one player dose take quiet a while. 
 You can create your own player or play for an exisiting one. Not enough teams you can play for 
 though. You start out at a minor leauge and progress with objectives as you switch your experience 
 in different areas and gaine experience points. After that, you progress to the national team. 
 
  
  Second of all: multiplayer. This is mostly the reason why I bought this game. If you don't have 
 friends or family to play this game with in multiplayer, don't buy this game. Single player gets 
 boring after a while as you keep hammering in goals. In multiplayer you get to choose your team, 
 play for it, change the teams tactics, etc. Very fun and inovative.
  
  Third of all: sound. Pretty good soundrack in back ground. Soundtrack dosn't play when your in 
 a game though. When you are playing a game you hear the roar of the stadium and the voice of the 
 commentators. As if you were watching a real game on TV.
  
  Fourth of all: graphics. Superb graphics ( as in any Playstation 3 game ) . If you are looking for 
 grwat graphical imrovments from last years games, forget about it. Same graphics as in EURO or 
 FIFA 08. 
  
  Overall, a great game. Just not that much difference from the old games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  If there were only one thing that should be mentioned about the new FIFA Soccer it would be the 
 control that the player has. The customization level is wonderful and you see from the first time 
 you play. There are detailed options for Be A Pro creating and easy control setup like changing 
 even the leaning of the camera and detailed and advanced new tactics for the team system. At first 
 it seems very complicated but it doesn't let you disagree with something you don't like because 
 you can simply change it. The game is ready to let you do everything you like so as to enjoy it.
 
  
  FIFA 09 gives wonderful atmosphere. It has an individual live feeling. It is like real footbal. 
 The players can easily lose control of the ball, the move around continously and ask for the ball. 
 Another add is that all the passes have a power bar and not only the lobs. Some passes need a second 
 more but it make the player feel that he is iside the game. Although in this way the game needs 
 to be played carefully. But with a little train you will make passes that you will never dream.
 
  
  Besides the game's realism is revolutionary and unexpected. Sometimes the ball rolls a little further 
 than the player and this makes him run to take it. In other football games when you get close to 
 the goal everything is always similar and the goals are the same. On the contrary in FIFA 09 you 
 act different due to the players .
  
  In the game the players' response is very quick and that helps a lot. Moreover the ball's movement 
 is more normal and very satisfying. The other team act very good. If you keep the ball back the 
 forwards are going to press but if you run torwards the goal then the team will came back won't 
 let pass or possess the ball easily. The football balance between the players' roles maintain.
 
  
  The improvements in gameplay don't stop here. The dribles are now much better executed and the 
 result isn't your player to lose the ball. Furthermore there have been changes in the team management. 
 It is simple but does a lot in the teams play. You can adjust the speed of the game in offense 
 and defense or the pressure and the team's form. 
  
  Probably the best thing in FIFA is the Be a Pro match. You create your own player or choose someone 
 from a team and start his carrer. In the matches he is the only player you control and it's real 
 fun. The only bad is that the carrer is only four seasons but I think they are enough.
  
  The FIFA online is just amazing. The best mode there is the matches that are played from 20 players (evryone 
 has his own player, except from goalkeepers that are controled by the console) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  I started playing FIFA games in 1999, with FIFA 99. It was one of my first favorite video games. I 
 enjoyed FIFA in the last decade, every year, with every new game, I stood proud near the FIFA series 
 under the assaults of Pro Evolution Soccer. Ten years after the magnificent FIFA 99, FIFA 09 has 
 come along, to make all football fans or fanatics happy.
  In the last couple of years EA hasn't improved much their FIFA games. All the games in the FIFA 
 series from 2006 to 2009 on the PC are identical. I was always a PC gamer and played all my FIFA 
 games on the PC. FIFA 06 was very good, bringing many improvements over it's predecessors, then FIFA 
 07 was the same thing, identical. FIFA 08 just like FIFA 06, the same 2 year old rubbish. FIFA 09 on 
 the PC does bring small new features but it's not even close to the console version.
  FIFA 08 on the PC was rubbish, but the consoles got a great game, one of the best FIFA games in recent 
 memory. It had good and solid game-play, nice graphics and the best online play for a football video 
 game.
  FIFA 09 has everything that FIFA 08 had before it, and a lot more. It still plays well. It's the most 
 realistic football simulator money can buy.
  The PS3 and XBOX360 version of the game are almost identical. The game has the same menu the last 
 game had. It was a difficult thing for me to get used to the consoles version of the game, and the 
 menu was one of the toughest things to get used to. I still think the PC version has a better menu, more 
 user friendly and it's easier to use. Maybe it's just because I'm used to the PC version, but anyway 
 the menu is the same, and I don't like it. The Arena is still here, you can now change your Arena 
 player. For those of you who don't know what the arena is, it's sort of a training mode, where you 
 control only one player and get used to the controls. It's nothing spectacular anymore, it was last 
 year when I first saw it, but now it's not that new anymore. A new addition however is the fact that 
 before you enter a match, you play in the arena, while the game is loading, after the game has loaded, the 
 arena converts into the stadium you are about to play the game in. You'll just have to press start 
 to begin the game, but controlling only one player, on a full stadium is really cool. This is one 
 of the most interesting small things in the improvements list featured in the game.
  The game plays almost the same, but with small improvements over FIFA 08. It's more fluid, the players 
 move more realistic than ever before. It almost seems sometimes that players interact with each 
 other. Sometimes they will point you where to pass the ball. Even if this does always look the same, it 
 always looks good. Also if a thick player tries to stop an other big player, he'll be more likely 
 to stop him than a thin one. That's because, EA says, the players now interact with each other, and 
 their weights and heights are being considered at impact. This sound cool, but I wasn't sure this 
 works, until I saw it with my own eyes. I may have miss-seen but apparently, a small player like Messy 
 will easily be stopped by a tall and stocky player like Staam. I did see this and I thought this 
 may be a sign that EA isn't lying, but I'm not sure.
  There so many game modes, that it will be difficult for me to even remember them, but I'll try.
 
  So there is, Be a Pro-which just as last year, lets you play as a single player in any team you 
 wish. You will gather experience points for completing objectives like scoring a certain number 
 of goals, having a certain number of passes and stuff like this. These experience points will add 
 to your fame, your ultimate goal being to become the captain of both your club team and national 
 team and becoming a legend. The main difference this year is that you can play for four seasons, and 
 also switch clubs. So, yet again, FIFA 09 has the same things as 08, but a lot better.
  Another game mode is the Manager Mode in which you'll take over a club team and make your way to 
 become a great manager. It's the same deal since FIFA 2004, spawning 15 years of career. It hasn't 
 got many additions but it's probably my favorite game mode.
  Lounge Mode is also pretty interesting as it will let you and up to 19 other friends to compete 
 for ultimate bragging in offline multiplayer challanges. Basically, you'll make some scenarios for 
 how the games will be played, like starting in the last ten minutes of the match,3 goals down, and 
 win by two goals. Stuff like that. It's a good mode, and offers pretty high pleasures and thrills.
 
  The Kick-Off Mode is the same thing since 1994 so nothing new to talk about. You pick two teams, and 
 head into a friendly match.
  The best part of the game though, is the online play. There are so many online game modes, that you'll 
 just be amazed after playing one for a while and than discovering a new one, which is as good as 
 the first one, maybe even better.
  The best mode however is the Be a Pro Mode, in which up to 20 players can build up two teams and 
 play against each other in unranked matches.
  Another great online feature is the Adidas Live Season, which let's you stay in touch with the improvements 
 of players during the football season. These updates aren't however free of charge, the cost is around 
 five dollars per league and there are 6 leagues in which you can use this feature. You will have 
 to download updates for teams every week to stay in touch with player transfers and form changes. This 
 feature is basically just for the hardcore fans, but for those eager to have an even more realistic 
 experience, this feature is well implemented and works well. You can however use Adidas Live Season 
 updates just in the Kick-Off Mode, Quick Ranked Online matches and Interactive League matches.
 
  FIFA 09 Clubs is another interesting online mode. You can set up your very own FIFA 09 club and 
 play matches against other teams. You team is based on a real team, and you can scout for other players 
 and make them come in your team. This is a great addition, just like the clan modes in shooter games.
 
  FIFA Interactive World Cup is a mode that let's you play in online matches, to gain experience 
 points and ultimately become the best FIFA player in the world, it is quite difficult, as most of 
 the players using this mode are usually very skilled. I played four games, lost three and won only 
 one. You will have to play many games and qualify for official EA FIFA tournaments and become the 
 best player in the world. It sounds great and it really is.
  A new feature in this years FIFA is the Custom Tactics in Team Management. You can customize the 
 defensive and attacking play of any team in the game. It works well and you can see differences 
 in how the team plays by making them go all in offense or by making them play the offside trap. This 
 new feature has a little of EA's FIFA MANAGER in it, and it works well.
  Another important thing in the FIFA games has always been the soundtrack and this year, the game 
 has a good soundtrack, but worst than its predecessor. FIFA started having good soundtracks in 2004, then 
 in 2005 they had a very good soundtrack.2006 saw probably one of the best soundtracks I have ever 
 heard in a game,2007 being just as good as 2005 and 08 being well, fair.09 is also, fair, but it hasn't 
 got any good songs that you'll remember the game by. I remember 2004 for Paul Okenfold's song, or 
 whatever his name was, then 2005 for the crazy japanese song and the Franz Ferdinand song,06 had 
 Ceasars with Jerk it Out, which probably is the best FIFA song to date. FIFA 09 hasn't got any great 
 songs, and it's a pitty because FIFA used to have a great soundtrack.
  The commentators are the same since 2006, but they do seem to have more speeches up their sleeves, they 
 know more names and also know more about rivalries between teams and things like that. The game 
 features commentary in more languages than just English. English is the foreign language I speak 
 best, but I use French because it feels more live than in English, and besides that, French sounds 
 splendid.
  I haven't found many problems in the game. Probably because I only saw the good things, the game-play 
 is very addictive, and it will just suck you in. The graphics are good, and the online play as good 
 as it can be. All in all, the game is very good, and if you're even a small football fan, you have 
 to get this game. It seems like EA has won me again with this great game. So after the great FIFA 
 08 after which I thought EA couldn't do any better, they just did with FIFA 09, wonder what they'll 
 do next year...
  
  My Score 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeller --
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:40 am PT
Review:  Has the latest FIFA game in the highly rated series finally become the game we so want it to be?
 
  
  I think so! EA have boasted 250 improvements to the already electric and enjoyable gameplay, whether 
 one lucky gamer spots them all, FIFA 09 has an improved overall feeling to the atmosphere and the 
 action.
  Passing is perhaps the most notable refinement. It's now the power of each pass, not just its direction, 
 which determines which player receives the ball. The direction of the ball when you make a pass 
 has also been improved such as through balls which when timed to perfection can be deadly.
  The defence such as goalkeeper AI have been improved so that keepers are no longer prone to howlers 
 or back page headlines for the wrong reasons, the keepers are now faster at recovering after blocking 
 a shot. 
  
  Game modes such as online play, Be a Pro and Manager Mode have been revamped [and to great success] . 
 FIFA 09's Be a Pro gameplay allows you to play one player for four league seasons let alone exibition 
 matches. This allows you to choose a footballer and if you enhance skills and perform well in matches, 
 you could grow from a League Cup regular to a World Cup winning captain. It's the chance for the 
 younger generation or older to play their club heroes in a very appealing mode that will feel like 
 a separate game.
  Manager Mode is still a regular this year, which tasks you with taking a team of your choice through 
 several seasons, handling transfers, contracts and facility upgrades along the way. Little has 
 changed since last year; transfer fees remain inaccurate to real life fees and whilst there are 
 still minor tweaks, Manager Mode offers satisfying gameplay.
  
  FIFA 09 to avid football gamers such as myself feels like a game that's been around for longer, 
 EA have made vast development over that past couple of seasons and it is finally exposed to great 
 effect in this fully enjoyable game which will have you occupied until the next one.
  
  What are we waiting for? LETS FIFA 09!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  My brother and I have been talking about this all new FIFA game for the past couple of days now, 
 and he believes that this iteration features the least amount of changes over past ones, or rather 
 that it doesn't feel any different. There is some truth to that, but it doesn't make FIFA 09 a 
 bad game. It actually makes it a solid game. I knew that for '09 EA had revamped the collision 
 detection physics and added a horde of new animations to create a smoother playing experience. 
 But after that conversation, I set out to look for additional changes... more specifically my gripes 
 with FIFA 08. First, we'll start with my biggest gripe from FIFA 08, the passing. Passing in last 
 year's game felt very sloppy at times, and you had to either turn on the passing assists or be 
 more than extremely accurate with your targeted direction. People found this extremely aggravating, 
 as did I, because even playing with the assist enabled still didn't cure this. Fortunately, for 
 FIFA '09 the passing how been fixed. It's funny too, because during my first few games, I didn't 
 even realize how intuitive the passing was, largely because I wasn't complaining about it. 
  
  So no more frustrating robbed passes, your ball will now go precisely to the player you're 
 targeting. Furthermore, what's great about the passing is that not only can you pass without worrying 
 about the ball rolling elsewhere, the A. I. now calls for passes during intense moments. If you're 
 in possession and have a group of players surrounding you, pay attention to your nearest teammate 
 as he may be signaling for a through pass. If you're driving down the field and approaching the 
 goal, but you've got a swarm of defenders nearby, again pay attention, because a teammate is most 
 likely flagging you for a pass. It's little things like that that make FIFA 09 the more refined 
 and enjoyable experience over its predecessor. 
  
  Additionally, thanks to the all new collision detection system, tackling and getting a hold of 
 possession has also become less frustrating. Where as in the past stealing while running alongside 
 a player was impossible, that's been changed for FIFA 09, again, thanks to its new collision physics. 
 Running into a player can also net a loose ball, so you won't always have to attempt a tackle; 
 if a bump is hard enough, it can knock the ball loose allowing for a turnover attempt. As a result 
 of these collision physics, FIFA 09 plays smoother too, and certainly less frustrating than past 
 games. Returning for 2009 is one of EA Sports' staples, a mode featured in nearly all of their 
 games, Be A Pro. By now, any EA Sports fan should be well aware of what this mode is all about, 
 basically you're put into the shoes of a created athlete whose actions you have full control over. 
 You take him through a career and during the entire mode you control him and only him. Now, understand 
 that you have to be a proper footie fan in order to appreciate this mode in FIFA, because unlike, 
 say... a basketball game, you won't always have the chance to be in control of the ball. Regardless, 
 giving us the choice of enjoying the mode is still a positive no matter how you look at it. For 
 FIFA 09, you can now enjoy Be A Pro through a season mode, or in a Be A Pro online match with 20 
 players. 
  
  Which leads me to the other big trait for FIFA 09, its online gameplay. Last year's game was limited 
 to for people online, each controlling a majority of one team. This year, that total has skyrocketed 
 to 20 players simultaneously! And as you've guessed by now, that means each player can control 
 an athlete online, allowing for proper 10-on-10 matches. These 20 player matches create an all 
 new strategic aspect of FIFA that the series has never seen before, as you'll now have to communicate 
 with nine other teammates and play like an actual team. 
  
  Even though not everyone will consider this an important aspect, I still feel the need to mention 
 it. For FIFA 09, EA has given us the ability to remap the controls to our own liking, changing 
 everything we see fit. It may not be a big deal to some, but I typically have a preferred scheme 
 I like to use. Aside from the mentioned changes, much of what made FIFA 08 a solid title has been 
 carried over to make FIFA 09 an even better game. You still have a plethora of game modes to go 
 through, so on top of Be-A-Pro and the 20 player online matches, there's quite a lot to keep you 
 busy. 
  
  Visually, the game looks more or less about the same with a few changes here and there. The camera 
 no longer stutters when it pans around the stadium, which I found annoying in last year's game. 
 Furthermore, the framerate runs at an even more consistent 60 frames per second while rendering 
 a 720p image. Last year's game also ran at 60, but it had bits of slowdown in many spots. The player 
 models look about the same, as do the stadiums, the grass, and all of the textures. The lighting 
 continues to be bright and vivid, doing a fantastic job of bringing the stadium lighting to your 
 virtual experience. So while the visuals are not radically different, think of FIFA 09 as a cleaner, 
 more polished version of last years game, and that's not a bad thing, at all. Perhaps my biggest 
 complaint with FIFA 08 was its audio, more specifically the boring commentary. Both Martin Tyler 
 and Andy Gray delivered an incredibly bland presentation that was no more than just random, generic 
 play-by-play calling. For FIFA 09, the commentary has been overhauled to include a plethora of 
 dialogue that goes beyond just the regular play-by-play commentary. This makes for a much more 
 realistic experience with every match you play, on top of being a more pleasurable one. There were 
 times when I played matches that I found myself loving and paying attention to the commentary, 
 remarking how well done it was this time around. 
  
  While you may not notice any dramatic changes immediately, the more you play FIFA 09 the more you 
 notice that it is definitely a step up from last year's game. The mechanics of the game have been 
 fine tuned and better balanced, allowing for a more intuitive experience. The physics have been 
 touched up, again, to increase the game's realism, which greatly diminished the frustration found 
 in FIFA 08. Thanks to the fixed passing mechanics, collision physics, 20 player online, enhanced 
 Be A Pro features, and the fantastic commentary, FIFA continues to be the football game you'll 
 want in your library. Brilliant effort, EA Canada. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyad-93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing Graphics, magnificent player faces, great gameplay, lots of new tricks and moves to get 
 past the defenders, take your playing career to the next level and grab international with Be A 
 Pro Seasons, not to mention the online game modes (adidas live season... etc) all that and more 
 in FIFA 09.
  
  i've played FIFA since 1998 and I think this the best game in the series but EA this year unnecessarily 
 took out a lot of things such as:
  - changing kit # in MM
  - importing MM teams to KickOff mode
  - ability to customize the tracklist
  - FIFA flashbacks 
 (it was cool listening to those great goals)
  - bonus videos (season recaps, memorable moments, etc)
  - more player specific celebrations (I 
 know there's some, but they're rare)
  - training mode (for practicing passing, free kicks with a wall, and other stuff you can't do in 
 the arena)
  - challenges mode (it was nice break from the regular game) 
  
  
  I would recommend that you buy this game because it is better than PES 09
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbean1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  right first of all this is the best fifa i have ever played. The graphics make for a much better 
 overall experience and the players seem more reactive to the controls. The new celebrations feature 
 also makes the game more exciting than useual when playing with friends. As for the adidas live, 
 its very good but extremely annoying when your team is on bad form : (. Finally another great new 
 feature of the game is the arenas, the variety makes it funner as every time you turn on you get 
 a new arena (until you play it a lot) . Although i am not a fan of be a pro , i can apreciate that 
 it is immencly good in all aspects of the mode. The online can be very shakey but when you manage 
 to get a good connection it is amazingly stable and great to beat your friends. Overall i can safely 
 say I LOVE FIFA 09! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balaazs
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  ... and that is: how referees handle the offside rule. Too strict, always seeing it, which is totally 
 unrealistic.
  But everything else is cool. My first FIFA experience was back in 1996, and since then I've tried 
 almost every single game in the series. FIFA09 is without question the most mature one.
  Game modes, controls and content are flawless, and the feeling enhancing stuff, like the musical 
 score or the play-til-it-loads shooting practice just make the whole thing almost perfect. 
  English commentators are alright, as always, but local (in my case: Hungarian) ones are also up 
 to the series' standards (actually, the Hungarian ones are hillariously funny) .
  A must for every PS3 owner, at least in those countries where soccer is popular - this is definitely 
 the game you start playing first, when you have friends over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssdgfgggf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  WHAT A GAMES SO AWESOME THE BEST FIFA GAME TO DATE ON ANY PLATFORM. WAY BETTER THAN PES 09. FIFA 
 HAS MADE ALOT OF IMPROVEMENTS TO THE GAME WHICH IS FANTASTIC. THE BEST SPORTS GAME ON THE PS3.
 
  
  pOSITOVES:
  
  GREAT GRAPHICS 10/10
  AWESOME MANAGER MODE 9.5/10
  BE A PRO IS GOOD 8.5/10
  ONLINE IS PRETTY GOOD 8/10 BEING ABLE TO PLAY TOURNAMENTS OR JUST A 
 FRIENDLY
  COOL UDGRADES 9/10 UDGRADE IT EVERY NOW THEN
  THE REFS ON THE FIELD IS PRETTY KOOL
  AWESOME CELEBRATIONS
  HEAPS A STUFF TO UNLOCK
  
  
 NEGATIVES:
  4MINS TAKES A WHILE TO FINISH 
  ABLE TO QUIT WHILE ONLINE REALLY BUGS ME
  NO 2 MINS A HALF
  BE A PROS CAMERA ANGLE CAN GET A BIT ANNOYING 7/10
  
  I STRONGLY RECOMMAND 
 IT TO ANY SOCCER FAN OR EVEN IF UR NOT U HAVE TO TRY IT ITS SO MUCH FUN. IT WILL LAST U A WHILE.
 
  BETTER THAN 08 BY A BIT.
  SO GO AND BUY IT NOW AND ENJOY IT I PROMISE U THAT U WONT REGRET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dallbowl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:23 am PT
Review:  EA have handed us yet another version of FIFA. I do look forward to playing the annual FIFA when 
 it is released, and for the past two years I have been disappointed. Firstly though, the improvements.
 
  
  The graphics are much better and sharper, the players move and interact with the ball in a way 
 that looks authentic. I don't think there has ever been a release where EA have downgraded FIFA's 
 graphics so same old changes so far. As always, there is an abundance of authentic teams and players. 
 Now, the annoyances....
  
  I remember watching a game preview featuring an EA spokesman who claimed that the in-game players 
 will be more responsive. Nope, he missed the ball on that one, or he just lied. They seem less 
 responsive than in FIFA 08. Players often do ridiculous first touches in crucial and even low-pressure 
 situations, don't quite turn the way you want them to, or fail to pass or shoot when you push the 
 button. Defenders also seem to move sluggish at times. The passing is atrocious; I have seen so 
 many passes not go to their target and go either to the other team or in between players. Your 
 players still fail to run towards passes if need be, and the opposition often glides on in to take 
 possession of the football. 
  
  Player also run into each other, intercept passes that are not intended for them, and generally 
 sometimes act like they have all just had had pre-game frontal lobotomies. I have noticed when 
 a player has done a lobbed through ball, the players start to run backwards together when in pursuit 
 of the ball. Some of these problems were not in the previous FIFA's so me wonders what EA are doing 
 when it's time to produce a new FIFA (Choosing a new soundtrack perhaps?)
  
  The shooting system is a bit odd; it seems to be based on the players shooting ability than on 
 the merit of the actual shot that has been taken. Highly skilled players can kick it relatively 
 close to the keeper and beat him, but the not so skilled can shoot next to either post and the 
 keeper will catch the ball or parry it away. 
  
  Furthermore, there have been times where I have felt cheated out of goals by superhuman keeper 
 saves. A further inspection of such saves in instant replay showed me that the ball was goal bound, 
 and the keeper had managed to parry the ball with a very noticeable gap between him and the ball. 
 In other words, it deflected by itself, in mid air. A small gap I could understand, but even if 
 the ball was twice the size he still wouldn't appear to have touched it in some of these situations. 
 
  
  The through ball system I have always liked; it is quite satisfying to carve out a delicious through 
 ball that allows your player to effortlessly obtain possession and have a chance on goal. 
  
  The manager mode system is essentially the same. The player growth system is way too generous 
 with its experience points. You can have a lot of players on say 75 overall, and have them gain 
 4 or 5 on their overall each year. The player rating system is poor; you can have a keeper with 
 the most clean sheets, least goals conceded, highest percentage of saves made and he is ranked 
 lowest in the list of keepers (mmkay?) .
  
  The sub bench could do with some actual players on it instead of it being empty, and how about 
 adding a manager for each side; you know, since were expecting a bit more flash from these next 
 generation consoles.
  
  The game is enjoyable at times, and at others, feels like it will stop at nothing to stop you from 
 getting a goal; superhuman goalkeeping, hitting the post constantly, poor player response from 
 inside the box (thankfully, FIFA won't do something like melt the controllers buttons so you can't 
 press them. phew.) Since this game sells at full price, even for a constantly 'revamped' and 'repackaged' 
 game, I do believe that fans of the series should expect more out of EA and FIFA. Maybe we will 
 actually get a really good football game one day. But then again, if they did make the ultimate 
 football game, they would shoot themselves in the foot for the next FIFA's to be made.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaminaR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The Best Plays  
 Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best 
 Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays 
 The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best 
 Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays 
 The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best 
 Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays 
 The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best 
 Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays 
 The Best Plays The Best Plays The Best Plays 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwitdude
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that I would give PES 2008 for the PS2 a 8.5 because it was an excellent soccer 
 game with poor amout of modes and variation and also a few problems. Also online play was a problem 
 but the game was just pure fun and also made you think about what you were doing.
  
  Now I was thinking about switching to FIFA after I got a next gen console and I saw the differences 
 in reviews.
  
  I ended up buying both games and I would give Pro Evolution 2009 a 7.3. There are just too many 
 problems with the game.
  - the game is too fast
  - ref doesn't play advantage
  - players run around their weak foot much too often and take horrible shots
  - commentators are 
 awful and make mistakes all the time
  - computer always wins 50 - 50 balls because you switch players often at bad moments
  - shot 
 power is too variable ... I understand the direction you are facing has something to do with it 
 but it is ridiculous
  - dribbling is a tad bit too easy
  - still horrible presentation and lack of licenses
  - graphics are nothing special
  - pro mode 
 is annoying
  
  Now to FIFA 09. There are basically none of these problems. Also they have taken a few of PES's 
 good ideas and implemented them well into the game play. I used to think the ref did not call enough 
 fouls but that is only in friendly matches which makes sense.
  
  CONS: 
  1. In "Be a pro" the camera is sometimes annoying and when dribbling it is hard to see where you 
 are and what is happening.
  2. Dribbling is a little too difficult but it is hard in real life too.
  3. Maybe shots are aimed 
 a little too well and player sometimes doesnt shoot where you aim (maybe this is the PES in me 
 talking)
  (EDIT) 4. Keepers do some funny things are are very slow at getting up off the turf, it is a little 
 unrealistic
  5. Computer can still out battle you more often than not but it is better than PES
  
  PROS:
 
  Basically everything. Commentators are solid and don't seem to be retarded. The sound and music 
 on the game is very good. Online play is amazing. Be a pro is also very fun. Very realistic soccer 
 game with almost no drawbacks. They have basically taken the good ideas from PES, added tons of 
 licenses, removed the problems and made a very solid game. I can hardly find anything to nit-pick.
 
  
  I am looking forward to trying manager mode in the future.
  
  Overall there is nothing really wrong with this game and I recommend you buy it if you like football 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RO-J
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  The FIFA series has grown a lot over the years, but never quite as drastically as this.
  
  With player design, graphics and overall feel makes this one of the best gaming experiences you 
 can feel. The arena has been refined at tweaked to its greatest but the flaws in the game does 
 bring its score down greatly.
  
  The AI seems better than ever, free kicks and penalties don't feel right anymore, free kicks in 
 particular seem to change drastically between FIFAs, players are starting to stay on their feet 
 and the added touch of player strength just makes the game feel that closer to the real thing, 
 but players still fall down far too easily and the constant little scenes that break up play sometimes 
 make me wish like maybe the whole game should be played in real time, yellow cards, red cards etc. 
 with some effecting zooming in and out they could make it work.
  
  The goalkeeping over the years of FIFA has been questionable over the years, your own goalie seeming 
 to wear buttered gloves and the AI seeming to has an unlimited save fund that he seems to be withdrawing 
 from frequently but seems to be a tad easier.
  
  Couple of little bits i'd like to add as well, the crowd are finally 3-D and there's finally a 
 ref on the pitch, not entirely saying that's a good thing but what is strikingly obvious id that 
 EA have tried way too hard to emulate the real game rather than focus on what works well in gaming 
 situation, and over the years, EA have added bit after bit of more realistic gameplay and pace 
 combine with increasingly stunning visuals using the PS3 engine to its capabilities.
  
  If you've ever played the FIFA games and enjoyed them like I have, then you'll love this game, 
 and if you even remotely like games with great graphics and stunning gameplay, which ALL of you 
 do, my fellow gamers, then head out to your nearest game shop or internet site and bag this, it 
 gets my vote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Before i start do not call it soccer it is FOOTBALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  This is a great game AND liverpool is the best team. This is the best football game  
 This is the best football game  This is the best football 
 game  is the best football game  
 liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool 
 liverpoolliverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool 
 liverpool liverpool 
  
  Before i start do not call it soccer it is FOOTBALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  This is a great game AND 
 liverpool is the best team. This is the best football game  
 This is the best football game  This is the best football 
 game  is the best football game  
 liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool 
 liverpoolliverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool liverpool 
 liverpool liverpool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PipoSN
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I AM A FAN OF FIFA GAMES SCINCE FIFA 2002 AND I LOVE ALL OF THEM.... BUT FIFA 09 IS AWFULL !!! 
 
  
  GO BACK TO FIFA 08 THAT GAME RULES !!! FIFA 08 HAVE MORE REALISTIC GAMEPLAY, IN FIFA 08 YOU CAN 
 DRIBBLE ONE, TOW OR THREE PAYERS WITH ONE PLAYER AND LEFT YOU AND THE GOALKEEPER ALONE !!! IN FIFA 
 09 YOU CAN NOT MAKE ANY DRIBBLE !!
  
  IN FIFA 09 WHEN YOU HAVE THE BALL IN MIDFIELD ALL THE PLAYERS ARE VERY CLOSE !! AND NO IN THE POSITION 
 THEY HAVE TO BE IN THE FIELD... LIKE ANTS GOING ALL AT THE SAME TIME TRYING TO GET THE BALL !! 
 THATS ANNOYING!
  
  I LIKE THE NEW MENU DESIGN AND THE FRANCHISE AND BE A PRO ITS GOOD BUT THE GAMEPLAY ISNT CLOSE 
 TO FIFA 08,,, THAT WAS A REVOLUTIONARY SOCCER GAME!
  
  I WAS PLAYING THE OTHER DAY PES 09 THAT A VERY GOOD GAMEPLAY GAME ! THE GRAPHICS NOT EVEN CLOSE 
 TO FIFA 09 BUT THE GAMEPLAY IS AWSOME!! I KNOW ITS NO THE TYPE OF GAMEPLAY EA SPORTS AND FIFA HAS 
 BUT FIFA 09 ITS A VERY POOR GAMEPLAY GAME !
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcalotti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  So as we all know EA releases a new Fifa game every year and for the most part they deliver Fifa-games 
 with a pretty high standard of how things should be done. When the time came to bring Fifa on to 
 the next-gen-consoles they decided to build a new and improved game engine worthy of the long lasting 
 Fifa-titles. So they did. In 2007 it came out and every year they have been improving it bit by 
 bit and this year the players demands have been heard because with 250 changes from the 08 version, 
 they have made it even more fun to play.
  
  At first when you pick up the game and look at it, the changes aren't that noticeable, but after 
 playing it for a while you will start to notice tiny little implements they've put in the game. 
 The gravity of how things bounce, hit and levitates on the field are all tweaked to either be more 
 realistic or to keep a certain flow in the game. Some might say the looks of Fifa 09 has gotten 
 worse because of EA removing the plastic look of the players in 08, but the truth is that it looks 
 just as fine or maybe even better from certain perspectives. Either way it is debatable.
  
  The game modes are pretty standard this year, but some of them with altered options. I. e: The Be 
 A Pro mode now supports 2-20 player online play and of course the new Adidas Live Season which 
 provides weekly updates on stats and how well the real football players are doing that specific 
 week, which naturally makes that individual player suck in the game, if he plays poorly in real 
 life. But you will have to pay for this service.
  
  Single-player experience can get tiresome after a while, reason being that the CPU becoming rather 
 predictable (All depends on which difficulty you are playing) so the one thing you should be checking 
 out is the online experience. Meeting unpredictable players constantly forces you to be better 
 and always brings you back for more. The BAP-mode isn't all that fun because of everyone wanting 
 to get the ball and score and it gets really frustrating. So if you are looking to go online the 
 ranked matches 1v1 is the best way to go if you're playing with friends or random people. Be sure 
 to pull of some quite funny and spectacular player-controlled celebrations when you crush your 
 opponents just to let them know that you are the supreme being.
  
  Long time Fifa-fans will undoubtedly buy this game, but if you are new to the football (also known 
 as soccer for you Americans) and you're struggling to decide over FIFA or PES, Fifa is definitely 
 the game you should buy. Just remember that the multiplayer in Fifa is it's strongest part. Sure 
 it has some minor frustration moments (mainly referee decisions) , but that's pretty much overweighed 
 by the more faster, realistic and entertaining gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first Pro Evolution Soccer game was released FIFA had been second best. Personally 
 I thought FIFA was good before Pro Evo, however when Pro Evo was released I had changed my mind. 
 Pro Evo's gameplay was silky smooth. Miles ahead of FIFA, the only thing EA could boast about was 
 its official licenses, which, to be fair isn't as vital as the gameplay. Since Pro Evo then, FIFA 
 has always been second best. Until now however.
  Simply put, FIFA 09 is miles better than the series predecessors. Most importantly the gameplay 
 has improved drastically. You notice that the game flows unlike previous versions. It's more like 
 Pro Evo but better. And combine this with its superior licenses and music it's massively better 
 than its rival. The fact is, Pro Evo is starting to grate.
  As usual the game is presented brilliantly compared with Pro Evo with its cheesy music which makes 
 you just cringe and fake names. Combine this with the newly smooth gameplay and what you have is 
 a superb football game which honestly, for the first time, is miles ahead of Pro Evo. 
  One of the new features this year is 'Be a Pro' mode. This mode enables you to create a player 
 and play as him in a match. The camera will zoom in at your player from a perspective facing the 
 opponent's goal. As you meet your objectives (i. e. more goals, more shots etc.) you will gain exp. 
 Points which can be used to upgrade your player and make him better. This ingenious mode is refreshing 
 to the football game genre as a whole, and for a first attempt, it is surprisingly in depth and 
 interesting. Most importantly, it works. Some might hate the idea though thanks to the zooming 
 in and out camera, which can be quite tricky, however it's not massively annoying to the point 
 where you'll press the power button in frustration or leave the mode altogether.
  The career mode returns once again, however I wouldn't be surprised if most players would play 
 on the Be a Pro mode more. Furthermore there is a online mode as well which is quite fun. Playing 
 online is of course more better than playing against A. I. as your playing a real person, more justified 
 and realistic actions are taken. Couple this with EA's Football Sports World mode it is a very 
 thorough feature. With the website, you make an account which is linked to your PS3 or Xbox Live 
 account. This enables your account to be tracked and all stats from wins and losses to goal scored 
 and conceded are kept. Online there is a mode where 20 players can take control of a player each, 
 which works out at 11 vs 11. Along with the Be a Pro mode, these modes have been welcome additions 
 to FIFA.
  Overall then FIFA reinstates itself as the best football game around, and probably the most complete 
 and best FIFA game yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_Atak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for two months now and I must say I get an itch to play it all the time. This 
 game becomes very addictive very fast. My one complaint, just like most other sport games, is the 
 occasional lag and freeze frames when playing online. Besides that its flawless. Don't take it 
 from me... my two friends despised soccer before I got them to play this at my house. and now they 
 both own it! I automatically had respect for it since I'm European and played the game most my 
 life and just a huge football fan in general. EA guys really didn't miss much when developing the 
 game... I mean you could even control how your player cheers after he scores a goal. Do yourself 
 a favor and at least rent this game and if you have doubts just look at the reviews. Its nominated 
 for best sports game of 2008 right here on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me be fair and say FIFA 09 is a great game, its graphics and audio presentation are stellar. 
 Realisim is great and it makes you feel like your watching footy. But what kills me is the control 
 system and difficulty level. Defenders get the ball so easily it kills me and balls dont go where 
 you want them to (Also your own teammates standing there waiting for you to pass it, their runs 
 into space are god awful) and not to forget not having control of the ball what so ever when sprinting 
 with it. I'll break down the game into sections and rate them to get an avg score.
  
  Graphics: Fantastic player models look great, only improvement I could see is that the crowd could 
 have been a little cleaner. 9/10
  Sound: Great, crowd chants and commentary are fantastic but once again commentary could be improved. 
 8.5/10
  Gameplay: Difficulty murders it, when you score it makes you feel like Jesus walking on water. 
 7/10
  Multiplayer: God awful, when your winning the other player just hits his Playstation button on 
 his controller and exits the game, leaving you wanting to scream. Load times can be incredibly 
 long and sometimes crowds and players from the other team load during the game so your forced to 
 use your radar in the first 5 minutes. Lag Issues as well. BAP Online isn't too shabby. 6/10
  AI: Haha someone charged them with brain juice, steroids and super teamwork abilites. Once you 
 get past the Amateur level onto World Class and Legendary, give up leave your controller on your 
 seat and scream into a pillow. These guys will be all over you and before you know it its 5-0. 
 Online as well defenders are almost impossible to beat unless the guy playing against you sucks 
 really badly or you pop a lucky through ball through the "Berlin Wall" type of defence. You could 
 make it easier on us EA. 5/10
  
  Average: 7.1
  
  EA fix the difficulty and Multiplayer issues and you will be king. PES still rules gameplay and 
 believe me if EA doesnt focus on its controls itll be PES forever when they get all the licenses 
 and update their audio, visual presentation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bck89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  So as we all know EA releases a new Fifa game every year and for the most part they deliver Fifa-games 
 with a pretty high standard of how things should be done. When the time came to bring Fifa on to 
 the next-gen-consoles they decided to build a new and improved game engine worthy of the long lasting 
 Fifa-titles. So they did. In 2007 it came out and every year they have been improving it bit by 
 bit and this year the players demands have been heard because with 250 changes from the 08 version, 
 they have made it even more fun to play.
  
  At first when you pick up the game and look at it, the changes aren't that noticeable, but after 
 playing it for a while you will start to notice tiny little implements they've put in the game. 
 The gravity of how things bounce, hit and levitates on the field are all tweaked to either be more 
 realistic or to keep a certain flow in the game. Some might say the looks of Fifa 09 has gotten 
 worse because of EA removing the plastic look of the players in 08, but the truth is that it looks 
 just as fine or maybe even better from certain perspectives. Either way it is debatable.
  
  The game modes are pretty standard this year, but some of them with altered options. I. e: The Be 
 A Pro mode now supports 2-20 player online play and of course the new Adidas Live Season which 
 provides weekly updates on stats and how well the real football players are doing that specific 
 week, which naturally makes that individual player suck in the game, if he plays poorly in real 
 life. But you will have to pay for this service.
  
  Single-player experience can get tiresome after a while, reason being that the CPU becoming rather 
 predictable (All depends on which difficulty you are playing) so the one thing you should be checking 
 out is the online experience. Meeting unpredictable players constantly forces you to be better 
 and always brings you back for more. The BAP-mode isn't all that fun because of everyone wanting 
 to get the ball and score and it gets really frustrating. So if you are looking to go online the 
 ranked matches 1v1 is the best way to go if you're playing with friends or random people. Be sure 
 to pull of some quite funny and spectacular player-controlled celebrations when you crush your 
 opponents just to let them know that you are the supreme being.
  
  Long time Fifa-fans will undoubtedly buy this game, but if you are new to the football (also known 
 as soccer for you Americans) and you're struggling to decide over FIFA or PES, Fifa is definitely 
 the game you should buy. Just remember that the multiplayer in Fifa is it's strongest part. Sure 
 it has some minor frustration moments (mainly referee decisions) , but that's pretty much overweighed 
 by the more faster, realistic and entertaining gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b3yondstupidity
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is the first Fifa game I've bought, and I can't say I regret that! Fifa 09 has the latest 
 squads, and if your playing online, you can always update the squads which is just great.
  The passing from the last Fifa has just gone in front by a mile! It is very realistic motion and 
 one touch passes.
  Be A Pro - Make your own charcter or simply choose any player from Rooney down to Zoran Tosic! 
 
  Addidas Live Session - Seems impressive, but I haven't use it.
  Online is great, hardly any lag.
  20 Man Online is okay, but can be annoying when your team mates 
 be greedy or show off, or just don't pass.
  Real names pretty much all the teams, as PES 09 doesn't have, as they call Manchester United - 
 Man Red.
  Updated kits, all the kids Home, Away, Thirdl.
  Teams are rightly rated.
  Graphics are good, but not to good when playing.
  Celebrating is fun, a variety of choices to 
 choose, from The Robot to Nani's back flips!
  Music variety is just great, has songs for everyone, not just one genre.
  I will give Fifa 09 
 a 9.0,
  This is defintly worth the cash.
  PS: THIS IS 20QUID IN GAMESTATION QUICKLY GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duysan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Wonderful graphics for a great game. the graphics makes it feel better and the way each player 
 is different makes it seem more realistic. I love it when the goal keeper dives, its more realistic 
 and incredible then ever before. Fantastic how they now have A leaugue hehehe now i can play with 
 Melb Vic!! Online play is just perfect, everything you wanted in a online soccer game, 09 has put 
 in! The game also has a great soundtrack and everytime i play that veronicas song pop back into 
 my head -_-. FIFA 09 has some things i dont like about it (like most games) first of all is the 
 AI, they are able to get the ball off your player easily without hesitating and its not as easy 
 to score when you've only got one man against 3 of their strikers. Another thing that bothers me 
 is that their is no "knock out" tournament in FIFA, sometimes a couple of my mates come over and 
 we just want to play a quick knock out tournament but it is not possible with FIFA 09. Overall, 
 the game is great and is a must have for any Soccer fan that wants to live the dream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IplayEA
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Though the overall game play has not changed much from EA's most recent former game "UEFA 2008" 
 many new features have been added and the overall game is far more enjoyable. One of the best features 
 has to be the ability to check live scores straight from the game, also the Adidas Live season 
 with directly relates the real-life game play of a specific player to the game. The Be a Pro is 
 very similar to UEFA's but if you not familiar with it than you'll be excited to play it, though 
 it does get repetitive. The online play is quiet impressive, you can usually hook up with someone 
 to play in a matter of a few minutes, and the 10 v. 10 games (though it may seem like it) don't 
 take long to start either. There are a few issues I've encountered, the two main ones are that 
 the players sometimes don't react to the locations of the ball (won't run too it) or back-peddles 
 to a ball that should be run too (etc.) Also the online game play is risky, playing with 19 other 
 people may run into some issues, but it hasn't been a great issue for me.
  
  So overall I gave this game a 9/10 the deduction was for minor mistakes a great potential this 
 game raises for next years addition. Easily the best soccer game to be played and one of the best 
 overall sports games out there
  
  Pros - Features, Teams, graphics (relatively impressive) , online mode
  Cons - Risk in playing 
 online with 19 others, slight gameplay issues
  
  For all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfcgangster2k7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  One word ... WOW!! best game ever in the fifa series and of the year in my opinion.
  
  Finally there is some changes that people have been begging for like the new adidas live season 
 its very good but it can over rate people but thats the whole point though. A new be a pro season 
 is good my pro player on it is liverpool Torres. and plus with the referees on the pitch now is 
 something to celebrate about actually theres a mode where you celebrate in anyway you want. New 
 freekick styles are Amazing I. E Ronaldo's is just like the real thing in real life and plus freekicks 
 on fifa 08 were boreding as they would just go straight on Fifa 09 they curl real good
  
  i think this gives more to football gamers who want a good game and a bargain with there money 
 this is the choice so people buy this you won't regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in Fifa 09 has defo gone better since last years game.
  you feel more in control when you are defending and you can actually do a through ball without 
 the other defender getting it 70% of the time.
  
  They have introduced addidas live season to be honest i havent even botherd with that so i cant 
 really review that.
  
  10 v 10 i think its a brilliant idea but its just not for me. most of the time every1 just wants 
 to be strikers and push forward for goals taking the fun out the game.
  
  The bad in fifa 09 for me is the difficulty. i play on legendary and its still to easy so i think 
 in fifa 09 diffenatley make it harder.
  
  other good stuff about the game its interactive leagues and also how they have made it more realistic 
 with bigger players winning the ball easier.
  for example in fifa 08 i could be theo walcott and barge or sol campbell like it was nuthing.
 
  
  anyways thanks for reading the review
  
  Arsenal all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabby8
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  xbox360 version is better than the ps3 in terms of game play and graphics. there is a noticeable 
 difference when i play the ps3 version such as player losing track of the direction of the ball 
 when its a through ball, they seem to run in a different direction, especially if its a long through 
 ball, many times the player while chasing a though ball or a long ground or ariel pass will infact 
 start to run sideways and also backpeddles in many occasions. this does not happen in the xbox360 
 version. also the stadiums in the ps3 version seems to have "FIFA09" banners on each end of the 
 pitch, which is 2d and chops off the players legs when he runs over it. this is not there in the 
 xbox360 version. also there is no option for selection game speed in the ps3 version which is a 
 very good addition in the 360 version. playing single or multiplayer the problem is annoying in 
 the ps3 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystall3d
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  i have not seen any bad reviews about this game so here is one with honesty and anger worldwide!
 
  
  clearly EA has designed this game for 10v10 matches as cpu don't do the defending well and players 
 just use the same fifa patterns for scoring... there is not 1% of real football on the pitch and 
 i feel disgusted as i watch a good scoring player's game play... the trick system is a joke , no 
 one ever did use it neither in 08 nor 09... but go waste your time and money with this game as 
 it looks stunning compared to pes , unless you try to play it... long live Pro EVO and go to hell 
 you superficial graphical junkies...
  
  ea has removed manmarking from online
  i have not seen any bad reviews about this game so here is one with honesty and anger worldwide!
 
  
  clearly EA has designed this game for 10v10 matches as cpu don't do the defending well and players 
 just use the same fifa patterns for scoring... there is not 1% of real football on the pitch and 
 i feel disgusted as i watch a good scoring player's game play... the trick system is a joke , no 
 one ever did use it neither in 08 nor 09... but go waste your time and money with this game as 
 it looks stunning compared to pes , unless you try to play it... long live Pro EVO and go to hell 
 you superficial graphical junkies...
  
  ea has removed manmarking from online
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkan-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 09 has evolved in many ways from the former title fifa 08.
  Fifa 09 has improved in graphics, game play, multiplayer, realistic interaction within the field 
 and a lot of great features. There are modes you may play with up to 7 people which include: Manager 
 mode, where you gear up your selected team to try and become the champion of the tournaments ahead 
 of your team. There is also the new feature 'Be a pro' which lets you create a new player or choose 
 a player to play with on the field and turn him from a weak no reputation player to a player that 
 is offered to play in the international team. The interaction engine is a great way to experience 
 the realistic hype fifa 09 has to offer, like the way the players fall down after a tackle or the 
 positioning they get into to take a shot at goals. The players also now celebrate after scoring 
 a goal and you are given a list load of different ways you may celebrate, for example a front flip 
 may be preformed.
  
  The online modes have a better communication method and a tournament you may enter into to have 
 the great feeling of interacting with real life people and testing your skills. There is also 'team 
 play' where you may enter in to play as one footballer on the field with another 21 people choosing 
 there roles within the field of glory. Fifa 09 has met the expectations for most players of the 
 sport catergory, it can only get better from here and we will wait to see if fifa 10 can bring 
 the punch and stop fifa 09's glorious raid. Fifa 09 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RynoDragon084
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This installment of EA's Best Selling Soccer Sim has answered all prayers for hardcore players. 
 With providing widely customizable controls and tweaking last years issues, it deserves a much 
 higher ranking! Scoring long distance shots and doing your own celebration makes an electrifying 
 experience much more rewarding. Great overall interface with exciting and intriguing game play 
 -- arguably the most realistic sim up to date.
  
  Upon the first feature I dove into (Be-A-Pro Season) I chose none other than Cristiano Ronaldo 
 who's likeness in resemblance and playing style is terrifically imitated, from his pk stance to 
 his exciting step-overs. I'm still wondering what the Adidas Live Season feature is all about, 
 for as far as I see is an update of how players are performing provided by arrow Icons that point 
 in directions relating to their performance from previous games up to recent. 
  
  Online is also exciting and the Be-A-Pro multiplayer seems to be something i'll be playing for 
 a while. My skill in using the analog stick varies from game to game, and FIFA 09 requires a great 
 deal of control and coordination. Last year's installment was a beast to get a hang of, and the 
 learning curve was pretty steep. However, I can now change the player movement from analog to the 
 D-Pad without having to find an XBOX controller mod for my PS3. 
  
  Overall, I still have more to explore and from here, I can definitely assure you, it's a must have. 
 Hopefully PES 2009 has something to offer as well, because FIFA 09 has set the standard this year, 
 and quite possibly for the two or three years to come. Great Game that receives no less than a 
 score of 9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batigol_9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  I thought FIFA 08 was great, but this one is the greatest so far!! At first it makes you feel like 
 you're playing EURO 2008 and it does because they came with in the same year, but this one is more, 
 a lot more.
  
  One of the first things I noticed is that it is harder than ever to defend, and other than seeing 
 it as a downfall, it is a great thing. I wanted to defend like I did on other FIFAs but I couldn't 
 and I was getting 5 goals against me and I couldn't understand why. But there has to be a little 
 knowledge in you about soccer if you want to be really successful in this game or you're gonna 
 have to read the manual and spend hours and hours in be a pro mode in order to find out all the 
 things your player can do!
  
  In order to do a good job defending you just can't go up and attack the ball or you will find your 
 seft getting the ball from inside the goal. You must get your player to look at the ball and you 
 do that by pressing L2 and sprint by pressing R2 at the same time and when you find the right time 
 you press X to take the ball away, or you can also press L2 + X at the same time and when you see 
 a chance of taking the ball away you de-press L2 so that your player moves to take the ball away. 
 Now, sometimes when facing a faster player like Cristiano Ronaldo, Messi, or even Fernando Torres, 
 sometimes you don't have time to get into position and press L2, in this cases, you have to leave 
 X pressed and try to jostle with him and if the position is right double tap X to slide and take 
 the ball away by passing it to another team mate. When the ball is in the air and coming your way, 
 you can press L2 (leave it pressed) to try to jostle (put your body inbetween the ball and opposite 
 player) and it is really cool.
  
  Now, a lot of us get Messi or Ronaldo and just want to sprint our way into the net, but sometimes 
 it is not possible, specialy when playing with those experienced players who know how to defend. 
 In real life it is very important to make dynamic changes in to your speed. Its not always sprint, 
 sprint, sprint, sometimes you have to slow down to slow the defender up and as soon as you see 
 him slowing down you explode again into a sprint! Rhythm changes are great and you can realy take 
 advantage of them in this game too! Although it is great to just escape your defender and score 
 on pure speed, there is nothing better than sprinting, faking, stoping and changing directions 
 to sprint again and this time leaving our defenders going one way while you are already thing about 
 scoring on the oposite side!!! You have to play a lot with L2 and the Left Stick to really get 
 a lot of satisfaction from your players, of course, the more skilled the player, the better!!
 
  
  Be a Pro!!! I liked it last year, now I love it!! Be a Pro; Season is a great way to really get 
 to know what you can do with your player. You can create a player or simply use one of your favorite 
 star!! But it is better to create your own self and make it through the reserves, become a reserves 
 captain, make it to the first squad team, with the fans, get noticed by your national team, become 
 captain of the first team (in your club) get called to your national team, become a fan favourite 
 in both club and national team, and become a legend. You will then get offered a contract with 
 other teams and you can choose to move out at the end of your first year or stay. If you stay you 
 can become a legend and then you can move out the following year! Although it is challenging at 
 first you will soon find your self scoring lots of goals so I suggest you keep on changing the 
 difficulty levels to match your needs and make it challenging and entertaining!! Online leagues 
 and matches are as great as ever too but I'll be reviewing them later!
  
  Please if you feel that this game is not what you had expected because you can score real easy 
 by getting passed the defenders too easy, it is not the game, it is you that you need to practice 
 your defending skills, once you get them you will notice that everything changes and it is a great 
 game, I say it becaue it happened to me, but now I love it and apreciate how real it is!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  The FIFA series has always had me hooked. I've played almost every version since 98 and I've loved 
 every minute of it.
  FIFA 09 is another strong version but it is still not perfect and still has a few flaws.
  The 
 physics are great in this game and there has been a lot of work making it more realistic for example 
 defenders laying off the tackle waiting for the attacker to make a mistake, the strength of passing 
 and shooting determined by whether the player is using his strong foot.
  And this is a good looking game too the player models are well done.
  On the controls side the 
 players sometimes feel a little sluggish and sometimes the will watch the loose ball and run along 
 side it, which is not only funny to see but frustrating. Also players often respond too quickly 
 to commands, you press a button to tackle only for the opposition player to lose control at that 
 exact moment and your player clears it to nowhere or has a shot that has no chance.
  Also it is a minor gripe but there was some laziness on EA's part. Some of the players look generic 
 in some leagues. OK I know that there are a lot of players and it's impossible to get them all 
 but Even the best one or two players for each team would have been nice. 
  
  That aside it's a good game and becoming more of a sim with each version, it's not a perfect reproduction 
 of the game, but it is quite possibly the best one out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  So, another year for the Fifa-PES battle for the footy grand champion.
  
  This year, the clear winner by far is FIFA 09, but please reviewers, don't say this is the best 
 football game ever. I still believe in my heart that International SuperStar Soccer 2000, is still 
 indeed the BEST football game ever created. Fifa 09 is close... not close enough, but close.
  
  I have still not tasted the prime beef of Fifa 09, which is the "Be a Pro seasons", "Be a Pro 
 Online", or any type of match online. I have kept that as dessert. I keep indulging myself with 
 "Manager Mode"... a familiar bite of the Fifa menu, but somehow it feels so different??!!
  Why you ask... oh simply because if you go ahead and create a player, put him on a free agent list, 
 go to manager mode and add him to your team (in this case i went with Grossetto Fc from Serie B, 
 I just love Italian football) , it's like doing "Be a Pro", only that you have control of everything 
 of course. 
  
  Ha, i have never had this much fun. Every year a new fifa or pes come out, i only pay attention 
 to what new teams they have added, the lineups, the new boot collection, the graphics and that's 
 it. But this year, FIFA finally decided to work a little bit more, and made the game a whole lot 
 more interesting, compelling and FUN to play.
  
  The gameplay it's the main dish... it's totally better. And the players movements and reactions 
 seem more lifelike (tackles simply rock) . If you were like me, who bought EA EURO 08, then you 
 would understand when i say, "EA EURO 08 was the actual DEMO for FIFA 09". Euro 08 had the same 
 gameplay, and same everything... i guess when they saw how good it played, they just simply picked 
 up the ante, and just pushed it as far as they could go.
  
  So... well sorry for PES... i still play it, and am also a fan of that series (I JUST LOVE FOOTBALL) , 
 but somehow they just lost that spark. But i guess the competition between the two, works best 
 for us.
  
  I am neither a fifa or pes fanboy, but if you need to go with the best solid fun experience, then 
 go with FIFA 09, this year they scored a rampaging 4-1 score against PES.
  
  Kudos EA Canada, this year you come out on top.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is just great, the way it is and the new game modes. It has great online play and and great 
 game modes. Making your own soccer player is also really fun and after using him in the be a pro 
 season game mode is awesome. The gameplay is although a bit slower but not by much. There are plenty 
 of club teams and national teams to choose from which is nice. Making your own tactic is also really 
 good and it helps you show your creativity when it comes to the beautifull game. This is a an amazing 
 game when it comes compared to the rest of the fifa series and for once it does beat Pes by far. 
 If your a soccer fan rent/ buy Fifa 09 it is one hell of a great game. And for Once don't rent 
 Pes 2009 it's not that great compared to Fifa 09.
  
  Overall This Is an amazing soccer game Well Done!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see 
 try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see 
 try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see 
 try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see try it and you will see 
 try it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry 
 it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it 
 and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and 
 you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you 
 will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will 
 seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will seetry it and you will see 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkaqi2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Its the game you want if you are a soccer fan... great multiplayer and an outstanding be a pro 
 features... an intensive gameplay, excellent controls and all licensed teams and players. The perfect 
 soccer game that will stick with you until the next fifa game. The graphics are amazing and players 
 look as real as they could be in a video game, customizable celebrations, and up to 30 leagues 
 in over 500 teams. 40 national licensed teams. The PS3 exclusive game mode is a built-in FIFA Interactive 
 World Cup, it tops any soccer game out there , FIFA 09 for the PS3 also supports rumble with the 
 DualShock 3, The Wii version of the game is titled FIFA 09 All-Play and was launched under EA Sports' 
 new All-Play brand exclusive to the platform. EA unveiled the new Adidas Live Season feature that 
 will dynamically update player form and attributes each week in-game based on the player's last 
 game to reflect real-world ups and downs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  In fifa 09 the graphics improve and the players, and stadium look real. the best thing about fifa 
 09 is that u can play extra time penalty shootout. to go into extra time you have to be tied with 
 your opponents score by the end of ninty minutes. in extra time you play 30 minutes 15 minutes 
 for each half and if your still tied with your opponent by the end of extra time u go into a penalty 
 shootout. The person that scores the most in the penalty shootout and stops your opponent from 
 scoring more than you. Your team wins the game. When u create your person you can make him a striker 
 and put up his skills high to make him a good player then he'll score goals easy and on free kicks. 
 In the game u can create a team with the best players like ronaldhinio robhinio kaka eto henry 
 rooney christian ronaldo. then when you pick them in manager mode and u can use them and dominate 
 in manager mode to get traophies and points to buy things like colorful soccer balls , stadiums, 
 and teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggygreg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is by the best Fifa game so far (the best that's I've played before anyway. The game is 
 realistic and fun to play. The shooting from distance is harder than previous fifa's i say too 
 hard but that's my opinion. The shooting is good inside the box.
  Only one real problem is that sometimes the players don't go towards the ball. and kind of sidestep 
 towards which is annoying.
  The Adidas live season is excellent and if you don't want to pay out extra money there is a code 
 for one league in the manual. Although can be confusing when a player is suddenly worst/better 
 than you previously thought but i still think it's an amazing idea.
  The online is play is also good with be a pro matches 10 vs 10 matches. A warning though in these 
 be a pro matches if the match becomes too one sided the losing team starts to foul in order to 
 get red cards and get sent off. instead of quitting and ruining a 0% did not finish record. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kopsfet
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  i have been supporting the pro evo series for like for ever but the last 2-3 years the balances 
 started to change and 2009 finds fifa the best soccer simulator by far. Hard as a simulator should 
 be extremely rewarding gameplay amazing capture motion of the players and great depth of the manager 
 mode makes this a must buy game for all soccer fans. Passing is the name of the game here and EA 
 has done an amazing job at delevering the true way soccer is actually played not by scoring goals 
 shooting with andriano outside the area (99 out of a 100 goal) or dribling the whole opossing team 
 with christiano and scoring. On FIFA 09 succes comes with passing team play defensive pressure and 
 strategic formation. Amazing graphics and great commentary make the game experience even more realistic 
 and at the end you seem to be watching a soccer game rather than playing one. Only dark spot i 
 found is that in the PS3 version the game seems to drop its framerate at some points for no good 
 reason while on other plattforms no such issue came up. anyway GREAT job indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Like last year, I begin this review by stating I absolutely despise football games. They bore the 
 hell out of me a lot of the time and I feel they fail to capture the drama and emotion of the pitch. 
 However, though a lot similar to its predecessors, FIFA 09 takes a step the the right direction.
 
  
  I sat down and spent time with FIFA 09, and though absolutely bollocks at it, realised the game 
 seemed to move a lot slower and a lot more time and effort was put into the actions, the passes, 
 the manouevers, an aspect that certainly needs dramatised within a soccer game as these smaller 
 moments and intricate details are what create a successfully viseral game of football. 
  
  The animations are fluid and players are detailed, moving realistically and keep up the impression 
 you are playing a game of premiership football. I really captures more of an essence of the sport 
 this season than PES 2009 does. The game feels more organic and less arcadey.
  
  The masses of sponsership is there to keep the real soccer nut happy and everything down to the 
 grass on the pitch is 100% licesned. The shirts, teams, players, shoes, balls, stadiums, menus 
 etc. are all there and definately feel like the over mediated and advertising heavy sport football 
 is.
  
  The commentary is very accurate and less of a pantomime of PES 2009 laughable chit chat, motions 
 are reflected with the proper concern and the soundtrack is a finely compiled list of anthems and 
 modern rock tunes which are comfortably tailored to the sport.
  
  Online is ridiculously astonishing with league matches, three on three, six on six, and everything 
 else in between you could hope for. A great addition would be a league creation where you could 
 invite say twelve or so teams to compete in a tournament, but in all honesty, it seems a bit of 
 an unreasonable ask bearing in mind what content is on offer.
  
  The game is more accessible and yes, it is slightly easier, but its not neccessarily a bad thing. 
 For how involving the experience is, I don't feel a slight dip in difficulty is a problem.
  
  Stadia and players look great, some players still look plastic, but are a damn sight prettier 
 than the melted faces of 08. The atmosphere is almost there, juts the occasional pop up within 
 entrace videos and still, there are sections of 2D crowd WHICH SHOULDN'T BE THERE ON A NEXT GEN 
 CONSOLE (more on that in my WWE Smackdown vs. Raw review coming soon) .
  
  FIFA 09, is currently the best football game this year and out does PES 2009 in almost every area. 
 The game feels more emotional and actions feel more like "Yeah that's it!". Though a dip in difficulty, 
 matches remain hotly competitive and the online options are increasingly fun and ever growing. 
 A truly great season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangewindmills
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  No doubt about it, fifa 09 is the best in the series to date. Enjoyable to play (most of the time) 
 and you can be playing and not realise that the time has flown by. First of all the positives:
 
  
  + excellent graphics, physics and player communication- this game definetly plays and looks almost 
 like a real game and the player interaction during gameplay makes it more realistic. 
  
  + be a pro- last time i was disapointed with the be a pro but this time with it being 4 seasons 
 long and the ability to play for your national sqaud, EA have definetly opened the door to a brand 
 new way football games can be played
  
  + music- right i know this isnt part of the gaming experience but ill just put it down anyway. 
 Loving the catchy tunes!
  
  however heres some things that EA could improve:
  
  - AI- the AI sometimes does very weird things like let a ball thats going directly towards them 
 go out of play. When sending a through ball over the top the player would sometimes run and instead 
 of running on the ball, turn around and walk slowly while facing the player that just passed the 
 ball, room for improvement in passing. 
  
  thats the only major problem with FIFA 09 but it makes all the difference. I suggest that whoever 
 enjoys play football games has to have fifa 09, a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furu13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  the game is perfectly designed, the Internet synchronization is one of a kind but complicated it 
 has a complicated INTERNET menu for young players
  
  the characters are very well graphically introduced and i didn't see much of the tricks as EA already 
 said but still getting there!
  some teams are much stronger vs real life but again i can give a more accurate feedback on my last 
 2 points once i pass the the 30 hours of gaming.
  i noticed one more thing, once attacking on wings the last defender (when playing against a PC) 
 will just stand still with no movement or any kind effort to try and get the ball or tackle .
 
  overall its wonderful game especially when playing co-op and the controls are so flexible so you 
 will always find your way around and score!
  i think within the coming weeks the online challenges will become a hot spot and last but not least 
 the game was supposed to be introduced properly to the market and i'm talking about the middle 
 east region, i hope such games will be properly introduced
  
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Fifa09 would be the soccer game you would want to play this year. After 2 years of consecutive 
 lazy work from konami, i believe many would agree with me that Fifa has finally got the formula 
 right, and finally put a stop to PES being the better game.
  
  Some improvements now have made the game better, which includes graphics, animations and better 
 pacing of the game. If you have played fifa08, u would find this title's gameplay similar to past 
 year's but it won't stop you from playing it.
  
  Graphics:
  No framerate issues, no replaying lagging. Player's jerseys looks like the real thing. Players 
 animations and facial features are better than ever.
  
  If you're going to compare this with past year's series, you probably won't find a big step forward 
 in the graphics department, but rather there's a lot more animations and less exggerated sweating 
 of players. Other improvements includes the skies, stadium and crowds.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's better than PES, although some fans of PES would disagree with me. Playing fifa and then PES, 
 it makes you wonder why u actually though PES was realistic during the PS2 age. The gameplay you 
 get on fifa09 is realistic, simulating and enjoyable at the same time.
  
  Tricks is something thats useful but hard to master. Most people wouldn't believe tricks does much 
 to change the game, fact is: players like C. Ronaldo who is a master at tricks are acknowledged 
 as the best player in the world currently. Tricks does magic, but you need to use it at the right 
 time depending on your position.
  
  Goalkeeper is a real improvement this year, they parry shots, block shots better than realife counterpart. 
 Which comes a small complaint from me, the goalkeeper are too good, more often during 1on1 situations, 
 your chances of scoring is very slim. Which makes you think that your work in getting pass the 
 defenders are kind of wasted effords. Most probably the time you would score is when you hit the 
 poles or you get a second shot when you GK parry the shots to you.
  
  What differentiates fifa09 gameplay with PES gameplay is the tiny details fifa put in. Rather than 
 robotic animations seen in PES, EA sports went to the trouble of motion-capturing to get that realistic 
 animation you see. What results in is better flow of gameplay and animations are smooth and players 
 act like humans rather than robots. Play PES and you find that every animation are robotic, shooting, 
 sliding...
  
  Putting in linesman and referees is a plus, althoght it's the first time you see referees or linesmans 
 on the next-gen console, these AI controlled elements are very well done and polished. Despite 
 all the improvements, i still felt that the core gameplay needed more improvements to last it for 
 a year. Other may not felt so because i played fifa08 for a year already.
  
  Sound:
  Commentary sounds the same as last years, but they put in more lines, making it less stale. Again! 
 when you compare PES's commentary with fifa, PES is a joke, robotic commentary again, in fifa09 
 at the least you get commentary lines like a small brief history of man u or chelsea.
  
  The bad would be the gameplay modes, it's similar to last year's. Commentary doesn't have much 
 changes. But the additions made is enough to cover up the bads in this game.
  
  
  Overall, i would anticipate next year's fifa. But i would expect more changes to the already great 
 gameplay and probably a brand new commentary lines. Fifa09 is probably the best soccer game to 
 date, leading PES by miles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  FIFA 09 marks a new era of football games. It features the latest physics engine, improved A. I, 
 better game modes. I think the FIFA series has always been a winner over PES but in graphics PES 
 certainly wins hands-down. Below, is a chart of how the game is:
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8.5/10
  Playability: 9/10
  Presentation: 8.5/10
  Improvements: 8/10
  
  FIFA 09 
 is a decent, long-lasting football game that will keep you playing till another FIFA comes out! 
 The all-new control scheme is better than ever and the player models look great except the stadium 
 and surroundings look almost the same as FIFA 08. The commentary is about the same as last year 
 except with a few changes here and there. The Be A Pro Mode has improved for the better but is 
 still not what I expected, but its fun once in a while. I would tell you about the online and stuff 
 but I don't have wireless internet, the wired one is downstairs and my PS3 is upstairs lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace69GC
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  As a fan of FIFA since the 90's I can honestly say that this game is one of the most accurate interpretations 
 of soccer ever. Players move like they're supposed to and if the ball isn't placed just right there 
 is no guarantee that your player is going to come away with it. Attention to detail is what impressed 
 me the most in FIFA '09, the players look great and being able to learn your favorite celebration 
 and rub it in every time you score a goal, or a game winner is a stroke of genius. The crowd chants 
 and stadium environments are fantastic, and the fields look great. 
  Online is amazing as always, I am yet to run into any major lag or glitches. The 10 vs. 10 multi 
 player mode is a solid addition, although I am yet to find 19 other players to give it a shot with. 
 
  FIFA '09 is another FANTASTIC instalment to the FIFA brand! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  FIFa 09 for the ps3 is just... beautiful and amazing! Its truly a piece of art that has changed 
 the way of console football games. PES was good until version 2008, that started to ruin the game 
 series, while EA made a nice effort and showed us FIFA 08, that really was evolving. FIFA 09 is 
 just a masterpiece.
  Please note that i was a PES fan. But after trying fifa 08 and seeing the crap that was PES 2008, 
 it was time for a change... and it happen. This game is perfect in every way: from the graphics, 
 sound effects, gameplay... i give it a 10 in all aspects.
  Its only bad that pes fanboys don't have eyes to see what is really happening and denying that 
 fifa is better... OPEN YOUR EYES! FIFA 09 made vast improvements! I can see that and i liked PES 
 more.
  But yes, everyone is free to play what they want. So, if you buy FIFa 09 you will just see what 
 im talking about.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSE369
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  i wouldnt normally be buying a FIFA game, maybe just rent it but after last years PES 08 and how 
 it was virtually the same as the earlier game in the series with only a few improvements i had 
 turned to FIFA 08 but still i was not impressed with what i saw i was used to the better control 
 and gameplay of the PES series, the EURO 2008 game released earlier in the year from EA sports 
 also was a small upgrade on the FIFA 08 gameplay with a few nice additions that made the game more 
 fun though it still lacked that extra control that i had always loved, but after seeing so little 
 of the PES 2009 game that is soon to come and seeing that it was more or less looking to be around 
 the same game except it had acquired the champions league liscence and EA had lost it , but after 
 the fairly good reviews on FIFA 09 i decided to go for it, and buy the new game on PS3.
  
  i would say i wasnt as dissapointed as i had expected the control had deeply improved on the FIFA 
 games of before and they had improved alot of things the Be A Pro mode feels alot better than the 
 first time around and though i wish it had extended to a few more seasons and not just 4, i guess 
 thats just a way of keeping people wanting more and anticipating next seasons game.
  
  The Manager mode also has a few nice additions from earlier games and though i would say it still 
 needs some work for those players that dont want to have to buy 2 games to get the best manager 
 gameplay and the best soccer gameplay, as i still feel that the PES series has the upper hand on 
 that front, for now at least. Though its not all bad about the Manager mode there are alot of positives 
 like the very realistic transfer system and fatigue level of players being more realistic as it 
 could take more than just one match for a player to recover after a serious of matches, Also the 
 coaching system and how you can raise players fitness, negociate easier, scout better players and 
 other aspects to make your management better.
  
  The Team formation and substitions menu still needs some work (that i have been wishing for, for 
 years now!) also as they have the make it easier to compare players and show an overall hexagon 
 PES-like chart of performance on a few fronts instead of having to click on R3 on every player 
 to see his strengths. Also have more options when changing formations like editing exact positions. 
 There are also small things that need to be changed for the better like the fact that the captaincy 
 cannot be changed mid-game, as an avid soccer game player i love those little changes and for me 
 it makes a big difference.
  
  As for the teams themselves they have great detail with soo many leagues liscenced with full team 
 kits and squads though i would love to see more African and Asian teams put in the game, i remember 
 playing the older installments like FIFA 97 and FIFA 98 and they had a huge number of African teams. 
 Also players seem more balanced than PES players do, especially the younger players that are still 
 growing talents in the world of football.
  
  The music is perfectly picked as usual for the game and has something for everyone to like. Though 
 maybe having in-game music playback would be great since ive always wanted to try playing some 
 music while in the middle of the match, hopefully without that interfering with the commentators 
 who are great as always and really set the bar high for in-game commentating.
  
  The online modes are also great especially the new 20 player mode which i must say is very unique 
 and out-going although sometimes there will be the occasional player that will join and not bother 
 much with team play and/or other aspects of the game, still it is great especially if you can get 
 a group of friends online to play with. Which brings on the Create A Team online mode which is 
 very good if you have a few friends that also have the game. Still though i find the classic online 
 gameplay improved and though you will see the occasional lag here or there it runs smooth for most 
 of the time.
  
  It will be interesting seeing how this game will hold up once PES 2009 is released even though 
 im not expecting much from that game and even though this seasons FIFA game has pretty much got 
 a hold of me, as a huge PES fan i can still be won back but it doesnt look like itll be this years 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMLE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Not much different to FIFA 08 except the more user friendly menu's and gameplay. Great multiplayer 
 with mates.
  
  The Goalie acts more realistic, and the passing and skills have been perfected. The Game runs smoother 
 than 08, but if you own 08 i wouldn't recommend rushing out to buy 09, the game itself is only 
 a bug free , perfected version of 08. The Character creating and team building is far easier to 
 do than on 08, 08 was a hassle to most to make a player and put him in a team. the 09 interface 
 speeds up transferring players and character creation. The weather and crowd have been perfected 
 and look far better in 09.
  
  If you own a Tv larger than 50' 09 does have smoother graphics for a better HD experience, but 
 that's not to say that 08 doesn't.
  
  The multiplayer on FIFA 09 is enhanced for smoother gameplay and more fun. Playing with mates is 
 a must if you own FIFA 08 or 09. 09 is a blast with mates.
  
  YetolCom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the nicest one out of all because of the realism of the players and the nice HD image 
 but at the same time it makes me mad
  A lot of the good features of Fifa 08 I haven't see them on this game and I was expecting to be 
 there.
  There are so many new features how to control your player and to customize your team and I love 
 that. The game play it's a little hard to control since it is so realistic.
  I hate that you opponent verily touches you and your player loses control and a lot of the time 
 they fell in the ground wth!!!?
  Long passes are hard to make them go where you want them to go and a lot times you have to go look 
 for the ball because the ball wont go exactly to you which I think it cool but not cool at the 
 same time hehe.
  The 10 vs. 10 online playing is insane, that's one of the thing I like about this game.
  The 
 Adidas play thing I believe it is just a way to get more money from EA Company so I don't even 
 mess with it since you got one for free.
  I'm still learning the new way to play this new game, its hard but still fun and challelling.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  In the end, FIFA 09 won't be remembered for very long. Yes, it's good, but at the end of the day 
 it feels more like a stepping stone to a great product than an actual brand spanking new game.
 
  
  The match engine has been tweaked and improved in certain ways ('keepers won't jump out of the 
 way of the ball nearly as often, and the foul system isn't as ridiculous) and the result is a better 
 game, but other problems have just been ignored. Your teammates still display woeful AI at times, 
 refusing to make runs that are obvious and sometimes ignoring the ball. Also, 'keepers - while 
 improved - still screw up a fair amount; I've conceded more than one goal because my goalie ran 
 past the ball or simply stood motionless as the opposing striker stole in to nick it. It's frustrating.
 
  
  Also, the eagerly anticipated Be a Pro Seasons mode is a total letdown. It feels, at best, completely 
 unfinished and tacked-on. There are no cup competitions, no competitive international matches other 
 than the World Cup at the end (clearly EA are already planning for World Cup 2010) and other players 
 don't improve over the course. Also, there's no January transfer window and no real measure of 
 time passing. I personally was looking forward to this mode the most, yet have found myself leaving 
 it alone after only a few days playing it - which is a shame. It could have been very good.
  
  The manager mode hasn't been altered much either. You can still repeatedly find wonderful players 
 far too easily with the scouting system, and their names and nationalities are still hilariously 
 mis-matched. Simmed results and scorers still feel fairly random (a centre-half may well chip in 
 as many goals as a forward) and the trivia popping up between games (while fun) is too repetitive 
 with questions no one would care about (does anyone really give a toss about MLS?) .
  
  There are lots of other niggling little problems present aswell, like a dodgy offside replay camera 
 that shows the area of the pass, not the run and the fact that players inexplicably slow down when 
 chasing a bouncing ball. Yet, again others have been sorted; volleys don't enter orbit every time 
 you hit them now, and the computer doesn't score 80% of it's free kicks.
  
  There are loads of problems remaining in FIFA 09, but it's probably worth getting for the updated 
 players, sorted glitches and slightly better match engine. In the end, not bad, just not great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fady904
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I thought this one was better than its predecessor, that being said, there are still some ball 
 passing going astray. The tricks are very hard to do unless you're playing with a one star team, 
 you don't have enough time to execute tricks. What i like about this game is the players move way 
 better than 08 specially when moving diagonally, i like the way they improved the audio and shooting 
 the ball now looks more real and faster. The referee decision is horrible at some point, i got 
 tackled from behind but i managed to pass the ball before i got tackled but the receiving player 
 was offside and the referee gave an offside foul instead of foul to me with a yellow card. But 
 over all i'm content and happy. I'm so anxious to see how the PES2009 would deliver. Going back 
 to the tricks i think they can utilize the buttons with L2 rather than L2 with the LS, i don't 
 know it maybe practicing is all what it needs to get it right on time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combonext
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Fifa are still beating around their bush... no much difference, only that the graphic n player movement 
 is worked on, but they lack a good flow of gameplay.
  
  Before its the Head of the players being too big to match up with the body, but seems like they 
 manage to get it right abit this time around.
  
  There so much to be corrected in this game, just as much as 250 added is also deducted.
  
  
 Even with their loads of licences, they still fall to impress.
  
  Now all the are very good at is the cinematics and nice user interface.
  
  Sometimes, one will 
 keep on trying to figure out moves instead of playing. in the process, always loosing the ball 
 to the opponent. Too many controls, make it too complex to enjoy, sometimes frustrating.
  
  They are like going to the next country in a NASA JET. Too many protocols and buttons to push. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  There is always the "fight" between FIFA and PES and each fanboy defends it's game, well, I'm here, 
 I'm no fanboy because I prefer to play the best game and not the game that is said to be the best. 
 I remember that the first football game I've ever played was Italia 90 and I loved it and I think 
 that is quite a game for the time that was developed, some years later I put my hands on Fifa 98 
 and GOD, it was a incredibly highly addictive game, I loved it! The life continues, and it comes 
 Fifa 99 and bla bla... .... ... Then I get my hands on Pro Evolution and jesus, what the hell is 
 FIFA, it's crap! And it continued to this year... and this year what is Pro Evolution 2009? it's 
 crap! Fifa is a great game, hard to score a goal if you play with low-skilled player, the players 
 and the tactics and all the flux of the game it's just great, that makes you really happy when 
 you score a goal. And the multiplayer is cool too, you have leagues, you have the great 10 on 10 
 mode that is reeeeally fun, you have the normal matches 1on1 on multiplayer too, but I warn you, 
 it can be quite frustrating, I have put my hands on some dirty players, damn!! The Graphics are 
 good too, the soundtrack is really cool and I just have to blame they put Ronaldinho's teeth in 
 the first screen of the game, we have to see that shiny horsie teeth every time we enter in the 
 game.
  
  Now, let's talk about the bad things.... the bugs.... jeeeesus, the game is sooooooo buggy, I can't 
 believe! PES 2008 was a damn buggy game but FIFA knocks down PES 2008 in that parameter. You can't 
 play an entire match without seeing at least 1-2 bugs... I hope that the "It's in a game" boys 
 are already working on a patch because the game needs one urgently!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blainetbr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  What can i say, EA has done it again! After FIFA 2008, i was happy with the few innovations that 
 were made to the game. Then EURO came out, and they fixed the "bugs" that nagged '08 and made in 
 essence the best football sims i've played to date. With the much anticipated release of FIFA 09, 
 we see more of the same brilliance from the minds of EA SPORTS. This game is amazing. The graphics, 
 sound, improved AI, and overall feel of the game is second to none. Pro Evo has its work cut out 
 this year! Also, the ability to play a game with 19 other people is unbelievable to say the least. 
 To my knowledge, nothing like this has ever been done in a sports game. The players also don't 
 look plastic as they did in '08. The stadiums are amazingly accurate. The addition of your own 
 custom goal celebrations are fantastic, even though the your teamates will just stand behind you 
 staring off into space. This is definitely a top-drawer football game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markieb1976
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  This is the best in series but i have a problem with the advantage rule. It plays for about 5 minutes 
 then it will give a player a red card and not show what the card was for.
  
  Another problem was i played against a friend online and he tackled me in the box, which should 
 have been a penalty but it played advantage because another of my players kicked the ball out passed 
 the post. The ref then gave a red card to the player who tackled my attacker but then proceded 
 to give them a goal kick instead of penalty. Anyone else had this problem? fifa need to make a 
 patch to fix this fatal floor.
  
  The be a pro mode is a good addition to the series, but i believe they have cut corners on the 
 manager mode. They should make it so you can see the action when you simulate a game or let you 
 watch your team you're managing without having to actually play it.
  
  The manager mode is also very easy, i got Accrington to the top of the premiership and semi finals 
 of the Champions League in 4 seasons all i did was sign all the free agent players for very low 
 salaries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabamarutr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 09 is not a surprise. It is surprisingly good. Since FIFA 06 we all witness some changes towards 
 realistic gameplay, now nearing even more perfection with this year's edition. Multiple and original 
 single player modes, unrivalled online play and glamorous presentation. In one setting. Football 
 at its best. With PES starting to make its own downfall, one can believe that we are at the very 
 doorstep of significant changes in footbal sims, boosting simulation and fun to new levels of experience. 
 With unparalleled graphics, almost lifelike sound and the deepest gameplay ever in the FIFA series, 
 EA's presentation of the king of all sports is the closest to the real thing. A football stadium 
 in your living room. Whole seasons of the above experience with your favourite team, with your 
 arch rival friends Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is what we have been wainting for , a real game with so much we can do , you feel like you 
 are the one who is playing in the game you chose how to celebrate and how to score , many things 
 you can do online like clubs or creating your oun league .
  
  Online is fine however some games it freez or lag which make it hard to play.
  
  now lets talke 
 about the game :
  
  Graphice
  
  amazing graphics and the players look very similare to the real ones.
  
  gameplay
  
  faster 
 and easyer better reaction than the previos one .
  
  control:
  
  this what i like more now you can change your control and you dont have to youse the stick to control 
 your player.
  
  The bad :
  
  in online mode sometimes you feel like you are playing 08 suddlny the players reaacts to the bottons 
 very slow 
  
  when you play long ball behind the defens they stop while they are running which give the chance 
 for the attacers to score.
  
  crossing is very hard in this one , and even if you are in the right place you get the cross wrong.
 
  
  
  
  i recommend the game to all football fans its the best in the market right now . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sub-raid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  This game is so realistic it's the best sport game I have ever played it deserves 10/10, I loved 
 it. U really enjoy it, the graphics witch is so real, and the gameplay that is the best and do 
 not forget the Online. I got the demo in the beginning and after that I wanted the game more and 
 more, I was playing the demo every day, and waiting for the game to be released. And trust me it's 
 worth it u won't regret it if u get this game, so every person must get this game, must have this 
 game. Not only football fans ! EVERYONE!!
  Let's talk a little bit about graphics could they be more realistic than that could they invent 
 something better? I mean it's perfect its how a football game must be. Can't say anything more 
 about the graphics they are more than I expected.
  And the gameplay well can't say a lot about too it's everything I wanted, everything is good I 
 mean goooood. First of all when he shoots i really liked it especially in be a pro where u want 
 the ball to be It will be. Don't forget the things u can do with the ball it is really cool it's 
 fantastic. And in be a pro u can tell them to give u passes to shoot .. u can command them I liked 
 that too without them u will never get the ball.
  Now for the online the only thing disturbing me in it is that it's a little bit shaggy if u got 
 fast internet or not it will still be shaggy the only question is will they do something about 
 it, a patch something ?? well I think so that is what i think they will do what they have to do 
 because I say if there wasn't any shaggy problem the online would be the best of the best u can 
 really enjoy and have fun when u play with someone else a lot of fun, but now with the shaggy thing 
 I am not playing a lot of online it's really hard for u to play and every 5 second it bothers u 
 !
  In general the game was the best and u should all get it and comparing it to PES09 fifa was is 
 and will be better for ever! PES09 fans I am sorry to say that but it's time for a change don't 
 u think it's time to leave PES09 and join fifa 09.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Amazing gameplay, and amazing online modes. when u play fifa 09 u get into a football match you 
 feel it. Since i played all pro evolution series I've never thought that something more could exist 
 in football games, but now EA knocked me down with a master piece. One of the excellent features 
 of the games is the pro mode, where u can learn how to play on line with friend. The amazing numbers 
 of players that u can find online it's incredible. U can play 10vs10 but this mode sometimes generate 
 some lag depending of your pals connection speed. Anyway, this is a minimum detail, just get into 
 the action and play a premier league, it's amazing!! I'm very surprised about this game and I won't 
 get back to the pro evolution soccer .. .jajajaj never never, 
  In a few words.. the best game ever done by ea . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popteodor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  It's been ten years since i played my first fifa game and to be honest, this last game really was 
 a 10 year celebration. I did not expect anything from it, besides better graphics and the small 
 occasional improvement on control and game physics in general. But from the moment i started playing 
 i was simply amazed. I don't want to exaggerate but every player move, jumping for a header, sliding 
 for the ball, shooting, falling down, they all look so real and that just adds to the feeling so 
 much. Then the physics, well passing, heading and shooting are all so much more real then last 
 years fifa. Yes, shooting from a long distance is hard, but then again, so it is in real life also 
 and trust me, it's not impossible once you get the hang of it. And talking about goals, something 
 i really came to like is the possibility to have a celebration of your choice; to me that really 
 is attention to detail and more important, it feels great.
  And since the match itself is so interesting, i feel the game modes have fallen a bit in the shadow. 
 I must say i really enjoyed The Lounge and Manager Mode so far, but i still have to try Be A Pro. 
 And then you can go online and while the game seems to behave a little different online, it's even 
 more thrilling, i can tell you that. Whether you play your friend next to you or a person from 
 who-knows-where, the game takes on a whole new level of competitiveness.
  But really, no matter what game mode I'm in, i won't get tired of scoring goals and celebrating 
 very soon. This game really is a lot of fun, well, except when the goalkeeper just stares at the 
 ball and the opponent scores the easy goal, but hey, it can't be perfect, it's still a software 
 after all :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nihal18
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has good gameplay, graphics and it is fun.
  This game is going to be way better than PES 09. PES 09
  isn't even licensed and i also played 
 PES 08. It has bad graphics, bad gameplay and it is boring. But i think that 2010 world cup might 
 be good as well if it ever comes out.
  But right now FIFA 09 IS THE BEST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  FIFA 09 IS THE BEST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  AND PES 
  
   RIGHT 
 NOW FIFA IS JUST THE BEST GAME (WAY BETTER THAN PES) !!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  By the way get FIFA 09 instead of PES cause 
 PES is just a big disgrace to 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: daz_124
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 was a good game, but had a few problems, including AI, and a few glitches made it dodgy 
 to play, but Fifa 09 has improved the game play alot.
  
  The graphics have been dramatically improved, with over 20 stadiums available, in stunning detail, 
 player models are also brilliant, more life like, and alot of key player moves which matches a 
 certain real-world players attributes and trademark celebrations, also Ronaldos Free-Kick stance 
 is in there
  
  Gameplay is good, but a few problems with player AI, sometimes when you pass a ball to a player, 
 sometimes the player (Player or CPU) will move away from the ball and will make things alot slower, 
 usually automatically, the player gets it regardless of wether you are in control or not.
  
  Arena mode has been greatly improved, with MORE arenas, ive counted 5 so far, which makes the 
 game more variable and better to get used to.
  
  I havent tried online so i cant comment.
  
  For the next game, Fifa 2010 or the world cup, 
 there isnt much that can change for the game, probably the Blue Square Premier might a more interesting 
 mode, also, improve the player AI, also, there are commentary problems, maybe more commentators, 
 Martin Tyler, Iain Darke and all the other sky sports commentators can make it more variable, other 
 than that its fine.
  
  The game is excellent, and easily the best game ive got out of the Fifa series so far, apart from 
 a few AI problems and sometimes the substitutes makes you wait longer than in Fifa 08, but the 
 game is great to get, so anyone who hasnt, TUT TUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efc1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 was one of my favorite games of last year and I thought it was the best FIFA yet but then 
 came FIFA 2009. What can I say? This gane is the best football game ever. No new leagues have been 
 added this year which was slightly dissapointing, I mean for a few years now I have been waiting 
 for the Russian, Greek and Argentina leagues to be added but it hasn't happened. The new Be A Pro: 
 Seasons is a nice addition to the game I have played this mode the most since I bought the game. Manager 
 mode is improved and even better. Online modes are fun too including the 10 man team play which 
 I play on the most only thing is it's tough when you are defending everyone seems to get sent off. 
 Anyway my final views on this game is that its just plain fun to play and I can see myself playiny 
 it until the next additon to the franchise. 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashytoken
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Fifa series since 2003, when online play wasn't as broad as it is now. 
 I thought Fifa 08 was the best in the series by far and I'm not completely swayed into giving Fifa 
 09 this honor. 
  At first impression, the game looks great: the animations are the most realistic I have ever seen 
 on a football game and the stadiums look very authentic. The player interaction during pregame, 
 half time and post-game cut scenes are great. The introduction of the referee and his assistants 
 are also a plus. 
  But the gameplay is riddled with glitches and stupid AI actions. For example, you could send one 
 of your teammates on a run and deliver a perfectly timed through ball only for this player to forget 
 about the ball and just face a completely different direction. Often they may simply ignore a pass, 
 regardless of how much you mash the pass or shoot buttons. I would've understood if these things 
 occurred on a rare basis, but it happens EVERY GAME. The goalkeepers are incredibly efficient when 
 they have to deal with difficult situations; on the other hand, they lack intelligence in simpler 
 sectors. A weak shot definitely going wide would be PUNCHED OUT by the keeper instead of allowing 
 in to role out of play. 
  Another issue with this game is the referee. There are a number of tackles that SHOULD BE A FOUL, 
 but are ignored. At the Legendary (Maximum) difficulty, you could get tackled from behind, leaving 
 your player injured and the ball untouched, but still no foul. The calls are so inconsistent that 
 a standing tackle in your own penalty box could result in a PENALTY, but the very same tackle outside 
 of the box will be ignored. 
  
  The most disappointing part of Fifa 09 is, however, its online play. Even with sufficient internet 
 connection and signal, the matches a ridiculously laggy. I am still unsure if to blame the EA servers 
 or the game as a whole.
  
  On a positive note, Fifa 09 is a good football game if you ignore the horrible online play and 
 stupid AI. Some of the player models look great and the Adidas Live feature is excellent in my 
 opinion. The music is varied and catchy, as well as decorated with well known and upcoming artists. 
 The free kick system is much improved, though the early crosses are not as effective as in previous 
 games. The Be a Pro Mode is great once again, and the season mode makes it even better, but an 
 actual training ground and levels like that used in Pro Evolution Soccer 5, for example, would 
 add to the realism and authenticity of the game mode. 
  
  In Conclusion, Fifa 09 is a good game, most certainly better than previous outings of the series. 
 Because of the vast amount of features and improved gameplay, I will hand it the title of the best 
 Football game ever, but only reluctantly (Stupid AI players, laggy and broken online, and inconsistent 
 foul decisions) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srb4life
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  FIFA 09 is definately all it's cracked up to be in terms of the hype dubbing it the greatest footballing 
 game ever made.
  
  The gameplay is new and innovative, and the through ball system just makes playing all the more 
 sweeter, along with the AI players pointing to where they want the ball. I play football for a 
 club, and I can tell you FIFA 09 is as realistic as it gets to real football, although not as fun 
 lol. 
  
  I played Euro 08, and I loved it, although after the actual tournament I just lost the desire to 
 keep playing it. FIFA 09's Manager Mode however is immersive, although too little has changed since 
 FIFA 08, and the absence of being able to change your player's kit numbers will dissapoint football 
 fanatics. And I still beleive that the playing scheule of your team is too hectic. It so happens 
 that you will constantly find yourself having 2 matches in one week, with a cup match the next 
 day. Because of this, your players' stamina is always at the minimum rate, though improving fitness 
 in staff upgrades fixes this to some extent. But even so, it is still a feature that should have 
 been improved.
  
  I enjoy playing online, although the game does get extremely laggy at times even if you have a 
 very good internet. Nevertheless, all the online game modes are what was expected of them. The 
 added features of, create a club, 10 v 10, and Adidas Live Season Updates are all great features, 
 although getting the Live Season Update for many leagues is far more expensive than it should be.
 
  
  FIFA 09 is however not perfect. At times, your players will not respond to passes and run the opposite 
 way as a perfectly good ball is coming to them. This doesn't happen often, but when it does it 
 is frustrating. A much more common, and more frusrating problem is the fact that as you do a good 
 through ball to a your teammate, or a pass in some cases, your player just starts jogging backwards 
 towards it even with R2 held down. This is extremely frustrating when you are in the middle of 
 counter attacks. Also, the fact that the AI points to where they want the ball to be played is 
 great, but at times the AI will point to where they want the through ball, and as you pass, break 
 out of their run towards it.
  
  Overall, this is the best football video game I've ever played, but with some minor touches could 
 have been made even beter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitten123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 enhances hugely on Fifa 08. It brings new realism, pace and tactical thought to the game 
 and is a true simulation of Football.
  
  When you load up the game - you have a wealth of options to choose from. Initially you may choose 
 try your tricks against the improved AI - you will soon learn that in Fifa 09 pass and move is 
 the key too success especially on the professional and world class levels.
  
  This adds realism to the game though - how many average players beat 3 men regualr. y... none - but 
 it is possible with messi and Ronaldo to really twist defenders inside out.
  
  More impressively this is converted to the online play feature - you really do feel like your playing 
 in a football match and only the occasional AI mistake makes you remeber its this is a virtual 
 world!
  
  The AI mistakes are rare but pretty huge when they occur, occasionally defenders may decide to 
 run sideways to a ball letting an attacker catch them up from 20 yards behind - possibly resulting 
 in a lost goal.
  
  Be a Pro mode has also moved on leaps and bounds....10 vs 10 can be absoloute carnage - but if 
 you find yourself in a room with experienced players you soon find out that holding the position 
 and knowing your role is the key too success... the satisfaction of scoring for your team is also 
 unparalelled compared ot other games.
  
  Overall Fifa 09 is great game that any football fan would enjoy and is not just a mere brand extension 
 from 08 which some sports games can be defined as.
  
  Lets Fifa 09
  
  Mitten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Sorry, couldn't help myself with that fifa spelling thing, but anyway, fifa 09, what can i say, 
 easily one of the best football games i have played, everything is here, the kits, the crowd, the 
 graphics, the commentary, evrything has been revamped and made into something that usually EA screw 
 up, a good football game. The online mode is proberly what really got me interested in fifa 09 
 (10 v 10) which is unique because it has never been done before, but now it has, has it finally 
 taken the place as the best football sim out there? The reason why fifa works so well compared 
 to othere fifa's (or any other football game for that matter) is that speed is essential in winning 
 games, the moment a player slows down or stops with the ball, te whole game changes, the game is 
 finally centred around the ball, not the players with fifa have always done before. As well as 
 this, tactics are essential for winning games, sure, u might score once in a while when u randomly 
 kick it around a bit, but if this is your style, your never gonna get the full experience of fifa 
 09, which is for the first time, truly fun. The place where fifa lacks is due to the AI being TOO 
 good, yes i know, i sound as if i'm a gamer who always has to win, or goes in a fit of rage (kinda 
 true) but still, the AI is so advanced, it fells as if ur playing real people, which in the end, 
 is proberly why fifa works so well. Do i think that fifa has taken the place as the best football 
 game on the market, well what i do know is, EA is finally really trying to, and this my friends, 
 means even better news next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ECantona7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  I've not bothered with FIFA for a good 7 to 8 years because I've always stuck with PES. However, 
 after playing the demo I was amazed just how much it had improved. FIFA now has the authenticity 
 and great gameplay, which in my eyes now overhauls PES. The online 10v10 did the final swaying 
 and I must say it is an absolute hoot and the BAP single player is an addition I have been longing 
 for too, whether it's taking over an existing player or creating yourself. Even just practising 
 shooting with one player is loads of fun and you can spend plenty of time faffing around in that 
 mode too without getting bored.
  
  When it comes to dificulty, on the harder levels the game is quite tricky and you really have to 
 have your wits about you, as the AI is very very good. 
  
  If you're used to FIFA then there's no doubt that you'll stick to it, but if you're a PES man, 
 you may have your head turned by this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burock76
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Well I have played FIFA 09 for about 4 hours yesterday and the following words come from a former 
 PES fan. I would love to see PES with this kind of improvements but FIFA has done it all. Here 
 it goes;
  
  First of all the game is very realistic, it's hard to score and you can't fly past the defenders 
 as easily as you used to. Which is a good thing. You have to time your jumps, passes and shots 
 in order to get good results. Also for PES players; as if EA knew that more PES players were going 
 to get FIFA, you can assign the exact same button configuration as PES, so you don't feel uncomfortable 
 with the controls. (a nice detail I wanted to share) 
  
  The movements seem very lifelike and you don't see anything out of the ordinary as far as the movement 
 goes. The player drops according to the direction of the impact. The tricks are fairly easy but 
 in the tension of the game I think more experienced players would remember to do these. The graphics 
 are beautiful as always with FIFA. The gameplay is not as fast as WE games which I think adds to 
 the reality, seeing open players waving their hands for open spaces, choosing the way of goal celebrations 
 are but little details which takes FIFA even closer to the real game. 
  
  The licensing is once more taken very seriously by EA. I don't think they have left any unlicensed 
 league in the game. And they are very up to date with the recent transfers, news etc. 
  
  There seems to be little problems with online play though. You can find random matches quiet easily, 
 but if you want to create a custom match you keep getting (well that's what happened to me at least) 
 "the EA servers are not available right now" orthe max. amount of lobbies are reached" I think 
 EA will sort that out shortly because most of the world wwill be playing this game in my opinion.
 
  
  Saying this makes me a bit sad but I've never played a PES game at this quality. Being a former 
 PES fan FIFA has won over my heart and I don't think I will be getting PES this year since you 
 have got everything the sport has to offer in FIFA 09. 
  
  I would really recommend to all the lovers of the game if they want to experience a real thrill 
 of a football.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keitha313
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  I got this game as soon as it came out trust me i was up first thing in the morning to go down 
 to woolworths to buy it and as sad as that sounds of me doing it......
  IT WAS WORTH IT!!!.
  
  Fifa 2009 was getting great reviews from just about everyone and as 
 i had played the demo it did further my confidence in Fifa, Fifa 09 have took a step in the right 
 direction their football game feels exactly like the real thing its as hard and frustrating as 
 the real thing although i'd say im better at the game than in real-life football.
  
  The graphics you need not worry about they are top notch ten out of ten id score them players look 
 like their counterparts so they'll be no more of the strange looking players also on the plus John 
 Terry actually looks like himself on this came for a first!!.
  
  The game in whole is just so so so fast paced i dont take any shame on admitting its a hard game 
 theirs no doubt whatsoever about it this game will make you struggle at times and get you very 
 angry, Well it has made me angry at times but thats just like the real thing when you watch your 
 team playing football you get angry when they make a mistake.
  
  The weekly updates are pretty good it saves people from playing as the same team all the time although 
 i must have a gripe about one or two things in this game i simply cannot let this one get off easily, 
 When the ratings come in i believe they can be very biased depending on what player they are rating 
 i think a little more thought into the weekly update ratings would be neccesary for EA because 
 theirs no way in hell you could rate Steven Gerrard 95 out a possible 100 and i do believe some 
 of the teams have been rated unfarely aswell for example, Rangers and Celtic the diffirence between 
 two let me start by saying Rangers got to three cup finals including a UEFA cup and had unfair 
 fixtures if this doesnt rate them as a better team than Celtic then the reviewers of the players 
 in this game are living on another planet.
  
  And last gripe would be when you send a through ball some times the forward or the player going 
 for it just stops and doesnt chase down the ball or he'll just slowly make his way to the ball 
 as if he was tackling for it, But that is a very small thing and it doesnt happen all the time....
 
  
  This should be your choice OVER PES this year!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corey6121
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Best game of the series great game 10/10 a must buy get it right now before someone else buys it. 
 When i tried to buy it everytime it was out of stock accept for one store go buy it know or you 
 will regret it in the future. Know time to review the game. Fifa 09 has had 250 changes to the 
 last one all new tactics to choose one about 140 attack and 20 new deffensive tactics great skills 
 to show off when your friends and family are round and the all new adidas live season with weekly 
 player updates so if for example rooney played great his ovr would go up if he played the same 
 as last week the rating will not change and if he played bad the rating will go down know i hope 
 you will buy and enjoy this game. ps i hope my review has been helpful. ps it is a super fun game 
 and everyone will enjoy if you dont then your completely insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigowland
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Are they finally going to get it right?
  
  This is the question I'm sure every Fifa Fan asks every year. I know I did. So when this year rolled 
 round and I heard all the talk about improved this and that I found myself wondering whether to 
 believe it or not.
  
  So now the moment of truth. The answer to the question is............ yes.
  They have got it right. 
 I have always been a Fifa fan but always found that Pro Evo has been the better game to play. However 
 now I have to change my mind on that stance. Fifa's gameplay is a much improved aspect to the game. 
 And why shouldn't it be? That's the reason we buy the games!
  
  The Engine has been improved upon from last year and whilst it may look near enough identical to 
 the last. You only know that it's better when you play it and see and feel it for yourself. The 
 way you play has changed passing, lobbing, through balls and shooting are now all operated by a 
 power bar. This is a welcome addition because now you feel in complete control of what happens 
 on the pitch.
  
  The presentation is second to none as usual and the sfx is brilliant right from the crowd to the 
 commentary. As is the soundtrack which again EA Sports have shelled out quite a bit to have some 
 truly great Bands on the card.
  
  So if you want the complete package this season, then Fifa 09 has to be your choice. You won't 
 be disappointed with it. It's a challenge and the AI is a tough opponent to beat yet now with you 
 in complete control of everything when you pull off a great passing move and finish it off with 
 a cool cheeky strike, you feel a sense of a great accomplishment. 
  
  That's what this game is a Great Accomplishment. There's still something they could do to improve 
 as every game could. But for now this is the best and we have a year till it gets better!!!!
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danteinho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 09 is the latest addition to EA's long spand football series. Year in, year out EA have always 
 been looking for new ways to improve the game, countless times coming up with new gimics that would 
 make it the better football game.
  
  Last years FIFA marked its debut on Playstation 3 and was a huge hit, the year FIFA really overtook 
 Pro Evolution Soccer in the award for best football game. This rivalry between Konami's PES and 
 EA's FIFA has been great from a fans point of view, edging each game to be made to the max. However 
 with EA's new revamped game engining, FIFA has really began to leave the rest for dead and FIFA 
 09 marked the game EA really had a chance to polish it up.
  
  A few thing EA have made a song about with this version is the new custom tactics, the new edge 
 on gameplay, the all new Adidas Live Season and the Be A Pro season mode. The question is how are 
 these new features? Well the custom tactics will at first be confusing and later on probly still 
 be confusing, its all about altering sliders to do with the speed, flair, attack, counter attack, 
 almost every aspect of the football game you can think of and to be honest after altering it to 
 the way I liked it, I really didnt feel like it had made a difference. Yes, its nice to have the 
 option, but the tactics you could change in FIFA 08 were very simple and effective as it was. The 
 new edge on the gameplay is the first thing you'll notice when playing the game. Its got a very 
 nice feel to it, smooth passing, nice player animations and great detail in the overall look. Little 
 things will grab you like a player calling for a pass or the linesmans flag going up (yes the addition 
 of a ref and linesman has finally been added.) Other things too like the way Ronaldo stands to 
 take his free kicks, the deep breath he takes before hand. Countless things that make it look very 
 beautiful.
  
  Lastly the Adidas Live Season and the Be A Pro season mode, The live season requires you too enter 
 the code on the back of your FIFA booklet which will enable you too have a free weekly update your 
 choosen league for an entire season, giving you other leagues too at a small fee. This is a great 
 idea and can make football simulation just alittle bit more real. Only time will tell if it works 
 or not. Then theres the Be A Pro season mode, which carrys on from last years debut' Be A Pro. 
 This features is rather compelling, it starts you off in the reserves with a created player which 
 is a fantastic addition to football simulation too. You will in time master your postion and check 
 off the goals it askes you to do. This works well even tho sometimes it feels hard to score and 
 alittle bit bland, if you're into it, it works well.
  
  The big difference in this game being a top class football game that it is as apose to a perfect 
 football game is the underlining of the general gameplay. Sure the flow feels nice, its beautiful 
 and easy on the eye and you can do alot of cool tricks and flicks but sometimes the stupid little 
 things let it down. For example sometimes passes don't go where you aim them, defendings mess up 
 alittle tracking back, defendings don't cover there postions very well or mark there men for that 
 matter. They even took the ability to asign squad numbers to your new signings out of the game 
 which is a big let down in manager mode, As well as not including trophies, which they had plenty 
 of time to do so. Sometimes its these things that can get you really frustrated. Never the less, 
 this is the best football game on the market and a big step forward for the EA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerching
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to waste time comparing this to PES, because its just not worth it. why you might 
 ask. because Fifa has just entered a league of its own.
  
  Theres a certain fluidity, a sharpness, and crispness that you notice when playing Fifa 09. The 
 passing system seems to have had a slight overhaul which now makes it possible to string a 1-2 
 passing game that arsenal would be proud of, without that terible, slow sluggish feel that plagued 
 Fifa 08. It is now possible to perform a quick turn to beat lumbering defenders, it doesn't feel 
 like thers a few seconds delay like it did with 08. And the shooting, well, it just feels right, 
 and you will score some screamers. (you may also wollop it into the top tiers but thats just football)
 
  Off the ball movement has been hugly improved with the A. I making far more inteligant runs, creating 
 lots of space for you to move.
  
  Without mentioning the hundreds of liscensed teams, stadiums, boots, balls, and music. Without 
 disussing the potential to create hundreds of different tactics and formations with the new custom 
 tactics feature. And without letting you know about the new be a pro and online modes, I can honestly 
 say this is probably the most complete, recreation of the beautoful game. So go buy it. 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  I picked up my copy, Not expecting a great deal. I heard the Game got a 9/10, Which it said on 
 my box. I could agree, If it wasn't for the annoying things like, When you try to tackle, Nothing 
 even happens sometimes, Or maybe its just me, It also takes alot of getting used to compared to 
 08. I believe they have made the tempo of the game too fast, They should have kept the tempo like 
 Euro 2008 but just took away the annoying things, Like when you pass the ball to your player, He 
 dosent respond for like 4 seconds, By then the ball has been taken away. Now to the good parts 
 of Fifa 09, The Be A Pro mode, Is amazing, Takes quite alot of getting used to but its brilliant 
 if you think about it, 4 seasons to play as either a created player of your own, Or a real life 
 player. Its a very HARD challenge though. The Manager Mode is basicly the same as 08 except from 
 a few Visual changes. Online, There has been quite alot of a changes, The New Hub system goes online 
 too as well as Offline, Which basicly tells you your stats etc, Plus online it tells you if you 
 got an game invite off a friend or off anybody, And a few other things. There is also a new Online 
 mode were you can create your own club, And invite your friends to join the club, Or scout for 
 players around the world, who have a special rating depending on how many games they have won/lost. 
 The leagues system has improved, with a few add on's. Overall Fifa 09 is a great game, But takes 
 alot of getting used to, And can be annoying at times, As usual. 
  
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Story - N/A
  Sounds - 8/10
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Multiplayer - 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Very good game i am really enjoying this game as its very realistic to real life football the graphics 
 is just awesome and there is a lot of new modes to play. The thing that suckes the most is there 
 is no challanges on the game and damn i thought there would be trophies but there isn't so im a 
 bit dissapointed about that. But i have to give it a 10/10 beacause the modes makes up for the 
 challanges so it's not a big miss. And the new adidas live season is very good because myself i 
 support liverpool and they started at 4 and a half star wich i not bad and then i tried the free 
 trial and then they updated the teams and liverpool went up to 5 star as torres and kean and some 
 of the other players went up by their overall and some went down for example i went to west ha 
 and they lost half a star as lot of their players went down in overall. There is a new be a pro 
 season and the best thing they have change about be a pro is you can cachange the camera wich makes 
 is a lot easier. The player are know more realistic like the other game was unrealistic because 
 it was so easy to get past the defence and there was no presure in the defence Know they close 
 in and Make is really hard to pass the ball or skill them and the new tactics help the pressure 
 aswell and you can actually creat a goal if you think about it with the new tactic for example 
 my tactic is from the goal kick i pass it to my rb (Agger) and then pass it to the cam (gerrard) 
 and i made the left winger (babel) run up and pass it to him while he runs up my rs (torres) runs 
 to the box i cross it and if its a good cross and a header theres my goal!!!!! lol. Anyways this 
 i to long lol if you really enjoy football games you should get this game straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam619jones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great Graphics - Amazing Gameplay - Easy Online Play - Nearly Lag Free Gaming - Easy Menus - Adidas 
 Live Season works well - Goal Celebration Mini Game - Smoother Gameplay - Be A Pro Season Mode, 
 a great idea - No Fifa Shop, all boots, balls, shirts are there.
  
  The Bad: 
  10 vs 10 can be very annoying
  
  Fifa has come a long way in the last 4 years, Fifa 05 was 
 a big dissapointment to the die hard fans, which led to many playing PES, Fifa 06 was an improvment 
 but still didnt have the smoothness of Pes, Fifa 07 was basically the same as 06. Fifa 08 on the 
 next gen was much much improved, everything was better, but still left me wanting more. 
  
  Then Fifa 09 came along, it was like the best bits of Pro Evo and the best bits of Fifa combined. 
 The gameplay was smoother, more realistic. It looked like a real match, plays fell over whilst 
 headering, when players were tackled it actually looked like real life. The passing looked smoother, 
 shooting, tackling, skills. Everything was so much smoother, smarter, realistic. Everything thing 
 a gamer could ask for. 
  
  I thought there must be something bad with it and sadly yes there is. When you score a goal, or 
 make a sub it goes into a short video, and the players arent smooth, like parts of the video was 
 taken out. That was annoying to look at but after a while didnt notice it.
  
  10 vs 10, well i dont think anyone was surprised, 10 vs 10 there is no defence really, everyone 
 is running about, but me and 9 of my mates played in the same game and worked as a team and it 
 was actually quite good, but not everyone can get 10 people who they know to play at the same time, 
 playing like real players.
  
  Apart from them two problems there was nothing else wrong, be a pro is a brilliant idea and a good 
 teaser last year and it stood up to its hype, very good to play as one player and the actions such 
 as pass, shoot, tackle etc are easy to use and they seem to listen a lot, especially if you captin.
 
  
  Playing online is extremly easy, especially with your mates, you just invite them, they go into 
 player hub and accept and your off, just need to take a few seconds for the game to make sure you 
 got the right updates, and will update if you havent, which doesnt take long. Then sort out your 
 team and your off. There wasnt much lag, next to nothing which was brilliant.
  
  Manager mode is the same as normal but with easier menus and a new display. Fifa 09 is by far the 
 best game Fifa have ever made, and without a doubt smash any pro evo game made to date, but will 
 it beat pro evo 2009, its going to be really hard for Pro Evo to beat Fifa. I will still buy Pro 
 Evo but i dont see it beating this amazing game.
  
  9.5/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  When buying fifa 09, i thought that i was wasting $60 for the same game, just a different year. It's 
 true, you just add a couple modes but it's still the same as fifa 08. Apart from this, fifa 09 
 is a great game, with some new modes, better and controlled AI system and the way your player moves 
 is smoother.
  
  Manager Mode: Manager is the same as fifa 08, with a new central hub which i think is better and 
 some new ways of doing things. Everything still seems to be the same. The thing that suprised me 
 the most was when it was loading, a mini quiz comes up to pass the time, which is a great idea. 
 Apart from this, there is nothing to tell.
  
  Be A Pro: This is my favourtie mode at the moment. I created myself and i have to work my way and 
 become a national legend for my country. It is quite hard, because if you get injured or you are 
 sent off, your reputation goes down a lot and you have to work it back up. You are given tasks 
 in each match and if you complete them, you will earn experience points to improve your player. 
 This is a great mode and i love it.
  
  Normal Games: PLayer fifa 08 has gotten me used to their way of moving. Playing 09 is hard for 
 me because i am not used the new way that the players. IN time i will get used to it. Finally, 
 thorugh balls are not as hard, if anything there too easy. Press triangle and your off to go and 
 score. More than half of my goals have been scored like this. Speaking of scoring, when you celebrate, 
 they finally let you do what you want to do. You can be a robot, skip, slide, samba and all crazy 
 kinds of things.
  
  Fifa 09 is a great game that grows on you in time and you need to appreciate the time and effort 
 put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samajk07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  For Starters the Menu is extremely complex and some features are very hard to activate or make 
 work properly, an example is Squad Updates which so far I believe the only way to get is at the 
 Beginning of an online match, unlike the case in Fifa 08. However the Adidas Live Season works 
 very well. My main gripe with the Next-Gen Fifa's is the inclusion of a weird and confusing menu 
 system unseen in the previous gen consoles which kept the menu structure simple. But my main complaint 
 is the inability to save replays onto your HDD, but onto the EA Servers (another complaint as they 
 occasionally stop working) .
  
  A few newly added features that work well are the new Random arenas, Be a Pro: Seasons and very 
 Lag-Free Online Multiplayer even on a 64Kbit connection. These along with the new FIWC blend together 
 with a terrific 42 song soundtrack to provide an addictive and memorable Soccer Experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidr0ck6964
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. The improvement in speed of game play is immense I never expected it to be 
 this good. so smooth and almost a PES engine built into it.
  
  Stadiums are superb almost breathtaking. finally refs and linesmen are visual and gives a nice 
 realistic effect to it all.
  
  Being a keen supporter of the fifa 08 be a pro online and euro 2008 captain your country features 
 I've played loads on the Be a pro campaign. I love the fact at the start you get into a few reserve 
 games and the occasional first team match although the picking of the match should be done on stars 
 as i started against chelsea and was pretty much none existant as I was completely overrun.
  
  I feel that this is a huge stepping ground but can improve it alot. the AI is glitchy in places 
 but hopefully a patch may come out that will sort these problems out. for example.... I play as 
 wilkshire for arsenal.... I win games with hard work etc so its not on a easy level... but ade and 
 RVP just cannot score one on ones to save their lifes. yet they seem to be perfectly capable lvl 
 86 and 87 i believe... this isnt right. I know adebayour misses chances but not every single one.
 
  
  another glitch was I crossed the ball in... it hit the defence and bounced to the keeper... fair 
 enough... the keeper then lets the ball run through his legs runs back to pick it up and in doing 
 so kicks it into the net. happened 2 or 3 times now.
  
  and the passing of the team is annoying... one minute they will bounce it around you like you wasnt 
 there. next they will pass it and the player stops..... then starts running again once the ball 
 has bounced off him... not very fluent.
  
  but these mayb just be within 'be a pro' as i havent seen any issues with this when playing a normal 
 game.
  
  A nice addition would of been the same they did in madden 08 for be a pro. where you customise 
 your player and go to the 'draft' and you build your player up over certain tests.. then depending 
 on how you do you get a other from a club of a certain rep. then you build yourself up... but fingers 
 crossed taht comes at a later date.
  
  another addition that would be good to see is tatic changes to your player. for reserve game at 
 least I start on the wing get moved into the center and then upfront... but not one thing tells 
 me this apart from when I start getting a -postion cause im in the wrong place. Fustrating.
  
  This is a huge stepping stone and for me being a PES player up until last month when i brought 
 fifa 08 im truely speechless about the greatness of this game.
  
  I will buy PES like normal but it has a long way to make up ground with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeltaCobra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Well.. first impressions then since I havent had the game that long.
  
  My friend who I played online, whipped my arse at it first night.
  
  Usually with 08 It was 
 the other way around.
  
  I found the new game is really fluid, so much that the game has changed its roots. This is not 
 a bad thing at all in my opinion its just that it is different now.
  
  Players are more sloppy and inputs are much more precise. A slight tilt of direction on a pass 
 and your last man back will boot the ball out of bounds like he saw a ghost.
  
  There is no longer as much toeing of the out line either. 
  
  It has though got beautiful visuals 
 and the goal celebrations actually "very nearly" look like their real life counter parts.
  
  The commentary is amazing as usual in true FIFA style - fluid and fast. 
  You almost forget 
 that its the little PS3 pushing this gorgeous game at 1080p sometimes. Really nice work there.
 
  
  I found the new menu system nice to play with and the layout aesthetically pleasing.
  It is easy to hook up with a friend online and get straight into which also should be commended.
 
  
  All in all I have a lot of moves to learn as FIFA's controls are very deep, and while easy to play 
 they are hard to truly master.
  
  Soccer fans dont even blink about buying this, sports fans should have a rent and non-sports fans.. 
 well you know who you are - you shouldn't buy this. It is really hard but extremely rewarding for 
 those interested. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
