-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/fifasoccer08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Noticeably slower playing style.
 Challenging opponent AI.
 Mountain of game modes.
 Deep online and offline play.
 Peerless presentation and authenticity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep learning curve.
 Trick system a little too powerful.
 Slightly confusing menu system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,793 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The first FIFA for the PS3 is an impressive debut, and while it can be difficult at times, it's 
 a polished and highly playable game. 

  UK REVIEW -- FIFA 08 is the first game in EA Sports' long-running football series to hit the PlayStation 
 3. The developer has promised to refine last year's effort while delivering a host of new gameplay 
 modes and features. The result is that this year's FIFA plays a substantially different game of 
 football, thanks mostly to an increased difficulty level and a sense of decreased pace. The raft 
 of new skill moves means the game rewards practice and perseverance, but it could be argued that 
 this makes it the least accessible FIFA to date. Thankfully, though, FIFA 08 wraps its new simulation 
 feel in a superbly presented and very well-rounded package.  

           Master the new skills in FIFA 08 and you can take on two players with ease.      

 
  EA Sports has made a lot of claims about FIFA's new game modes and features, and they've been 
 flagged up in the game's menu system so series regulars know where to start. At the top of the 
 list is the new Be-a-Pro mode, which puts you in the studded boots of a single footballer rather 
 than an entire team. The default side-on aerial camera perspective shifts to an over-the-shoulder 
 view, and you're awarded or deducted points based on how well you serve the team. This means keeping 
 the player in position, passing the ball around, and -- depending on your position -- making tackles 
 or scoring goals. While controlling one player in a team of 11 might seem strange, it's an interesting, 
 compelling new take on gameplay. Although it's tempting to run up the field and shoot at goal regardless 
 of your position, the only way to succeed in this mode is to play your part in the team. There 
 can be long periods where you see little of the ball, particularly if you're a defender in a good 
 team or an attacker in a poor one, but on the whole it's a successful experiment on the part of 
 EA Sports.  

  The over-the-shoulder perspective of this mode shows off another of the big new features in FIFA 
 08, the trick system. By pulling on the L2 button and using the analog sticks, you can perform 
 a variety of moves that, with enough practice, have the power to cut swathes through the opposition. 
 Simple step-overs and flicks can be executed by flicking the right stick in one direction, while 
 more complicated moves can be orchestrated with a series of movements. A turn can be pulled off 
 by rotating the stick in a circular motion, while an overhead flick is a complicated three-move 
 combo that's more dependent on timing. Faster and more skilful players can pull this move off better 
 than slower ones, and top-class players such as Ronaldinho can even launch an accurate volley shot 
 off the flick.  

  In addition to the Be-a-Pro mode, FIFA has a variety of other ways to play a game of football. 
 The kick-off mode is the place for a quick practice match with up to three friends gathered round 
 your TV, though there are online equivalents with both ranked and unranked matches. The long-term 
 challenge of FIFA 08 comes from the numerous tournaments that have been packed into the game's 
 offline and online modes. Pretty much every major competition from the major domestic leagues has 
 been included, plus you can create a custom tournament to make things such as continental or world 
 cups that may happen in future. Predictably, EA's seperate World Cup franchise means that this 
 tournament isn't included in the game, but there's nothing stopping you from setting one up yourself. 

  Online, the interactive leagues let you take control of your favourite team and play real-life 
 fixtures as they happen, or you can jump into custom leagues that have been set up for up to 31 
 other players. The final mode is the manager mode. Even though EA Sports has a separate FIFA Manager 
 game, it continues to shoehorn an even simpler management sim into the main FIFA title as well. 
 The main difference in this mode is that you'll be coaching players and ensuring they're given 
 enough time on the pitch for professional development, but it doesn't really add anything to the 
 experience.  

           Players not only look like their real-life counterparts, but they move like them too. 

  While the sheer number of game modes is an important consideration in terms of value for money, 
 they're only worth something if the game itself is compelling to play. Thankfully, this year's 
 FIFA plays better than any that have gone before, and given that it's changed substantially over 
 last year's game this is no mean feat. Whereas previous FIFA games were some of the most accessible 
 football games on the market, this version will surprise anyone who expects to pick up the controller 
 and win games from the start. On the default difficulty level, the new opponent artificial intelligence 
 makes scoring goals difficult, let alone winning games. Apparently the result of a revised AI system 
 that controls players individually, the new level of opponent difficulty is a potentially risky 
 turn-off for fans of the series expecting arcade simplicity. While we think the difficulty is actually 
 too high, it encourages players to up their game and experiment with the advanced moves.  

  The difficulty level also affects the pace of the game, making for a much slower and considered 
 game than last year's version. While defenders are more efficient at relieving you of possession, 
 players are generally more adept at trapping the ball -- if you're not moving, you're not really 
 under threat. This means that you're heavily encouraged to shield the ball and maintain possession, 
 and the old tactic of just knocking the ball up the pitch is now next to useless. As a result you 
 can't help but play the game in a more realistic way, with a focus on maintaining possession in 
 the midfield, looking for through-ball opportunities, and using the trick system to lose players. 
 The most immediate indication of this new direction comes from the scorelines, which nearly always 
 reflect real-world scenarios and therefore rarely get above a total of two or three goals.  

  While FIFA 08 undoubtedly plays better than ever before, there are still a few quirks in the 
 gameplay. The game effortlessly combines lifelike movement with ease of control, but players still 
 lack the responsiveness of those in the rival Pro Evolution Soccer (Winning Eleven in some territories) 
 series. While EA Sports' players have the edge when it comes to flashy moves, the majority of the 
 game still relies on basic movement and passing, and FIFA feels light and somewhat vague, while 
 PES titles have always felt more precise and accurate. To its credit, though, EA's willingness 
 to experiment is beginning to put Konami's stale refinements to shame, and FIFA is definitely a 
 viable alternative for serious sim fans who are looking for something different to the Pro Evolution 
 Soccer series.  

  It should be no surprise for EA Sports stalwarts to learn that the overall presentation of FIFA 
 08 is so good that it's actually one of the game's biggest selling points. The game seeps authenticity 
 from every pore, with up-to-date stats on some 14,000 players, official kit and sponsorship details, 
 and English commentary provided by Martin Tyler and Andy Gray. The amount of repetition in the 
 commentary could get annoying if you play with only one team, the natural banter and interplay 
 between these two results in some of the best and most context-relevant commentary in any football 
 game. The soundtrack itself deserves praise, too -- with the usual mix of recognisable anthems and 
 upcoming indie/dance numbers, there's not a filler in the entire selection. The overall quality 
 of music means that a visit to the menu screen is something to look forward to. There are some 
 inconsistencies in presentation, though -- a referee is introduced in the prematch presentation, 
 but he mysteriously disappears in the game itself. Why we can have AI players that make thousands 
 of decisions a second but no animated referees or assistants is a mystery. On the plus side, FIFA 
 08 on the PS3 has no frame rate issues to speak of, and runs just as smoothly as its Xbox 360 counterpart. 

  Graphically, FIFA 08 is the best-looking football game on the market by a considerable margin. 
 Not only are players immediately recognisable thanks to the way that they move as well as the way 
 they look from afar, but close up they also feature individual facial details, personalised items 
 of kit, and haircuts. The 30 licensed stadiums boast both scale and detail, with video boards up 
 high displaying feeds from the camera cranes that sit above the goals. There are also some really 
 nice smaller touches, such as the shirt deformation technology and dramatic, low-angle camera shots 
 that would be impossible to achieve with even the best hi-def cameras. However, that's not to say 
 there aren't a few graphical problems. While players boast natural appearances and extremely lifelike 
 movement, it's spoiled by a plastic look that makes their expressions appear forced. We're sure 
 that the intention was to make them look like they're sweating, but the reality is that they look 
 like they've been shrink-wrapped.  

           The 30 stadiums boast both scale and detail, with nice touches such as giant screens showing 
 off replays of the action.      

  The online component of FIFA 08 has been designed to provide football fans with everything they 
 need for an authentic experience. All of your online activity feeds into a central database which 
 holds detailed stats on nearly every aspect of your performance. You can also keep track of your 
 favourite team's real-world activity thanks to the ESPN Soccernet integration, with live updates 
 from the major clubs from around the world along with ticker-tape updates throughout the main menu 
 system itself. We especially liked being able to jump in and see scheduled matches for six of the 
 world's major leagues, as well as the current table standings and top scorers of the day. Having 
 said that, we found big clubs like Manchester United were much better represented than those such 
 as Blackburn. The online play holds up well from a technical standpoint, with only the odd bit 
 of barely-noticeable lag to speak of. It also has some thoughtful features, such as only letting 
 the player with the ball pause the game, and limiting the frequency and length of time players 
 can spend in the menus.  

  EA Sports has taken substantial risks with this year's FIFA, but the resulting game can certainly 
 be considered a successful experiment. It plays a more difficult and more refined game of football 
 than its predecessors, and while it should be emphasised that the game is perhaps too difficult 
 at times, it will reward players who put in the practice. The sheer number of game modes make FIFA 
 the most complete football game on the market, while the authenticity and quality of presentation 
 continue to enhance the package overall. It may fall just short of greatness, but it's a FIFA that's 
 well worth trying out for anyone who's been avoiding the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MaNiKore
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  I love playing FIFA, I love playing football games. But this game......... this S*%T F*&K%G C! P 
 game, I really don't like. It's impossible to beat, doesn't matter how good you are or the team 
 you're playing with. You're gonna loose!!!!
  
  Don't get me wrong on the graphics, there great. I like how the players move and how the ball rolls, 
 and thats where it starts. The ball kinda always rolls/bounce towards the opposite team. The way 
 they move with it and use it, is always gonna be so much better then you can do. For example: You'll 
 be playing Man United vs Lincoln City, and Lincoln city will win by 0-1 with one shot at goal. 
 And you are playing with Man United would have at least 15 to 20 shots with players like Ronaldo, 
 Rooney, Giggs a. s. o. and not scoring. I don't know who Lincoln City have in goal, but I know for 
 sure it's not Cech, Dida or any other mayor goalie. 
  
  The thing wat's bothering me the most, is that I don't have the option between the stick or directional 
 buttons. I prefer the buttons. I thought we lived in a free gaming world, where we have the freedom 
 to choose. Now I'm being forced to use the that damn stick. It's messing up my MOJO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is the best in the series, it has great graphix and fun gameplay. The more players, the better. 
 This is a great multiplayer game for all ages. I play this game with my dad and uncle, they love 
 it, even after they lose everytime. But really, it is worth buyin this over 2009 because the gameply 
 is better and the graphix are almost the same. There are many teams to choose from, i dont know 
 any of them exept manchester united, but there are alot of teams. If u are a soccer fan than this 
 is a very good chioce for a cheap a great game, no need for 2009 version, this one is great. The 
 graphix are very nice, defined, bright, and cool looking, especially in the side to side camera mode 
 which shows about half the field in one screen and it is ver nice on a 42 inch HDTV. Get this over 
 all the other soccer games, it is more worth it for that money, dont listen to the other reviews, they 
 are all crazy, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_logan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  I have to admit it, its hard remember all the controls this game provides you but wen you get that 
 hang of it this game is about perfect. It really resembles real life soccer, not that kind of arcade 
 playability that we get all the time. Plus it has an lots of playing modes so that you always have 
 something to do. Multiplayer mode is great to... not to mention that you really have to try the 
 be a pro mode were you chose one player to control and play along with up to 20 friends online.
 
  
  I would say this was a must have if the 2009 version wasn't out already, making the servers slower 
 and inhabited. If you can get the 2009 version because EA Sports Fifa is getting better and better... 
 and in my opinion already surpassed the popular Konami Pro Evolution Soccer. Im just not into that 
 arcade style playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimchris1
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  In order to develop a decent football game you have to
  A... be familiar with the sport
  B... have watched at least some real games on TV to know what this sport is all about
  C... know 
 the rules
  The team behind this atrocity have done nothing of the above
  people giving this game high scores should go get checked honestly.
  graphics are decent sound 
 is ok the rest sucks big time
  about the game play... 
  it is ridiculous to be able to tackle your own players
  It is stupid that players have no control 
 over the ball while running
  all the AI controlled players can score from a free kick
  AI controlled goalkeepers can actually fly to deflect a shot
  You spend hours editing your player's 
 stats but they don't count
  Ai teams are always faster stronger and need just one shot during the game to win while you struggle 
 to score 
  The developers have probably mixed football with rugby so the AI controlled players keep pushing 
 and pulling your players in order to get the ball which from the little i know is a free kick.
 
  
  bottom line is this is an attempt to ridicule football and its fans all over the world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  FIFA 2008 Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  The Good:
  Visuals
  Controls
  Sound Effects
  Online
  
  
  The Bad:
  Repetitive commentating 
  Blind referees 
  
 
  
  I'm not a big football fan so this review will be short. FIFA 2008 is a good game. It's fun to 
 play with friend and online. You have Scottish team Rangers, Celtic and so forth, English teams 
 like Manchester United, Liverpool and what not plus a lot more other team as you probably guessed. 
 
  The graphics are good. The game-play is very good, The sound effects are great although sometime 
 the commentating can be a bit annoying when the same thing get repeated over and over. 
  
  FIFA 2008 is a good game to play and if you're a fan of football, (Not like me) FIFA is a game 
 for you.
  
  Graphics  7/10
  Game-play  7/10
  Sound effects  8/10
  Presentation  6/10 
  My Say  7/10
  
  OVERALL  7/10
  
  Simon.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexyyz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  I always liked soccer games for computers and video games, and I liked this one also very much.
 
  
  The players look nice, the physics are very well done, the way the players move and etc... All 
 very good.
  You can have very cool moments by playing this game. Sometimes it is just like a real match... 
 you know how sometimes the thing that is so unlikely to happen happens? Yeah... in this game it 
 happens... You can make goals in so many different ways that you never get tired of trying over 
 and over again. You are winning a game by 2 - 0 and suddenly the opponent starts to put pressure 
 in... all players go in front and you can feel that they are determined to score... and suddenly 
 all your plays fail and then the opponent ties the game in the last minute. The other way around 
 happens also... a lot! 
  
  Well the graphics are so nice and immersing... the grass looks like grass!
  
  Of course that 
 there are some problems... otherwise i would just have given a 10. 
  There are no referees. The crowd in the stadium does not move. Some times the players are dull, 
 they fail to realize that the ball is reachable, so they do not bother by going after it, and then 
 the opponent always take the ball... and some minor programing flaws regarding this problem.
  
  Overall this is a very good addictive game! it is worth to have it and play with you friends 
 and solo mode, which is very cool also. You can create tournaments and leagues and select the teams 
 you want.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good i am really enjoying it i have been playing this game now for nearly 7 
 months and still got a lot of things to do it's one of the hardest game to complete as there is 
 lot of challanges to do with different teams and cups and ect. The graphics is awsome they have 
 put a lot of detail ond the stadiums and pitch could do better with the players. Ball control is 
 very good and hard to master the skills and free kicks and deffens and attacking tactics. If your 
 afootball fan you should deffeinetley get this game it is amazing and will keep you going you will 
 not get bored because there is a ranking system online so you can try to be the best in the world 
 its one of the best fifa ever and its a must get game. Dont think of geting pes before this game 
 its the biggest mistake you will ever do plus the kit if fifa is way better as every sponsorship 
 is on the kits in fifa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Compliments:
  -Funnest Sports game to play
  -Awesome graphics and commentary
  -Hundreds of hours of depth and gameplay
  -Every playable team you could imagine
  
  Complaints:
 
  -Sometimes spotty AI especially with goalies
  
  
  
  
  Fifa 08 is a fantastic entry in the series and is as close as you can get to a perfect soccer game. 
 There was a point when Winning Eleven owned the soccer video game genre, but once the current generation 
 hit Fifa has passed Winning Eleven as the best soccer franchise.
  
  Fifa 08 is the first true fifa game for the 360, and it lives up to all the hype. The first reason 
 why I love this game is because it is downright fun. This is the most fun I have had playing nearly 
 any game of all genres. I have spent countless hours playing fifa 08, and there was not a dull 
 moment. You can easily play this game for 500 hours if you wanted to.
  
  There are many features in the game that make it a great title. The biggest draw is the incredibly 
 deep manager mode where you can play as your favorite team or select a bad team and rebuild them 
 to a powerhouse. On the management side there is a lot to do from scouting to managing finances 
 and players As your team gains experience on the pitch you can upgrade the stats of your players. 
 Fifa 08 also has a great online component with ranked matches, interactive leagues, and even be 
 a pro mode. Be a Pro mode is when you only control one player while keeping the right positioning 
 on the pitch. This mode is fun to play and truly tests your footy skills. The only disappointing 
 game modes are the online leagues in which it is almost impossible to set up and find a player 
 for a league game.
  
  The graphics and commentary in Fifa 08 are outstanding and can not be beat by any other sports 
 game. The player models are outstanding and there are no graphical hiccups to be found anywhere 
 in the game. The same can be said for the commentary as Andy Grey and Martin Taylor provide great 
 voice work. The game also features a wide variety of music tracks for load screens and menu navigation.
 
  
  Overall Fifa 08 is one of my favorite games. I could easily play this over and over again and it 
 never gets boring. Pick it up now, and look out for fifa 09 in October. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I am a diehard football fanatic. Videogames will always take a backseat to a great Serie A, EPL, 
 Champions League match. Hell, even my girlfriend takes a backseat to most of this.
  
  So, you can imagine somebody with such a passion for video games and soccer/football would greatly 
 anticipate the release of Konami and EA Sport's offerings every year. Ever since the PES/Winning 
 Eleven series came Stateside back in around 2003 I have looked the other way at every FIFA title 
 since. Sure, I rented them every year to see if any changes were made, but all this would do is 
 justify my purchase for the latest Winning Eleven title. Winning Eleven 2007 was a great game (that 
 had me log in enough hours I probably wouldnt want to say publicly) and held up to the standards 
 the franchise has built. FIFA 07 was also decent enough to maintain my interest in at least renting 
 FIFA 08 the following year.
  
  After getting my PS3 in the fall of 07, I decided to rent FIFA 08. I was surprised to realize that 
 it was actually a pretty decent game. Didn't exactly feel as fluid and responsive as the PES games, 
 but was definately a good enough game in it's own right. After playing it for a couple weeks (the 
 online was great) , I returned it and downloaded the demo for PES 2008. This was when I came to 
 the realization that I my loyalty to the PES series was over. PES 2008 played like an NBA JAM of 
 football games, everything about it screamed mediocre. It was then that I decided to cross over 
 and buy my first FIFA game in almost 10 years.
  
  6 months later, FIFA 08 is a really solid game. Sure, the responsiveness can be inconsistent and 
 it's a little too difficult. Also, the goals seem on a scripted and formulaic side a bit too often 
 but it still plays a great game of footy, and in comparison to Konami's trash offering it comes 
 off looking a lot better than it actually is. I also have some qualms with the game's difficulty 
 against the computer. I consider myself a good football gamer, but I routinely have my arse handed 
 to me by the computer on even the medium settings. There's way too many cheap tactics by the computer 
 AI whcih makes FIFA 08's single player experience a bit too dodgy for my taste. I guess its a good 
 thing I mostly play against mates or online.
  
  For the most part the visuals are all up the standards of other sports titles on the PS3/360. Unfortunately 
 though, EA seems to have tried "too hard" in some aspects. In order to flex their lighting muscles, 
 EA's staff have made games played at dusk or night time look fairly unrealistic. Any game played 
 on a pitch at night will be brightly lit entirely, with little to no shadow. However, in FIFA 08, 
 games played at night appear to have dark spots on the field and are a lot darker than they should 
 be. Games played at dusk in some stadiums are almost unplayable because of the grim and dark shadows. 
 As if professionals would actually play on pitches of this quality. The lighting was handled right 
 on EA's forgettable Champions League 07/08 game and I hope they can improve on this for 09.
  
  
  If the progress made in Euro 08 is anything to go by (as well as gameplay videos ive seen) , 
 FIFA 09 will be the perfect blend of a realistic football sim with more pace and responsiveness 
 of the PES series. For now though, 08 is good enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogu242001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I was till a year ago totally against fifa and a fan of PES but now I just could not decide which 
 is better.
  PES has become more and more a shadow of what it used to be in the last 2 years as for fifa it 
 just kept getting better. 
  
  Any way the pc version of fifa 08 is still a total waste of money and time. 
  I have played the 
 pc and the ps3 version and the difference between them is incredible. 
  At first you expect to be almost the same game with some graphical difference but nothing is the 
 same. (maybe just the name) . the pc version is like a game from 2000 with slightly better graphics 
 but with poor controls, gameplay , and overall look that some early PES games from ps one.
  
  The PS3 version is considerably better but there are some things that in my opinion should 
 be definitely changed 
  and improved.
  Firs th
  ing is the lack of possibility to change the controls. way should I be forced to play with the 
 default controls and with the analog stick.
  I think it should make a lot of sense for the game to let you play with what configuration you 
 want and on directional buttons. (you can control the player much better from directional buttons)
 
  Second thing, what is with that menu?
  Is far to complicated and hard to navigate for you to try to make any rapid changes in your team 
 when the game requires besides the usual substitutions.
  And even when you want to make a substitution there are no quick player status to compare with 
 the other player 
  you want to change (speed, tech, def, attack, team chemistry, etc)
  Also if you want to make some changes in tactics or on in the position of the players on the pitch 
 you got to 
  have allot of patience to go trough many confusing option with no clue if what you do will help 
 your team 
  or not. 
  This is a real drawback for the fun in playing the game and adding your own touch to the game and 
 teams.
  Playing with default buttons, teams and tactics takes allot from the feeling of playing this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryikem
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  although fifa has taken a lot of concepts for pro evolution and fifa has all the licence and bla 
 bla bla.... pro evolution is the master in creativity, while fifa is the master in innovation. 
 Fifa 08 is truly a masterpiece. Very addictive on offline or online modes, graphically strong and 
 solid gameplay. EA was very close to perfection on FIFA 08. An oustandin feature is the commentator... 
 crazy.. in all FIFA 08 is a great game to play and own.. just hope EA can keep the consistensy 
 for other FIFA games to come. The Goal keepers A. I is strong but sometimes can be very annoying 
 on some occasions. fifa is even more fun with 4 players. you always feel alive when playin fifa08 
 which makes it great for parties ( mostly 4 guyz) . but chicks dig it too ( i think) lol. load time 
 are just right but there is no linesman or referee in the field during gameplay ( wats the matter 
 .. to much license?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Singh-Iz-King
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  The result is that this year's FIFA plays a substantially different game of football, thanks mostly 
 to an increased difficulty level and a sense of decreased pace. The raft of new skill moves means 
 the game rewards practice and perseverance, but it could be argued that this makes it the least 
 accessible FIFA to date. Thankfully, though, FIFA 08 wraps its new simulation feel in a superbly 
 presented and very well-rounded package.
  At the top of the list is the new Be-a-Pro mode, which puts you in the studded boots of a single 
 footballer rather than an entire team. The default side-on aerial camera perspective shifts to 
 an over-the-shoulder view, and you're awarded or deducted points based on how well you serve the 
 team. This means keeping the player in position, passing the ball around, and -- depending on your 
 position -- making tackles or scoring goals. While controlling one player in a team of 11 might seem 
 strange, it's an interesting, compelling new take on gameplay. Although it's tempting to run up 
 the field and shoot at goal regardless of your position, the only way to succeed in this mode is 
 to play your part in the team. There can be long periods where you see little of the ball, particularly 
 if you're a defender in a good team or an attacker in a poor one, but on the whole it's a successful 
 experiment on the part of EA Sports. The bad points are Steep learning curve ,Trick system a little 
 too powerful, Slightly confusing menu system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merdox87
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Graphically speaking, this game is visual gold. Everything looks beautiful and there are no awkward 
 animations that would spoil the goodness. The controls now feel more responsive and since the team 
 rosters and rankings are temporarily updated, one team will not be the best for too long. Some 
 players have their special abilities which adds to the game's depth. This is a game that requires 
 skill, and that is why I love it. You will not be able to pick it up and start tearing people up, 
 you will need practice and alot of skill. The online is awesome with its virtually lagless lobbies 
 and games. You'll always find somebody to play with since FIFA has a huge fanbase. If your trying 
 to decide between this or PES, give both a try and decide for yourself. If you want my opinion, 
 buy this and love life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 786soldier
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Well the thing is that this game looks so good when hooked up2 a HD TV... but there are many bugs 
 and in some places you feel like you need to be in the right time and match to win??? confused???
 
  Sometimes this game makes you adapt to the game play soo good and you start to score lots of goals.... on 
 the other hand in some games the opponent always seems to get the ball off of you and you find 
 it hard to get into the game.
  
  In other words sometimes you score AMAZING goals and sometimes you nearly always hit the post!
 
  
  The gameplay also in my opinion is slower than the other fifa games which in some ways may make 
 it better or not.
  
  I Love the online play but on the PS3 there are many connection problems.... hope they get it sorted 
 out!
  
  The biggest problem is that the controls are hard to get used to because you can now manually pass 
 and also it all depends on how well the player is doing in the game.... is he tired etc. 
  
  Overall I give this game 9.0 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmdawg
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  My first introduction to next generation (for me that means 3d) Fifa was about two years ago when 
 I played Fifa 07 on the Gamecube. I was pretty good at the game, capable of beating my friends 
 and even the hardest difficulty. So last year I decided to upgrade my experience by getting Fifa 
 08 for the PS3. After all, the Gamespot review gave it an 8.5, and claimed the game was even more 
 realistic. So I bought the game when it was first released, turned it on, and was completely flabbergasted 
 by how crappy I became.
  
  I could no longer ball handle like I was used to, ball hawging all the way to the goal, using fancy 
 cuts to throw off my friends or the computer AI. I immediately stopped playing after a few games. 
 But a year later I decided to revisit the game in an attempt to at least pretend I didn't waste 
 my money, and also because I saw previews for Fifa 09 which promises to be even better and more 
 realistic. I sat down and decided to actually put some time into it. About three weeks later, I 
 can now officially say I can't stand this game. My love for Fifa will always be for those days 
 when you could press the A button to make foghorn noises after you scored a goal, not for this 
 ultra realistic, super flashy presentation, millions of game modes, treasure trove of soccer.
 
  
  Really what has made me incredibly frustrated are the controls. There have been numerous times 
 I wanted to bash my controller into the wall (in fact I did that once and made a nice black mark 
 on my green wall) . The first thing that bugs me is the fact that you're forced to use the analog 
 sticks. I prefer the conventional up down left right arrow keys because for me it feels more responsive. 
 And then from there it just gets worse for me.
  
  I admit, I'm probably some moron who just doesn't know the game of soccer, but no matter what I 
 tried I am terrible at defense. Even on Amateur, the easiest difficulty, I could not defend against 
 the cross or penalty kicks near the goal. All they had to do was get it in the air, and the computer 
 AI would win the battle for the ball. I tried jockeying them, holding o, slamming the square button, 
 pressing x, and nothing worked. So when I tried it on professional, the highest difficulty that 
 I was willing to go (or the medium difficulty) they had about a success rate of 75%. That meant 
 any mistake near the goal was potentially a game losing mistake. But I won't blame the game for 
 that. I'll blame my own inept fingers.
  
  What I will blame the game for is unbelievably unresponsive controls. I know from my experience 
 with Fifa 07 that passing was not exactly accurate. There were times I'd want to pass to the open 
 guy, and for some inexplicable reason he'd pass it behind him. Or there would be two players near 
 each other, and the ball would frustratingly go to the guy being marked by a defender. But at least 
 in Fifa 07 you could ball handle somewhat easily.
  
  But now the game is more realistic. If you try to do fancy stuff, two defenders will converge on 
 you. You need to pass or it's the death of you. That's good, I suppose, because in soccer you do 
 need to pass, but because the controls are so fickle you end up passing to the other team. Errors 
 like that are so deflating, especially when you're about to do a through pass to one of your teammates 
 whos breaking through two defenders only to watch the ball pass to the wrong player. 
  
  The only reason I'm writing this review is to vent my frustrations somewhere, and a review is the 
 perfect way. This game has so much potential and amazing presentation that I find it unfortunate 
 that the controls are so frustrating. Once again, it probably is because I'm stupid and inept, 
 but the game really made me angry. I'm curious how Fifa 09 will play out. I wish they had some 
 sort of all control passing like they did with NBA Live where you could actually choose who you 
 wanted to pass to. Maybe EA will incorporate it into the series one day. Who knows. All i know 
 is I will not be buying Fifa 09 or any other until I learn whether the controls have gotten better 
 or at least more accessible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  If you were to ask someone if you like Fifa 08 or Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 better, if they PES08 
 you have permission to kill them. Fif a08 is the most complex sport game to date, with a few new 
 extras. Fifa08 have gone for a realistic effect, unlike PES, which they went for a cartoon effect, 
 which makes them look like idiots. Fifa sound effects and soundtracks are outstanding. Sometimes, 
 you just sit there listening to the music. Commentary is great and so is the crowd noise. Be a 
 Pro mode is great. It takes a while to get used to, but once you got, it's a great new feature. 
 Manager mode is a tough career mode to pick, but it stil brings lots of fun. There are also new 
 challeneges which gives a workout. The controls for Fifa are quite good, but sometimes they can 
 frustrate you with shooting and tackling. Shooting from outside the box is almost impossible, unless 
 you get the perfect amount on the shot bar and good balance. Also, the new trick system is very 
 confusing and hard to use in a game. overall, Fifa08 is a game to be admired with great visual 
 and audio effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix19194
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was a highly underaprecciated one, when compared to PES 2008, you can tell there are 
 a lot of differences, there are people that like Pro Evolution better than Fifa, but personally 
 I feel that Fifa has more realistic gameplay than PES. 
  
  Graphics - 9.0 - When you look at the graphics of Fifa without the the HD cable component there 
 is a high difference, in this case the graphics wouldnt be so good, but when you have it, you are 
 in for a wild ride, the graphics in Fifa get this rating because they resemble so much real life 
 players and the environment just feels real.
  
  Gameplay - 8.0 - The gameplay in Fifa can be tricky at the beginning, but once you get used to 
 it, you'll be very satisfied. The learning curve as gamespot describes is really steep, but if 
 you play long enough, you become a really good player.
  
  Soundtrack - 10 - The soundtrack in Fifa is one of the best you'll ever find in a game, there is 
 a big diversity of music and you can customize it to your own liking. That is all there is to say 
 about this.
  
  Price - 8.0 - Although Fifa is a really good game, it isnt really worth 50 bucks, maximum I would 
 buy it for 40 and that's it, although you get loads of options to play in, they are very much alike, 
 and you will only use this game once in a while because if you play to much you'll get bored.
 
  
  Overall - 9.0 - I recommend this game, but wait until the prices drop to buy because no way it 
 is worth 50 bucks...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregoirio
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The learning curve is usually around 30 minutes for most modern games. It's basically the amount 
 of time a player really knows how to play the game. In some games, there's a tutorial, and in some 
 there's a basic level where they run through everything you need to know. In FIFA 08, no one bothers 
 to tell you what to do or how to do it. It's a lot like the sport it represents; don't give up, 
 don't screw up, pick it up by yourself and you're a pro. 
  
  SOCCER is the worlds sport. It belongs to everyone and anyone can be apart of it. It's a sort of 
 coming together. Just a couple days ago I attended an international game featuring USA and Argentina 
 at Giants Stadium. I've never felt more of a belonging. It was unreal, and that day is going down 
 as one of the best of my life. Now, you may be asking what this personal connection has to do with 
 learning curves or tutorials or just the game in general. Let me explain. America is going rotten. 
 We are unable to pick up this brilliant sport just because we don't have time. I don't understand 
 this, and although there are probably other reasons, the fact is Americans would rather stand on 
 their fatness on a base and wait for someone to hit a ball in order to get any activity. We're 
 lazy. We can't do anything active. And for those who give up FIFA 08, we can't even take the time 
 to learn a game for ourselves (SEE?! Perfect segway!)
  
  FIFA 08 isn't a game for losers. It's not like they're going to run you through something stupid 
 (although I hear they do for the Wii, but really. They call that a "nunchuck.") . They know that 
 fans of the sport are extremely eager to play this game and do not want to sit through boring lectures 
 on how to corner kick. They just want to get Ronaldinho's ball in the net. Besides, the best players 
 are ones who are born with it. 
  
  I will not say that FIFA 08 is a walk in the park. This game is fairly difficult. If I were to 
 give a length of a learning curve, I'd give it a good 4 hours. But even that's too short, as I've 
 spent a good 8 hours on it and still am learning. Hell, it took me 2 hours to figure out how to 
 shoot correctly (kept going over the bar. Pushed analog too far...) Even then, after two hours 
 of not scoring as Cristiano Ronaldo against some team from Ireland, I was still playing. And that's 
 all that matters. As long as you play, you learn, and as long as you learn while playing, you have 
 fun.
  
  Soccer was created by Gods, and FIFA 08 was manufactured by prophets. So even then, there's so 
 much to this game than a fantastic sport. The soundtrack is incredible, and sometimes I feel as 
 if I'm having more fun in the open arena on the main menu, scoring goals as my favorite player 
 (Landon Donovan) than during actual matches. Multiplayer is fantastic, as you get to challenge 
 other players around the world. You get to make your dream team with all your favorite players, 
 camera angles vary, etc, etc, etc. Theres so much to an EA Sports game... You'd never expect any 
 of this.
  
  To sum all this up, I'm going to say you should play FIFA 08. Even if you have never seen a soccer 
 game in your life, you need to immerse yourself in this game. You have so much to learn and you 
 can do it all yourself. This is an experience. You will want to know more about these players and 
 you too will become in love with futbol. Enjoy the FIFA experience. It may last a lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  For as long as I've been playing FIFA, which is probably since FIFA 99 on the PC, I have always 
 loved the series for its accessibility and fun. FIFA, despite being one of the very few soccer 
 franchises out there, has perhaps been the longest running fun soccer game. It achieved a lot of 
 that seeing as how it wasn't very heavily based on simulating the sport, yet still maintaining 
 the dose of realism. Well, now the competition between FIFA and Winning Eleven has become fierce. 
 Gamers are actually starting to gradually demand a proper take on the sport, and EA has listened. 
 FIFA 08, arguably, marks the series' first radical change - some may hate it, but the franchise 
 is better off for it. 
  First thing's first: FIFA 08 now has a pretty steep learning curve, one which will take you a few 
 hours to adjust to. For me, it took me about 4-5 games (on amateur, no less!) , to actually play 
 a proper game. I still lost 4-2, but I was happy to have finally carved my way into the gameplay. 
 The gameplay is now more situated towards realism than ever before. Gamers coming from previous 
 FIFAs will immediately notice how much, well... slower the game has become. Turbo sprints don't 
 give runners The Flash-like speed anymore, and so strategy becomes an integral part of organizing 
 your runs. Three defenders up ahead? You can either change direction, or hope you have teammates 
 nearby. 
  In the end, those who have long wanted the FIFA series to turn pro will be ecstatic to know of 
 the progress FIFA 08 makes. The game is leaps ahead of past iterations, and is without question 
 the finest footy sim out on the market. The tweaks to the gameplay and A. I. really make FIFA 08 
 stand out from the pack. Furthermore, the bevy of gameplay modes makes this one punchy and valuable 
 package that you'll be deep into all the way until FIFA 09. Visually, it's pretty good stuff, but 
 I really wish we could have more sports games (especially football/soccer) running at 60 frames 
 per second. Footy fans, FIFA 08 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santificado
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08, i am speechless. I like soccer and I have played the other fifa games, but I didn't expect 
 this fifa to be soo impressive. You can make your own charecter, manage your on soccer team, this 
 is a very fun game. If you are deciding what game you should get I would recommend this one. The 
 main scene is very clever. You get to go one on one with the goal keeper and you can pick any character 
 you want to control. Their is lots of things to do in this game. Their are so many things to do 
 you will be overwhelmed. You can play tournaments, play online, manage a team, do challenges to 
 get points and make your characters attributes better, and also you can play an actual match by 
 just being one player. It's like playing in a real soccer game. This game is really fun and the 
 sound is fantastic. I would recommened this game to anybody who wants to have a good time. Well 
 thats the end of my review I hoped you liked it. see ya later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatmanpigs
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the best soccer game ever made i reckon the graphics are good and the online play is mad 
 because theres no lagg at all its a smooth game play its also got good offline mode this year its 
 even got the a-league teams which is great theres so much different game modes to choose from
 
  you can even make your own tournament or even go to ranked matches online theres still the fantastic 
 manager mode thats the best game mode for me if u ever choose to get a soccer game i would suggest 
 u get fifa 08
  its the best one atm (at the moment) this is a must have for your collection of sport/ps3 games 
 i would even say this is the best sport game atm.
  
  These are my rating
  
  Gamplay-
  9.5/10
  
  Graphics-
  10/10
  
  Sound-
  10/10
  
  Interface-
  9/10
  
  Value 
 For Money
  10/10
  
  My final rating for fifa 08 would have to be 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 ultimately achieves what very few of it's predecessors did; it manages to be better than 
 Pro Evolution Soccer.
  
  It's far from perfect - in fact, there are huge problems in several areas - the most prominent 
 of which include a dreadful foul system (you might just get away with a cynical foul only to find 
 yourself conceding penalties for no fathomable reason) , a few glitches with the loading of the 
 game and some flaws with the AI (watch your 'keeper smack the ball into his own net every once 
 in a while) . However, these - while irritating - do not completely spoil what is an extremely enjoyable 
 game.
  
  The "be a pro" option is a nice touch, but for those players not online it's a rather shallow one. 
 The "manager" mode is brilliant though, and you could easily play through quite a few seasons before 
 you find things getting to be a little easy (as always invariably happens) . All the other options 
 are largely generic soccer sim ideas, and you won't be surprised.
  
  Mind you, the absolutely wonderful loading screen deserves a special mention - you will genuinely 
 spend hours on end just hitting shots 1 on 1 against the goalie. Great stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob_devitt
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, great game, great graphics and fantastic presentation. Playability almost up 
 there with the best pro evos of time past (not 2008 tho) and immersive. The players move more realisticly 
 and it is more of a sim than an arcade type experience as it was before. Scores are more realistic, 
 goalkeepers are crap. No game will be truly great until it gets goalkeepers right. I've got bit 
 pro evo and fifa 08 and Konami really need to get the finger out in a big way to guarantee i get 
 the next itteration. 
  But why, why give us be a pro and not let us use it. I got the ps2 version first (a present) and 
 played the be a pro mode in season mode. I had a ball playing as Kaka. Why tantalise us with a 
 fantastic feature and only allow us to play one game at a time? In other EA titles like NBA live 
 you can pick one player and lock him in for the season.
  Must try harder but dangerously close to takeing over as best football game ever from Pro Evo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonite136
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Im a huge fan of Fifa since i was young. My first game was Fifa '95 and i loved it at the time. 
 I dont like buying the game every year because they kinda of lookalike. I have 95, 98, 01 and 05. 
 So i thought it was time to buy a new one, fifa '08.... The game is really good and it felt the 
 same as all the other fifa games. What i didnt like was changing men, because the R3 thingy is 
 quite annoying since you never can get the right person you want, and that can lead to 1-0 in your 
 disadvantage very often.
  But okey, New online mode is pretty cool and i like you can update the teams, so it never gets 
 old! Also playing matches against your buddy's is fun and it never gets boring! Thats why i am 
 still playing this game every since i bought it and i wont stop playing it untill the next fifa 
 game ill buy:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  A PRETTY IMPRESSIVE DEBUT ON THE PS3... IS WHAT IS BEST TO BE SAID ABOUT THIS GAME... PLAYED THIS 
 GAME ON THE PS2 TOO AND IT TOTALLY SUCKED!! THE AI DOESN'T EVEN WORK AND IT WILL LOOK AS IF THE 
 OPPONENT IS REALLY CHEATING!...
  WELL BACK TO THE PS3... IT'S A REAL HD GAME WITH THE BEST GRAPHICS TILL NOW FOR THE PS3.... ANY HD 
 TV OWNER AND SOCCER FREAKS WON'T EVER WANNA MIIS THIS GAME! FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE EXPECTING SOMETHING 
 NEW IN THIS YEARS FIFA.. U'LL BE SATISFIED WITH TONS OF GAME MODES AND THE NEW TRICK SYSTEM AND 
 AUSUMN ONLINE PLAY..
  PLAYING ONLINE IS TOTALLY COOL AND CRAZY... THE NEW FREE KICK CONTROLS ARE ALSO IMPRESSIVE.. AND 
 EFFECTIVE ONCE U GET THE HANG OF IT.... A LOT OF PRACTICE IS NECESSARY..... THE VERY STEEP LEARNING 
 CURVE IS ONE OF THE MAJOR DISAPPOINTMENTS OF THE GAME...
  U CAN'T CHOOSE A WHOLE OPPONENT TEAM IN THE PRACTICE MODE... SO THAT IS ALSO ONE OF THE MAJOR FLAWS.... WELL 
 PLAYING WITH YOUR ARENA PLAYER DURING THE LOADING OF THE GAME IS PRETTY COOL CAUSE U NEVER HAVE 
 TO WAIT... THE REFEREE ALSO SOMETIMES GETS A LITTLE CRAZY AND SUPPORTS THE COMPUTER SOMETIMES... BUT 
 THAT WON'T CREATE MUCH OF A PROBLEM FOR MOST PROFESSIONAL FIFA PLAYERS... ONE MORE FALW IS THAT 
 THERE IS NO USE MOTION-SENSOR WHICH IS REALLY DISAPPOINTING.. WELL ALTOGETHER
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  9.5
  
  GRAPHICS-
  10 (NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT) 
  
  SOUND-
  10
  
  INTERFACE-
 
  9
  
  VALUE FOR MONEY
  9.8
  
  
  WELL THIS IS A GAME WHICH ALL FIFA FANS WILL LOVE TO PLAY... FOR SURE.. THE FLAWS ARE NOT MUCH OF 
 AN ISSUE AND IS PARDONABLE.... SO SOCCER FREAKS WHAT R U WAITING FOR?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog202
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure good poo it is 10x better than PES 2008. The good thing is that all the teams 
 are reseterd un like PES 08, WTF is Man Blue/ West Yorkshir FC why don't they make a team called 
 Solid Snake FC im sorry to say but konami sucks heavy penis Lets cut to the chase the loading page 
 is brillant you can play whilst loading, the graphics on the players and also the pitch turf is 
 very realistic. The players passing and shooting is excellent, it is not like PES when you can 
 run 100 mph and score from the half way line.
  
  The things that make me want to put lemon juice in my eyes is that the players speeds are so slow 
 Ms. Coles could cath up with them. Also what is very annoying is that you hit the cross bar on 
 every shoot I warn you may get paranoid and probaly commit scuide.
  
  Qverall it's not my scottish tea! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The FIFA 08 is back and as good as ever. once you have a look at the main menu everything seems 
 to be in place. I have often felt that FIFA holds back a lot of modes for its later re-releases 
 of the same game spruced up for the Champion League or something similar but everything seems to 
 be on that main menu, be it exhibition, scenario, online, manager mode, tournament & league creation 
 to name but a few. 
  What about the gameplay itself then? Well it looks better than ever. Players resemble their real 
 world counterparts more realistically than ever, the commentary by Martin Tyler & Andy Gray is 
 more in-depth, realistic and intelligent than ever, the crowd noises are more realistic and seem 
 to react to the game and the frame rate is superb and never flickers. OK, it takes sometime to 
 master the controls, but if you are a long time FIFA fan, i don't think it will take much time 
 to get a hang of it to start things going. I have to admit that the controls are not "super" smooth, 
 but is not bad as well...
  FIFA 08 takes the online element to a whole new level. The online play is as smooth as the offline 
 action, and I have checked this myself with a 512 kbps internet line... The action was smooth and 
 stable for all the matches I played...
  FIFA 08 is a brilliant game, enjoyable and slick with many new treats and a must have for any soccer 
 fan out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game for a really long time, but it wasn't what I expected.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is okay, I like how when you play it feels real. Unfortunately , the game 
 is really hard, well for me. The Skill System thing is really cool too.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are awesome. It looks better than real life.
  
  The Bad: This game only 
 has one bad thing , the gameplay. When you play against the CPU it is really hard. I only play 
 it a bit since COD4 is my favourite game. But when I do play I try to score as many goals as I 
 can, but the CPU is so hard that I can't score any. Game experience may be different for you because 
 you are probably better than me at this game.
  
  The Good: As I said before, the graphics are really good and the Skill System thing is really cool 
 as well. But the best part of the game is the Be-A-Pro mode. In this mode you pick a player from 
 any team and play as him the entire game. You need to master his position by giving nice passes, 
 scoring, taking the ball of other players, dribbling nicely, etc. The camera in this mode is also 
 really good. It is really close up for the best experience.
  
  This game is fun but the thing that I hate about it is that it is really hard. Other than that, 
 the game is all right. Thats why I gave it a 6.5/10, since it is hard.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azadiscool
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, first I think I will point out the negatives, just to get that out of the way.
  
  One of the more major problems is the fact that this game is incredibly hard for people who are 
 new to the series, but even when its hard its (almost) fun. But after about 15 hours of non-stop 
 playing you might just get the hang of it. Another problem is the trick system. I'll put it as 
 simple as possible, its practically impossible to memorize the moves, and if you are some freak 
 and manage to, then theres still the problem of properly applying them in-game. Which is impossible. 
 So I choose to ignore them and just do what I do, which is usually not enough to win. Also there 
 is the problem of overrating/underrating the players. One of the most annoying mistakes is Ronaldinho's 
 stats, and believe me, if he was 2/3 as good as he is in FIFA, he would be better than God (who 
 I have no belief in) and would probably be living as a god himself. So as you could guess, any 
 FIFA fan is probably sick of him by now, as he adorns the cover of basically every FIFA game. But 
 really, there's no sports game out there that doesn't totally overrate players, which does enforces 
 the saying that no one is perfect (except for Ben Croshaw) .
  
  Now for the positives.
  
  The smoothness of the animations is one thing I must point out, it just feels so right. It 
 looks extremely natural unless you are actually paying attention to the players every limb, in 
 which case you are a freak and should just sit down and let the pros play, unless you are a pro, 
 in which case, play on. Also the online multiplayer is nice, but unless you do the pro mode or 
 something its kind of sucky because no one likes doing one on one. And voice chat is kind of pointless 
 because in one on one all you can do is trash talk, and on pro mode if you do actually care about 
 your teams tactics, its pointless to even try and chat. Manager mode is fun too, but I got kind 
 of confused and just chose a random sponsor, who ended up paying me like 50,000 dollars a game. 
 Oh boy! So as you could guess I went bankrupt pretty quickly. So take my advice and always go for 
 the most money per game. Which is actually really obvious but I guess I'm just retarded. There 
 are a bunch of teams but I think everyone I know just plays with Barcelona and Manchester United 
 just cause they are the best clubs in the game. My team is Arsenal and I don't plan on changing 
 it. Though my local team is the New England Revolution. Also there is a single player game mode 
 called Be a Pro, in which you play as just one player, and just kind of figure out what to do, 
 which is almost as hard as memorizing the moves.
  
  So what do I think of this game, its $hitty in many ways but also has its positives, such as something 
 that I can't think of. So buy it if you want but its just '07 all over again but with a worse soundtrack 
 and harder everything.
  
  PS. I was extremely critical on this review and FIFA 08 is actually a great game and you should 
 totally buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minaru44
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I have been playing lots of soccer games for years, including several FIFA installments and the 
 only thing that has remotely come close to satisfying me was Konami's old series, some of you may 
 remember under International Superstar Soccer. I have yet to try out PSE (mostly because until 
 recently I had been a Nintendo hardliner) but after this installment of FIFA I am more than just 
 tempted to try next year.
  
  For a series that calls itself soccer simulation, FIFA has so many glaring mistakes that it hurts. 
 I could list probably a lot from previous installments if I could still remember them, but that's 
 not the issue here. So let us start.
  
  First. The playing schedule. It had been screwed up last year and nothing, absolutely nothing has 
 been changed for the better this year. There are still instances where when you are working up 
 a English team through the leagues that you end up playing two games in two days or actually two 
 games on the same day... probably both at the same day time, too! Now, I'm German and not that 
 familiar with the English playing schedule but even a complete soccer incompetent person knows 
 that it is impossible for the same team to be present at the same time in two locations! I couldn't 
 understand it last year how someone could program such glaring errors but that nothing was changed 
 about it this years is even worse.
  And its not just that. Taking my own league for example. Winter break is not just completely ignored 
 but the January gets bunched up with English weeks.
  And as for European cups? Well, at least some of the catastrophic issues of last year have been 
 removed where you find three teams of the same country bunched into the same CL group. While that 
 doesn't happen, it seems EA still doesn't get home and away games properly, like that you start 
 out with an away game when you finished first in your group!
  All these things shouldn't occur since all it takes is looking at a league's regular schedule and 
 program it correctly. It cannot be that hard.
  
  The second glaring thing is how the statistics are handled. Last year already I had been pulling 
 my hair out, frustrated that my playmakers and other players would get clear and obvious assists 
 not acknowledged, this year I thought at first it was better but actually I even find myself wondering 
 why no assist was awarded after a corner kick that lands directly on the head of another player 
 and then into the goal... Yes, that really happened to me once.
  The idea with best team is basically good... but when you play a team that has several players 
 ranking top with goals, assists and even the rather obscure  and sometimes just as unfair in-game 
 rankings  and none of them even makes best team... I had a player score over a 100 goals, with 
 the topmost ranking average and he neither made best team nor best player. Now what's the use of 
 all this? Nothing. Wasted programming space that could have been used a lot better.
  
  Third. Some other minor things not related to the actual gameplay. Menu navigation is... grueling. 
 Mostly I mean the inability to scroll better and faster. The least they could have done was to 
 be able to better and faster scroll through your team when you substitute players. All you can 
 do is go one space up or down and you can't even get from the top of the page to the bottom. If 
 you play with two balanced teams (necessary with the fatigue issue in the lower English leagues) 
 that you continuously rotate, it always takes a long time to change your entire team. I am not 
 even going to go into how ridiculous often the game feels the need to prompt you to/automatically 
 saves...
  Transfers and contracts are too easy to. Depending on the points invested in your transfer manager, 
 you can pretty much predict the minimum amount to spent on a listed player to get him to join guaranteed. 
 For example at 10/10 you can always suggest the lowest pay and a transfer fee that is 32 (I think 
 it was 32) left clicks from the original one suggested. Contracts are also rather easy and they 
 agree a lot faster to ridiculous low pay. For example as soon as you buy a player (even with a 
 five year contract) , offer them a new contract with the pay cut in half. They almost always accept! 
 Considering last year it was so damn hard to keep players sometimes, this time it is far too easy.
 
  And the emails? There is hardly anything new in terms of messages you get after a game compared 
 to last year and they can get pretty repetitive.
  I could probably go on and on about the many statistical and other mistakes related to manager 
 mode. But allow me just one more anecdote that really got me shaking my head wondering who could 
 program something like this. I noticed it when I had just finished second league in England (the 
 one before making Premiere League) with my team, winning about everything. Then I look at the screen 
 at the end with the team making it to Champions League and UEFA cup. The first seemed okay, the 
 second was mine... and the first teams of the second English league I just finished... Excuse me?!? 
 (and no, none of them were in a cup final with me) That is just horrible!
  
  Now, some issue with the actual game play. I think it has been suggested by others already that 
 sometimes you can spent an eternity running after an opponent trying to get the ball while your 
 own players often lose it as soon as they get it.
  What really bugs me is when my players run into each others way and cause the dribbling player 
 to lose the ball and ruin a perfectly good chance as if everyone on your team is blind and can't 
 see straight ahead when a teammate comes dribbling with a ball.
  Timing with headers is also pretty rough. At least last year after some practice I could make good 
 crosses and often enough perform a decent header. But this year most of the time the headers  
 if you even find the player you want  are either too high or horrible of course, despite not doing 
 much different than the view times you actually get it right. Most of the time it is far easier 
 and efficient to just cross over and dribble inside for a solo run.
  Whoever programmed the referee deserves to be shot. No really. To call them referee would just 
 not be right because a referee is supposed to be neutral. And neutral is not a term I can apply 
 to this year's referees. On one hand you often get fouls against you for the most ridiculous things 
 or even when you play the ball so obviously that everyone in the stadium must have seen it. Penalty 
 kicks are often given for the most ridiculous things, sometimes for your team too, I admit. On 
 the other hand, the opponent can get away with not just the same small things you get whistled 
 for but often enough even tackling your players with the ball meters away already. To top it off, 
 the most hazardous side effect to that is that the opponent seems to be able to score at least 
 3/4 of free kicks in good positions without you being able to do something about it.
  What about weather? That seems to have been totally forgotten in this years installment since I 
 haven't seen a single rain or snow game yet in all my playtime.
  What would have also been nice is making the changes you make to your stadium in manager mode visible. 
 For example giving a different stadium that actually matches its advanced, bigger state.
  To name a last glaring problem. The way extreme situations are handled is just too obvious. For 
 example once you start missing a series of good chances or hitting a post, it pretty much happens 
 through the entire game even in the most ridiculous situations. Sure, that can happen in reality 
 sometimes but the amount of bad luck you encounter sometimes is just overdone.
  
  To end this review, I may actually name some of the good things. The graphic as should be expected 
 is great. The sound is okay but I still wish the fan reactions were a little more in tune with 
 the gameplay, like the home crowd reacting to situations. What I would like for example is that 
 in a close game with the other team leading one goal or so that they start cheering and nagging 
 your team on more enthusiastically.
  The formation editor finally allows some more flexibility to create your own favorite formations, 
 something I really liked from earlier ISS games and that has been far too static in earlier FIFA 
 installments.
  The new player evolvement gives you a lot more control than last years automatic evolvement which 
 barely advanced your players at all.
  
  All in all. FIFA 08 is a game that resembles more an arcade soccer game than being allowed to call 
 itself simulation. For that there are too many glaring errors that even players only remotely apt 
 in statistic, playing schedules etc. can pick out. Most of these issues are just simply sloppy 
 since I doubt it can be that hard to program standards and rules that are strictly regulated on 
 how to form a Champions League or how to draw the final rounds. No one can tell me that is impossible 
 to program.
  Graphic-wise it's a good game, to a point where it seems that far too much time has been spent 
 in making the actual gameplay look realistic while being sloppy with the rest. I would actually 
 consider the gameplay smooth if not for your players running into each other or the opponent stringing 
 your players after them in half minute or more long efforts to get the ball without really advancing 
 to the goal most of the time!
  
  All this makes FIFA 08 sometimes fun to play but even more often rather frustrating because you 
 would play like you always do but nothing seems to be working. EA can and should do better. Unfortunately 
 I have been waiting for that to happen for years now... I think next year I have waited long enough 
 and try out something else. A simulation is something else for me, not this game.
  
  ---
  
  As an end note on the difficulty. I would describe the difficulty as far too much pending between 
 extremes to the point where you could get away with openly accusing the CPU of cheating. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueldias94
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is a the more realistic soccer silmulator ever, player moves, shoots, tricks, foto-realism, 
 etc. When i play it i am in the game, you know? I'm playing as a real player, because the game 
 is so realistic that when you play it you think you are IN yhe game, it's amazing. 
  Another thing that i liked in the game is the "arena" feature, you can play with one player against 
 a goal keeper, you also can choose the player you want, and the most fantastic thing in this feature 
 is that you can use it when the game is making loading. I usually use Cristiano Ronaldo or Ronaldinho 
 because they are the best players in the all game, and the best goal keeper is Buffon. The best 
 team continue Barcelona. F. C.
  Well there is another very cool feature, in the online mode, the feature "Be A Pro". "Be A Pro" 
 is a feature where you can play with only one player when you are online, you are one player and 
 the other players online also are only one player, normaly the game is 5 vs 5. 
  The Interactive Leagues continue awesome.
  In Multiplayer Mode you can play with 6 friends in 
 maximum, the only thing that you need is 7 controllers.
  The Playlist is very nice like in the old games,
  You also have a Shop to buy Balls, Uniforms, 
 etc.
  Well it's a good game, much more better than PES 2008.
  
  
  
  
  migueldias94 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoCNillA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Well to start beats last years maybe not by a lot but it certainly does do just that now I know 
 most people who write FIFA reviews are PES fans and really bum that game to death although the 
 recent versions of PES aint all that good tbh!! Any ways I believe this game moves and feels more 
 real with player movement on and off the ball really is something to watch as the attacker push 
 forward and get in to that space. I don't know about the most part of you out there but in the 
 old FIFAs I found it hard to score a lot a goals with players other than the attackers but with 
 this new player AI am getting goals from all over the midfield like they actually wanna be on that 
 score sheet!! So anyways have played this a few times since my purchase on the 28/09/2007 played 
 againt my friend and was impressed by the commentators with they way they actually seem involved 
 in the game and what's going on and how the stadium announcer bigs up the crowed or the raw of 
 the stadium in general!
  
  Lets go into the all new mode be a pro well little weird getting used o controlling the one player 
 but got part way there with my second attempt wining man city with a cristaino ronaldo (controlled 
 by me) strike against the crossbar for Carrick to slot home! Never the less a good and promising 
 mode in the FIFA series although next year perhaps the ability to be yourself and join teams like 
 a real player could be added in EA hint hint!! Online little less interactive more than likely 
 down to the playstation server rather than EA's own but never mind all good fun at the end of the 
 day beating someone someplace else on the globe! Not much else really about this!
  
  Career mode looking good and ready as every year in the FIFA series a wealth of real name players 
 bigger better range of fans chants from around the stadiums, players not really up to the real 
 life counter parts but at the end of the day the gameplay is in one word ACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhipMyAss
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  There's nothing quite like the beautiful game, and FIFA 08 gives you the whole pie rather than 
 just a slice. Visuals from FIFA 08 are fairly impressive, with a lot of character expressions and 
 some great animation work, leaving the whole game have a humming feel about it, a feeling that 
 it all locks into itself rather snuggly. This year, Martin Tyler and Andy Gray take up the commentary 
 box, and although most of what they say is true, some parts make no sense at all. For example, 
 they say that a defender blocks the ball when the goalkeeper parries it away. Small things, but 
 noticable things nonetheless. While on the topic of sound, FIFA brings back another track of great 
 songs which seem to fit the mood perfectly both before and after the match. The online mode is 
 back, and although sometimes it can take a while to get into an online game mode, there seem to 
 be little to no hitches providing you have a decent connection. This year, however, there is a 
 be a pro mode, in which you play as 1 player in a team of other people mixed with computer players. 
 This is a great mode with some great gameplay, letting players opt to be in defence, midfield or 
 attack and finding their best position. Overall, the online mode, manager mode and playing against 
 friends can provide hours of fun, with hundreds of different teams, cups and tournaments to work 
 your way through. The computer AI is very good, adapting to the way you play and making decisions 
 accordingly. The gameplay itself is fun, addictive gameplay which will make even people who don't 
 play football want to join in the fun. Overall, FIFA 08 is a good game with brilliant gameplay.
 
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Visuals - 8
  Sounds - 9
  Tilt - 8
  Value - 9 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  EA sports have always been able to deliver quality with the FIFA series. It is what you have come 
 to expect when you throw a FIFA game into your console of choice and play away. FIFA 08 does well 
 to keep up this record and make its mark on the Next-Gen evolution. 
  
  For me the best part of FIFA 08 is going online and playing 5 on 5 multiplayer games with people 
 from all over the world. It is tons of fun to match up your skills with a bunch of real live players 
 and duke it out against some challengers. I thought this was the best part of what the game has 
 to offer. 
  
  There are some good single player modes with FIFA 08 that have been some fun as well. The AI has 
 gotten a lot tougher; it actually isn't boring to play against the computer. It can get pretty 
 intense at times. The challenge mode is great at sharpening your skill so I recommend it for anyone 
 looking to improve on certain aspects of the game.
  
  The controls took some time to get used to; however, once you get them down the game handles like 
 a fine sports car. You have total control over your player's movements, which increases the overall 
 flow of FIFA 08 to a new level. Improvements have been made to many areas such as: graphics, controls, 
 pace, strategy, difficulty, physics and pretty much everything else which needed to be upgraded 
 to give FIFA an even more realistic feel. I must say again: Difficulty. It is not a joke this time 
 around. 
  
  Overall FIFA 08 is a strong sports game that any soccer fan should have in his collection, especially 
 with the excellent multiplayer options available and Difficulty factor. This is a great game for 
 anyone who likes a challenge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotchadec
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  There's nothing quite like the beautiful game, and FIFA 08 gives you the whole pie rather than 
 just a slice. Visuals from FIFA 08 are fairly impressive, with a lot of character expressions and 
 some great animation work, leaving the whole game have a humming feel about it, a feeling that 
 it all locks into itself rather snuggly. This year, Martin Tyler and Andy Gray take up the commentary 
 box, and although most of what they say is true, some parts make no sense at all. For example, 
 they say that a defender blocks the ball when the goalkeeper parries it away. Small things, but 
 noticable things nonetheless. While on the topic of sound, FIFA brings back another track of great 
 songs which seem to fit the mood perfectly both before and after the match. The online mode is 
 back, and although sometimes it can take a while to get into an online game mode, there seem to 
 be little to no hitches providing you have a decent connection. This year, however, there is a 
 be a pro mode, in which you play as 1 player in a team of other people mixed with computer players. 
 This is a great mode with some great gameplay, letting players opt to be in defence, midfield or 
 attack and finding their best position. Overall, the online mode, manager mode and playing against 
 friends can provide hours of fun, with hundreds of different teams, cups and tournaments to work 
 your way through. The computer AI is very good, adapting to the way you play and making decisions 
 accordingly. The gameplay itself is fun, addictive gameplay which will make even people who don't 
 play football want to join in the fun. Overall, FIFA 08 is a good game with brilliant gameplay.
 
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Visuals - 8
  Sounds - 9
  Tilt - 8
  Value - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dallbowl
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  My brother bought this game when he purchased the PS3 and after previously owning the last 3 FIFA's 
 on PS2, I had high expectations for this one.
  
  Well, I was to be disappointed. The game can be quite difficult sometimes, especially on the harder 
 of the difficulty levels. The AI simply are superior at standing and slide tackles -- it doesn't 
 matter if you are facing the other way with your back towards them. The AI and your own slide tackles 
 take a whole heap of the player and not much of the ball, but no free kicks are given. Sometimes 
 it works out the opposite -- slightest touch and a free kick wil be given. If you do tackle the 
 AI there is a good chance that the tackled player will stroll on over and recollect the ball for 
 himself.
  
  You can have a player with a sprint speed of 99, but even the slowest of defenders will catch him. 
 The AI are also extremely good at free kicks around the box. 90% of the time they will get a goal 
 from them. If you get this game, don't give away free kicks around the box. 
  
  The lack of even generic stadiums is a let down, I don't know how many teams have their home ground 
 as that Estadio de les Artes ground or whatever it is called. If you want to play as one of the 
 'less skilled' EPL teams, prepare to have a home ground that is NOT in England.
  
  The graphics are good, but the players attempted facial expressions are not good, and I expected 
 the whole atmosphere of the game to be a little better. Just little things like a linesman on the 
 side, a referee, actual players sitting in the dugout instead of empty seats, could have helped 
 the game feel more 'alive'. And maybe more celebration and build-up to the big matches.
  
  The manager mode is the same as others, manager mode being the main focus of my playing this game. 
 The player growth is quite stupid in comparison to previous versions on the PS2. I have Brazilian 
 defender Cafu on my team and he is now 40 years old and still improving. The youngest of players 
 improve at the same rate as the older players.
  
  A player rating system has been added that rates players performance after every game. It is pretty 
 much useless as you can have the highest goal scorers, highest assists players, but they will not 
 show up on the highest ranked players lists at the end of the season.
  
  The passing is still the same as other FIFA's. Your player will make little attempt to run towards 
 the ball. Your player is left standing still as the AI will gracefully run through and take possession 
 of the ball. The through-ball is much better now that it can be done manually, instead of the same 
 old repetitive angles. The shooting is also much better. The ability to put a low shot that is 
 still powerful is great for the game, and long shots are harder to pull off, and usually require 
 a player who has got some talent to do so.
  
  The difficult and almost biased abilities of the AI make for a challenging game, but not necessarily 
 a fun game. Out of all of the FIFA's I have played, this is by far the most frustrating one that 
 EA have produced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  A friend lend it to me for a month an I couldn't stop playing and the game is definitely great.
 
  I've tried it and there is a lot of game modes, the graphics are great, and the gameplay is brilliant. The 
 only problem is that you have to train a lot to really play well. This game is better than PES 08 
 so if you don't know which one to buy well buy FIFA 08.
  Online it's great and there are a lots of online modes at least 5. I also buy FIFA for the teams 
 because there are a lot of leagues, teams, players. There leagues from all the continents not like 
 PES where there is only the europe leagues. So to tell you definitely buy this game if you want 
 a brilliant football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04ecrawf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is a master piece. it has improved greately from last year in many ways. the graphics are 
 better, the game play is more chalenging and there are some great new additions like Challenge 
 mode. the practice / loading screen is also a work of art, where u can do one on ones with the 
 goalie, practice free kicks and perfect your tricks. the online mode is also super where u can 
 instantly find someone to play. manager mode is as good as ever and u can also actually score free 
 kicks unlike pes. it is a must have for anybody who like footie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazzzzza
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game with all new be a pro mode really makes the games stand out and puts pes 2008 to 
 shame. Although its missing some weather conditions with the best online play and few new modes 
 really does make it the best football game out to this day. The rating style has changed with only 
 3 teams rated 5star (barcelona, classic xi, world xi) . I really reccomend the game but the chances 
 are you've already gone out and bought it by now as it was quite a popular release and flew of 
 the shelves. I cant think of any faults as of now all though the dodgy and annoying commentry is 
 still there with mistakes such as i had just scored a goal and Clive Tilsly (commentator) decided 
 to say what a great corner i had just took although it was a freekick but other than that i cant 
 fault fifa 08 and think it is a must buy for all the ps3'360'ps2 fans 
  not so sure about psp as the graphics arn't there and there is no be a pro mode the psp really 
 does miss out on alot just like on 07. again in all my reviews i favour games with good multiplayer 
 fifa 08 has great multiplayer modes which really can be quite addictive and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlesix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Always been a fan of Fifa and PES since i was small and the new introduction of 08 meant that Santa 
 would yet again bring a Fifa game my way. My new PS3 meant that this would be the first Fifa of 
 this console for me and i was dead excited.
  Skipped the manual as i normally do and tunred it staright on. Change of menu which is ok but it 
 will take some getting used to. Liked the loading page where you get to play around with Ronaldinho 
 in a one on one with the keeper.
  Started the game its way different to the previous volumes. The controls are very flowy with movement 
 that you would expect off a real player, like the little foot in to win the ball in the air during 
 a tackle. My usual ahead pass isnt working those pesky developers have given the defenders brains 
 and they can think ahead and block out most of the passes. So its going to be tough this time around. 
 
  Tried some of the tricks but its too confusing to put inot the game and it will need practise, 
 looked at the manual and its full of instructions and hints that blew my head off.
  and one more thing, amybe its my game but where is the crowd. The stadiums look awesome with intricate 
 detail but its kinda spooky when the crowds are chanting and there isnt a sole there apart from 
 the camera controllers!!
  
  It tricky to pick up at first soin conclusion for once in my life its one step at a time!!! : ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  FIFA Soccer 08 has greatly improved from its last few releases. Great graphics, gameplay makes 
 this game a must buy for all soccer fans.
  
  GRAPHICS: These graphics are truly next-gen material. Its character models has great realism. Stadium, 
 grass and everything else is very sharp and clear.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Before FIFA 08, the FIFA series, to me, felt more of an arcade version of soccer, as 
 oppose to "Winning Eleven's series" which is more of a simulation. But this years FIFA has made 
 more of a transition to a simulation. Its slightly slower gameplay has made the game more realistic. 
 Character animations are great.
  
  OVERALL: FIFA 08 is a must get for all soccer fans, and if you're not a soccer fan, its worth checking 
 out. But renting would probably be best cuz games these days are too expensive to just buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekirts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  They've got everything to make it quite a complete soccer experience, but without weather options, 
 and unlike the current gen versions, it lacks alot more stadiums offered both of which makes the 
 game feel incomplete. While it may not deter some people, I believe there are a few who would like 
 to see EA Sports make the most of their official licensing materialize in the game. The grpahics, 
 sound and feel of the whole game might have topped PES if only the games contents were complete. 
 Personally, I liked Fifa 08 alot, just disappointed in the few missing attributes in the game, 
 and if EA Sports continue with this evolutional step, I'm very sure Fifa 08 would win some of the 
 PES boys over. Bottomline, Fifa 08 is itself one of the best in its series, and hopefully we'll 
 see these few quirks ironed out in the the next Fifa to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyflip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  The last couple of years the Pro Evolution series has caught my interest the most and I havn't 
 bought a EA FIFA game since 2004 or something like that. But since I wanted an entertaining multi-player 
 game for my new console I thought I would give EA the chance once again.
  
  Though I was used to the faster playing style, I think FIFA 08 delivers a more realistic and actually 
 fun speed of playing style. Even though I mainly play this game versus a bunch of friends or online, 
 I still think the AI is more balanced and well coded this year. You can now jump between the difficulties 
 without being stuck. What I mean is, I remember years back when you could find one difficulty too 
 easy and the other one a bit over too hard. That was annoying.
  
  I havn't completed more than 2 seasons, but the manager mode seems pretty decent aswell, even though 
 the purchasing of players are way too easy and getting big names to your club is way too easy.
 
  
  The negative side of this game must be the commentary and the referee. They havn't done ANY progress 
 AT ALL on the commentary side of the game and it is really annoying. They are too stupid and WAY 
 off on some of their comments. You can be ahead 4 - 1 at halftime and have the complete dominance 
 of the game, still the ref will start second half by saying this is still everybody's game . They 
 also sometimes seems to have a hard time seeing the different between a goal and a goalkeeper save. 
 I have often made a very smooth goal and they go GREAT save by the goalkeeper . Though I like they 
 still stick to the classic comments, such as clean as a whistle and GREAT save . They just need 
 to time them better and be able to read what is happening on the field better.
  
  The ref is so lost in this game. You can make the most obvious free kicks and get away with it, 
 while you on the other hand can make the cleanest tackles and still get a yellow card.
  
  The online mode for FIFA 08 actually works pretty good on the PS3 after the update for FIFA. It 
 runs a lot smoother now and the Be A Pro seems to be an interesting aspect and that also adds the 
 2v2 or 3v3 or 4v4 online which is actually is pretty sweet, if you have a lot of real life friends 
 that you once in a while wants to play with and against.
  
  So if you find it hard to choose between FIFA 08 and PES 08, I would without doubt say FIFA 08. 
 The multiplayer and online mode is a lot better and for me that is the most important - since this 
 game is a waste of money if you only play single-player.
  
  Oh, the graphic is just perfect and very authentic too - even though that hasn't been that important 
 for me when it comes to soccer games. The animations are also very realistic and the physic-engine 
 seems very well coded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  I still don't see how EA is not seeing the flaws in every single one of the FIFA Soccer that is 
 out there. I pass the ball to the player and he would just stand there and wait instead of going 
 towards the ball to get it. Pass the ball on the ground across the opponent's player and he couldn't 
 even get it. That's all I want to say about the bad stuff, but they're seems to be the important 
 ones. I would like to see the AI to be smarter in future game.
  
  The good: Online multiplayer feature is great. I spent most of my time playing online. I also like 
 the stats that EA logged for you online. The graphics are good (the player's face actually looks 
 kinda weird though) .
  
  This game will never get a high rating from me until the AI are smarter than they are now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguststef
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 for the PS3 is just fantastic. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is superb, the sound 
 of the game is awesome and so on. The Fifa series is back on track after a few sidesteps for the 
 last couple of years.
  
  The new trick system is extremely good, the fact that you can play (often with Ronaldinho) with 
 one player against a goalkepper is really good because you can try and figure out the trick system 
 without any pressure at all. When you have mastered the trick system you can use it while playing 
 real games.
  
  The new twist of the game is that you can play as just one player for a whole game. Before I played 
 the game I thought it wouldn't going to be fun to play as only one player. After I tryed it out 
 my opinion is different, this is so fun. You just play as one of the midfielders and you are going 
 to have a blast.
  
  But the main gameplay of Fifa is of course when you play as a whole team in Manager Mode. The Manager 
 Mode is really good, and finally it's something that you really live yourself into like the Manager 
 wanabees in Football Manager.
  
  There are some great new additions to the usual gameplay. You really control the team, you can 
 send the goalkeeper out from his goal to get a dangerous ball. Send a player out on a run so it 
 will be easier to send a through ball to him. You can even send a chip pass over a bunch of defenders.
 
  
  Fifa 08 for the PS3 is a must buy for every gamer that likes football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackps3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  obviously this is da best eva footie game especially on da ps3 enhanced graphics and realistic 
 gameplay. ive never played 1 pro evo better dan fifa. all the trickson fifa are immense and it 
 has the best ever loading screen. online can get quite disturbing when every one is mardy when 
 i thrap em also be a pro is awfull but apart from dat its a great footie simulation game on the 
 ps3 the controller is xtra responsive and easy to pick up and play. the way to win though is just 
 to run through the defense straight away from kick off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plutonium666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first FIFA game for the PS3, and it is simply magnificent, considering it being 
 a first timer. It is not flawless, but it is still a very great game.
  
  First of all the graphics are blinding. The pitch, the ball, the kits, the hair of the players 
 moving when they are thundering down the flank. It is a stunning sight, when you are used to the 
 PS 2 versions of the FIFA series. But one minor detail is the faces. They are greatly improved, 
 with more accuracy for most of the players in the game. I am from Denmark, and I always play with 
 danish teams, and I have always been dissapointed to find even the best players in the league looking 
 like trash. In FIFA 08 this has been improved a bit. Not perfect, but what do you expect? The minor 
 leagues will probably never get perfectly detailed. But Even though the faces has been improved, 
 something is still bothering me. Almost all the faces are looking like squares. players with a 
 pointy chin are having chins broad as a keyboard. They are also looking fairly brutal as if they 
 were heading for a boxing match. But all in all, great graphics.
  
  The sound is truly magical. The commentators are finally sounding like they communicate, and not 
 just throwing out phrases to one another. The fans are sounding (not looking!) great. You can even 
 hear the coaches on the sideline shouting things like "Switch to the right flank" or "Look to your 
 left". Nice detail!
  
  The animations are also a highligt, as the players actually look like in telly, except when they 
 make turns, which are fairly odd-looking. But one thing has finally reached an acceptable level 
 of detail. the Goalies. The actually have more than one animation for diving saves and a few for 
 long range shots. I was SO relieved, when I saw realistic keeper saves, and not a thousand drops 
 during a match. Nice work EA!
  
  The Dribbling system, with more than twice the amount of techniques than last year, is good, and 
 very creative. But when trying to tear open the defence with a so called Rainbow or with a Roulette 
 is nearly impossible. The animations are a bit rusty, and quite hard to perform, as you have to 
 be EXTREMELY precise with your rotations with the trickstick. Often I get to the point where I 
 want to tear my controller apart, as yet another perfect scoring chance is wasted, as the player 
 ignores my wish to perform a technique, which would bring me into position. But if they could work 
 a bit on the system, EA would have a great tool for making more realistic soccer simulations.
 
  
  The new player growth system is good, as YOU get to decide which skills to improve. But I am still 
 not satisfied. Normally you'd expect younger players to improve rather quickly 'till they reach 
 the age of at least (very least) of 22, but in FIFA 08, they improve at the same rate for their 
 whole career! So if you want to make fx the son of Michael Laudrup (Mads Laudrup) the next superstar, 
 forget it. it is simply impossible with this growth-system. Improvements to be made, if this is 
 gonna work. but it is still a good idea, and could prove to be the perfect solution for soccer 
 games, if it is improved.
  
  Lastly, the learning curve is a bit too steep, making it hard for newcomers to get used to the 
 gameplay. But it is worth it, when you've learned how to control the stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_devil91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one remarkable game. Everything, minus a few annoying details, has been done to perfection. 
 
  
  When EA boasted that no two shots on goal would be the same, they were'nt lying. No longer can 
 you take the same shot from the same distance and score every time... you need to combine a number 
 of different factors, such as shot power, pressure on the striker and height of the ball when it 
 is struck to hit the back of the net as well as that little bit of luck. This makes every goal 
 look so much more realistic than in previous games and gives a real rewarding sence to the player 
 when they score a 25 yard piledriver.
  
  Players are also alot more intelligent, constantly covering other players position when they go 
 on that goal-bound run or making the right run without the need to press anything, as well as jockeying 
 the attacker whilst the player controlled defender attempts a tackle. This leads to a much more 
 realistic game that flows alot better and feels like real football. This heightened player intelligence 
 leads to the game being much more difficult than other games, but is still a fantastic feature
 
  
  Be A Pro is also a fantastic feature and breathes a new breath of life in the series. Unfortunately 
 it is limited to one off games, which is a shame because the Be A Pro matches are very enjoyable 
 to play.
  
  There are now more skill moves on offer and this time, they actually work. A stepover, when timed 
 right clearly throws off the defender. However, these skill moves are sometimes hard to pull off, 
 and a player could probably get by without them. They are still a useful part of gameplay and are 
 visualy stunning.
  
  The detail on players is also amazing. Even players from clubs such as Sunderland or Birmingham 
 look amazingly realistic and are very much recognizable, whereas in previous games they may have 
 had that common, generic look. Even those players who don't look particularly like their real life 
 counter parts still look extremely realistic and very life-like.
  
  Despite all these positives, some minor problems remain. For instance, recipients of a pass still 
 refuse to move to the ball at times, leading to annoying interceptions. Goalkeepers still do not 
 like to rush off the line, however it still a little more frequent than in other games.
  
  Overall, FIFA 08 is a fantastic game and any lover of football, or sport games as a whole for that 
 matter, should get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPlodT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Fifa08 is the best Fifa Soccer game ever, although it is slower than PES, and maybe that's a reason 
 why PES players will say it really suck until they play like 5-10 matches.
  The new gameplay OWNS! Some may say it is a ripoff PES and maybe it really is, it feels like you're 
 playing PES on really nice graphics and a little bit slow-motion play.
  But it isn't only like that. The game has its own characteristics, such as a more real passing 
 system that will make PES players go nuts! You have to plan your passing, because it is slower, 
 and PES players will fail in MANY situations. And that's not a glitch, that's a feature.
  The controls are very much the same, despite the fact that you sprint in R2 and the square and 
 circle buttons are inverted (you may make it equal to PES controls by going on options and putting 
 on the "new" config) .
  Well, now Ill forget the little differences and talk about the game overall. It is nicer than PES: 
 graphics own and it is harder to play. PES players will think it is not even close to PES as they 
 first see the game, but they will say it is good later on, that's for sure.
  The only glitches I see in the game is a goddamn strange goalkeeper system and a super-nintendo 
 graphics of the crowd in the stadium (and that is noticeable when you first see the game) . About 
 the goalkeeper system, I can say that he seems like he's dumb. He is the easiest thing in the world 
 when you play in professional or lower levels, but if it is on world class or legendary you will 
 have a REALLY HARD TIME when trying to score while he is up, and if you put him to the ground he 
 just won't get up again on time. It is like a cooldown on him, Idk, but I feel like the first shot 
 never gets in and the second shot ALWAYS gets in, because the goalkeeper won't stand up again to 
 get it (only if I wait like 10 secs) .
  Well, the goalkeeper glitch may ruin your game if you are a perfectionist, but what game doesn't 
 have its glitches? PES has a worse one, in fact: you can just get Cristiano Ronaldo on your goal, 
 run through the whole camp dribbling everyone and score.
  I really recommend this game. I nowadays prefer to play it rather than playing PES. I think that 
 noone who buys it will be disappointed, since earlier fifa's used to suck and this one it pwning.
 
  Enjoy it, play really nice multiplayer games and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam619jones
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  The Good;
  - Extremely good graphics.
  - Career mode is awesome with transfers, upgrades, interviews, scouting, youth squad etc.
  - 
 Faces look more realistic and look more like themselves from the previous one.
  - Wide selection of unlockables - boots, 3rd kits, Footballs, ? Boxes, Upgrade player points, Celebration 
 and more player custimization
  - The football arena is brilliant for practising skills and shots, kick ups and so on, brilliant 
 the way you can do it whilst the game loads.
  - Pitch looks excellent from raining to sunny, day to night.
  - Gameplay on the pitch is excellent 
 makes it look extremly realistic.
  - Defenders are stronger, goalkeepers are much better to the previous game (fifa 07) .
  - Passing, 
 crossing, chipping, skills, shooting, heading, tackling and saves look amazing.
  
  The Bad;
  - Crowd disappears or stretches, only serious glitch found.
  - Menu can be confusing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarecrow_br
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is the best soccer game to date. I will not spend time on comparing it to Winning Eleven 
 and I am not a die hard fan of either series (although I like to play both) .
  
  FIFA 08 is best of any other previous soccer games and beats the previous Winning Eleven for sure 
 (although Wining Eleven did not make its debut into new gen consoles) .
  
  Really nice gameplay, the difficult was improved to a level that is just there, if you are addicted 
 to soccer games you will notice that after some time the game gets to easy to you even in the higher 
 difficult. FIFA 08 is extremely hard at the beginning but it gets just on the right difficult when 
 you get used to it.
  
  The be-a-pro mode is really fun to play although playing as a defender is tougher than a midfielder 
 or a forward and lacks the possibility of playing as a goalkeeper. EA should also have included 
 the possibility of playing an entire season on be-a-pro mode, it is a shame you can only play it 
 on friendly matches.
  
  Good, graphics, good voice, stadiums are really detailed, good environment for the stadiums (although 
 the chants from the fans on the stands could be louder and appear more often - You can hear Liverpool 
 fan chanting "You'll never walk alone but it is really quite when compared with what actually happens 
 in Anfield) .
  
  The online play is also nice and keeps your interest in the game even when you think you mastered 
 the game and playing against the computer is not fun as it used to be.
  
  On the bad side, some teams are not licensed so with you want to play with national teams you will 
 be really disappointed (soccer forces as The Netherlands are not licensed) . The free kicks are 
 really annoying, when you are in charge of one it is really hard to make the ball past the barrier 
 and make it to the direction of the goal even when you are playing with the best soccer players 
 in the world; when you have one against you on the proximity of your goals, forget, the computer 
 will almost always score even with non-named, unknown soccer player. This is really annoying.
 
  
  It is a worth acquisition, lets wait and see what Winning Eleven will bring to beat this game when 
 it is launched to the new gen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeroen_batman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  If they cant win from PES they steal it.
  Look at FIFA 2006 and FIFA 08 its very Changed right?
  well look at the gameplay of FIFA 2006, very 
 different from PES eey?
  now look FIFA 08, very close at PES eey?
  the passing, the shooting, the animations and the keepers are definatly rip-off from PES.
  But 
 there are few things that are the same: the menu and the graphics!
  i respect their work but i cant deny it, its a rip-off!!
  and another thing: first try the Demo
 
  but first of all the comentator is good and the crowd amazing!
  tne animations, gameplay are rip-off so i wont get there!
  the features are great too (i like 
 it more than the way PES do)
  its only fun with your friends.
  and if your alone, you will fall asleep.
  
  
  
  my opinion is: play PES!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first got FIFA I was expecting it to be just like all the other past entries into the game, 
 all I expected new was better graphics and also new players. What I got was that they changed the 
 entire make-up of the game and made it a whole lot harder. They went from being a rather arcade 
 style game to a more polished more professional game. The only problem is that the game when it 
 became more realistic it made the game a whole lot more difficult. This game is not for the people 
 that just have a passing interest in soccer, but those that are genuinely interested and want to 
 sit down and invest the time to spend on learning all the mechanics of the game. The big new feature 
 this year is the be a pro mode, having played and tried this I have come to find that this is a 
 pretty useless addition to the game, as the game camera and view options are annoying to say the 
 least. They have update the graphics, which is nice, but there are still some problems, for example, 
 crowds look terrible, they are poorly done and just don't cut it on what is otherwise a spectacular 
 looking game. The game's soundtrack is top notch providing the usual great international mix of 
 tunes. The game does have some issues with repeating commentary or commentary that just doesn't 
 make sense in the context of the game. The game is overall once you get the hang of it a great 
 and enjoyable soccer game that is sure to please any fans of the FIFA series or someone that is 
 looking for a realistic although challenging game of soccer. NOT RECOMMEND FOR CHILDREN, this will 
 lead to many a broken controller and many screams of anger...... Don't say I didn't warn you. 
 
  If you have the patience and you like soccer go out and get FIFA if you don't have patience than 
 don't even bother with FIFA. h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowski13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit that for the last 4 or 5 years PES has been generally the more playable 
 football sim on the market if not always the best looking ( a hard confession from someone who 
 has always been a massive FIFA fan) . EA never seemed to get that balance right between authenticity 
 and gameplay. FIFA 07 was the closest so far in terms of gameplay, but I still found it was always 
 much more enjoyable having a game of PES with my mates than sticking with FIFA. I got FIFA 08 (PS3) 
 on release day and was initially struck by the difficulty of the game. Playing against the computer 
 on a high difficulty setting is immensely challenging and it requires alot of patience to effectively 
 break down the opponents defence, and even when you do you often find a header agonisingly flashing 
 over the bar due to some last ditch defending. I've heard alot of people complaining about the 
 difficulty but lets face it's not that easy to score in real life so why should it be in a game. 
 It wasn't until I went round to my mates to have a go on his brand new copy of PES that I realised 
 that EA had finally recaptured the bragging rights in the football world (for at least a year) . 
 PES 2008 is in many ways an inferior game to last years installment. Its even easier to round several 
 defenders like they were slalom gates and the shooting mechanics are absolutely awful. The only 
 good thing I could say about the game was that you could reconfigure your buttons how ever you 
 saw fit, and make it more like FIFA. This is probably the most annoying thing about FIFA as there 
 are only a few very rigid button configurations. There are too many plusses to this years FIFA 
 to list but a few include: its the most realistically presented footy game to date, the chalenging 
 game play add a real sense of achievement to winning competitions in singleplayer, this is in contrast 
 to the multiplayer modes where it is really easy to get a game going with your mates or online. 
 The two down points for me are the afore-mentioned button configs and the utterly useless through 
 ball (not worth trying without making it a lobed through ball) . Fingers crossed that EA can keep 
 up the good work next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegiaKing16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. Has High-Def graphics, great music and is really life like. This game 
 is really hard though. Lot of hard teams and the controls are hard to master, well its easy to 
 walk/run but shooting is a different story. Also when playing against a computer their whole team 
 is at the same level but your team doest have CPU mode when your playing as only one player. Over 
 all their is a lot of different teams to choose from. They're are about 30 leagues in the game 
 and there is 15,000 different players. I really like this game. Just purely great. Best soccer 
 game ever made so far. I say this game gets 9.5/10 . I hope you enjoy this game like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abzddon
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  The passing seems good at first, but its as bad as the old games. The defence has gone so bad its 
 unbelievable, and the slide tackles are basically the players lying on the ground. The ai dont 
 even intercept the ball even if it goes right through them. It didn't take too long to realise 
 that solo's are the best thing to do in this game. And THE KEEPER, omg how many more balls can 
 they possibly spill. WORST PES EVER, a rip off, don't buy it, rent it or play it. 
  
  On the plus side though the graphics are good, 
 
  ......................, i think thats all thats good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galerian86
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the definitive football game for current gens consoles. There, hard for me to say being 
 a PES fan for so long. It is a better game than 07 in many areas. The gameplay is slowed down, 
 making that decisive thru pass more.... decisive. Patient is the name of the game now. However, 
 comparing this game with PES6 (WE2007 for some) , reveals some weaknesses. First is the resposiveness 
 of the control. VERY LOW. I have been cursing for the first few hours of playing the game due to 
 that. It just won't freaking PASS. You need to learn when to anticipate to pass. Like a second 
 or so earlier, even when the ball is in the area where you can hit it easily. The other weakness 
 is that the teamates aren't bright enough to let the ball pass them when the ball is intended for 
 someone else. They just let it hit them. The problem is not that frequent but it is there. in short, 
 IMO, I almost can call this game PES with licenses which ROCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nir_Avniel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  ........ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ........ ........ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 
 ........ vv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahier_daniels
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  Im a die hard PES series fan , having to wait what seemed like eons for PES 2008, i decided to 
 guy Fifa 08 in the mean time, you know just to wet my appetite for a highly anticipated PES 2008. 
 First impression of Fifa 08 - Brilliant. After a few hours of playing it i realised how hard the 
 game is to play as i am so stuck in my pro evo ways. After getting the hang of it i began to admire 
 how lifelike the game runs, looks and feels. When playing on hi def tv its awesome and something 
 ill consider when Fifa 09 and PES 2009 next sqaure up. Only 1 tiny problem i feel that this game 
 has, why on earth would you restrict us to only using the analogue sticks to move the players? 
 i mean i enjoyed the option of using the d-pad or analogue. Cmon EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredrichards3
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Firstly... beware.. this game is only suited to those with a lot of patience. After 5-6 hours of 
 playing this game, I still have not got the hang of it. Passing from player to player is easy enough 
 but the more important evasive dribbling skills and quirks are very hard to learn even with the 
 help of the manual. Most of the moves in this game require exact timing to pull off which can be 
 very frustrating at the best of times. And practicing moves is a bit pointless because the practice 
 pitch provides a 3rd person (towards goal) view which you don't typically use in the game, so once 
 you have mastered a particular move you then have to learn how to do it from a side angle ahhhhhh!
 
  
  The Good....
  
  The features with this game are very comprehensive, there's a team manager mode, single player 
 quick match mode, tournament mode, season mode and plenty of online modes and features to keep 
 you busy if soccer or (football) floats your boat i reckon you will like this game. There is also 
 plenty of unlocks that give you a reason to play which is a nice addition. The Bad....
  
  As for the graphics i am not that impressed, some parts of the game look good but others look terrible. 
 EA have still not worked out how to make the crowd look half decent, and most cut scenes have low 
 frame rates. For the ps3 this game could have looked a lot better, the graphics are what you would 
 expect on the 360 but not the ps3. There are also quite a few anti aliasing issues that are very 
 annoying throughout the whole game. Like I have mentioned before the learning curve in this game 
 I think is way too steep, don't expect to be playing competitively online before you have probably 
 spent about 20 to 30 hours practicing in single player mode, and even then don't expect to be that 
 good. Overall...
  
  If you are not a die hard soccer fan then I reckon this game is too involved for it to maintain 
 your interest long enough for you to master it. This is the type of game that involves putting 
 aside any other games you may have in you collection for a long time. Overall i'm a little disappointed 
 with this game and I think the difficult playability is the one contributing factor that hurts 
 it's overall package. This game is suited to older teenagers and adults, I would not purchase it 
 for children due to it's complexity which most kids would find frustrating. Not bad but not quite, 
 this is not a game where 3-4 friends at a party can just grab a controller and start to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fellas_NCFC
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  had fifa 07 last year and on the whole I thought it was a vast improvement on the poor fifa 06. 
 I found the game play and the styles of wonderful football you could create wholly immersing. However 
 it had it's faults. This year the same is true.
  
  Fifa 08 is visually spectacular especially on the 3rd gen consoles and blew me away when I first 
 saw it. The crowds look better than ever and you felt that you were actually watching a real football 
 match when playing it. However here comes the rant. Last year Fifa 07 dabbled in a momentum bar 
 thing that swung matches and it did seem to work, it was frustrating though how you'd be on the 
 receiving end too often. This year though they seem to have gone overkill. Playing with my friends 
 i'd find myself 4-0 up and cruising only to find tainio coming on as a sub and turning the entire 
 game around for a 6-4 hammering. I should get onto game play.
  
  The game play isn't awful, far from it. The control seems to be improving every year and I feel 
 finally you could say the only 4 different directions touch has gone. However the game feels slow 
 and the turning and animations too fail to deliver momentum. Even on fast settings it was difficult 
 to feel under pressure or make the game feel realistic which saddened me as I really thought that 
 with 3rd gen consoles this would set it out from the old versions.
  
  Now I come to the shooting and the passing systems. The shooting does seem to have improved in 
 some ways. You do feel as though you can shoot it in anyway you want but it lacks the control and 
 refinement to make it a truly successful system. The passing is still quite poor I found. Too often 
 passes are short, wayward or in the wrong direction and are very easy to intercept by any players 
 or computer playing a rush defensive strategy. The crossing is better though and particularly the 
 headering, with timing and rubs being very influential.
  
  I feel overall the game has improved on fifa 07 in many aspects but I feel it has taken some significant 
 steps backwards. The slow, unrealistic style of play really frustrates me and the turning and touch 
 too often lets down. Anybody looking to do Herny type turn and runs will be disappointed. I feel 
 too much time is spent on the ronaldiniho tricks and not enough on making the game develop styles 
 that are used in real life.
  
  Overall too often you'll find yourself frustrated that playing a certain style of football is prohibited. 
 I found you actually not play direct football now at all, which really cheesed me off, wing play 
 is difficult to master and in my opinion, time wasted, as too often the crosses fly around everywhere. 
 Basically the only way you can play is triangles and passes and little flicks on your L2 and analogue 
 stick. It's all right if you're gonna play arsenal or Barcelona all day but if say you want to 
 play as Barnsley the whole feel of a game is ruined. The slowness of the game doesn't make the 
 game more lifelike it just makes this a chore and bore to play and sets it more and more apart 
 from the actual real world of dynamic football.
  
  I haven't played PES 08 (WE) but i'd have to think it'd be a better game gameplay wise and for 
 the first time in many seasons I think thats gonna be my game of choice.
  
  (taken from my IGN review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jv_cool
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I played a whole season, to see what this game had to offer. And a couple things are for certain. 
 The visuals are fantastic, top notch next generation. But the gameplay is very very strange. First 
 of all the ball handler at times seems to have a second delay from the time I press x or o to the 
 time the ball handler actually kicks the ball. And that is a big issue, because in any sport if 
 the player being controlled dosen't act at the time the person presses the button, then that would 
 be the difference between a win or loss. Like if a baseball hitter dosen't swing at the time the 
 person presses the button , then thats a strike. Or if a quarterback dosent throw a ball at the 
 time that its being controlled to do so, then thats a interception. I understand that their should 
 be a small delay for the ball handler to swing with his foot, but sometimes the player takes way 
 too long, out of the norm. Also, their seems to be some kind of magnetic field that controls the 
 players running without the ball and many times when i switched to that player i was stucked going 
 towards the magnetic direction that i was drawned to. And that seemed unreal, because on long passes 
 i would try to redirect the player to go towards the ball and the player just stud still for a 
 long time, while the defender was free of motion and took his time to scoop up the ball. The counter 
 attack was agonising at times, because the defenders and midfielders falled back recovering to 
 their positions very quickly, just like they should, but my midfielders didn't seem to have the 
 same motivation to help out, so most of the time it was 3 against 7. which is pretty bad because 
 in real soccer counter attacks are extremely important for scoring goals. Just like free kicks 
 are, which in this game the computer scored half the time on them and i never mastered it, so i 
 scored 1 out of a lot. Also in real soccer corners have a high percentage rate of turning out to 
 be goals. the computer did a great job, scoring half the time on corners, while i scored twice 
 the whole season. But what really aggravated me was the sloopy movement of the players, it seemed 
 like they where obesed and running on ice. because the defender would just skate by the ball handler 
 and that's not how it is in real life, because im not even that clumsy when i play. And i know 
 that the professional soccer players, who have very little body fat and are in peek physical condition, 
 can maneuver better than that. I could go on, but overall the game play was more aggravating than 
 fun. It was kind of like watching your favorite team playing really sloopy football. But sincerely, 
 i think this game play is better than their previous version. They just need people that play the 
 actual game, to make next years game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDEN-07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the FIFA franchise i would continuesly be filled with excitement and optimism 
 when the next installment of the franchise would be released-only to be disapointed and made envious 
 of pro-evo fans continuesly. However, i am lad to say that that has not happened this year. The gameplay 
 is more fluid and realistic, the game is brimming with vast quantities of players and leagues (including 
 my own local irish league)
  and the players and their surronding enviornment are graphically stunning.
  Improvements from 
 previos years versions include a harder, more challenging game with an added difficulty level (legendary) , improved 
 player A. I, more effective goalkeeping, better player ratings and the fantastic mode were a player 
 practises with ronaldinho while waiting for a game to load (wich isnt very long) .
  
  All these features and improvements make a fantastic game, however there are a few nagging issues 
 such as the game freezing and poor referees.
  
  All in All E. A has produced a fantastic, free flowing, realistic football game that has finally surpassed 
 its rivals and done its liscenced leagues, teams and players proud.
  
  Greg Fox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake_RV
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I been playing PES and winning eleven for a long long time.. i never liked FIFA but what a read 
 about this one take me to buy it...
  
  I think it was a good buy, but is not at all a good game, i like the training stuff and the big 
 screen back in the stadium... have a nice tricks, all real, great animation, official leagues, teams 
 and players (i pray someday PES have it) ...
  The only problem that i got was when i tried to do team work, i didn't find anything to do that, 
 make some near player run by the band, or have a center attack. I hope they do a better work next 
 time with that because a must have for a soccer game. Another problem was when i try to do a change 
 of rhythm, you can't do that... i a shame that you can't walk and run to evade other players, you 
 only have one rhythm, everyone running and running... only when you kick the ball in front of you, 
 you can see some change of rhythm in the players...
  
  I enjoy the game, but i think i stop playing it very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Christiansilva
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all I want to say that I am NOT a Winning Eleven hardcore fun and I not here to put Fifa 
 down because I love WE. I even used to like FIFA better. I think both games have their pros and 
 cons. I waited so long and anxiuosly to get this game and after only 2 weeks of playing it I am 
 going to trade it by fifa 07 which has less flaws. My first disappointment was while playing my 
 first fifa 08 match. I was looking through the camera options for a better camera angle and I couldn't 
 find one that I like. Fifa 08 has terrible display viewing options. Players look good on the button 
 of the screen and very small on the top of the screen making it very difficult to see and play 
 on the top of the screen. So you end up playing most on your matches on the botton of the screen. 
 The end to end camera is even worse to play on. I guess EA thinks that everyone play games on 40+ 
 screen TV. Playing freekicks are terrible. Even if you follow the manual of instruction it doesn't 
 work like it describes. Not even with the best players like Ronaldinho and beckham. The assisted 
 shot, pass feature thing is better to be set to off. If you put it on, you end up with a lot of 
 wrong passes and shots that go right at the keeper most of the time. The CPU wins a air ball in 
 your defending area 99% percentage of time. Atackers hustles your defender and wins air balls most 
 of the time. The menu is very small. Again if you, don't have a 40+ screen TV you'll have a hard 
 time reading it. Sound tracks are so so. Finally what made me brake my controller was 20th gol 
 I suffered from a direct free kick. I just threw it on the floor and it broke in half. I agree 
 that a well known talented free kick player has a lot of chances of scoring from a medium distance 
 and near the area freekick. What I cannot accept is any unskilled type player scoring from a freekick 
 everytime he has a opportunity. And worse of all, it is not like the ball goes far from the keeper, 
 almost hitting the post. It's like the keeper jumps just as far as to let the ball pass. It looks 
 rediculous!!! Making the wall jump won't help. Fifa 08 has better gameplay than any previous Fifa, 
 better graphics and comentary, doesn't have the problem of slowing down but there are some flaws 
 that will make you mad and wonder why a company so big like EA released the game with some stupid 
 flaws that could easily be fixed before releasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scallywagger
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  More difficult than other versions in the series, you won't be scoring long range efforts much 
 on this, and corners are not easy to score from. Presentation is spot on as usual with great commentary 
 from Tyler and Gray. Trick system is difficult to use, especially if you use crap players to perform 
 them. Multiplayer is good, great for a laugh with a few friends and pretty good online too. My 
 thoughts are, if you are new to the series then you are in for a treat, if you are die hard Pro 
 Evo give it a go, you might be presently suprised. If you have 07 ditch it and get this!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start from the top i guess. I'll try and keep myself short, as this is my favorite spots 
 game and i could write a friggin' book about it.
  
  Graphically FIFA is all i've came to expect from the franchise and than some more. While toned 
 down on the presentation of the game, a whole lot more work has been down on the stadiums, and 
 the player animations. Even outside of the Be a Pro mode players look eerily realistic and similar 
 to the real life counterparts. Tackling, pushing, Ball protecting, reactive shots and moves have 
 been expanded the most as in all those situation the pixelated versions of real players either 
 pull off some signature body motions that we've come to know as fans or at least look very much 
 like any other player would in a game on TV.
  
  Menu and the presentation like i mentioned earlier has been toned down greatly. In addition, navigating 
 around can be somewhat confusing. Even after 30ish play hours i will miss the option i wanted or 
 stumble into a sub-menu that i absolutely did not wanna go to. However with all the play modes, 
 you wont be spending much time on the menu screens so it is more or less a small nuisance and not 
 a problem with the game.
  
  One of the biggest surprises for me was the soundtrack and the sound aspect of the game in general. 
 Commentary is very clever, colorful, and it reacts to even the most unpredictable situations on 
 the pitch with 90% accuracy. There is occasional lag, but again it is not something that bothered 
 me too much. As for the music soundtrack, i dont even have the words to the describe it. Variety 
 of the songs is amazing, the quality of the songs is amazing and the fit fo the music-to-the-game 
 is also amazing. I personaly have already bought the soundtrack on iTunes. Warning: the soundtrack 
 is incomplete, so i strongly recommend to buy only the songs you want and than separately dl the 
 rest.
  
  Another major surprise for me is Be a Pro mode. You can tell its a test feature, if you will but 
 even with that in mind, this could easily be the feature of soccer games. Again, with the facts 
 that this is the 1st time with this mode in the game, in mind i say that it is surprisingly deep 
 and fun. One big thing i noticed is that i've taken the play to almost poetic level in this mode 
 as it is a whole lot easier to execute anything in the trick system than it is in normal games 
 and modes. Now take that as a good or bad thing, thats up to you, but overall it makes for half 
 the fun while being a Pro.
  
  Controlls are one area that i've not been impressed so far. Whole xbox360 button use is not really 
 working to well with FIFA (or any PS3 game so far, and someone should point this out to the devs) . 
 However being that there is no custom option, i did what every other gamer does in situation like 
 this. Got used to it. Just to make this a bit clearer here is what the problem was for me. Playing 
 online and to a small extent offline, in fast paced parts as well as in situation where you need 
 fast reflex and complex moves, i'd stumble around the controller and from time to time mess things 
 up pretty badly, It has gotten much better with play time but overall it will never go away since 
 the button scheme are damn poor.
  
  Playing FIFA is pure joy and it can fitted for any type of a player. Devs have definitely payed 
 attention to that and there are multiple play modes as well as huge number of unlockables which 
 really vary from casual offline player to a hardcore FIFA fanatic. However in the modes i've played 
 the most which is online games, manager mode and be a pro i found some pretty critical issues. 
 None of them are directly related to FIFA's near flawless gameplay but will hinder an true wannabe 
 manager like myself. 1st off is the player trading. It is as shallow as it is frustrating. There 
 is apparently no such thing as a free agency in soccer, so you cannot pick up a retiring superstar 
 for a year to boost you young team's leadership, or a failing striker who with the right coach 
 might still have a good run left in him. Also negotiating is simple as buy or no buy. There is 
 no multiple team trades, there is no securing a player during the season and than receiving him 
 as soon as the transfer window opens. One more thing i was hoping to see and it did not happen 
 is in the micro-management aspect of your team. While you can grow players there is no direct satisfaction 
 controll or morale control. You cannot single out a player after a game and praise or scold him, 
 and the only way to make them happy is to let them play for the 1st team. Also the AI for player 
 growth is terrible. It improves random players and in random ways. So if you wanna make things 
 happen in the 15 year run, the right way, well do it yourself.
  
  At any rate, amongst some very small issues that will bother only the most hardcore FIFA fans this 
 is by far the best FIFA i've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blainetbr
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Visuals are great, soundtrack isn't bad either. The commentators need to wake up and show some 
 excitement, or at least sound as though they want to be watching the game. The career mode is extremely 
 deep, and the challenge mode and be a Pro mode are great. Here is my main problem that holds this 
 game back from greatness... the gameplay sucks. I'm playing with manchester united, and i'll play 
 against a terrible team that has no player rated above a 55. No matter who you're dribbling the 
 ball with, or passing to... the other team WILL steal the ball, knock your player over without a 
 foul being called, or just simply push you aside and start dribbling the other way. Also, I'll 
 be on a dead sprint with C. Ronaldo, and a defender that has a sprint rating 30 points less than 
 CRon will catch up with him, everytime. Also, if i try and steal the ball as easily as the AI can, 
 it never works... i'll hold down the standing tackle button... and nothing happens, the opposing 
 player just dribbles on past me. Also, why is the AI goalkeeper the best the world has ever seen? 
 No matter how good/bad the player is rated, he makes a dozen saves-of-the-year per game. If FIFA 
 could simply stop worrying so much about making the game look good, and spend maybe 30 minutes 
 fixing the gameplay, it may have a chance at being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ-2K7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  probably the best FIFA so far, the first of the series to hit all next-gen consoles sets a benchmark 
 for all sports games. a great new edition is the pace control feature. this allows you to pull 
 off dazzling skills and leave your opponent bewildered. also a new feature, is Be A Pro. this lets 
 you control one player through the entire match, wether it be a defender, midfielder or striker 
 is up to you. unfortunately, this feature isnt yet available for online play, well on the English 
 version anyway. so, in conclusion, the amazing graphics and realistic animations makes FIFA 08 a 
 force to be reckoned with. the only flaw is the fact that it takes ages to master, it would be 
 very hard for a newcomer to the FIFA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Le-Beave
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Note: Whilst this is a review of FIFA 08 on the PS3, it is an informal one of why I thought it 
 was so good to play and it's improvements from it's predecessors. If you are looking for a formal 
 review, you may wish to not bother, still, I'd appreciate your time here!
  
  FIFA 08 is great! I'd been playing Resistance Online for a while and then received my FIFA 08 which 
 I pre-ordered and I haven't stopped playing it since! So what makes it so much better than '07?
 
  
  The difficulty is alot harder than previous years, the tackling system more realistic, shooting 
 abit more tricky, graphics are stunning and such a step up on my ps3 from the ps2, the EXP system, 
 the arena, commentary is also good, the sticker book of acheivements, Be a Pro mode, improved Lounge 
 mode.... If that's not enough you are a very tough nut to crack!!!
  
  Those at EA have really put some effort into this game and it really shines through.... The effort 
 sweats out of the pours on the players foreheads in matches... and I'm deadly serious there! How 
 cool is that!? I'm enjoying every element of this game and there's no reason not for YOU to. I 
 just haven't got into Online mode much yet... (But that's not to say that you won't, it's just that 
 I prefer to master a game before playing others Online) . I'm nearly done with Offline Modes and 
 will master Legendary Difficulty before I play Online solidly..... You guys better be ready! lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pink_Mink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I decided to pick a copy of FIFA 08 for the PS3 instead of getting it for my 360 purely because 
 of the free online play. I was a bit worried as I thought it might be a bit laggy, but I've had 
 no problems at all playing it over the net.
  
  Gameplay is excellent, very realistic (balls ricocheting all over the place, passes going astray, 
 diving, etc) and the attention to detail is once again up to a very high standard.
  
  I've not played PES, so I can't compare the two... but it will have to be something very special 
 to beat FIFA 08. Thumbs up to EA, they've managed to make a great game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azooz86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 ... its 1 of my favo soccer games ... it is getting better and better every time i play 
 it ... but this time it has more cool game play and cooler graphics :D :D :D so for the people 
 who say its not good they are wrong .. and its good to be back writing reviews on games though 
 ... FIFA 08 ... its 1 of my favo soccer games ... it is getting better and better every time i 
 play it ... but this time it has more cool game play and cooler graphics :D :D :D so for the people 
 who say its not good they are wrong .. and its good to be back writing reviews on games though 
 ... FIFA 08 ... its 1 of my favo soccer games ... it is getting better and better every time i 
 play it ... but this time it has more cool game play and cooler graphics :D :D :D so for the people 
 who say its not good they are wrong .. and its good to be back writing reviews on games though 
 ... FIFA 08 ... its 1 of my favo soccer games ... it is getting better and better every time i 
 play it ... but this time it has more cool game play and cooler graphics :D :D :D so for the people 
 who say its not good they are wrong .. and its good to be back writing reviews on games though 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo_hassan81
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Whilst the graphics are really good, the gameplay is no where near the league as Pro Evo. As you 
 expect with all FIFA games, all the kits, name etc etc are here but the actual gameplay is lacking 
 in many departments. From what I could tell on the PS3 version, all the players moved the same 
 and there was no difference between the running animation of Ronaldinho's to the more languid style 
 of Riquelme for example. Passing is a still a sore point, with often the receiving player just 
 standing still and no moving towards the ball. Shooting is a lot better but on anything above amateur 
 mode, the goalies pull off super-human saves with ease. Generally I found the game play to be not 
 responsive enough and even performing the simplest turns would see you get tackled effortlessly 
 by a much much inferior opponent.
  
  Graphically there are also some let downs. Most notabaly on the cut scenes, where the players often 
 looked deformed and no where their real-life counterparts, some of them even look like zombies. 
 I know EA have tired to the sweating effect but it just ends up looking like the players are made 
 from plastic. Also, there are no weather effects (at least not the PS3 version anyway) and all 
 european games seamed to be played during the day?! And where are the stadium announcers talking 
 english in a spanish league match?
  
  Online there are also a lof of problems. Disconnects are very very common and lag is often bad. 
 Barcelona are way over powerered and nearly 90% of player chose them as their team.
  
  Whilst the new game modes such as Be a Pro and Challenge Mode add something new to the game, the 
 game play still feels to much hard work and un-even.
  
  Long live Pro Evo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombradybaby
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  This game is simply awful. I bought last years fifa, only because Watford are in it. That game 
 was awful. This years edition is even worse. I have to admit i havent bought fifa since 1998 and 
 obviously last year. Im a Pro Evo man all the way and its not likely to change.
  I started off with myself as Man Utd against Luton Town. I was unaware that anyone in the luton 
 squad could keep up with Ronaldo, Tevez or Rooney. The amount of through passes i tried to play 
 to Ronaldo that were intercepted, was unbelievable. Even with a huge blatant gap to pass it into, 
 it still hardly gets through. On the rare occassions it has got through, Ronaldo has been unable 
 to out sprint a ageing Luton town Defence.
  Same old, same old, it looks and sounds pretty, all the real names and teams are there, lots of 
 new gimicky game modes and unfortunately awful game play.
  I also tried all out attack as a strategy, along with the direction buttons to change plays. When 
 you are on a break with Man Utd, only Ronaldo and Giggs attack. Tevez likes to stay marked and 
 Rooney is the only guy to pass too, which is usually where the attack breaks down.
  Passing is the biggest let down in this game. You always feel you are fighting with your own team, 
 just to get up the field. There are no sideline runs from Neville or Evra. Ronaldo and Giggs never 
 make themselves available. The CPU is always hungry for the ball, where as your players like to 
 wait for the ball, whilst the opposition takes it off you.
  Im a long time Pro Evo guy and i dont even know how i got sucked into buying FIFA, i never normally 
 even think about buying it. As soon as Pro Evo comes out, i will be trading in FIFA to buy it.
 
  I wish EA would use the weapons idea in FIFA, like they do in Madden and NHL. It would work brilliantly 
 for FIFA. I can honestly say that not once have i out paced the Luton defence with Rooney, after 
 receiving a sweet through pass into space.
  SORT the passing out and have noticable player abilities and this could turn out to be a series 
 worth buying.
  IIm gutted i fell for the hype and gutted i believed the scores from gamespot and all the kiddies.
 
  Sack this game off at all costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdaniels
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  BEST IN SERIES BY FAR&lt; graphics are ballin and so is the gameplay. However, heading is nearly 
 impossible and even with a slight tap of the shot button the ball goes soaring over the goalkeepers 
 head Also, with lead passes, the player never comes to the ball resulting in frustrating turnovers, 
 and the trick stick can be hard to use. However, in game audio is great, and the game itself has 
 nearly reached the level of Pro ev. Manager mode is deep and there are lots of other fun features 
 such as Be a pro. Also, playing with Rhonaldino during load times is hell'a fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IonAce7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The new ball physics and Be A Pro mode are great new additions to the veteran franchise. Game-play 
 is smooth and polished with the new trick system actually be worth trying in the game. The currency 
 in manager mode is finally realistic in terms of sponsors and ticket sales revenue. The Graphics 
 are impressive and the lighting in the stadiums is, for lack of a better term, amazing. The Arena, 
 where you can practice your tricks is innovative and great idea. The create a player section has 
 been polished up with the addition of being able to select brand name cleats like Nike, ADIDAS, 
 Puma .. etc. However with all the positives, there are also negatives. For one, it seems like your 
 teammates run away from the ball half the time when you aren't controlling them. Another huge irritation 
 is the aftermath of cleared corner kicks; the game won't allow you to change your player because 
 it thinks you're still in possession until someone else, usually an opposing player, gets possession. 
 This can be a huge pain when bundled with the before mentioned fact your AI teammates like to run 
 away from loose balls. Another negative is that the difficulties don't transition as smoothly as 
 last year's edition. While you may dominate your current level, go up one and find that it is almost 
 impossible to score while the opponent doesn't do enough to score against you either.
  
  But overall, I would have to say this game is the best the series has seen to date thanks to its 
 great reworked game-play and top-notch physics and graphics but there are definitely things that 
 need to be worked on and they should have included some of the features that are in the "current 
 gen" versions of the game like Be a Pro Co-op season where you play a whole season as one player.
 
  
  
  After spending a lot more time with the game, I feel the biggest flaw is the AI. Unfortunately 
 the AI of this game, especially when playing against the computer opponents, that it is just infuriating 
 playing the game sometimes. You have to hold down a freaking button so that your defenders actually 
 go and attack the ball handler, and they don't go after loose balls like they should. While goalie 
 actions are wonderfully modeled and recreated, I feel as though sometimes their reactions are just 
 too slow. I'm not saying the goalies should stop more shots, far from that, just more them react 
 a little more quickly to the impending goal instead of having him jump AFTER the ball goes by him. 
 There is other quirky stuff that just makes some of the play frustrating.
  
  I will say however that the patch that allows you to play Be A Pro mode with 9 other players online 
 is that coolest thing ever. I think they should let you play as one player in Manager mode also. 
 Another thing I would as for for next year is more official arena (maybe an indoor arena like FIFA 
 98 Road to the World Cup) and more of a International impact, maybe with International Caps and 
 competitions as a part of Manager mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Fifa08 Beats Pro evolution again and fifa08 has great graphics and great skill and has all the 
 lisence not like pro eve and fifa has great shooting and passing and running and all the players 
 look great and ronaldhinio looks like the real one its great and its a must buy game because its 
 the best football game ever and fifa will be the best game football game always on the ps3 and 
 xbox 360 and ps2 and wii and psp and so on because pro evolution is nothing compared to it and 
 ea games are great and konami who are they? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is an excellent football game. The visuals are amazing, each player has alot of detail 
 as do the stadiums kits etc...
  
  The Gameplay is spot on, it is much harder this year not only is the CPU AI better but its simply 
 harder to get the ball into the net which makes it much more realistic.
  
  Theres Tournerment mode which has hundreds or you can create your own. Manage mode which is my 
 personal fave, you act as a manager for a club it buy/sell players do the formations even choose 
 the ticket price or upgrade your stadium.
  
  Be A Pro mode in which you just conrtol one player on the pitch , a pretty fun concept.
  
  
 During loading times you play a close up of Ronildinio with a GK, very fun youll spend hours just 
 on this bit.
  
  I havent really played online much but it seems to work ok.
  
  With great visuals, excellent gameplay this game is a superb football game, not to mention it has 
 up to 7 player offline/online play...
  
  I will check out PES when it comes out but I highly doubt it will be better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  Fifa changed my life. Around year 2000, I started editing Fifa's graphics as a hobby (with the 
 alias iceboy , gimme a msg if anyone remembers me:) because the game sucks after a few days and 
 making my own graphics was better fun. At the same time, I was playing Winning Eleven on PS1, and 
 enjoyed it much more even though it has horrible boxy graphics. Oh back to changing my life, I 
 got into game design and one of reasons is because Fifa made me fall in love with making graphics 
 for games. Fifa 07 was pretty good but the game still felt pretty much scripted. Instead of reinventing 
 the game every year, this time, they improved on the Fifa 07 engine and has great results.
  
  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review:
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Like I said the 
 game sucks when I first played the demo. The player-ball interaction felt rubbery . Passing was 
 frustrating. After a few days, I decided to give it another go. I meddled around with the demo's 
 settings and changed the camera to Dynamic. Woah! Big difference. With the camera being closer 
 to the players, I can pass better because the players' movements became clearer now.
  
  There are some things which Fifa 08 surpasses PES 6 in terms of gameplay. Note that I'm comparing 
 Fifa 08 with PES 6, not PES 2008. One of them is realistic passing. In PES, the passing are too 
 accurate esp through balls. In Fifa 08, it's easier for passes to get intercepted. Another one 
 is defender AI. I'm playing the highest difficulty in PES and only semi-pro (medium difficulty) 
 in Fifa, and the defenders are much smarter. However, that's probably because dribbling is more 
 difficult in Fifa 08 unlike in PES 6. In previous Fifas, you can simply press run all the way and 
 score solo.
  
  Some game play problems are 1) stats; too little stats for each player unlike in PES where you 
 have pages of them and in Fifa 08 I find the stats inaccurate but good enough, 2) tactics; lack 
 of formation and tactical options. In PES it's ability to change and customize tactics is almost 
 like Football Manager, and 3) freekicks; how on earth do you score?! Ok maybe that's because of 
 the lack of practice.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Fifa always had good presentations and 08 brings it to an even higher level. Instead of trying 
 to make players look realistic this year, they had a distinct style and while some say the players 
 look cartoony, I think it's great. i have always preferred PES's graphics where they would make 
 the players look like their counterparts without pasting photos on their faces. Previous Fifas' 
 faces look real and the rest of the graphics looks like crap, which made the whole game looks weird.
 
  
  The game has some graphical glitches though. It seems EA games are always buggy but thankfully 
 it doesn't affect the gameplay, but it annoys. Firstly, sometimes crowds doesn't appear and you'll 
 have to reset the PS3 to make them show again, and secondly, one of the player will have a polygon 
 stretched to space which I usually see in corrupted 3D files when I work in 3Ds max. It doesn't 
 always happen, and again, resetting the PS3 can solve that. I read similar problems in forums, 
 so I'm not the only one. Hopefully they can fix that in a patch.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Everything sounds great. Crowds singing, cheering, booing. Commentators giving interesting interesting 
 information apart from the usual commentating. What I like is Spoke too soon when he praised me 
 while I'm attacking and lost the ball. However, he doesn't get too excited when I score unlike 
 in PES/WE. I missed the Goal Goal goal goal goal.. GOAL! from the Japanese commentary in WE.
  
  Value: 9/10
  The amount of authentic leagues and players in Fifa is always one major selling 
 point, but previous games always gets boring after 1 hour of gameplay. This year, it's different. 
 I have been playing the 4 min demo over and over again and I like it more and more. After purchasing 
 the game, I haven't stopped playing since. Final verdict: 8.5/10
  Fifa 98 is considered by many to be the best Fifa. 10 years later, Fifa has done it again. Finally. 
 It has what PES doesn't offer and vice versa. I'm not one of those who'd choose one over the other, 
 so I'm also getting PES 2008 and gonna enjoy these 2 fabulous footie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct133nu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid soccer game for anyone that loves soccer, I suggest you pick it up. It may be a 
 bit slow if your not into soccer. I personally like the change in speed, which adds to the realistic 
 nature of a real soccer game. I haven't played online yet, only the single player mode. I'm currently 
 using the LA Galaxy and kicking in free kicks with Becham on the professional level. They've done 
 a good job with the graphics. The booth guys are good, although the crowd could use more of a boost 
 such as chants. Maybe I haven't witnessed it yet because I'm playing in the weak MLS cup. I score 
 this game an 8.75, rounding up to the 9.0. This is a huge improvement for FIFA and I hope to see 
 more in the future. The one thing I dislike is my numerous shots on goal (off goal rather) and 
 not being able to score! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10:
  This game plays better than any fifa ever. Players react much smarter than ever before, forcing 
 you to use you hone your skills in passing, through balls and one on one moves.
  Defensively, you dont have to worry about so many of the 'what in the hell was he thinking' defense 
 that frustrated so frequently.
  The control you now have when controlling the ball with skill moves is the biggest and best improvement. 
 You can spend hours in the arena alone just practicing moves and still have fun.
  
  Graphics 8/10:
  The graphics are phenominal. Never before has the stadia and pitch looked so 
 good. There is certainly room for improvement, especially with the player and stadium detail. Also, 
 there are fewer camera angels and they dont allow you to adjust the height and zoom, but the addition 
 of the 'Be A Pro' mode camera could be the future of soccer gaming. Sound: 9/10
  Aside from the occasional announcer screw up with a late call and such, the sound is just awesome. 
 The crowds chant and cheer loudly, and especially in derby matches and when pressing an attack. 
 The announcing is much, much improved over any fifa.... Tyler and Grey do a fantasic job.
  
  Features: 10/10
  The Be A Pro mode is the future of fifa. I hope the online version comes soon. 
 I did not think it would be all that fun, but I found myself playing that version more than any 
 when I first started. It makes scoring a goal truly rewarding, as well as making a potentially 
 goal saving tackle equally rewarding.
  Online play is great, very little to no lag. Interactive leagues return and when 'Be A Pro' goes 
 online, it will up this score to a 10.
  The manager mode is solid as always, very few additions, but none necessarily were needed for this 
 solid mode.
  
  Overall, this is easily the best Fifa ever. It has plenty of room for improvement, but with so 
 many different ways to play, you will be playing this for a long time. Everything is improved and 
 the 'Be A Pro' mode shows loads of potential, especially for online multiplayer.
  
  You will not be disappointed in this game, so go out and get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahadalifeddy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  i love fifa on ps3 speacially man united is my favrtte team c ronaldo is my favtre player n i love 
 to wid c ronaldo on fifa 2008 rooney is also nice n what about giggs fifa is really good n graphics 
 what can i say but they have 2 work hard on fifa bcz pes is also launching his new game in fifa 
 2008 ball control is better than 2007  
   2222220000000000000088888888
 
  in fifa i see 2 or 3 bugs still so ea hve 2 work on it but i hope it is better than pes now insha 
 allah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The first soccer game arrives for the ps3 is not other then fifa 08, EA Canada who is one of the 
 best studios of EA can celebrate once again cause they've certainly reached (score to) their GOAL.
 
  
  it not only that the game attracts evreyone, including sport haters it's that it also gives you 
 the opportunity to enjoy soccer in its best, Fifa 08 has an awesome offline/online multiplayer 
 modes which will linger the gaming experience, Online quick play is just awesome and you gotta 
 check it out, but if your ISP sucks you can also create your own team and manger them with a full 
 season with your friends only till your internet will work well again, it's alot of fun to manger 
 a team especially when you can customized your own players.
  
  Since we know commentary and background music take a huge part in soccer games then it's very important 
 to say that Fifa has it all, the commentry is just awesome it gives a lot of color and atmosphere 
 to the game and although background music might be a bit annoying it has some good songs
  
  one of the most important and exciting things I have to say about this game is that it has no frame 
 rate issuses and it deals very well with all the intensive gameplay and the massive audience , 
 the Graphics are Impressive and they are truly make the game more realistic then any soccer game 
 ever was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  FIFA Soccer 08 challenges players to master the skills required to play like a pro soccer player. 
 Fans around the world can experience the same highs and lows of real-world players and tackle the 
 challenges they face on a daily basis. FIFA Soccer 08 puts you on the pitch to defy the odds, perfect 
 your skills, elevate your game and rise up to win glory for your club. Probably the best game in 
 the FIFA series. The AI can actually defend while the manual controls give the freedom to create 
 scoring chances in many different ways. It is a shame the AI has so much trouble scoring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 first of all is a must buy fan for any soccer fan, this game is amazing you can play it 
 forever and never can get boring, one thing that im really impressed in this game is graphics and 
 gameplay it feels like you in real game and you really get into it, i havent got a chance to play 
 online yet but off line its awesome so many options to play and i've heard that online is same 
 way. i will give this game 10 because its best sport game out there, cant compare Madden 08 and 
 FIFA 08, its a must have for every sport fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXronaldoXX
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  I can only speak for myself but compared to the demo of Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 this i rubbish. 
 The animations are stiff at so are the controls. Also the gameplay is stiff. Why people buy this 
 instead of PES 2008 i indeed a mystery. That has been a better game since day one of its arriaveland 
 left FIFA in dust ever since. The only good thing about it is that i has all the real player names.
 
  But i'm only speaking for myself.
  
  ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** 
 ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** *** ** ** ** ** ** * ** * * * 
 ** * * * * *** * * * * *** * * * * * *** * * * ***** *** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Nice start to the PS3 for Fifa
  Fun both online and off
  
  Not much bad to say about it
  If anything controls can sometimes seem a bit delayed and that 
 just about everyone online wont play anyone but the likes of barcelona, chelsea, man u etc etc
 
  Have probably seen 4 or 5 people so far who havn't done that, kudos to you if this is you :)
 
  
  Gotta admit though, its still very funny to get a win against those that do only play easy mode 
 online ( play as only 4.5/5 star teams )
  
  But then again you gotta play the team you wish to play :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is my official review of FIFA 08 for the PS3.
  
  Starting with the game-play: I started on semi-pro but I found it a lil easy so I switched to pro 
 and a little bit of a challenge was added, but the opposing team still more or less runs in a straight 
 line with the ball making it easy to re-gain possession and the attempt a lot of long range shots 
 that go aimlessly wide and high. Its still better then FIFA 07 though as it is much harder to 
 score and the opposing teams defense seems to be the best aspect of their game and for a change 
 your players get a lot more involved even when you arent in control of them.
  
  It is a much better atmosphere inside the stadium, despite there being a lot of empty seats (my 
 fan support is 85 and still an emptyish stadium) .
  
  The sponsorship is very random, first time I loaded up manager mode the highest offer was 350 a 
 game but when I restarted and tried again I got offers as high as 800 a game.
  
  The menus within manager mode are rather confusing and at times you have to search a lot to find 
 what you are looking for and I dont like the table displayed in home and away form I prefer it 
 shown overall. Also they have taken away the ability to even attempt to lower any of your players 
 wages big downfall if you ask me.
  
  Last of all the growth system, its a fine concept but if you do it manually youll find yourself 
 spending more time upgrading your players than actually playing matches so for those just looking 
 to play football I advise you to turn on auto upgrade and I have found that even the ones not playing 
 regularly still gain a fair amount of exp points.
  
  All in all FIFA 08 looks good and plays pretty ok, still there is a lot of jerkiness in the cut 
 scenes. But it is still a good game of football, you get a better feeling of being on the pitch 
 than ever before because you actually have to fight to win and it hurts when u see those cool shots 
 trickle agonizingly wide, so a BIG well done to EA but I feel there is still a little ways to go 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Fiffa08 is out today!! And so i pre-ordered it today and bought it today at a amount lesser than 
 retail price.
  The first thing you realise when u step into this game, is it's pacing, in fact to be more accurate, 
 it's better Goalkeeper and Defenders. It's good to play realistic and have realistic scores, but 
 sometimes you would feel that the defenders/GK are over-powered. Goals outside penalty box seldom 
 scores, because due to the tight defence. That aside, we can still play wing and play cross and 
 heading, for this game, it isn't easy. Heading seldom gets on target, always over the crossbar, 
 if it's on target, chances are you'll score.
  Graphically, it's the biggest improvement in my opinion, i'm able to now recognise my players on 
 the field by their looks rather than position. The grass looks realistic as well. The stadium is 
 also very nicely done up with a huge LCD screen if you notice. However, the bad thing is, there's 
 SLIGHT framerate issues here and there, one of the minor flaws i mentioned that keep the game away 
 from being the best yet.
  Sound wise, it's in DTS format, commentaries are varied and clear. An additonal thing you'll hear 
 is some sort of accouncement on the background. Music is over the menu is very nice as well.
  
  Pros:
  -Graphically improved
  -Commentary is varied
  -Plays more realistically
  -Very 
 nice presentation, as always
  -be a pro mode is nicely done up
  -many league and very deep manager mode
  -Of course, the liscenses!!!
  -good presentation of 
 stats off/online
  
  Cons:
  -some fps issues still remain from demo
  -online has minor lags
  -online quitting is as frequent
  -being realistic, it may not appeal 
 to all.
  
  All in all, it's the best fifa yet, with some patient, you'll grow to like it. But if only the 
 FPS issues could be completely fixed, it would secure it's number 1 soccer game title, even when 
 pes it out.
  And for the cheap price i paid, i'm giving it an extra 0.5 personally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeltaCobra
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  This game is hard. Hard at least compared to other soccer games, including those being on any other 
 system. I played 06-07 UEFA on X360 and thought that was really good. To give you some examples 
 so you can share with my current views on soccer games , i would give UEFA 06-07 around an 8.0. 
 This game though, FIFA 08 has the most amazing camera angles and although you wouldn't think much 
 of the difference it would make initially, this makes for an absolute blast of an experience.
 
  
  An example, there is a mode where you can pick just one player and that will be your designated 
 player for the game. I appreciate this as something that sounds a little different, even insignificant 
 to some. I'll elaborate. Picture this, your screaming down the left hand side, you call for a lob 
 form your team mate , he lines up and gets one off just narrowly missing a spear tackle. The ball 
 drops in front of you perfectly allowing you to continue down the sideline, your blast of a run 
 makes the camera shake like your being filmed by a guy on the bad end of a heroin addiction, which 
 gives this run of yours an amazing, unseen intensity. Your about to head out of bounds and you 
 lob the ball in for a cross. Everything looks brilliant, the crowd detail and atmosphere, even 
 the camera now has pulled back to what is probably a normal soccer camera man standing behind you, 
 but with a fish eye lens that creates a vacuum effect as the ball flies off. The ball flying away 
 from you looks awesome, angles, and all. You see your team mate crack one in with his head and 
 start running, JUST LIKE YOU WERE THERE.
  
  I have never seen a soccer game play or look this good. I have always been a standard camera angles 
 guy, but this, is amazing. Play a few matches, get used to the controls, and enjoy the FIFA 08 
 PS3 connection with its low ping.
  
  For the veterans, ive been playing EA's FIFA series since the snes. This is brilliant.
  
  I 
 am using a 32in LCD for this review. No there accessories were fitted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuckett-l
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  My first review ;)
  
  I think that Fifa08 is a large improvement on 07 and previous versions. The difficulty can be annoying 
 at times but it makes you play as if you were on a football/soccer pitch. I play football myself 
 and think that the game is very realistic and life like. The trick system is powerful and good 
 to use online. The players look amazing and move like they do in real life. The new I'm a Pro mode 
 is extremely addictive and a nice addition to the season mode which as always is good. Fifa has 
 changed from being a stick to feet aracde game to a realistic and amazing simulation football game. 
 I think that this year Pro Evolution Soccer will be the worse of the two games as it is more of 
 an arcade game than Fifa. The graphics and licenses of Fifa are, as always, unmatched and should 
 help the game to sell even more. I personally think that Fifa08 is a great buy and well worth the 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bezza2011
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  A BRIEF INTRODUCTION.
  
  well its that time of year again and fifa is out and pro evo is to follow, being a big soccer fan 
 myself i decided to get it and see how this fifa has improved and play until pro evo comes out 
 as i like them both. well been playing the game now since friday and im quite impressed graphics 
 are top notch and the controls and the trick stick are also quite well implemented.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  as its on next gen i've always been a big believer in great graphics and it has 
 that perfect, there are times the frame rate is bad but mostly in the cut scenes but nothing that 
 bothers me. the players look well and u can tell most of them who they are from a distance with 
 the slight mistakes for some players the grounds look awesome and are captured very well ashame 
 about the fans there just arent so good but we all can live with tht&gt;
  graphics: 9/10 always room to improve.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  we all know fifa has some bad gameplay 
 and some times its the small things what annoy in this years fifa they have done a good job, the 
 way players move and turn its almost life like the one big concern is the way they run just doesnt 
 look realistic and they same to be goin half paced and not running but jogging. the passing is 
 very well put in and frew balls have improved alot,
  
  crosses are also good and the power bar is a great help this year around.
  
  shootin also has 
 become better with more skill involved to get the ball into the net the downside is the power is 
 always there in off a toe poke when a player is on u wiv doesnt make for a realistic experience. 
 trick stick now were talking this feature has been here before but this time it really is fun and 
 works well on the pitch and at times is a good way of gettin passed people it takes awhile to master 
 but u can pick it up from the get go, they really have made it so u feel like sometimes u need 
 to use it to get passed a player.
  
  the downside to all is that the response is weak sometimes ur passing it but it doesnt work straight 
 wen u want it and u lose the gap and the trick stick is very slow to implement on the pitch
  
  goal keepers wow they never get this rite in fifa and again its not, they have improved with 
 there dives and they make some cracking saves and u think o yes real, but then its one on one wiv 
 the keeper ur keeping hold of triangle and ur keeper is keeping his distance wots goin on this 
 gets annoyin and will and could fustrate people playing.
  
  the career is same as last year with the lower league teams in as wel with abit more depth to this 
 years one its good with the new formation with them changing it to a more pro evo being able to 
 move players into the exact position u want the only thing wrong is that u only have a certain 
 area u can put them if there in tht position. but over all its a great thing same that the fa cups 
 are played at there own ground and not been set to wembly.
  
  be a pro well what can i say i've been addicted to it this is the reason to get this game its been 
 done before but not in this sort of way, picking just one player in the team playing that roll, 
 its brilliant and the camera works amazingly well when coming up to goal and its an over the shoulder 
 sort of view with it swaying side to side like the head of the footballer. great thing and its 
 worth buying this game for tht.
  
  my view of the game is its a great improvement, but its just not on the same level as pro evo with 
 the flexibility, the ball still feels like its stuck to your feet, the goalkeeper still has problems 
 coming out, and the players run like there jogging. i hope this review helps people and i hope 
 you comment on this and see what everyone else thinks.
  
  i'll give the game a 7.0 even tho great graphics and a step up its still missing something the 
 thing pro evo has when you score a goal u get an amazing feeling with fifa it always seems like 
 o well nice one a goal, i still find this fifa abit to easy. very addictive tho esps be a pro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_nemeth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  After last year's negative surprise of the FIFA series on the next gen console (on X360) I was 
 rather reluctant to plant big hopes to the '08 FIFA game on PS3.
  But fortunatelly I got something totally different (positively) as last year on X360, so I am very 
 much satisfied and I like it sooooo much! It is also not so easy to reach goal at more difficult 
 level settings but the gameplay is more realistic the the movements of the pl2ayers are almost 
 real, the ball movements are realistic , you can do tricks and kick goals from special cases too. 
 Graphics OK, but faces are still not perfect (I do not know why is it so difficult to re-draw the 
 face perfectly of the 20-30 stars that everybody is watching - Cristiano Ronaldo is still ridiculous 
 while Giggs is almost perfect) .Voices are OK (but not so astonishing) , multiplayer is working 
 pretty well, I experienced no lags at all. I strongly recommend it to everybody!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weeman19_89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  When i downloaded Fifa 08 demo on PSN i was disappointed but something told me to still go out 
 and buy it so i still did hoping i did not waste 49.99. When playing it i passed it around and 
 knew this was the way this game has to be played. I was playing the demo like it was Fifa 07, when 
 fifa 08 is a totally different ball game and is more challenging and slower making the game a lot 
 better and realistic. Goals mean something in this game as you only score 3 at total maximum scoring 
 a hatrick with someone is once every 100 games winning a game is also special as you feel the team 
 has worked well together even though you are controlling them the keeper controls are alot better, 
 when you charge out your keeper when he collect the ball he does not boot it, you control him like 
 everything else that happens on the pitch it is no more passing a ball and it goes in a direction 
 it decides to, you decide and that what makes goals more special. Another nice little feature that 
 i have wanted in the game is the keeper getting booked just wondering now if you take the striker 
 down in the penalty area will he get a red? Only time will tell. This fifa game is better then 
 i thought and the jump into true next gen has been a success and can only improve with this game 
 out on so many formats Fifa truly has a future and soon hopefully it will be higher then Pro EVO 
 (Winning eleven) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumiza
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  i've been pro evo through and through since the long gone days when it was called ISS pro way back 
 on the PS1. the last Fifa i bought was 96 and it was awful. i've played most of the Fifas since 
 through demos or at friends houses and NEVER even been CLOSE to buying one. i downloaded the demo 
 the other week just out of curiosity and thought it was pretty good so being desparate for some 
 footy action i thought i'd buy it then trade it for PES 2008 when that comes out. well i've put 
 some hours in on it now and i have to say it's a damned fine game of footy. it looks great, the 
 controls are complex enough to reward practice but surprisingly intuitive. the licensing and presentation 
 are fantastic and my true love Pro Evo has some serious work to do. Seriously, konami may now be 
 in trouble because although i'm sure the gameplay will be superior, i'm not sure how happy i'll 
 be without the licensing now i'm enjoying a proper premiership campaign on EAs game.
  it pains me to say it, but well done EA and come on Konami, your fans need you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKR-07
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  So I just got FIFA 08 for the PS3 on friday there and first impressions were - WOW. As soon as 
 it had loaded up it allows you to choose your favourite team etc same as last FIFA but then after 
 that something wonderful happened. Instead of just taking me to the main menu screen as expected 
 i found myself playing as Ronaldinhoone on one with the keeper in a sort of mini game/Loading screen/Training 
 screen. So i tried out the new tricks in the game and was shocked to see how real and fluent they 
 felt. They range from anything like simple keepy ups on the spot to more complex body faints crossed 
 with step overs. Afterentering the main menui decided to check out the gameplay in a match against 
 Chelsea with me Man Utd. The 0-3 scoreline wasnt what i was hoping for but hey it was my first 
 shot. The gameplay is slower than rival PES, however feels a lot more fluent and passes interlinked 
 between skillful tricks and flicks proves a joy. The shots are a lot less goal bound than previous 
 FIFAs and instead of a 40 yard volley going top bag with John O'Shea you'll see the shot fly high 
 and wide and on a few occasions completely miss it all together leaving the player on his arse 
 and feeling like a right fool.
  
  My one and ONLY one critiscm of the game so far is the corners, instead of the over head camera 
 looking into the 18 yard box, you are now left with a camera trying to make you feel like the player 
 taking the corner which can be frustrating as movement within the box is hard to see, however i 
 guess this new concept couldbe justified as more realistic.
  
  Last but not Least Be A Pro mode. Only triedit outtwice and both times was gobsmacked at how real 
 it feels. Sprinting up the wing with Cristiano Ronaldo moving in and out of playersattempting many 
 step overs and flicks is a great feeling and as you close in on goal so does the camera behind 
 the player and as it does becomes sort of bumpy making you feel like you are the actual player. 
 The camera is fantastic as it is constantly focused on your player accept when you dont have the 
 ball it is a little but not a lot zoomed out, allowing you to see action across the pitch. Arrowspoint 
 you indirection of a man you should be marking andif a team mate has the ballyou can call for the 
 pass by pressing x egg him on to hit a shot o or call for the through ballerm triangle .
  
  Overall this years FIFA is a fantastic improvement and well worth the money on PS3, and has set 
 the standard for PES 2008 if it wants any chance of topping FIFA. Hope you enjoyed la reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Anybody and everybody who knows about fifa games and has played fifa games should know it's the 
 most popular in the football games series and we all know that they come out every year and we 
 all know that they get better and better, however, yes this new FIFA 08 is very good indeed and 
 yes it's probably is the best in the series so far BUT it's more of a REAL football simulation 
 this year AND you WILL probably ALL need a lot more practise with this one FACT. IT's difficult 
 to do the amazing new moves, and we were all dissapointed with the lack of teams and leagues last 
 year with fifa 07 but it was a new game engine with very fluid and fast gameplay this year leagues 
 are all there with all the usual that we have been used to (apart from fifa 07) but whats happened 
 to the gameplay fifa 08 is slower than 07 WHY did they slow it down??? If they kept the speed up 
 with 08 this game would be 9/10 but they have tried and included new tricks, and the new online 
 play where you play as a single player in a 11 vs 11 match is new &amp; seems good but will it 
 catch on?
  
  All I can say is once again there is a lot of great things going on and it's the very usulal highly 
 polished and well presented game, i would have given it 9/10 this but because movement of players 
 especially when running I find this a dissapointment so because of this let down i give the game 
 still a very respectable 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbrickwood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Now first off, i have never been a fan of past Fifa titles. The ball stuck to your feet football 
 has never been for me. I have always opted for Pro Evo when looking for a Football title. Ive waited 
 too long for for a footy game on PS3 and tho im sure ill pick up Pro Evo, this would fill the void 
 for the few weeks i have to wait.
  
  I have been pleasantly suprised at how very good this game is. Opting for a simulation style game 
 - rather than the arcade football of the past, this really hits the spot!
  
  The Graphics - The stadiums are beautifull, the pitch gorgeous (better than 360) and the players 
 look OK, more comic book versions than the real thing. Overall a very nice presentation. I must 
 point out the Game has No real Framerate issues when playing!! a first for EA on PS3!! It does 
 however have choppy replays which i end up skipping. a shame, yes but rather that than in the gameplay.
 
  
  The Gameplay - A slower paced game than we are use to. Makes for a more real game. The ball physics 
 work a treat . The character animations are good, but are missing a few moves. Games are always 
 on a knife edge. The Be a Pro concept will be a good feature once online. Talking of which I have 
 found myself using the Pro camera alot ( even in normal games) . This new Camera is Something that 
 made me pick up the game in the first place. A new perspective that really works. You feel right 
 in amongst the game, the stadiums Scaling above and around you, it really does feel like your a 
 star!
  
  Online - I really cant express how much fun this game is to take online. Always nail biting stuff. 
 Its so much fun. The only downside is it takes a while to find a decent connection ( the screen 
 can freeze and results in having to leave the room to try again which gets repetetive ) That said 
 when you do get a game, its great!
  
  I dont do reviews, unless something impresses me. This game did. and tho im sure ill get Pro Evo, 
 i know ill return to this ( I love playing the game with the Pro camera!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Now lets get one thing clear. I love me football and over the years have played maaaaaany a footie 
 sim, and no I wont call it Soccer!!, dating all the way back to the original 'Sensible Soccer' 
 on the Sega Mega Driven and Actua Soccer on the Atari ST! God showing my age now! Over the years 
 there have been loads of footie sims with the annual war between Fifa and Pro Evo to look forward 
 too. Having not been a huge fan of the PES games to start with I really loved the last enstallment 
 on the 360 to death. However I can't quite believe how good Fifa 08 is!! Fifa 08 is probably the 
 closest I ever seen to a perfect football sim. The graphics and gameplay are realistic and fluid. 
 Players challenge for the ball, goalkeepers actually make saves!! Defenders don't just watch as 
 players just walk into your box and score. The commentry too has been given a huge boost and feels 
 almost totally live and responsive to the actual match! All the expected features are there, transfers, 
 online, team management , literally hunderds of official teams, etc but the crowning glory has 
 to the Be a Pro option. This allows you to be just one player and it gives the chance to focus 
 your football skills ans brains whilst drawing you into the action with zoomed close ups of your 
 player when he runs. This option gets you to call for the ball and make other decisions like in 
 a real match with other players responding to you. This interaction during the game makes this 
 feature and game so immersive. I played both the 360 version and the PS3 version with the PS3 version 
 markedly better in terms of gameplay and graphics. The 360 version just felt sluggish and slow 
 to respond. With the next PES due out soon its very hard to see how it will topple Fifa 08's crown 
 this time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SvV_Ying
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  First, I must admit that I've been a big Pro Evolution Soccer fan for the last years and I haven't 
 played the last FIFA's that much. But I just must have a football game on PS3 so I bought FIFA. 
 And I'm glad I did so.
  
  First off all, the presentation is great (again) . The menu's look good, good background music and 
 everything is very user-friendly. Then scrolling through the main menu you see a few new modes. 
 It's split between offline and online modes. The most important new mode offline is 'Be A Pro' 
 where you take control of only one player on the pitch and you must focus on his tasks. This is 
 a very interesting feature with opportunities in the future. Further it's possible to make own 
 tournaments again. The Manager mode is off course the main game mode. It hasn't changed very much 
 since last year, some interface changes and some new things to do.
  
  Then on to the pitch... Off course the first thing you notice when playing for the first time are 
 the graphics, and they are good. The stadiums look nice, the grass looks good and the players look 
 good. Although it must be said that only the top players look like in real life, dont expect to 
 recognize players in lower rated competitions. Something I'm not really impressed about is the 
 crowd, I expected more on 'next-gen'. The crowd looks OK, and reacts OK to the play but nothing 
 more. Can be done better next year.
  
  The gameplay has improved. I finally have the feeling in a FIFA game that the ball isn't sticked 
 to the player's feet and the players dont have to finish (most) off their animation before taking 
 a shot or pass or something. Talking about the animations, they look very realistic. Also one of 
 the first things noticed is that it is much harder to score than in past FIFA's. The CPU defends 
 is very tight and you really have to create smart attacks to get a goal. Doing tricks can help 
 create these attacks, tricks can be done with the right analog stick while holding the L2 trigger. 
 Again, the trick animations look nice and if you use them smart, they're very handy. Overall it 
 feels much more like football than last years and I really like to play it. The most irritating 
 thing on the field IMO are the stupid things keepers do some times. Like starting diving when the 
 ball is in the goal already or walking strangly after the ball before doing a quick reflex which 
 looks strange. Don't be afraid, it doesn't happen often, maybe 2 times a season, but it's a bit 
 stupid.
  
  Overall I'm suprised with FIFA this year, the best till now for sure. Good presentation, graphics, 
 gameplay and value. There are only some small negative things, but they are not a very big deal. 
 I haven't really played online much so I can't say much about that. Buy FIFA or wait a month and 
 buy PES? Difficulter than last years I think. I bought FIFA (will probably also buy PES) and I 
 don't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horney89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Well to start beats last years maybe not by a lot but it certainly does do just that now I know 
 most people who write FIFA reviews are PES fans and really bum that game to death although the 
 recent versions of PES aint all that good tbh!! Any ways I believe this game moves and feels more 
 real with player movement on and off the ball really is something to watch as the attacker push 
 forward and get in to that space. I dont know about the most part of you out there but in the 
 old FIFAs I found it hard to score a lot a goals with players other than the attackers but with 
 this new player AI am getting goals from all over the midfield like they actually wanna be on that 
 score sheet!! So anyways have played this a few times since my purchase on the 28/09/2007 played 
 againt my friend and was impressed by the commentators with they way they actually seem involved 
 in the game and whats going on and how the stadium announcer bigs up the crowed or the raw of 
 the stadium in general!
  
  Lets go into the all new mode be a pro well little weird getting used o controlling the one player 
 but got part way there with my second attempt wining man city with a cristaino ronaldo (controlled 
 by me) strike against the crossbar for Carrick to slot home! Never the less a good and promising 
 mode in the FIFA series although next year perhaps the ability to be yourself and join teams like 
 a real player could be added in EA hint hint!! Online little less interactive more than likely 
 down to the playstation server rather than EAs own but never mind all good fun at the end of the 
 day beating someone someplace else on the globe! Not much else really about this!
  
  Career mode looking good and ready as every year in the FIFA series a wealth of real name players 
 bigger better range of fans chants from around the stadiums, players not really up to the real 
 life counter parts but at the end of the day the gameplay is in one word ACE!!
  
  There is more and more but I really must stop at some point to get back to the game so laters gators!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notquitesure
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  all be it i was half asleep and still had bed hair i still managed to notice the &pound;50 price 
 tag!! &pound;10 more than the xbox version...
  but i thought what they hay and bought it anyway!
  
  now aside from the horrible price tag 
 (which automatically makes me expect more from my game) because i work hard for my money i get 
 the game home.
  
  i pick arsenal as my team and im away.
  
  straight away i notice that the players are FAT! and none of that PH rubbish. and dont particularly 
 look like their counterparts in real life.
  but i let that slide and continue on.
  
  think hey, why not make myself a player.... at least it might look like me.
  no......... its 
 useless, unless u want the ability to move your eyes about alot and put them at funny angles. (which 
 mine are not)
  
  moving on....
  
  all this new skill stuff...
  reminds me of FIFA street... tricking yourself into walls and going crazy.
  i know its not like 
 that... but during an actual match its rubbish, or maybe im just rubbish at it, i dont know...
 
  the only time i actually found it remotely uselful was during the one on one with the keeper during 
 loading!
  
  i know so far it seems like ive slated the game alot... and i think its mainly because i expected 
 more.
  
  players run agonisingly slow and passes never get anywhere, i found myself using the thru ball 
 button to get it to anyone.
  again this may be because i was half asleep, or not very good. but all the same its amazingly frustrating.
 
  
  the commentary IS great though and so is the soundtrack...
  but when on the pitch, its little conserlation.
  
  i did like the new mode and how it helps 
 you try to stay in position and be part of the match instead of it.
  reminds me of libero grande and i dont think thats a bad thing.
  
  i loved how players fell 
 to the ground when kicked though and the menu's are pretty.
  
  when i get home i shall play this some more and hopefully my view of the game shall differ.
  
 maybe i just need to emerse myself into it more and get to grips with everything a little more 
 before sending this game to sleep.
  
  im still to play the game online seen as my broadbands packed in recently.
  but when its back 
 and we have 5 on 5 online up and running, it may just wake me up.
  
  i think PES will still end up being number one after this years installment.
  but i'll keep my 
 fingers crossed for this years version of FIFA
  and that i had just dozed off during all the amazing bits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4Chelski
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well another year and another Fifa the question on everyones mind is this Fifa worth it?.. Well 
 all i can say to the people question whether it will be good enough is yes this game is all it 
 has been cracked up to be its absolutley fantastic.
  Its so realistic you simply have to play this game i reccomend anyone who likes football to just 
 go out and buy this game.
  The game can be hard at times but thats not a bad thing the defenders are always making life difficult 
 for you as they are always moving around making clever choices to stop you from progressing.
  The graphics are simple amazing aswell in the last edition of Fifa you could of said most players 
 didnt look them real selfs but in this version things are looking more better you can clearly tell 
 which player is which.
  With the new additions of be a pro mode Fifa is always adding to their game and making new things 
 its something diffrent i cant honestly explain how good this game is you have to get this game 
 action speaks louder than words and i dont lie about this game.
  
  PES or what ever you call it is a joke compared to this game stick to authenticity!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
