-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fight Night Round 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/fightnightround3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Same great control mechanics found in previous Fight Night games.
 lots of great boxing legends to test your skills against.
 amazing-looking player models.
 gruesome sound effects make you cringe when you hear a guy get smacked in the face.
 get-in-the-ring mode offers a different, enjoyable way to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Career mode lacks structure and feels like a series of loosely related matches rather than an ongoing fight to become a champion.
 Long load times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,470 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Chicago
Genre: Boxing
Date: Dec 5, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fight Night Round 3 features the same great gameplay the franchise is known for as well as a few 
 minor, but appreciable, additions exclusive to the PlayStation 3. 

  Fight Night may be the only boxing game in the business, but the lack of competition certainly 
 hasn't made the champ soft. The perfectly precise and intuitive Total Punch Control mechanic, cringe-inducing 
 knockout blows, and in-depth boxer creation mode are all accounted for in the latest installment 
 in this fighting series, Fight Night Round 3. New to the series this time around are impact punches, 
 a reworked career mode, a customizable boxing-style feature, and an all-new first-person boxing 
 mode exclusive to the PlayStation 3. Admittedly, most of the improvements and updates found in 
 Round 3 are merely incremental updates over Round 2, but they're still enough to warrant stepping 
 into the ring for another bout, just as long as you haven't already played the game on the Xbox 
 360.  

          Fight Night is back with a fistful of leather for your pretty little face.     

  Unsurprisingly, 
 the best parts of Fight Night Round 3 are the parts that haven't changed. The Total Punch Control 
 mechanic is back, and it works just as well as it has since the first Fight Night made boxing fun 
 again back in 2004, which means that series veterans will be able to jump right in and start throwing 
 combos with ease. If you're new to Fight Night, you might find that the controls take a bit of 
 getting used to, but once you know them, you won't want to go back to plain old button mashing. 
 You move your boxer with the left analog stick and throw punches with the right stick. You can 
 throw jabs by tapping the stick forward to the right or left, depending on which fist you want 
 to use. Hooks are thrown by moving the stick in a quarter-circle motion toward your opponent in 
 either direction, and uppercuts are closer to a half-circle motion. You can put extra power behind 
 a punch by pulling the stick back even farther and "winding up" for a powerful haymaker. One new 
 aspect of the control that unique to the PlayStation 3 version of the game is the use of the Sixaxis 
 motion control to throw illegal blows. By quickly moving the controller forward you can throw an 
 elbow or head butt. Aside from that, the game makes no use of the motion sensors in the Sixaxis 
 controller.  

  Featured for the first time in the Fight Night series are impact punches, which are variations 
 on the haymaker. The haymaker is the basic "swing for the fences" power punch, which was introduced 
 in last year's Fight Night Round 2. The flash KO punch is like an exaggerated haymaker, and it 
 instantly drains your opponent's health and primes him for a quick knockdown. The stun punch is 
 another version of the haymaker, and it initiates a sort of reverse first-person minigame where 
 you see yourself through the eyes of your opponent as you pummel him with punches. It's difficult 
 to pull off any of the impact punches, though, because the windup is slow and the punch is easily 
 countered. But that's a good thing, because it helps keep the action somewhat balanced.  

  Throwing a lot of punches is a fine strategy and simply flailing about will often win you a match, 
 but occasionally you'll have to defend yourself. You can block and parry punches using the R1 button. 
 You can use the right analog stick to determine which part of your body you want to guard. For 
 example, if your opponent shows a left hook to the head, you can throw up your right arm to parry 
 the shot and then return fire with your own left while your opponent is off guard. When you parry 
 or block successfully, you can quickly and easily make the transition from defense to offense and 
 throw a barrage of counterpunches before your opponent knows what's happening. Indeed, successfully 
 parrying and countering is an integral part of any fight. You can also lean by holding down the 
 L1 button, which is a good way to hold your ground while avoiding punches. Clinches have returned, 
 so when you've taken a beating and are about to go down, you can press a button to lean on your 
 opponent and regain some energy.  

  Of course, there's more to boxing than simply throwing and absorbing punches. You also have to 
 worry about maintenance. Maintaining your fighter's health is an important part of Round 3, and 
 it's all handled through the same training and cut-man minigames from the previous Fight Night 
 titles. Before a fight, you have the option to train your fighter in one of three regimens, depending 
 on which stats you want to focus on. Before you train, you can hire a trainer, and each one has 
 a specialty that will improve your results in a given parameter.  

  The minigames consist of the heavy bag, the weights, and the combo dummy from Fight Night Round 
 2. The minigames are extremely simple timing and pattern-recognition exercises, and you'll never 
 have a problem reaching the required point goal to achieve the maximum benefit from the training. 
 Once you're in the ring, though, your health concerns will be more immediate, as you start stopping 
 hard leather with your face. Between rounds, you can play a minigame to reduce swelling and patch 
 up cuts on your boxer's face. The routine has been simplified since the previous game, and instead 
 of four focus areas, you only need to worry about the left side and right side of the face. A small 
 icon appears at the bottom of the screen, and you have to move the right analog stick in time with 
 the icon to heal your fighter. If you let him get too swollen, he won't be able to see to defend 
 against incoming punches, and if he's bleeding profusely from unattended cuts, the ref will stop 
 the fight.  

          You can assign different fighting styles to your boxer, and it's fun to experiment with 
 different styles to see which one best fits your own strategy.     

  While the game still plays mostly the same way, you are given a bit more control over how you fight, 
 thanks to the inclusion of some new fighting styles, which you can assign to your fighter. When 
 creating a custom fighter, you are given the same options as in the previous games regarding your 
 boxer's physical attributes, but now you can choose his fighting style by setting a base style, 
 punch style, and block style. You can give your boxer a speed-based style to make him light on 
 his feet, a slugger punch-based style to give him extra power behind his blows, and a cross blocking-based 
 style to provide a bit more protection. There are plenty of combinations to choose from, and the 
 different styles have a significant impact on your fighting strategy. You can change your fighting 
 style between matches in career mode, and it can be fun to try out different combinations to see 
 which work best.  

  Fight Night Round 3 features career, play now, ESPN Classic mode, online modes, as well as a new 
 first-person Get in the Ring mode. Play now lets you choose your fighter, opponent, and venue for 
 a quick match. In this mode, you can pit any of the boxing legends against another, regardless 
 of weight class. If you want to see Evander Holyfield go up against Manny Pacquaio in front of 
 thousands at Madison Square Garden, you can.     

  The ESPN Classic mode lets you relive some of the biggest bouts in recent boxing history. You can 
 choose from classic rivalries such as Ali versus Frazier, Robinson versus Lamotta, and Gatti versus 
 Ward. Before each fight, you're treated to an all-too-brief history of the fighters and their rivalry. 
 These classic fights could be an interesting sort of interactive lesson about the history of boxing, 
 but they're severely lacking in authenticity and detail. Despite the ESPN Classic brand that's 
 stamped on the game, the classic fights feel half-baked. The classic theme is ruined by modern 
 laser lights and Dodge advertisements plastered all over the place, and it doesn't help that a 
 lot of the fights don't even take place in historically accurate venues. You can unlock special 
 gear by winning these classic fights, but ultimately, ESPN Classic mode fails to offer anything 
 different than the play now mode.  

          Career mode has been reworked entirely, but it all still comes down to bashing random guys' 
 heads in over and over.     

  For the PlayStation 3 version of the game, there's an additional mode called "get in the ring." 
 This mode plays just like the play now mode, except you view the action from a first-person perspective. 
 Everything you see is how your boxer would theoretically see it, so when your opponent has been 
 tap dancing on your face for three rounds, your vision will start to get blurry around the edges 
 as your boxer's face swells up from the punishment. It's a great effect, and the first-person mode 
 is a lot of fun. It plays just like a regular boxing match, so once you spend a few minutes getting 
 accustomed to the new perspective, you should be able to bob and weave, throwing punches with ease. 
 You can also choose to play any of the other game modes from a first-person perspective, which 
 is a nice touch. The computer-controlled opponents in the get-in-the-ring matches seem to be a 
 bit easier than in the normal quick matches, and as long as you have any experience with the game, 
 you'll be able to take on just about anyone. You'll also notice that these matches rarely last 
 more than a couple of rounds, and most opponents will be down for the count after a second trip 
 to the canvas.  

  Career mode returns, but it has an entirely new look and structure this time around. You can choose 
 to create your own boxer, or you can rebuild a legend like in previous Fight Night games. Again, 
 you begin as an amateur, and you have to fight your way up to the professional ranks. Professional 
 and amateur, however, are the only real "ranks" in career mode. In the past, as soon as you went 
 pro, you'd get a ranking. You'd start as the 50th ranked boxer and steadily move toward number 
 one as you won fights. Now, there is no rank; you simply fight one bout after another. As you win 
 fights, your popularity increases. Once your popularity gauge is full, you qualify for a special 
 contract fight, such as a sponsored fight or a title fight. In career mode, you can become the 
 champion of your weight class, or you can switch weight classes and go for another title. While 
 career mode in Round 3 lacks the rigid structure previously found in the Fight Night series, the 
 basic principles are still intact. You still sign contracts one at a time, then train in one of 
 the three minigames, and then fight. The difference is that there aren't any clearly defined goals 
 or progress indicators, aside from your fighter's stat increases. As a result, career mode feels 
 more like a series of loosely related exhibition matches, rather than an ongoing struggle to fight 
 your way up the ranks and become a champion.  

  The fights start off extremely easy, and if you have any previous Fight Night experience, you'll 
 be able to cruise through your first dozen or so fights without getting knocked down once. In fact, 
 most of the early fights will be over before the third-round bell. You can increase the difficulty 
 at any time, but the computer opponents still tend to behave the same. The most noticeable difference 
 in higher-level fights is that your opponents are able to absorb a lot more blows, and they inflict 
 more damage per punch. As far as boxing strategy goes, though, you'll see the same few combos thrown 
 repeatedly throughout the game, and before long, you'll be able to recognize and anticipate all 
 of your opponents' moves.  

  Round 3 introduces to career mode the concept of rivalries. As you make your way through your career, 
 you'll face one or more rival boxers. You have one main rival in the game, and you'll have to face 
 him several times throughout your career. There isn't much of a difference between these matches 
 and any of the others, aside from the ridiculous cutscenes of the weigh-ins before the fights and 
 that rival boxers tend to throw illegal blows while all normal opponents play by the book. Aside 
 from that, and the novelty of beating the same guy's face in multiple times, the rivalries are 
 entirely superfluous.  

  There's no substitute for the bitterness and bad blood you share with perfect strangers when you 
 fight online. The PlayStation 3 version of Round 3 has online play, with a full complement of stat-tracking 
 features, leaderboards, and match options. The online play is smooth and lag-free. It's also easy 
 to set up and find matches. After each bout, you get kicked out to the main online menu, which 
 can be frustrating if you were hoping to get a rematch without going through the entire setup process 
 again. You can play both ranked and unranked matches online, as well as take your custom boxer 
 online as long as he has been retired from career mode. The game also integrates ESPN content, 
 so you'll constantly be updated on sports news and scores while online. The get-in-the-ring and 
 ESPN classic modes are also available for online play.  

  On the Xbox 360, Round 3 looked amazingly lifelike, with some of the most realistic and detailed 
 fighter models to appear in any game. The graphics hold up on the PlayStation 3, with equally lifelike 
 and technically impressive models that are slightly more detailed than on the Xbox 360. Everything 
 from the tape on a fighter's gloves to the look of sheer exhaustion on his face makes you feel 
 like you're watching a real bout. The heads-up display has been removed, and while you do have 
 the option to turn it on, you really won't need to. You can judge how your fighter is holding up 
 by the expressions (or contusions) on his face. The default camera is pulled in close, and it always 
 provides a great perspective on the action in the ring. The knockout replays are especially fun 
 to watch, because the face on the receiving end of a punch contorts and deforms as shock waves 
 ripple through flesh and cartilage. All of the venues and crowds look detailed on the PlayStation 
 3, but upon close examination, you'll notice that the backgrounds do still suffer from the cardboard 
 cutout look. If you have a high-definition display, you'll see an amazing amount of clarity and 
 detail, but even on a standard-definition display, the game looks great. That said, minor issues, 
 such as feet clipping through the canvas or a fighter's trunks clipping through his legs, do detract 
 from the overall presentation of the game, if only slightly. There are also some very lengthy and 
 frequent load times in the game, and they're worse on the PlayStation 3 than in the other versions 
 of the game. The loading times are so bad in fact that they just about break the create-a-fighter 
 mode. It's extremely tedious to make a fighter because every time you change a feature such as 
 hair style or skin color it takes several seconds to load each new element, and sometimes they 
 don't load at all. It makes the entire create-a-fighter mode more trouble than it's worth.  

  The boxing legends included in the game look accurate, although greats such as Marciano, Liston, 
 and Foreman are noticeably absent from the roster. The animations are still somewhat spasmodic 
 when fighters are changing up their blocks, and the ridiculous, twitching rag dolls are still in 
 full effect, but otherwise, the game looks and moves as good as it plays. There are half a dozen 
 venues in the game, from the Staples Center and Madison Square Garden to a warehouse and a hole-in-the-wall 
 boxing gym. The action has been slowed down a bit from previous games, which is noticeable at first, 
 but it doesn't take long to get used to the pace. If anything, the slower gameplay serves to highlight 
 the differences between fighting styles, as you'll see a significant change when switching from 
 a slugger to a speed-style boxer. The dramatic replays return, so you can see each and every knockout 
 punch in all of its crushing glory.  

  For as good as it looks, there are some tremendous eyesores in the form of excessive advertisements 
 in all three versions of the game. You'll see Dodge and Burger King logos everywhere, as if it 
 were stipulated in some contract that each frame of the game had to have at least one corporate 
 logo. You can even unlock the Burger King mascot to serve as your trainer, which pretty much destroys 
 any pretense of authenticity in this game. It's just as offensive in the PlayStation 3 version 
 of the game as it was on the Xbox 360, given that both versions retail at a premium price point 
 as opposed to the discounted price of their PlayStation 2 and Xbox counterparts.  

          The first-person perspective will give you a newfound appreciation of your skull.     

 
  The audio is well done in all three versions of the game. When you knock down an opponent with 
 a slug to the mouth, you'll hear the sickening crunch of unseated teeth and snapping tendons, followed 
 by the thick, wet sound of spit and blood flying from his mouth. The excessively gruesome effect 
 really punctuates each knockdown, and it makes you want to avoid being on the receiving end of 
 such a punch. The commentary is once again provided by Joe Tessitore, and while he's competent 
 behind the mic, he isn't very exciting. He also tends to repeat himself often. It gets tiring to 
 hear all about the "textbook boxing style" and "well-rounded skills" of your fighter half a dozen 
 times in one fight. The music is composed entirely of hip-hop tunes, which sound good enough, but 
 there are only a handful of songs, and they get repeated endlessly. As a result, you'll probably 
 end up muting the music after a couple of hours of playing.  

  EA Sports' heavy-hitting franchise doesn't change up its approach for the third time through, but 
 the gameplay remains as tight and enjoyable as it has always been. So while there are no surprises 
 in store, you can expect a great game of boxing, with a fully capable single-player experience 
 backing up a solid online multiplayer game. Most of the changes to the PlayStation 3 version of 
 the game are hardly noticeable, but the new first-person perspective works surprisingly well and 
 will hopefully be a standard option in all subsequent Fight Night releases. Although it doesn't 
 drastically improve on what is already a great game, Fight Night Round 3 for the PlayStation 3 
 does enough to give it a slight edge, although not quite enough to make it worth another investment 
 if you already own the Xbox 360 version.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Fight Night Round 3; are you ready to rumble and see some good graphics with some dirty 
 sweat involved. With the gaming system, you get the exclusive first-person mode. Even though this 
 is the only "real" boxing game on the market, it is a great one, and it would take a lot to match 
 up to its greatnes. It has great mechanical gameplay, including the punches which can be fought 
 using the right analog stick or you can just use the buttons; however, using the analog stick makes 
 you feel like you are more "one" with the boxer. 
  
  How to use the contols: well like the right analog stick as your fists; I will tell you how they 
 work. You can just bump the right analog stick upward to just create a jab. You can go to the left 
 or right then circle up for hooks, and all the way down on the analog stick then around circle, 
 left or right to create an upper cut. And welcome to the haymakes, the thing that can instantly 
 win you a match. Hit left or right on the analog stick, then&nbsp; go down, while circling,&nbsp; to 
 the bottom of the&nbsp; analog stick, then circle back up to the top. This is bring you to end your 
 opponent very quickly, but&nbsp; you better not try to many because it brings down your boxer's 
 stamina very rapidly. Since the Playstation 3 has&nbsp; Sixaxis, and this game came out about the 
 same time as the release of the PS3, they have been trying to increment it into the game, but it 
 doesn't work very well. It is just used for creating&nbsp; illegal shots on your opponent by just 
 moving the controller forward abruptly.
  
  In this match, you can just go out there and just throw a lot of punches, but will it do much. 
 No, not in my opinion, especially if you are playing online or on harder difficulty levels. This 
 will only tire your boxer out, and once he is tired, you basically lost if the&nbsp; other boxer 
 is still pumping, ready to go. Although,&nbsp; be a little more conservative and use blocks and 
 dodges which will let you do some counters that will knock your opponents socks off. However before 
 each match, you&nbsp; now have the option to train your boxer to make him that bad ass guy, who 
 you wish you were; LOL JK.&nbsp; In training, if you do well enough, you can&nbsp; improve your boxer's 
 attributes which include strength, speed, etc.
  
  There is a mode called ESPN Classic mode which compromises of many great classic boxing matches. 
 For example,&nbsp; the great match of Ali vs. Frazier.&nbsp; If you own the&nbsp; Playstation&nbsp;3, 
 you can get the&nbsp; Get in the Ring mode which lets you box as a first-person view as stated earlier. 
 Once you&nbsp; start&nbsp; to get "yo" butt&nbsp; kicked, if you do, then the edge of the screen will 
 start to get blurry.
  
  Now on to the career mode, which is pretty lengthy, should I say myself. Well you&nbsp; can start 
 as a beginner boxer or start or build a legend. You will fight, and as you fight, your "gauge" 
 will fill which when it does, you are open to a title match or some kind of "Big" fight. But it 
 seems like the career will never end. During the career, there will be that one guy who you will 
 have to fight numerous times, which he is a rival, and he will cheat to win because he might be 
 tired of losing. But the cheats only intend on like some headbuts and stuff like that,&nbsp; nothing 
 big.
  
  Now about the non-lag game online.&nbsp; That's right. No lag. It is quite fun online. We were playing 
 it and at some point we ended up in the top 100 at times. I think we reached number 73&nbsp; at 
 some point but then we had to move onto other games. This took us about&nbsp; two or three months. 
 The leaderboards are big and have a lot of people on them so don't think they don't. We&nbsp; were&nbsp; just 
 like 180-20 record or something like that. And we were using the analog stick as punching because 
 most people switched and used the buttons.
  
  Like most would agree, the Playstation 3 version looks a slight better than the rival Xbox 360s. 
 The graphics are some of the best for this time period. Trust me, you won't be dissapointed in 
 the graphics. The knockouts are just amazing by watching to slow-motion replay which lets you see 
 blood, sweat fly with the ripple effect of the checks when you land that haymaker on him. The audio 
 is great and the songs are good but not a great quantity of them. You hear that song by Akon a 
 lot but it is a great song.
  
  If you want a great single-player and multiplayer game, then this is it if you like boxing. I can 
 personally say I am not that knowledgable about boxing but I really enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night round three is terrible. I have never played any fight night game until this one but 
 this is just terrible. The only good thing about it is the graphix which are the best graphix at 
 showing sweat of any game I have played on PS3. The game is very boring though and really not worth 
 the money. Punching a guy should be satisfying but this game manages to pull of boredom from it. 
 Punching a guy is just boring, it doesn't have a good sound affect and it doesn't look cool either. 
 You can never really tell if you have hurt the guy or if he just blocked your punch because of 
 the lack of a sound affect or the other guy reacting which is very minimal. Also when you are close 
 to going down you really can't see anything. The game distorts your vision so much that its like 
 looking through black construction paper while playing a video game. There is really nothing to 
 like about this game. The controls also suck. It took me about twenty minutes just to figure out 
 what was what and how it worked and the game includes no tutorial or good instruction booklet and 
 there is training but the training gives you no tutorial at all so it is meaningless unless you 
 know all the button combinations. The best thing about the game and the only good thing is the 
 music. EA is great and picking music for their games and this one is great with all real artists 
 and songs. Otherwise, this game really sucks and could be one of the worst games ever for the PS3. 
 I'm happy i only payed twenty bucks for it and can get most of my money back on eBay for it. Any 
 other fighting game is better than this, even Facebreaker is better than this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Lets begin with the Greatness of this epic boxing game:-
  
  -----------
  
  1 - Graphics : Great , Body designing (muscles mapping are so reslistic) , The sheen reflection 
 of the sweating on the body and The cuts looks so real . But the Scattering of the Saliva in the 
 replay are so poor they look like ropes coming out of the boxer's mouth.
  
  Overall : 4.5\5
  
  ------------------------
  
  
  2 - Gameplay: OH God! so smooth, creative 
 , easy and handy!! But once you get used to it ... you really will thank them for desgning the 
 controlling that way!! On your frist time playing the game you'll be scared and confused from the 
 controlling but it will really grows on you fantasticly.
  
  
  Overall: 5\5
  
  
  ---------------
  
  
  
  3 - Difficulty : So easy! Its maybe i became pro in this game, but 
 i can easily beat a Heavy weight boxer with light weighted one so fast. For example 
  joe frazier Vs Leonard . Or Joe frazier Vs Oscar De la hoya .
  
  Overall : 3.5\5
  
  
 
  -------------------
  
  
  4 - Sound : FANTASTIC sound effects overall , Especialy when throwing a haymaker on the face ; 
 you really feel like you're in the ring beating the other boxer up and every punch feels right 
 against the other guy's body\face the power is perfectly, realisticly measured. 
  
  * Commantray is fun and enjoyable , and the repetitve starts so late or you wont feel it.
  
 
  Overall: 5\5
  --------------
  
  5 - Speacial Features \ Multiplayer : 
  
  The Esport Classic fights are fun , the in the ring fight mode is stupid (or i didn't really like 
 it) where the camera turns into FPS - like style ... because it's really hard to measure and time 
 your punch in this new mode , but still fun speacially when you get hit more often and how the 
 vision become blurry and not clear.
  
  Overall : 4.6\5
  
  -----------------------------
  
  Overall , Highly Recommended for the fans of this series and 
 the First time play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngnikolaos312
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Boxing games have never been my thing. Aside from a past era where my older brother and me used 
 to play Cinemaware's TV Sports Boxing on my Commodore Amiga, I never really bothered to play any 
 kind of boxing games. I never was a sports games fan. I was more of a fantasy freak. Now Fight 
 Night Round 3 turns the tables and made me buy it, play it, and man oh man, enjoy it.
  
  Story:
  There isn't a story per se, it's a sports game. Your primary goal is to create a custom 
 boxer and send him to the top, fighting a number of opponents on your way there. Aside from a few 
 boxers who become "rivals" and provoke "big showdown" comments from the TV announcer, there isn't 
 anything remotely storyliny about the game.
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the game's strongest asset, the character models are flat-out awesome. While some characters 
 may be a bit weird in the eyes, most are exceptionally well made, if not amazing. The detail in 
 the bodies is also jaw-dropping. Sweat starts pouring from their back and chest after their stamina 
 begins to drop, slow motion sequences show ultra detail in knockdowns, the boxers' shorts are shiny 
 with various creases and their expressions change during the fight, depending on their health and 
 stamina. The trainers and the "next round" girls are also very well done, even though they are 
 obviously not very detailed like the boxers.
  Everything else though is flat-out ... mediocre. The audience and the ring clearly look last-gen, 
 although that's understandable considering the amount of polygons the two boxers carry. One particular 
 nitpick which is a bit of a turn off is the fact that the boxers do not have polygons for the area 
 of their body that is covered by their shorts (probably for less polygons to chow down frame rate) . 
 While there is no problem in the fight, in a knockdown, if the fighter lands on his back you can 
 actually see the canvas when looking inside his shorts.
  
  Music / Sound Effects
  You like rap? Yes? Well, you can hear 3-4 monotonous rap music themes in the menu and loading screens. 
 You don't like rap? Tough. Sound effects are realistic and get the job done. The announcer is describing 
 the game accurately, and he can give you the impression that this is a real fight. The trainers 
 are the true power of the voices, though. They criticize (some times in a funny way) and they give 
 tips (as also tips on your opponent tactic in the next round) . The trainer who excels at speed 
 training reminds me of Rocky's coach.
  
  Gameplay:
  I haven't played any recent boxing games to make comparisons, so I'll just share with you what 
 I liked and disliked.
  Controls work mostly through the analog sticks. Left is for moving and dodging, right is for attacks. 
 While the controls are quite responsive, I have had some trouble with low attacks (sometimes the 
 first punch after holding down the low attack button would still go up, giving my opponent a powerful 
 edge) . Most of the time though, the experience is nothing short of amazing. I found myself sweating 
 like my boxer did during some hard fights. You can play as a dancer, as a brutal attacker, as a 
 cautious adversary and so on. You can choose to wear out your opponent with weak punches in the 
 face (causing cuts and swelling in the process) , or you can go for the body, crushing him under 
 his feet. Whatever path you choose to follow, there are ups and downs. You can get trapped between 
 the ropes when dancing, you can get pummelled if you're too slow to move, you can get disqualified 
 if you do too many dirty hits, and you can evade knock-outs by hugging your opponent.
  
  OVERALL:
  Fight Night Round 3 is an amazing boxing game, and a welcome addition to my PS3 library. 
 I recommend it to any action fan, as well as boxing fans. A job well done, for EA Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Now i have always been a fan of this series and love it and respect it as the king of all boxing 
 franchises. There is a reason for this people and this one proves it. Although this offers a few 
 new key details it is all in all pretty much the same as the 360 version.
  
  The positives of this one is it definitely offers sharper detail in the graphics. I just picked 
 this version up a couple of days ago and like this version better then the 360 predecessor. Like 
 I said the detail is absolutely amazing and the online works much smoother with a lot less lagging.
 
  
  However with this being said Fight night round 2 is still the best in the series when it comes 
 to story line and character development. If you have a ps3 then you need this title in your collection. 
 I honestly recommend this title to everyone even if your not a fan. This game will totally blow 
 you away. Even after being out for two years it still kicks a#$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonHamoodi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 is an great game and one of the few true next-generation games out there that 
 delivers well on every degree. The learning curve is not that kinda hard but there are easier configurations. 
 The only learning curve is learning how to be a good boxer by knowing when to strike, block, clinch 
 and the accessional cheap shot. It can get difficult but you can adjust the levels. The comentary 
 is very nice and crisp and adds to the whole illusion of a real boxing match. The comentary can 
 get a little repetiative like saying the same line for many of the boxers. The online is very well 
 arranged, where you have the choice to play against people with similiar skill. It is real fun 
 to play it with a friend, and the challenge can get very intense in that matter!!! So my advise 
 to every PS3 gamer is to get this game without any hesitation, and believe me you wont regret your 
 purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night is one of the few EA games I like 
  
  The Good: Great graphics. This game is much more realistic because in previous versions your boxer 
 could be 75 and still be a monster but in this one your boxer might be a monster at the start and 
 be a twig at the end. Great lenght not too short and doesn't drag on. Creat a boxer is fun and 
 detailed and can also help improve your boxer. There's not as much in your face advertising unlike 
 other EA games. The rivalry system works well but for some reason there easier than all the other 
 boxers. Difficulty settings thank god. The commentators will change their dialogue if your a champion 
 or if your an ageing boxer. A good rating system that tells you how good you are such as local 
 celeb or world class. In previous versions the first boxers would be complete dummies but in the 
 next fight they would be almost unbeatable but in this there's a slow incline off difficulty. Good 
 but slightly easy training minigames. If you get tired of the campaign there's plenty more to do. 
 
  
  The Bad: Very annoying and repetitive commentators. There are a huge amount of bugs in this game. 
 Get in the ring doesn't quite work. You'll hear the same song a million times. Pretty frequent 
 and long loading times. 
  
  There's not much bad here and it's cheaper than some of it's other PS3 companions si it deffinetly 
 warrants a purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Graphocally this game will impress anyone. If you've played previous installments though, you won't 
 find anything really new. 
  
  
  The two player mode is A LOT of fun at first. It seems to be very accessable to new users who just 
 need a short explanation of the control scheme. But, don't bother fighting someone if your experience 
 isn't matched. Someone who has played this for months will anihilate someone who has played it 
 for a week leaving your opponents very frustrated. But with that said, you can see that there IS 
 depth and much to learn in this game when it comes to strategy and quickness. Of course, that's 
 again nothing new for people who have played previous installments. 
  
  
  What really sells this sequel to an already great fighting game is it's appearance on a Next Gen 
 system, and it really takes advantage with a LARGE graphical update. Knockdowns still use rag doll 
 physics. But in my opinion, with the power under Playstation 3's hood, more could have been done 
 to make knockdowns a little more realistic.
  
  
  The career mode is nothing special but it IS fun and that's what's important in the end. The training 
 mini games between scheduled fights are actually a lot of fun this time around, but it DOES get 
 a bit repetitive after a while.
  
  Overall, my approach to this game is to schedule a career fight every once in a while and of course 
 train for it. In that way, I get a more life out of this title and the training sessions don't 
 bother me as much.
  
  As far as the online component, I must admit that I have only played once and was DESTROYED by 
 my opponent, leaving me frustrated and wanting to gain more experience before going there again 
 (as I mentioned earlier in the two player mode) .
  
  My suggestion to all is to rent this title first since it definitely isn't for everyone, and if 
 you are the type to sit with a new game for hours at a time, this is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contracts420
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Fight Night truly delivers in almost every department. The game is solid when it comes to being 
 in the ring against an opponent. If you have never picked up a fight night game before then the 
 computer A. I Is where you will want to start off. This game comes off as a fighting game but is 
 truly a sports game in almost every aspect. It has a fair number of fighters but is missing alot 
 of great pro boxers from every weight division. The core mechanics really shine when you dodge 
 weave and counter your way to victory in one of the most skill based games I have ever played. 
 You can talk smack to your opponent online while your glove is having a one on one meeting with 
 his face. You can also chat msn style in the lobby while looking or waiting for a fight. The career 
 mode isn't very good but its worth atleast one go through to unlock all the arenas and fighting 
 styles. But this game is all about getting in the ring.... in that regard this game is truly something 
 to behold. Strap on your gloves and don't trip over the ropes on your way in. Move out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-baller23
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Well I've been boxing for a few years so it is second nature to be interested in boxing games. 
 I have been playing fight night since the series started and I have to say that the 3rd time's 
 the charm. This game is the best in the series. First off, I have to say the graphics are superb 
 especially if you have an hdtv, it will still look beautiful on a standard television. The boxer 
 models are very detailed and you can see the sweat and spit and everything. What I love about this 
 game is that when you get a hay maker punch, the opponent spits out their well spit and their mouth 
 guard and you actually feel the punch. Everything is life like. The create a boxer mode is a great 
 career mode. You start off with creating your boxer then you train him and you fight to earn money 
 and buy new gear. It is very well done and the training mini games are cool. The only problem with 
 this game is that the load times are super long but that is the only fault with this game. The 
 controls are hard the first time but you get used to them and you can do some serious damage with 
 the right joy stick which controls the types of punches. Even if you don't like boxing, this is 
 a superb sports game which I recommend to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maturegamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is basically the same game as the PS2 version. The game play mechanics are great, and it is 
 still fun to play using the total punch control. 
  
  The downside is that the game is basically the same as the last version. It looks great if you 
 have an HD television and an HDMI cable. If you are not using HDMI, the game is complete waster 
 of money, it looks even worse than the PS2 version without HDMI.
  
  The sound is ok, the voice acting is boring and the in-fight commentary is repetative. I never 
 though that the series did good job onthe audio. 
  
  The load times are terribly slow, and the training is also slow and reptative. 
  
  The online 
 play is fine, howver it can be difficult to find someone to play with. My first time out, i had 
 my forst 10 requests to play denied. That may be because i do not play online often enough.
  
  A solid game, good to own, but do not buy at full-price. It is a bargain at $20.00. If you 
 are new to the series, then it is a must have, and a bargain at any price, juts make sure you have 
 HDtv and an HDMI cable for the ebst possible gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is the one game EA should be happy about in the PS3's launch. One of the first 
 modes you will proably play is Career Mode. You make a boxer, choose his class, and fight your 
 way to boxing superstardom. But on the way, you have to train. And traind is just half the fun 
 of Career. You have a great amount of trainers, and, you even have the Burger King. (Yes, the scary-as-hell 
 king is one of your trainers.) The graphics are a step above the from the Xbox 360. The gameplay 
 is also well done, and smacking your oppenet with a haymaker to the body is gonna make you cringe. 
 The sound track is all hip-hop, but it does a great job of matching the atsomphere. The online 
 mode is superb, with ESPN Radio every 20 minutets, which shows that EA is doing very well with 
 ESPN in its games. ESPN Classics let you play boxing's greatest fights, including Ali vs Frazier, 
 Gatti vs Ward, and more. But, with the good comes the bad. The career mode feels rushed and loose, 
 and there isen't alot of Hard Hits matchs in Career mode. All in all, Fight Night Round 3 is the 
 best simulation of the sweet science ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I own and played the PS2 version and noticed a difference between the two. the amount of content 
 as far as customizable characters goes, there is only about half as much on this system. but, it 
 is worth it. the detail and mechanics of the PS3 version is unparalleled. it looks like a real 
 fight on tv, the only time it is given away that it is a game is when the opponent falls, they 
 tend to twitch or act 'blocky'. other than that it is very smooth with no frame rate issues. 
 
  
  i enjoy the other modes like vs. first person, and legends, but the most addictive is the career 
 mode. the only disappointing thing aboud career mode is that you can only have one fighter save 
 at a time, i would like to at least be able to save mine and go back and play them. you start out 
 as an amateur and quickly rise to a pro earning respect and money. in between fights, you train 
 to increase your stats. that is pretty much it. train and fight, train and fight. it can get monontonous, 
 but you find yourself 6 hours later at 1 am telling yourself, just one more fight. the difficulty 
 as far as competition is average unitl about 25 fights it increases. on top of that just the game 
 controls are complicated. it is unique to use the analogs in a swinging motion to represent the 
 punches, but it is hard to get those 'specials' (ko, flash ko, knockdowns) to work.
  
  all in all, a great game, especially with buddies, just pass the sticks each round. not to mention 
 making some pretty stacked and whacked looking fighters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MitsubishiGTO
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The game looks awesome and the boxers look real-like. The punches look like they hurt and the game 
 is just plain fun and addicting. This game is fun with fighting against your friends and a great 
 game for parties. You get to train your boxer between fights and build him up in strength, agility 
 and speed. The game lacks a great career that shows you are climbing to being the champion. Also 
 there isn't that many boxers to choose from. The crowd and the ring ladies lack a graphic upgrade 
 since they don't look to appealing. The biggest problem with the game are the load times. This 
 game will take forever to load when you load a fight or after you are done from a fight. Also when 
 you switch menus and so on. The loading time are just a pain. Overall when it comes right down 
 to the action of boxing, this game is great and uses boxing strategy. Definitely the best boxing 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyZeRViRuS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of boxing, then buy this game. Thats all. If your not, then read on.
  
  So your not a huge fan of boxing, but this game is still awesome. Its tense, frantic and exciting. 
 If your playing it on your own, or multiplayer its really fun. Single player is great, the AI is 
 great, and can really test your skills. The multiplayer is awesome, the fight can really go either 
 way, its simply lots of fun. The controls are great, most people would expect a button bashing 
 game, but Fight Night Round 3 uses the anolog sticks, the left stick to move and dodge, and the 
 right stick to throw punches, as soon as you get used to moving the right stick for punches and 
 knowing when to dodge or when to block, you'll begin to throw good punch combinations and also 
 find that you have your own fighting style. This is also chosen in career mode, you can choose 
 whether you want to have speed, power etc. and do some training before each fight to build up your 
 stats. The career mode itself is good, and if you've read around at reviews from GS or IGN you'll 
 see that they coplain about the career not really having a structure. When you play the game you 
 can see what they mean, its like there isnt much instruction of where your actually going in your 
 career, you just choose between some fights, pick one, train, fight and then pick another. Saying 
 this, the career is still great, the way the training works and stat building is cool, and the 
 fights are awesome as expected. 
  Another thing is the new 'Get In The Ring' mode, exclusive to PS3. This is great and makes it feel 
 like your in the ring, each punch that is landed on your face restricts your vision, the areas 
 of where you have taken hits begin to get blurry, and then a little bit red, then black, and the 
 amount you see gets smaller and smaller, its more of a fight for survival than a boxing match, 
 but thats at first anyway, you soon get used to it. 
  
  Graphics -10- The graphics are fantastic, from the small details like sweat running down your boxers 
 body and the spit and blood flying from his mouth after a massive punch to the face, to the animations 
 and overall shine, the game looks realistic, it looks great. The small details are amazing, like 
 the veins in the boxers arms, small details like this really make this games visuals boom.
  
  Sound -9- The sound is great, and would've got a 10, if only if it wasnt for the repetative 
 commentry. Each punch you can feel, whether its a small jab to the face which makes a small slap 
 noise, or a huge smash to the ribs, which makes a massive crunch and the best noise you've ever 
 heard. The sound matches the gameplay and graphics perfectly, its great. But a couple of minor 
 things spoil it slightly, such as the commentry, it can become repetative too quickly, theres a 
 couple of other things too, but they're so minor that they're not even worth mentioning. The best 
 sound though, is when you land that massive punch to the face which knocks your opponent down, 
 you see it again in slow motion and you hear the crack of his jaw and the splat of the salivor 
 and blood being spit out. The sound should be a 10, and it is, if you dont mind a bit of repetativeness.
 
  
  Gameplay -9- The gameplay, for a boxing game, is very in-depth, it works perfectly, each punch 
 thrown you can feel, when you hold back a little longer on the right stick, you throw a massive 
 punch that when landed, can change a fight. If you dont land those punches, well your wide open 
 and that could also change the fight... in the other direction. It also will wear you down quickly, 
 you'll get very tired if your constantly throwing haymakers and you'll be struggling to survive 
 in the ring. The game can take some skill, you will begin to get into little pattens, and this 
 is good, but made even better in the way that they dont always work, meaning your tested, and if 
 you always stick to this gameplan, you'll soon find yourself on the defence, this really comes 
 to effect in multiplayer though, you can be going into a fight thinking about landing some good 
 combos and then finish with some heavy punches, and then find that your opponent is dodging every 
 punch, leaving you tired, and giving him the opportunity to take the fight. Its just great to experience, 
 and a must play. The only reason gameplay gets a 9, is because its boxing, nothing more. Like playing 
 FIFA or Madden etc. you get what you get. Its just boxing, but, it really feels like boxing, which 
 makes it great, I would say its repetative, but its not, only because you never truly master it, 
 there's always someone out there who plays it differntly, and will work your perfect stratergy, 
 and that makes this game unique in the EA Sports franchise. This game is awesome, if your a fan 
 of boxing, or like boxing then give gameplay a 10. 
  
  Value -9- This game is simpy boxing, and thats a reason why value isnt a 10, I love boxing I really 
 do, and this game is awesome, I could play it for hours, and like I said before, this game will 
 always challenge you, someone else always has a different way of playing, but, its boxing, you 
 wont get any more than that. It will give you hours of fun though and its a must buy.
  
  Final Verdict -9.5- You should really buy this game, everything on this game is great, it takes 
 real boxing and puts it in a package for you to play, it takes every aspect and its awesome. But 
 like I've said before, its boxing and only boxing, so if your really not a fan of boxing then maybe 
 give this game a miss, but still, atleast rent it. One thing to note is the load times, they take 
 a little bit longer than your average game, but its worth it when you start playing. Not much else 
 to say about the game, its awesome, and you should really look into buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Nothing much has changed, and thats a good thing. The punch system EA implemented way back redifined 
 the boxing game genre and everything is the way it should be for FNR3.
  
  Graphics:
  SImply amazing. The bodies, the sweat, the blood, the swollen eyes, everything is just awesome. 
 The only thing is during some closeups the players have a somewhat plastic, shiny look that is 
 a little unrealistic, but that is really just nitpicking since the overall quality of the boxers 
 is probably as realastic as any game ever.
  
  Sound:
  This is where it could use a little work, and Ill start with the horrible announcer/play by play. 
 After hearing the announcer, during a fight, constantly refer to the boxer by their nickname, and 
 after nearly every landed punch or punch taken, refer to the nickname, it gets downright annoying, 
 to the point where its distracting. I turned off the announcer volume after a few hours and it 
 was a breath of fresh air.
  The crowd noise is good.
  
  Features:
  Here is where additional improvement is needed. More arenas and more boxers are sorely needed for 
 this game. 
  However, the online play is very much improved over the PS2s version, very little glitching and 
 pausing, which is just great to finally see in a fight night game.
  
  Overall, this is easily the best boxing game ever, with great graphcis and great online play. A 
 must own for any boxing, or sports fan in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Fight Night has to be the most solid boxing game i have ever played, as far as game play goes. 
 It's really fun playing with a friend and the online works very well. My only wish was the career 
 mode would have at least a small story or give better inventive to move on. also going through 
 the trainings i didn't feel like it made me a better player, they are entertaining at first but 
 get old quickly.
  
  This is a classic title to pick up and just have around for those occasions to sit down and pummel 
 a friend. solid game play and a good online makes fight night a good pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game is good. Career is ok and so is multiplayer. Most the fun will be going against your 
 friends! This game actually takes skill and it is intense throughout! Great at parties! The audience 
 in this game looks terrible!! Worse than the guitar hero 3 audience. It was like they took them 
 off some NES game. Lots of bugs which can mess up you gameplay. Online is fun once you actually 
 get in a match. People sometimes tend to leave if you picktheir" character. That can piss you 
 off. The sountrack is good but DAMN SHORT. It really starts to get annoying hearing AKON over and 
 over again. Loading times are loooooooooooooong and you have to listen to the same loop of music 
 for like 5 minutes.
  
  Overall a decent game. Not a must buy however especially with the PS3 system.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok its time to start to review PS3 games. After not getting to my quest of every game of the last 
 Gen. I had this amazing machine kinda sitting around for a while now. While I was on a quest to 
 play every last gen game. Or most. I did well On that quest, but did not get them all in. So to 
 Fight night. Im gonna shorten my reviews from now on, if I can. After all you have 200 billion 
 others to read. The good is, The fighters look super detailed. And the graphics are pretty decent. 
 But movement can get a tad odd like a tad jerky sometimes A trate of all First year Sony games 
 for every gen. Epically games made by EA. Yea this was the case with the PS2 and 1 also. So the 
 game looks great. It plays well. Its not to fast to where you cant see punches coming. So strategy 
 plays out like a fairly realistic boxing match, Compared to other fighter games. The career mode 
 is decent. And has most of the create a boxer features you see in the last Gen versions. But a 
 tiny few are missing. Probably due to the new boxer builds. The backgrounds in the bigger arenas 
 are amazing in this version. Compared to other version. So the feel and aura of the big arenas 
 is great. But the intros and stuff you once got to choose in FN2 are gone. And their kinda short. 
 Also the load times on this game can be kinda long. Oline is vary cool, although I have not got 
 to play it much. For the most part its a good first try. Much better than what EA usually gives 
 out on First try's. With EA its almost like you have to wait till year two to see what they can 
 really do with a system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Career mode is absolete, I originally bought the game, played career, then let it collect dust 
 until occassionally one of my friends would come over and we'd play multi.... that was untill I 
 realized how fun online is, if you're a boxing fan, I highly recommend it just for the multiplayer.
 
  Graphics are awesome, but there are a few bugs...
  Like jabs take away more health than what they should, a solid 20 jabs in heavyweight are usually 
 enough to take down anyone.
  Theres a cheap strategy that alot of people use online called Ferris Wheeling where they block 
 their body and spin around while leaning, which avoids almost all punches and they just counter. 
 Which can be frustrating at times. The impact punches are a sweet addittion to the franchise. All 
 in all its a pretty solid game excluding the career mode. and online matches are very competitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEVILinIRON
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is super fun. The only thing you want to watch out for is who you play it with. My analog 
 sticks are damn near busted due to over-enthusiastic play... It could be me but the option to fight 
 in first person doesn't really add much to the game. It seems more like a failed experiment than 
 anything really groundbreaking. So I only play that for a change of pace. The two player fight 
 mode is really where the fun lies. I've traded in a good half of my PS3 games, but this one is 
 still on the shelf. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. This is my first boxing game. I was never into 
 boxing but the game looks so awesome I'm going to check it out.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  It's amazing of the little amount high quality games EA develops nowadays. But when it comes to 
 boxing, EA makes the best. This game has surprising good gameplay. From counter moves to a risky 
 heavy and slow punch, it all works very well. However, it kinda makes me feel bored after a while 
 but hey, I wasn't a boxing fan.
  
  I like the create a champ feature though. You can make absurd looking fighters and that makes the 
 game pretty fun.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The boxers looks good, but their motion seems robotic and weird at times. The background crowd 
 is reduced to pixel art but the boxers are improved in the PS3 version.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Repetitive commentary. But the sound of punches actually makes you feel the impact.
  
  Value: 
 8/10
  I got this at USD50, which is 10 bucks cheaper than retail price and I think this game is only 
 worth USD50, because there are other big guns out there which is much better than this game. One 
 thing I hate about the game is the long load times. I think loading each fight took as long as 
 Resistance loading a level. This game makes me more interested in boxing and makes me watch boxing 
 movies like Million Dollar Baby, Ali, and Rocky to find out more about boxing.
  
  Bottom line is if you're a boxing fan, this game is a must get, if you're a fighter fan, you are 
 better off with VF5 and Tekken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Well what should i tell you about this game, just! its awesome, punch the com or your friends, and 
 also online. The graphics are good very good and i even can sy its great you feel like youre fighting 
 with a real human. You will see the blood, cuts and broken noses on your opponents, cool ha? Well 
 for me this game was the first time i ever played it, the first time i played Boxing, and i loved 
 it so if youre not a fan of it, buy it and you will see that you were wrong. Well the hard thing 
 on this game is the control of the fighting, you will have to use the right analog stick to maneuver 
 your punches, well thats it i think. Good luck on smashing someones face=D see ya... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  When waiting for this game to come out I began to consider cancelling my pre-order as I began to 
 have doubts about just how good it would be. Now that I have the game I wish I did.
  
  I loaded the game for the first time and created my own character to go into career mode with and 
 I found this to be a good start. Then when I had my first match I was amazed at the graphics - 
 especially the detail put into the boxers. However, that was as far as my enthusiasm for this title 
 went.
  
  I soon began to get bored with the monotonous gameplay and although buying new equipment for my 
 boxer and winning trophies appealed to me for a time, I eventually couldn't even be bothered to 
 get the game out of its case as just the prospect of playing it bored me. To try and get back into 
 the game I began to have some online fights but this did not work and i began to think about trading 
 the game in for something else - never a good sign for a game that is only 3 months old. So my 
 advise to anyone about to buy this game - do so at you peril. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOGRINGO
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  If you love boxing this is the game for you. No matter if you love the competition or just for 
 fun with your bodies. To begin with the graphics are great and you will need to develop your style 
 of box to be able to beat all different opponents. The future that has this game in which you create 
 your own boxer and have to train it and just grow his strengths with the time and fights its the 
 best. The setting of the game and different rings are well support by the crows and noise. Overall 
 great game highly recommended and a must have for the boxing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It looks so lifelike, and the gameplay is addictive. I never liked boxing 
 games before I played this. As for the graphics, it is true that in theory that the 360's graphics 
 should be almost the same, but it is completely untrue. My roommate has the 360 with Round 3, and 
 you can clearly see the difference that the playstation is better. I can't wait till they actually 
 make more games in 1080p (like NBA '07 which those graphics are AMAZING) . All in all they are very 
 similar, but the blood and sweat look more real especially when you are cold compressing your player's 
 face in between rounds. Must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humangarbage
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I played this game on the PS2 at first and enjoyed every minute of it. I soon got a PS3 and baught 
 this game first. I do not regret my purchase, this game is really good. Although it cannot really 
 compare to the Xbox360 version it'll still keep you playing for hours.
  
  The visuals are very crisp but the boxers almost look like plastic. The sweat feature makes the 
 boxer look a little more real but the 360 verion still looks better. The framerate is also not 
 that good comapred to the 360 version. Their are alot of jaggies here and there and it really makes 
 the arenas and boxers look somewhat gross.
  
  The load times are long caompred to the 360 version and the lack of rumble makes this game somewhat 
 dull when playing career mode.
  
  Career mode is not very fun, so you will probably spend all your time playing Online against someone 
 else.
  
  This game surely has its ups and downs but its worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  the boxers in fight night round 3 look awesome. the sound effects sounds great too. but these aren't 
 the only things that make this an awesome game. the control mechanics takes a lot of getting used 
 to but if you've already played the previous games, you won't have any trouble with the controls. after 
 you get used to them, you'll realize that these are great and you'll have so much fun playing fight 
 night round 3. you can control lots of great boxing legends or you can create your own. but not everything 
 in fight night round 3 is great. the loading times are long, the carreer mode isn't good and the 
 lighting and the audiences look better in the xbox 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  this is a really great game. ok first the graphics are really good, lots of detail, like sweat. 
 the music is good but sometime can get a little repetitive. The gamelay is good and wont take that 
 long to figure out. Also There is online play which is fun. The only bad thing is there isn't much 
 levels to choose from. For career mode theres alot of unlockables and different things to customize 
 your character like hairstyles, and tatoos. The game is pretty easy at first but when you boxer 
 starts to age it gets a little harder. I suggest if you are a boxing fan you should rent this game 
 or even buy it. You wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  we all know the fight night seris on boxing. this is the 3rd on the shiny divine 360 killer ps3! 
 ok its fun and the control scheme is very hard considering the fact it my first time on this seris 
 but u get used to it. the graphics r great they really look like the real fighters i mean wow its 
 amazing also the story is good cause u buy some good equpment and fighting styles now over all 
 this game is fun but a little hard. also they have some very classic fighters frazier ali and many 
 others and good online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigboy265
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I loved this game i have it for PSP, PS2, and PS3, PS3's version is by far the best. it is very 
 addictive great punch control and fun career mode. I LOVE IT When i am playing i feel like i am 
 knocking the other boxer out, or i feel like im ALI!!!!!!!! If you have a PS3 and you dont have 
 this game i dont know how you are able to be entertained. The KO'S, the punching, the blockiong 
 everything is sooooooooooooo realistic!
  
  GET IT
  
  I love it!!!!
  
  Its my baby!
  
  This game is better than oblivion better than NHL better than resistance its 
 is incomparable to any other game in the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino-sideras
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Best boxing game to date
  amazing graphics
  fully control your boxer with the total punch control system
  gameplay smooth and looks very 
 realistic
  
  cons:
  slow loading times
  
  Fight night round 3, is probably the best fighting game for the ps3, online, career and more its 
 got the whole package. the graphics are really outstanding you cant tell whether its a real person 
 fighting or not and the gameplay is the best its ever been, gamespot are right about the espn2 
 not beeing important but its still a bonus, i think gamespot i biased on the x360 because why should 
 it get a better review when the ps3 version has more features, and not to mention how much better 
 the graphics are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely a HUGE step up from the arcadish-stylings of Fight Night 2. That game nearly 
 kept me from buying this one. The 1st-person option drew me to it. Coming from a boxing &amp; fighting 
 background (yes, there IS LIFE away from the consoles &amp; internet!!! LMAO) , the realism of that 
 mode w/ a handheld controller is magnificent. It's also the hardest to figure, due to having to 
 learn the head-on timing (much like real boxing) . However, when you master that mode, you've mastered 
 the rest of the game, for it makes your senses sharper in the 3rd person. The game does become 
 almost drastically easier. The graphics on this are amazing. True indeed, there' no difference 
 between this version &amp; the XBox360 version, graphic-wise. But, the Get In The Ring mode truly 
 sets it apart from any versions of this game. If there's a true pugalist in you, then you'll jump 
 all over this game, if you haven't already. It's still clearly the best game on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Its a boxing game, what else can be said. It has fighters ranging from the great Ali, to newer 
 fighters Ive never heard of as I don't keep tabs on professional boxing. With that being said its 
 a great game, full of bruises, broken jaws, and plenty of super realistic boxing. This review may 
 lack a bit because sports games are not really my thing so sorry if I leave out fighters or mispell 
 names.
  
  Graphics: This game has some really great textures, the fighters are super realistic, as is the 
 way the clothing flows with the body, and the sweat drips off of there bodies.
  
  The lighting isn't quite as good as the 360's version, or I say its different more than inferior. 
 Its not as bright as the 360's lighting but the contrast is better if that makes sense, as the 
 360 version is the other way around. Still good though overall.
  
  The crowd is rather drab compared to the 360 version though, a lot more pixelated, and drab, while 
 the Rings and other parts of the environments look better, than the 360's version.
  
  The overall quality of the visuals is better than the 360's but there are still a few hiccups. 
 When the fighters falls down there are still some minor clipping issues with the clothing going 
 through the body instead of resting against it, and the some times violent spasms the fighters 
 go through while lying on the mat, weird twitching and flailing kind of take away from the experience 
 when knocking some one out. Nothing to horrible but its there and was there in the 360 version 
 as well.
  
  Gameplay: The fighting is great, with awesome hit detection, realistic, animations, but the career 
 mode lacks a bit still in this version as well.
  
  It just feels like a bunch of random fights as opposed to a real boxing career. Really the best 
 part about this game is 2 player and online boxing. Basically create a fighter, rush through career 
 and then take on friends and online opponents is the really were the gameplay is for this game.
 
  
  Controls are great, using the analog sticks for punches was a really a great Idea, and works excellently, 
 but honestly its not really that user friendly for novices, as good as they work I feel it would 
 be difficult for a novice to just pick up and play. Excellent selection of fighters as well. From 
 Ali, to Roy Jones jr, and many other greats. The game isn't to difficult either but some times 
 the AI seems either super dumb or untouchable, really unbalanced.
  
  Only real gameplay flaw is the drab career mode and AI, other than that it plays great and is an 
 excellent boxing sim especially for 2 players.
  
  Sound: The sounds are great, from the crowd to the impact of punches everything flows smoothly, 
 and sounds perfect, for the type of game it is.
  
  Value: As most games this one excels with multiplayer. The single player is drab, and there really 
 isn't any replay value at all single player wise, but there doesn't really seem to be an online 
 community for the game, and never really was there one, so beating a buddy next to you is really 
 the only way to play, which leaves the value of this game for something to be desired. It does 
 have a great list of fighters too, but that doesn't save it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock_around83
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  The grafix are brilliant, they are stunning, you will see every detail in HD (at least every detail 
 in the fight, the background animation is amazing-ly BAD) , The sweat runns down the body and and 
 the knockouts send chills down your spine. For this, the game is a brilliant one of a kind game 
 of this era. The controls sometimes suck, online and offline changes the controls. eg. 3rd person 
 view has 1 person controls and sometimes changes while online to 3rd person view and controls which 
 is confusing. But you can elarn the controls easily enough though, thats if you practice oflline 
 though. if yuo play online, you are most likely to get knocked out in first round, and most likely 
 to be knocked out by muhammad ali, which isnt a surprise as there arent many other boxers which 
 are as good as the greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Kasper
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  It's very nice having total punch control! The graphics are amazing.. if you look in the boxer's 
 chest you can't see so much difference in real life.. The training part, when you need to punch 
 in the right sequence, or lift some weight is very amazing but during time you get sick of it.. 
 you just want to skip the training, but if you do so you will receive just 50% of points ... there 
 are some tilts!! when you are going to punch the opponent's balls (illegal punch) the arm impale 
 him. it's riddiculous to see!!!! in the carreer mode you get tired of fighting the same fight every 
 time! the opponent changes but the game still the same! what i meant is that there are no challenges 
 you don't have any motivation to keep going on!!!! BUT when you are playing offline multiplayer 
 fight night shows a very exciting game.. you just keep spining that analog and the fight turns 
 into a frenetic-punch fight!! The sound is perfect in Dolby Digital 5.1... you can hear the crowd 
 screaming and the punch deforming the opponent's face!! you will just want to play with max volume!!!! 
 CONCLUSION: fight night round 3 is a game that will cause you a lot of fun if you are going to 
 play with a friend or something like that.. cause in carreer mode you will get tired of winning 
 all the time (easy) or losing all the time (medium) [I did not play in HARD :-] ] P. S. if you have 
 Dolby Digital at home JUST PUT IT VERY LOUD!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim-pagey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 Is a great boxing game, the graphics are great along with the gameplay and 
 the career mode is good aswell. The choice of playing as one of the ledgends in this makes it even 
 better aswell as being able to create your own boxer.
  
  The career mode could of been more variable for example having more options rather than just contract 
 sighning, train, fight or shop.
  
  Being able to fight rival matches is also a good thing. The online play is great and is recommended, 
 it is just as good. This is a great game for people who like boxing or like fighting. If you do 
 not like boxing then simply dont buy it. If you already have this game on either psp etc it woulnt 
 be worth buying again.
  
  But overall this is a great due to the great graphics and gameplay aswell as online gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game first off rocks. The gameplay system is so real and you have your fighter you like in 
 the palm of your hands. So I would like to talk about first is the gameplay. The learning curve 
 might take a beginer a while but to people who play the previous game you feel right at home. There 
 are many different modes in the game, like career mode which will keep you attach to it for a long 
 time time. Online is a blast but iI must say if you are not good stay offline and practice for 
 a while because people online will knouck you out the first round. One thing I don'tlike is the 
 first person view when you are playing two player on one of the modes. Next the fighters from almose 
 every division is in the game. The fighting styles of the fighters are accurate but some look similar 
 to each others.
  
  Now the graphics for the game are perfect even if you play it on 480 p or i. But if you look carefully 
 in the background you can see the audience, and they don't look good. They look all boxy and PS2 
 graphic like but I guess its because I play it on 480 instead 720 but who really cares because 
 the game is a hit. One more thing the sound is great and can't get any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Having previously bought, played and HATED the 360 version I did NOT have high hopes for FNR 3 
 on the Ps3. To say that I was blown away by the Ps3 version is an understatement!! The 360 version 
 was slow, painfully slow, the game played like a punch drunk elephant on drugs. The loading times 
 took forever and it was just plan boring! I tried HARD to like and get uses to playing it on the 
 360 but I just couldn't get on with it! The Ps3 version is lightning quick, crisp super sharp graphics 
 and movements, the additional features exclusive to the Ps3 like a FP boxer mode are brilliant. 
 You can make small adjustments to the controller to make the boxer perform exactly as you need 
 him to. The game's instant likeability makes you want to take on the career modes. All in all a 
 brilliant boxing game with the Ps3 version storming to a win with a clinical KO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RASECUL
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  It's the best in the series no questions asked. The Get in the ring feature, which is basically 
 a nexgen Punch out that allows you to play against a buddy, is worth buying a PS3 right now if 
 you trully enjoy the earlier versions (unless you have to starve and sleep outside for a month 
 to afford it...) . Well, that's if you are looking for a fighting game that doesn't require any 
 buttons combinations to memorize or simple luck button mashing to make it fun. pros:
  -Controls are tighter than ever.
  -Graphics are great, but I expected better somehow (no HD at 
 home though...) . -The fighting looks amazingly real. cons:
  -LOADING. It takes forever to see your fighters appear while making a selection. It lags for a 
 second when navigating from one menu to the other, It might sound picky, but I don't understand 
 why you need to press twice the X button when you try to go in the options after you come back 
 from the fighter selection screen... for example... because this happens in so many ways that I 
 needed to point it out. I thought this was the case on the PS2, but this one feels like its gotten 
 even worst. -They still need to put more famous or rising boxers in there. -I'd like to see more 
 venues.
  -they need to stop focusing on hip hop. Make it a customizable soundtrack with more than one genre 
 available. -Fight Store is still very painful. Because of the loading for one, AND there is no 
 way to see which item your boxer is wearing unless you test every item until the game finally tells 
 you that the said item is already equipped. There seems to be more cons than pros, but this is 
 simply tough love. This game do need a serious makeover on the outside but is outstanding on the 
 inside. I say pick it up, Especially if you have a few flesh and bones buddy who enjoy a beating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. This is my first boxing game. I was never into 
 boxing but the game looks so awesome I'm going to check it out.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  It's amazing of the little amount high quality games EA develops nowadays. But when it comes to 
 boxing, EA makes the best. This game has surprising good gameplay. From counter moves to a risky 
 heavy and slow punch, it all works very well. However, it kinda makes me feel bored after a while 
 but hey, I wasn't a boxing fan.
  
  I like the create a champ feature though. You can make absurd looking fighters and that makes the 
 game pretty fun.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The boxers looks good, but their motion seems robotic and weird at times. The background crowd 
 is reduced to pixel art but the boxers are improved in the PS3 version.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Repetitive commentary. But the sound of punches actually makes you feel the impact.
  
  Value: 
 8/10
  I got this at USD50, which is 10 bucks cheaper than retail price and I think this game is only 
 worth USD50, because there are other big guns out there which is much better than this game. One 
 thing I hate about the game is the long load times. I think loading each fight took as long as 
 Resistance loading a level. This game makes me more interested in boxing and makes me watch boxing 
 movies like Million Dollar Baby, Ali, and Rocky to find out more about boxing.
  
  Bottom line is if you're a boxing fan, this game is a must get, if you're a fighter fan, you are 
 better off with VF5 and Tekken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I am not sure why so before you break out the rope and torch hear me out.
  When I first acquired the PS3 I bought this. I already had the XBOX360 version. (yeah, i am a true 
 gamer) this is my breakdown of what I saw
  
  Graphics: Very clean and crisp, boxer models are like mwah! However the lightiing, something very 
 wrong with the lighting in this game. Also refrsh rate, how the heck is my PS3 worst in frame rate 
 than my XBOX? I play on a 32 Toshiba Regza HDTV at 1080i. Even still it looks great! Just not as 
 REAL as teh XBOX 360, I think the lighting on the 360 is what gives the game more realism.
  
  Sound: Dead on I could not tell the difference here
  
  GAmeplay: Same great gameplay, I 
 can still hit any boxer with about 150 jabs a round which is pretty cool to me.
  
  Value: Its a boxing game once you have unlocked everything got all the belts for the weight classes 
 its a done deal! Plus I can box at least 7 full matches before I go to bed and I get home at 7:30 
 and go to sleep at 11ish
  
  All in All good game, but side by side with XBOX 360, I iwll have to go with my 360 on this one, 
 though if I never had a 360 to compare this to I would be all for this one!
  
  Pick it up and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombom159
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This was the most fun i have ever had playing a boxing game. It is off the heazy for sczeazie. lol. 
 So any ways the graphics are to die for. You watch the sweath bead down their body, bruises, blood, 
 and cuts, and swelling. I've never seen so much detail. My favorite part though is watchin the 
 slow-mo replay of you knockin the snot out of the other guy. Thats tight how the blood and spit 
 comes out. One of the things i really am impressed with though is get in the ring mode. Its tight 
 seein the other dudes up f***ed face but whe you get swelling around ur eyes it really effects 
 the gameplay. it gets hard to see. and the closer you get to getting k. o. the more you flash with 
 powerful blows. You can bearly see anything and your ears ring to. Nothin can possibly go wrong 
 with this game. By the way my favorite boxer is Benard Hopkins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I can`t believe you guys, it looks like you are against everything that has something to do with 
 Sony and the PS3 or Nintendo`s Wii. I've played the three new generation consoles and to be completly 
 honest the only advantage that the 360 has over the PS3 and the Wii is Xbox Live, and Microsoft 
 has years working online and creating software for that kind of stuff (Exproler rings a bell?) 
 and Nintendo and Sony are starting in that area. The games look a lot better in the PS3 and the 
 expierence in sound and playbility are better in Sony's console.
  Talking specifically about games, I've played Fight Night Round 3 for PS3 and Xbox360, and the 
 difference is abysmal, so much better in the PlayStation. And Call of Duty 3? The game looks terrific 
 in the PS3, greater than in the 360, and it's more fun to play it there to! The sixaxis control 
 gets his work done there. And yet, you give this two games a better qualification for the 360? 
 I just can't believe it.
  
  How much is Microsoft paying you to write lies? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCNewYork87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are a whole lot better than the 360 version. As far as everything else 
 its about the same with a few fun but not too special add ons. This game is fun to play and has 
 great replay value. I played it on my roommate's 360 when it first came out and I loved it. I bought 
 it for my PS3 and I love it even more because it looks that much better. I recommend you buy it 
 if you have a PS3. I got mine used because I'm cheap and the system itself already cost me $600 
 but its definitely worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdsRemedy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing. Replays will blow you away... but it seems like the replays are much nicer 
 in 2 player mode than in career mode. Very addictive once you start career mode. The announcers 
 sure do get boring after awhile, I can almost predict what they will say. A few more venues would 
 be nice.... When my record is 39-5 as a professional lightweight I don't wanna be fighting matches 
 at a sparring gym. Have some overseas arenas or just some nice fantasy arenas with a huge crowd 
 that goes nuts during big punches. More pro fighters would be nice.... even if you can't put Mike 
 Tyson in the game.... create a guy that looks like him during his prime and just slap a made up 
 name on him, You either love him or you love to hate him, but a lot more people would buy the game 
 I bet if they knew there was a model in there resembling Tyson. No George Foreman? Heck even throw 
 Rocky Balbowa in there as a hidden character, that would spice things up. But besides those small 
 things I'm happy with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  while there are very few good games for PS3 out at the moment, Fight Night Round 3 definitely makes 
 things a little bit better. Fight Night Round 3 was released on the xbox 360 a couple of months 
 before this versions. The gameplay is just as good as the 360 version. The graphics definitely 
 look enhanced from that version although the 360 version does sport better lighting. The sound 
 is still the same with the same great bone crushing sounds. However, one downside to this game 
 is that the load screens (which are abundant) are a bit on the long side. However, the game makes 
 up for this by just being incredibly fun especially in multiplayer as the AI dont put up much of 
 a fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djroberts
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  First off, the menu system needs some work and there are some minor graphic glitches in game where 
 player polygons will intersect rather than collide. Beyond that, the game is very fun. Assuming 
 you have a decent boxer you can really jab, defend, parry and counter. Button mashing has very 
 little place here with the possible exception of featherweight where the fighters are so fast it 
 can be hard to strategically defend but definitly not impossible.
  
  The graphics look wonderful, music is good and most of the sound is right on. The announcing is 
 a bit repetitive but adequate. The one graphic that could use some work is when a player spits 
 after getting hit with a hay-maker. It looks a but spider-webish. I was happy to see EA did NOT 
 include a review system for online play. Something that has plagued 2K sports for some time. Online 
 play was good, I had one disconnect out of three fights. I also haven't detected any serious exploits.
 
  
  Overall its a great and fun game, probably the best game in the PS3 sports library to date. Have 
 a few drinks and knockout your friends. Recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Forget what others say about framerate drops and other flaws. Out of the hundreds of hours I have 
 played this I have seen one occasion of a fighters punch going through anothers head other wise 
 the only flaws are long load times and a lack of some cool fighters like Tyson, Spynx, Butterbean. 
 But the main greats of yeasterday and today are in there. Oh yea I wish you could play your own 
 music and customize Ring Entries. The graphics are awsome I have played this on both the 360 and 
 PS3 and really there is no difference other than the get in the ring mode which is more of a novelty 
 and is simply just amusing. The gameplay is perfect I love the punching, parrying, and swaying. 
 create a player is really cool too you can get really creative with a fighters face. If you like 
 fighters namely boxing this is great and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danl1386
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I loved this game. Although I am not a real big boxing fan, the graphics are incredible- 
 very realistic. I still think, despite a lot of disagreement among other PS3 users, that Fight 
 Night has the most realistic graphics out of all the games released so far. First off I'll start 
 out with the good news in terms of gameplay. The Get In the Ring mode, which is unique to the ps3, 
 is a pretty neat feature which puts you right into the fight. At first, it's hard to get used to 
 because it's a lot different than the third person viewpoint presented in most boxing games, but 
 after you're used to it, chances are you will never go back to fighting without the first person 
 view.
  
  Now for the bad news. The single player is pretty fun for a while. In terms of the career mode, 
 it isn't real short or anything, but it seems like it's very repetitive. I think this is the biggest 
 flaw in the game because all you do is the same 3 training sessions and fights. They have different 
 fights such as Big Money fights which you get extra money for winning or fights which you have 
 to knock your opponent out in 4 rounds to get a bonus. These are pretty neat, but like I said, 
 all the fights get repetitive after a while, so it doesn't have much replay value in my opinion.
 
  
  Finally, I would suggest that you have a friend or someone else to play with if you'd like to play 
 this game for a long time. It's a great multiplayer game. The graphics make it seem like you're 
 actually in the fight- they really get the adrenaline flowing. Playing against someone else helps 
 eliminate the repetitive nature that I described earlier in the review.
  
  Overall, this is a great game despite it's lack of variety in career mode. The graphics and Get 
 in the Ring mode make it a very fun and realistic game to play. I'd definitely recommend it to 
 anyone who was a fan of the first two Fight Night games and also to anyone who has any interest 
 in sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurai210
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I like it makes lots of sense, but it is kind of hard to learn the controls, 
 but once you learn that this game will be a ton of fun. First Person boxing is also very good. 
 Lets you really feel like your in the ring. It took me a while though to learn the controls. If 
 you played the series before this is one of the best. I would not recommend this game if you are 
 a beat em up person this is realistic fighting not Mortal Kombat. There is no just beating your 
 opponent to death. This game requires strategy and skill just like the real boxing sport does. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jussimple
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game has alot of the traits that has made the Fight Night series successful. The game play 
 is easy going and its not long until your holding your own in the ring. It also gives the boxing 
 fan alittle taste of boxing history. Graphically the game delivers and will not disappoint. A good 
 show piece for the PS3. The only area that will frustrate must is the load times. It is reminiscent 
 of the PS2. This game would have greatly benefited from some hard drive support as far as the player 
 rendition information. Yet its not enough of an annoyance to distract from the game play experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH2FaN12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Fight Night is a very enjoyable game because of the online play and the graphics. You could see 
 the detail that they designers put into making this game. You see the sweat on each individual 
 player and you almost feel like your at a boxing match. The in-game advertisements are weird because 
 you can hire the King from Burger King as your trainer. But besides that fact the game looks good, 
 sounds goo, and just is good. If you are looking for a great PS3 game then go out and buy Fight 
 Night Rund 3 and you will definetely not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Ever Since I bought my Playstation Three a month ago, this was the very first game Ive ever rented, 
 Now I just bought it and was playing Roy Jones Junior Online. With all of my honesty, If anyone 
 has a PS3 and likes boxing, this is the best game I would Suggest to all of you people. I mean 
 its graphics looks so real that you can even picture yourself being the boxer right now. I swear, 
 Ps3 with Fight Night Round 3 was a very good game. Its so hard not to stop playing!! Ever since, 
 I got my 60 GB PS3, I couldnt keep my eyes out of this good game. its basically like the 360 version 
 but with the new sixaxis controller its way better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The game has some good features but lacks something different, it is quite repetitive and can get 
 boring at times ;however, it is still fun to fight your friends or play a career the odd time.
 
  
  Gameplay: It all starts off great, but greatly lacks in depth details about a boxers life, you 
 have barely any control over your boxers statistics, yes you can hire a speed or power guy, yes 
 you can buy new equipment and choose what training exercise to do, but it just doesn't feel right 
 and begins to be a hassle over time.
  
  Graphics: They are ok, trying to remember that this is a launch title I give it an 8, but the PS3 
 has more power than this game can give.
  
  Sound: Honestly, the sound is just ridiculous, last I checked I didn't hear a boxers bones crunching 
 when they got knocked down. Very disappointed with the sound quality of this game.
  
  It's a solid game to buy, but can soon be found under your pile of games covered in dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cz62289
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game should sell huge numbers of games for the year. The games has amazing graphics and the 
 animations when you knock down your oponent are crazy awesome. The dificulty is not at the beggining 
 but as you get closer to the title it gets pretty hard. This is a must buy for gamers on the PS3. 
 one of the few games worthy of being on the best system (PS3) . And if you dont agree about the 
 PS3 thing then talk to me in a year when the games are out. But back to Fight night its amazing 
 loved it will be a candidate for game of the year wont win though. GO Metal Gear 4 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I bought Fight Night Round 3 for PS2 months ago. I played the crap out of it and loved every minute 
 of it. Then I got a PS3 and AGAIN bought Fight Night Round 3... it gets played constantly! This 
 is easily one of the greatest multi-player and single player games I've ever played. Super Smash 
 Brothers is a great party game, but Fight Night has it beat. When me and my friends play against 
 one another, the room gets so tense, you can feel every punch (even without the rumble... sigh) . 
 No power/stamina bars makes it feel like you can go at anytime. For anyone who would love to just 
 pummel someone on a constant basis, but has more brains than that, should get Fight Night right 
 away. Being the current unstoppable force in the basement, I can safely say, I've never had a more 
 enjoyable multi player experience since Golden Eye. Get it the ring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Great graphics: amazing detail on the fighters. You can see each bead of sweat, and each drip 
 of blood is stunning detail. The light reflects off their skin making the game feel very realistic.
 
  
  - Sound effects: pretty good sound from the crowds and when landing a hit.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Terrible load times: it takes FOREVER for this game to load. It is very annoying 
 and detracts from the game. Also, creating your boxer's face is nearly impossible with the slow 
 load time. You the next hair style, and 5 seconds later it finally loads! I can't believe they 
 released the game with such horrendous load times.
  
  - Difficult controls: using the right analog stick takes some getting used to, and it is very hard 
 to through combinations. Blocking is also tricky.
  
  - Lackluster gameplay: It's hard to get into a fight. Once you get into the Career mode, your first 
 few fights are fun because you can win with authority. After that, the fights drag on and on and 
 it takes forever to get a knockout.
  
  - Career mode has no structure: there's a bar that fills up with your popularity, but that's about 
 it. No ranking, no percent progress, nothing.
  
  - Music: same 12 rap songs get annoying very fast.
  
  - Training voice over: during training 
 and between rounds the trainer's comments are annoying to the point of muting the TV.
  
  - No autoload at initial start up. So every time you play the game, you need to manually load your 
 profile! Stupid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_G00se
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  While I'm not new to boxing games, Fight Night Round 3 was the first in the series for me and I 
 have to say, I was very pleased with the purchase.
  
  The good: Amazing graphics, easy to learn controls, a good library of boxers to face during your 
 career, round sign girls who are easy on the eyes!
  
  The bad: Very long load times. Much longer then the 306 (Played it at a friends house) . The 360 
 also has more round sign girls. The game plays smoothly and although the announcers are VERY repetitive 
 with their comments on the fight, the dialogue and acting is believable. I found that sometimes 
 it wasn't that accurate, but not enough so that it became a problem.
  
  The load times are a little crazy. You have to start the game, sign the contract, train, then back 
 to the menu to fight. It takes a good amount of time to get through that with the poor load times. 
 Howewver, I found I quicky got over it once the fight started.
  
  Feel free to contact me with questions or comments. And if you'd like to go a few rounds, look 
 up The_Goose!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col_Swamp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the previous games in the Fight Night anthology, then prepare to be hooked 
 again with Fight NIght Round 3.
  First off, the gameplay feature that put Fight NIght in a class of it's own is back: the total 
 puch control. An easy transition if you ahve ever played the other Fight Nights but it may take 
 newbies some time to catch on. Old vets will have a blast trying to land stun punches or flash 
 knockout blows.
  The graphics are simply amazing. If you own an HDTV you won't be dissapointed. The sounds are also 
 above standard but some of the comentary gets quite repetative. This is a must buy if you enjoy 
 boxing games and an adrenaline pumping good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brennan40
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 (FNR3) is a great boxing game for the PS3. I will admit that you can tell the 
 producers did not take their time to polish certain aspects of the game which I will mention later. 
 FNR3 offers varying layouts on the control pad which makes it easy for one to pickup quickly. Button 
 mashing gets you no where as you need to utilise the blocking and evading abilities. Without blocking, 
 you are sure to get the wind knocked out of your player after a few minutes in the first round. 
 Once you master how to evade and block an opponent, combos come easily to you. I say this because 
 your combos can be negated by a quick jab from your opponent. The default controls give you the 
 analog sticks to control your swings and movement. Most players tend to change the swing set to 
 the X , Triangle, Circle, Square to allow faster combos. FNR3 offers a great online system. There 
 is never a shortage of players willing to challenge you at different skill levels. There is both 
 a Ranked and Unranked option which basically defines your skill. Beginners may opt to practice 
 against other players in the Unranked section to get a feel for a fight slightly more advanced 
 than the AI. Once you recognise your abilities in the Unranked section, you can check out the Ranked 
 section and test your skill against hardy players. As stated, the ranked section keeps track of 
 your wins and losses and level against other players. The game tends to receive a live feed of 
 sports updates which can be heard randomly if your PS3 is connected to the internet. It's a great 
 tidbit which many sport's fans appreciate no matter how small it may seem. Some of the bad things 
 about this game is that it was not polished. During replays of some knockouts, you see the winning 
 blow slide right through a person's face. Sometimes menu's take long to load. The character creation 
 is a chore. The game takes a while to process your options and may sometimes display incorrect 
 models. It is also difficult (if not impossible) to create a player in your likeness. Despite the 
 clunky interface, the gameplay is not affected and provides an entertaining experience. Online 
 play makes this game shine and is a definite buy for anyone who loves the Fight Night series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the graphics for this game I could hardly play because I was too busy just looking 
 at the amazingness of it all. The realistic fighters are just amazing and the gameplay is just 
 as good as before and the new features in the game are pretty cool too. The added options for customization 
 are what i really like, all new tattoos, new shorts, gloves, etc make it a lot more fun to have 
 your own guy. Some people have complained about how the audience and lighting and blah blah aren't 
 as good as they could be though. But I mean if you bought the game to stare at the crowds then 
 I guess you might not like it. Although last time i checked I'm pretty sure it was Fight Night 
 Round 3, not EA Sport's Pro Starer 2007. I believe that FNR3 is one of the most impressive games 
 currently for the ps3, not that it's too hard though. I give it 2 gloves up. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriousangel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Oh My God!!.. These were the first words that certainly came out of me when i first saw this game.. 
 i mean is this really a game :|.. i just couldnt believe it till i play it.. n i just cant resist 
 playing it.. the first thing that attracted me towards the game were the ultra realistic graphics.. I 
 mean what more can be done to the gaming world? EA has certainly prooved that they are the best 
 in the business.. the boxers physicx... the sweat.. blood n all everything is buillt with utmost 
 care and this shows when u play Fight NIght ROund 3.. The light effects and the realistic crowd 
 all drives you crazy..
  
  Now comes the most important part.. The GAMEPLAY.. its not necessary that the game that brings 
 eye candy to yew can also be the provider of a solid game play.. but fight night is the one.. the 
 developers not only emphasized on WHAT THE GAME ACTUALLY LOOKS LIKE , but also HOW THE PLAYERS 
 ACTUALLY INTERACT . its undoudtingly the most realistic boxing experience u'll never find any where 
 else.. the knockouts are cool specially the part before the boxer is gonna get knocked out...
 
  
  THE SOUND... that left me speechless.. the soundtrack is soo cool... alwayz suits the mood...
  
 
  the palyer customization is also an important aspect of the game.. 10/10 to that too
  
  3 rounds are tooo much to talk bout.. FIGHT NIGHT gonna knock u out in the very first round... 
 Grab yo gear playa n enter the ring.. TIME TO BREAK SOME JAWZ ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was going to be just like the 360 version, but i noticed it had much better 
 graphics and a new camera angle, Get in the Ring, i know its a game mode too but you can set the 
 camera to get in the ring and its first person, but pretty much the rest is the same as the 360 
 but better and cheap shots are thrown with the sixaxis motion sesitivity, but fight night round 
 3 is just the same as fight night round 2 and 2004, but with better graphics, if you own fight 
 night round 3 for the 360 though theres no reason to buy it again for the PS3 just for one more 
 feature and slightly better graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lavantas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  When I first played Fight Night Round 3, the game blew me away with the attention to detail and 
 the fun factor. After playing the game for a week and a half or so, all the little problems started 
 to pop out. However, this title still stands head and shoulders above most of the other games in 
 the PS3 line-up.
  
  Gameplay- All games boil down to gameplay, and Fight Night Round 3 is a blast. You can throw down 
 with your buddy, fight strangers online, or fight the AI. All are fantastic options done with great 
 flare. The Total Punch Control system takes a while to get used to, and sometimes you may still 
 wish to use the buttons, but mastering it allows you to deliver more styles and punches at the 
 power level of your choice. The gameplay isnt without its flaws either. The painfully long load 
 times really breaks up the games furious pace in the ring and makes you wonder why other PS3 games 
 like Resistance: Fall of Man with even better visuals loads up faster than this game. The Total 
 Punch Control system could use a minor adjustment. The left and right jabs are switched from the 
 players perspective as you really should be throwing a right jab as you tap the stick to the left 
 and vice versa if you were to throw the punches. Career mode leaves a lot to be wanting as it is 
 poorly organized and seems like a loosely organized series of fights with painfully boring and 
 monotonous training in the middle. If you are a min-max gamer, you will be constantly reloading 
 the game to get the max amount of points for the Combo Dummy exercise and deal with the painful 
 load times. Lastly, the biggest flaw of the game is the advertising. I understand that some advertising 
 is necessary to give the game a realistic appeal, but do you really need to bring Burger Kings 
 mascot, the King in as a trainer? This game takes corporate sponsorship to a whole new level. They 
 should have stopped at ESPN and UnderArmor. Graphics  The attention to detail makes this a great 
 game. From the stitching to the boxers gloves, to the sweat knocked off a fighters face from 
 the impact of a punch makes it easy to watch. If you play from the first person view, it really 
 puts you in the zone as you try to duck and weave between the punches. When you counter a punch, 
 you can see the look of fear in your opponents eyes as they watch your fist fly towards their 
 face. The slow-mo replay of a knock out punch and the pain in your opponents eyes definitely showcases 
 the powers behind the hooks. However, the graphics are not without the flaws. The PS3 version has 
 slightly poorer graphics than the 360 version. The audience arent as well rendered. Its slightly 
 disheartening to look at the beautifully rendered boxers then the highly pixilated audience in 
 the background. During the slow-mo replay of the knockdowns, the knockdown is played at the original 
 frames, but slowed down, so the knockdown looks choppy, and at times, unrealistic. EA should have 
 spent the extra time to smooth out the knockdown replay graphics, as every single knockdown is 
 replayed with the same choppiness. Sound  If you like rap music, then youll love the music in 
 this game. If you dont like rap music, better turn off the music and put on the Rocky soundtrack 
 in the background. The music in this game is rap from start to finish, and youll get tired of 
 listening to it after the first 5 minutes. It suits the mood of the game ok, but the I wish EA 
 games would have diversified the music a bit. I wish this game had Super-Punch Outs music at times.
 
  
  The sound effects of this game are great. The general punches have a sense of speed and impact. 
 You can almost feel the punch sink into your opponents ribs as a solid haymaker knocks them out. 
 The sound of sinew ripping and tendons popping will make you cringe.
  
  Value  Dropping $60 bucks for this game is a great value compared to the other pitiful games from 
 the PS3 line-up. It offers loads of fun on a consistent basis with online play, and the smart AI 
 will give you a sense of satisfaction after each and every fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJSAGE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are flat out amazing, cuts, swelling, character detail are all outstanding. Im a pure 
 online person when it comes to this game, the game can be fun win or lose depending on how well 
 you take losing. Dynamics around boxing work perfectly with this game. You can be the bully brawler 
 or the smarter boxing type (AKA the runners online) . Online has come along way, I still think it 
 has come a long way, but it still seems hard to get fights and there are moment of slow down. As 
 for 1 player it is simply fun of you like to fight and move uo the ranks. Learning cure is high, 
 but once you get it down you can find your self in the ring fighting long and painfull fights. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Sound: sound is awsome totaly cool like they moan and say ahhhh!!! when you make a haymaker in there 
 face.
  
  graphics: oh my god the graphics are breath taking the sweatbox is awsome.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very intense and engoying but sometimes this game pissses me off like 
 its to hard sometimes like at matches some tougher emponets beat the **** out of you.
  
  Value: this game is totaly forth it for 49.99 (us) and 69.99 (canada) cause the graphics and gameplay 
 like wow!!!!
  
  overrall: awsome great game with little lacks of bad stuff like frustration level and stuff but 
 its ok thats what makes it fun!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MERC_RECONN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  FNR3 is my first official PS3 game, and I must say that it's an awsome blast. I'm a big fan of 
 the series and this installment has just built on the success of it predecessors. Some people have 
 been making a big deal about the crowd looking generic, but how many people are really going to 
 pay attention to that?
  
  I like how the game-play is built on real life physics, so button mashers need not apply. This 
 is a true boxing game that requires some skill to play and that's why I think boxing game aren't 
 as big as they could be. Well that's it for me. I will catch you guys in the virtual boxing ring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAgreatest255
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  MAN!!!! This game was let down to me. I know the graphics and sound are good but It is soo hard 
 to play. I can even make a descent punch without getting tossed aside, and almost no matter who 
 you are... Its going to be hard to do, and the controls are like free, and can be a shot either above 
 or below. This is frustration at some points, because you could be about to knock somebody out but 
 you do something wrong, and you can lose, or be disqualified... and that really sucks in my opinion, and 
 that really can be frustrating to everybody else too. And don`t even get me started with the sound... its 
 amazing... its like you are actually there, and looking into a t. v, because everybody is in the way, and 
 this is what I think of this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicon013
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe anyone saying that this game is just a Xbox 360 game clone. IT IS NOT. If you already 
 have this game on some other platform, I don't recommend you to buy this game again just for the 
 Playstation 3 but if you still haven't bought this game or tried it out yet, the PS3 version is 
 the perfect game to start your Fight Night Round 3 experience.
  
  The graphics of this game are breathtaking. I have never seen a game with this much detail and 
 quality in it's look of each boxer and the arena itself. They are noticeably better than the Xbox 
 360 version with the better shader, lighting and color effects. It still has that classic Fight 
 Night Round 3 gameplay but the Playstation version offers a brand new 'Get in the Ring' mode that 
 lets you take the view of the boxer through his eyes so you can really feel as if you were the 
 boxer himself. I highly recommend that if you still haven't bought a Fight Night Round 3 copy, 
 you buy this game for the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adusa05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  this game is very nice the graphics are very good for the first wave of ps3 games 9/10. the gameplay 
 is good, graphics impress me because of all the sweat the acumalates durning the fight., the swelling 
 in the eyes the cuts, and the bruses. the contols are nice i like using the right joystick just 
 move it 2 a direction to make combos and rights and lefts. and x is the power punch make sure hit 
 him with it because after that your apponbent will be able to counter it. i also enjoy the interface. 
 its an allaround great game recoment it for boxers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a boxing game. There aren't very many on the market but this ones good nevertheless. 
 It is a good mix of watching and interacting. Gameplay-This is a very, very easy game to just pick 
 up, play, and admire, but it also has some depth too it. You control your punches with the right 
 analog stick mostly. There are small combinations of movements that you can do to execute different 
 punches. The longer moves are generally the more hard-hitting. There are some moves done with the 
 buttons, like clinching, but generally, you will use the analog. Overtime, the fighting might get 
 a little tedious, but it is fun. You can tell your health and condition with HUD or by looking 
 at your fighter. In between rounds, you can heal the wounds a little bit. There is third person 
 fighting, which is what you will mostly do, and there is also the PS3 exclusive mode, getting in 
 the ring. It puts you in the eyes of your fighter. It is intense and it seems to move faster in 
 this mode. Sometimes, you can feel like you have no control over your fighter though, especially 
 if you are getting punched in the face in a combo. There are several arenas, but they all are essencially 
 the same. The only difference is the crowd. There are several modes too. The two-player with a 
 buddy sitting next to you is a lot of fun. It's not splitscreen though. You both share the same 
 screen. This is more fun than online, because your opponent is right next to you, rather than somewhere 
 else. The online has rankings but eventually you won't care, because after a while, the fighting 
 can all become boring. The career isn't fleshed out as good as it could be either. You basically 
 sign fighting contracts, train, and then fight. The matches aren't really strewn together though. 
 So it ends up just feeling like a bunch of quick matches. Overall though, it is a pretty fun game 
 while it lasts. It is a good pick up and play, because you can just wildly swing the analog, but 
 it also has a certain amount of depth. This is truly just a fun game. By the way, the load times 
 also can bog down the experience a little bit.
  
  Graphics-This is probably the best looking PS3 game out now. It's textures are beautiful, and the 
 amount of detail is incredible. The boxers are the best looking part. They are extremely detailed. 
 Sweet and blood drops down them and the lighting off of their sweat dreched skin is awesome. They 
 animate really nicely too. The crowds look very good too, although when you pay really close attention, 
 they don't look the greatest. But when your fighting in Madison Square Garden, it doesn't really 
 matter. The arenas are great too. There is lost of stuff to admire. Dust even shows up in the air 
 when the light hits it right. The Graphics aren't perfect though. There are sometimes when a boxers 
 hand can go into the other boxer. It's not that noticeable, but it is there. Also the crowd, as 
 I explained before. There is only slowdown when it goes to the knockout slow-motion camera. It 
 jerks for a couple of seconds, but then it's fine. The blood that flies out of the boxers mouth 
 isn't good either, but the blood ON the boxer is good. If you want to show off your new PS3, this 
 is probably the one to do it with.
  
  Sound-The quality of the sound is exceptional. The sounds of your boxers clashing is sweet. It 
 really gets you into it when you deliver a grewsome sounding haymaker to your opponents face. The 
 voice acting is also really good. The announcer says pretty specific things and rarely does he 
 repeat himself. The crowd also reacts to your every move by how they sound. My only complaints 
 with the sound is that there is only one announcer and that the music sucks. Luckily though, the 
 music doesn't play when you are fighting. Value-There are a lot of modes in the game, but ultimately, 
 they all basically play the same, and you might get bored with them. The online ranks help the 
 replay though, and so does the new Get In The Ring. You will easily play the game for at least 
 20 hours, but then you will probably move on to something else. There just isn't quite enough variety 
 in the gameplay. It could be a buy if you like boxing, but even if you don't, it still could be. 
 I recommend renting it, and then decide. This is a solid boxing game that deserves a try. In my 
 opinion, the PS3 version is an overall improvement over the 360 version (from what I have played 
 of the 360 version) . If you one the version for the 360, it isn't worth a buy though. I'm definately 
 glad it turned out to be a good conversion to the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olorin26pa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game is alot of Fun and looks great on the PS3. The PS3 exclusive get in the ring mode is 
 fun but, i prefer the 3rd person view. Fighting against the computer AI is fun and challenging. 
 Career mode is addicting; I have found myself saying, just one more fight then i'll go to sleep 
 . Online multiplayer is fun but, a little laggy at times. I think there will probably be a patch 
 to fix some of the online issues. The head to head mode is great and lends it's self to some serious 
 trash talking. It is alot of fun to beat the snot out of a friend and talk some smack.
  The boxers look awesome, you can practically feel their pain as they get smashed in the face. I 
 highly recommend this game to anyone who likes hard hitting fighting games.
  It does have a few minor flaws but, is a ton of fun and well worth it's price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vindicatedfoul
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 3/10
  EA went the path that I feared, and sacrificed gameplay for graphics. The controls are overly obfuscated 
 and complicated, as apposed to fun games such as ready to rumble for Dreamcast.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics are amazing for the fighters, but outside of the fighters the graphics 
 on the other console are far better. The 360 makes much better use of HDR and it's crowds are far 
 more realistic.
  
  Sounds: 1/10
  The music in this game is HORRID. I honestly wish that I could give it less than a 1. The music 
 consists of 5 songs, each one of them horrible generic rap. The announcers say the same 3-5 things 
 about your fighter over and over.
  
  Value: 3/10
  Very few fighters and arenas. New view is the only improvement IMHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  EA Chicago did a pretty go job when you think about the fact thye had very little to work with 
 since they don't know much about the product they are working with. gameplay - no different then 
 what you saw on the 360 version. the additional feature of getting in the ring which allows you 
 to take the prespective of the fighter is pretty challenging and is a great mulitplayer. graphics 
 - this game just doesn't look that great on 780i. this is the only downside to the game. a 1080i 
 or p quality game would of sold me. anybody who has seen the idfferance know what i'm talking about
 
  
  overall - the sound is great, the promotions are tacky in the game, but if you had bought the game 
 for the 360, theres a good chance you won't for hte ps3. if you have a ps3 and are tired of playing 
 resistance, this game is a good renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPscottyDawg06
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a game that has gotten much praise by any and all XBOX 360 owners that have 
 played it. Its realistic and fun to play. Regardless, the PS3 version is that much better. Along 
 with the great graphics, the lighting is toned now to a large dagree, making it easier on the eyes. 
 The attention to detail is also much more obviousin eash boxer. Unfortunatly, the same problems 
 from the other versions have carried over along with it. Although good, some places in the game 
 are really bad on the visuals. Unless your playing on a 60 inch HDTV, the menus make your eyes 
 hurt just trying to read the text. Plus, some of the menus lag in transistion. Overall the game 
 is a solid game for the PS3. Hopefully in future installments we can see a change in these minor, 
 but annoying problems. Either way, pick it up if your looking to expand you PS3 collection and 
 like a good fighting/sport game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacc15
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  First, the graphics. The sweat it so real, I start to sweat just thinking about it. I'm also glad 
 that they added the new First Person View for the PS3. I thought Fight Night Round 2 was good, 
 but this is the best to date. The player's faces are so detailed you'll feel like you're actually 
 in the fight yourself. There isn't one thing wrong with this game, except maybe some more extras. 
 Fight Night Round 3 will blow your socks off. One final thing, I can not imagine having a more 
 realistic game in the future of the PS3. I'll just have to wait and see for the next Fight Night 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conceptshado
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game and one of the few true next-generation games out there that delivers well 
 on every degree. The learning curve is not that major but there are easier configurations. The 
 only learning curve is learning how to be a good boxer by knowing when to strike, block, clinch 
 and the accessional cheap shot. It can get difficult but you can adjust the levels. The comentary 
 is very nice and crisp and adds to the whole illusion of a real boxing match. The comentary can 
 get a little repetiative like saying the same line for many of the boxers. The PS3 version is way 
 better than the 360 version. The graphics are way better and the get in the ring mode is really 
 nice and innovative. It's an all around fun and addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Gamespot says Fight Night Round 3 features the same great gameplay the franchise is known for as 
 well as a few minor, but appreciable, additions exclusive to the PlayStation 3 . your absolutely 
 right
  
  Fight Night Round 3 for the (PS3) has the same basic princaples as the as Fight Night Round 1 (PS2) 
 And Fight Night Round 2 (PS2) jab uppercut hook whatever you want to do.
  
  The Graphics make up for the gameplay uppercut you opponent and watch his cheeks vibrate spit fly 
 out of his mouth blood drip from his eyes from the PS3's blue-ray disc.
  
  Fight Night Round 3 bring some *NEW* gameplay to the table Get In The Ring gives you a first person 
 veiw of what its like to be in a ring youll seeyour face start to swell up when taking a beating 
 very realistic.
  
  Fight Night Round 3 (PS3) is a great game to get for the holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonygalati
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Everything is here from the last one from 360 besides the new Get in the Ring mode where its 1st 
 person boxing , it adds alot of fun to the game!!! and for ppl saying bad things about the crowd 
 i disprove it cause you cant even really see the further away crowd and the Real Main Character 
 Models are GREAT!!! Alot better looking than 360 and better gameplay but online isnt as good. Another 
 thing is it seems the sound quality is better also. So for those who dont want to buy it from the 
 hype i suggest rent it cause u will end up buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiryu3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Hands down this is an excellent game. Great game play beautiful visuals and great game modes. I'm 
 not going to compare this to the XBox360 because there is way too much of that going on.
  
  If you are a fan of the Fight Night Series or if you have never owned any of them (Like me) you 
 will truely enjoy this game. I was blown away with the visuals and the definition of detail in 
 the player models with the viens, sweat and much much more. I do have a slight issue with the crowd 
 animations. If you have enough time to focus on them rather than the fight you will notice that 
 quite a few spectators have the exact same animation and in some cases are performing it in unison 
 with a neightbor like a synchronised swimming team. The crowd in the far background is in no way 
 detailed. but to be honest it doesn't matter since it is a background that is not meant to be focused 
 on. With more development time they probably could have made them very detailed but it doesn't 
 take away from the gameplay at all.
  
  The career mode is very good with character creation and items to be bought and equiped like gloves, 
 shoes, legal and illegal moves and much more.
  
  The sound is great as well especially if you have it in a surround sound setting and you are able 
 to set your surround sound to arena emulation it sounds like you are sitting ringside.
  
  To wrap it up you will not be dis appointed with this game especially when more people pick it 
 up to have for variety in fighters online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  This is pretty much the same game as the 360 version. A few new annimations and whatnot but the 
 graphics look almost identical. Unfortunately I will have to rate this one lower than the 360 version 
 because of the muliplay and no achievements. If you havent played the game on the 360 then you 
 will absolutely love this game. For the rest of us its merely been there done that.
  
  Graphics - 9
  Solid graphics make it feel like the real deal. Wonderful facial expressions.
 
  
  Sound - 8
  I would like more variety in the commentary and different soundtrack. Rest of the game is pretty 
 solid though.
  
  Value - 8
  Its pretty short lived if your good at the game. You can have all the titles in just a few days. 
 The game doesnt get too hard until your boxer starts to age and slows down. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
