-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Formula One Championship Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/f1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great sense of speed.
 Very friendly to beginners, though the difficulty quickly ramps up.
 Sweet rain effects.
 Online play is smooth and supports 11 people in a single race.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Presentation is drab.
 Difficulty progression could be smoother.
 Rosters are extremely out of date.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.6, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,344 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Liverpool Studios
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date: Feb 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dry presentation aside, Formula One Championship Edition is a good racer that is just accessible 
 enough to newcomers while still being deep enough for longtime fans. 

  Given how long it had been since the last Formula One game was released in the United States, many 
 felt that Formula One Championship Edition would never see the light of day in North America. Perhaps 
 it's just here because the PlayStation 3 needed some original content, but regardless of the reason, 
 Formula One CE has now been released in the US, and the PlayStation 3 is better for it. The touted 
 rearview-mirror feature didn't make it into the final game, but the visuals look great and the 
 gameplay is quite good.  

          Even in screenshots, Formula One looks fast.     

  Rather than focusing on the upcoming season, Formula One CE lets you relive the 2006 FIA Formula 
 One Championship. All of the official tracks and teams are included, as are the drivers that started 
 the season. That means that retired great Michael Schumacher is still winning races for Ferrari. 
 It also means that even though he left midseason to drive for NASCAR, Juan Montoya is behind the 
 wheel for McLaren, and though he actually had his license revoked by the FIA, Yuji Ide drives for 
 Super Aguri. People that don't follow Formula One may not mind the dated roster, but with the game 
 being released so close to the start of the 2007 season, fans hoping for the latest rosters will 
 be let down.  

  Knowing that it had been a long time since an F1 game was released stateside, developer Liverpool 
 Studios did a nice job ensuring the game would be accessible to someone with little or no knowledge 
 of Formula One racing. The game defaults to the easy setting with the full complement of driving 
 assists turned on. Stability control, braking and steering assistance, spin recovery, and even 
 a virtual racing line that shows the ideal path around the track are all available to ease you 
 into the world of F1. Should you prefer to focus solely on getting around the track, you can turn 
 off pit stops and car damage. As you get more comfortable with the controls, you can turn off individual 
 assists, which makes the game more realistic and challenging. The controls are simple and responsive, 
 which is a must in a game that demands precision at all times. If you like, you can use the Sixaxis 
 tilt controls to steer by turning the controller in the direction of your turn. This method works 
 OK, but it isn't always as responsive as the analog control. Several Logitech racing wheels are 
 supported, as well, and they work fine, though none of them offer any sort of force feedback.  
 

  Basic game modes include quick race, time trial, grand-prix weekend, online, world championship, 
 and career. Online play lets up to 11 people race at once; you can even round out the field with 
 computer-controlled drivers. It would have been nice if online leagues were supported, but the 
 online play that is here runs great and is easy to use and set up. If you're looking for a little 
 more depth, you can take an established driver through a year on the circuit in world-championship 
 mode.  

  You can also embark on a five-year career with a created driver. Like many aspects of the game, 
 career mode is simple enough that beginners can figure it out while still offering enough options 
 to satisfy series veterans. You'll start as a driver without a team, and your agent books trials 
 with lower-tier teams in need of a driver. If you perform well enough, you'll be offered a position 
 as either a primary driver or a test driver. You can accept the team's offer or try your luck with 
 any other team that may be interested in your services. Gearheads may enjoy being a test driver, 
 but running solo laps against the clock isn't very exciting and the lap requirements are often 
 pretty tough to meet. Once you've come to an agreement with a team to be the primary driver, you're 
 given a series of goals for the season, such as average starting and finishing position, as well 
 as where the team would like to finish in the Constructor's Championship. Your team and agent will 
 keep you informed of your standing by e-mail, while series news is distributed via fake, but well-written, 
 news articles. You can find out who is the favorite coming into a race, read about the race results, 
 and keep an eye on what other drivers are up to.  

          How fast your pit stops are is dependent on how fast your fingers are.     

  Once you've 
 gotten the business aspect of racing out of the way, it's time to head to the track. When you select 
 the start grand prix option from the career mode's main screen, you're given the option of participating 
 in "race car evolution." Here, you drive around the track, the CPU makes adjustments to your car, 
 and then you drive another lap to see how the changes affect your car. You can still make changes 
 on your own, and you don't have to do test laps, but this is a great way for beginners to get to 
 know how different settings can change a car's performance. Once your car is set up how you like 
 it, it's time to qualify for the race. Qualifying is broken into three sessions. Every car must 
 complete one lap during a 15-minute session, and at the end of the session the slowest six cars 
 are placed at the back of the field. The next session fills the next six spots, with the final 
 session completing the field and deciding pole position. In theory, you only have to complete one 
 lap for each session, but because starting position is so vital, you'll want to complete as many 
 laps as it takes to earn a position near the front of the grid. Qualifying this way is fun, but 
 between testing your car and qualifying, it often feels as if you're doing more practicing than 
 racing. That may be how it is in real life, but real life isn't always fun, and neither is practicing 
 all the time.     

  Finally it's time to hit the track for a real race. The races are fast, incredibly intense, and 
 always challenging. Even on the medium difficulty setting, the game demands precision driving if 
 you're to challenge for a top position. Passing is difficult, so you'll need to know the track, 
 be patient, and then be ready to execute a pass the moment an opening presents itself. It's extremely 
 satisfying when you're able to pass another driver. The relative lack of passing opportunities 
 presents a problem when you're racing just a fraction of the real race distance, which you'll probably 
 be doing unless you've got a few hours to kill. When you're racing a five or even a 10-lap race, 
 there simply aren't enough passing opportunities, especially if you qualified near the back of 
 the field. This isn't Burnout, so weaving in and out of traffic like a madman isn't an option. 
 Thanks to a penalty system that forces you to drive at low speeds if you're caught cutting corners, 
 you'll need to stay on the pavement at all times. You'll also need to take care not to damage your 
 ride, as the slightest impact with a wall or vehicle can send one of your tires rolling down the 
 track without the rest of the car... which is bad. If you've taken a bit of damage, or you just 
 need some fuel, you can head to the pits. Rather than just watching your crew work, you'll need 
 to watch for button sequences that pop up onscreen and then press the proper button as quickly 
 as possible to get out of pit row as fast as you can.  

          The dirt is a great place to watch the race slip away.     

  One thing Formula One 
 CE has in spades is speed. The sense of speed is almost overwhelming at times. The screen will 
 blur, the camera shakes, and you constantly feel as if you're on the verge of a horrific accident, 
 particularly when you're racing in a pack. The frame rate is fast and rock solid, even when multiple 
 cars are onscreen. As much as you'd like for the frame rate to slow down a bit when it's raining, 
 even the amazing rain effects don't cause so much as a stutter. This means you're forced to rocket 
 around the course blinded by the mist from the cars in front of you and the droplets of rain running 
 across the screen. It's awful because it's so hard to see, but at the same time it's awesome because 
 it looks so realistic.  

  The cars look nice and are detailed enough that you can tell who's in front of you, even at breakneck 
 speeds. There aren't a whole lot of major crashes, but when there is an accident, cars display 
 damage in a realistic, if not a bit understated, manner. In fact, the crashes are just one example 
 of the game's somewhat dull presentation. For the most part, everything is very clinical. The menus 
 are easy enough to navigate, but they present information in a very matter-of-fact way. Outside 
 of some horribly lame podium celebrations, the actual presentation of the races is very sterile, 
 too. Each of the game's 18 courses is accurately re-created, but after a while, many of them start 
 to look the same. There are some standouts, though, such as Circuit de Monaco that winds through 
 the beautiful streets of Monaco or the Melbourne track, which has the city's skyline as a backdrop. 

          The roster is almost a year old. That's kind of old.     

  Formula One CE nails the one audio component that it needed to -- engine noise. The high-pitched 
 whine of the cars sounds fantastic, especially when you're surrounded by speakers listening to 
 the game in Dolby Digital. Unfortunately, the rest of the game's audio isn't as enthralling. A 
 somewhat bored announcer calls the action, but he repeats himself quite often and only offers the 
 most basic commentary. Having music to listen to while you race certainly wouldn't add to the game's 
 realism, but with all of the practice laps you'll be doing, it would have been nice to at least 
 listen to a custom soundtrack.  

  If you're an F1 fan and you own a PlayStation 3, picking up Formula One Championship Edition is 
 a no-brainer. The racing action is intense, the controls are solid, and while the rosters are quite 
 dated, it's an overall good representation of the sport. If you haven't enjoyed F1 games in the 
 past, you probably won't find much here to change your mind, but if a steep learning curve is what 
 has kept you from previously taking the plunge, the game is friendly enough to beginners to make 
 it worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (79 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: markpizzy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros - Graphics are amazing, Car details look great, Cool weather effects, Great sense of speed, 
 Cockpit view really makes it feel you are really driving an F1 car, Car setups are nice, Career 
 mode and Grand Prix weekend mode are perfectly done, You can still play retired 7 time champ Michael 
 Schumacher and drive tracks that are not in F1 anymore
  
  Cons - Timing system is flawed, Too much of a gap between difficulty settings, AI driving is inconsistent, 
 Outdated, Sunset gets annoying in Time Trial mode
  
  The Verdict - This is a decent racing game overall but great for F1 fans. The game has fantastic 
 visuals such as the car details, surroundings, weather effecs and sunlight effects too (although 
 the sun gets annoying and compromise your visibilty of the race track) . The career mode is well 
 done and nicely laid out so that it really makes you feel like your an f1 driver trying to get 
 your name known and having to impress other teams with your talent. In the career mode you start 
 off by testing for one of the lower tier teams (Super Aguri, Midland, Or Toro Rosso) and you can 
 get either a test driver role or a driver role. Once you show that you are good enough, bigger 
 teams will recognize you and they will give you an offer. You can build your career to become a 
 true F1 champion. Just want to race, thats fine because this game has a quick race mode and a weekend 
 mode that is also well done. In the weekend mode it follows the same exact format as a real f1 
 race weekend as you practice first and get the car setup, qualify then race. This game has big 
 drawbacks though. The timing system is flawed because it will only compares sectors and fails to 
 compare your best lap lap to your current lap. Timing system should be that of Gran Turismo. The 
 gap between difficulties isn't done very well either. Easy is way too easy and Medium is still 
 too easy and then Hard is super hard. There is like a 1 second difference between easy and medium 
 and an 8 second difference between medium and hard. AI driving is also flawed and inconsistent. 
 At some tracks they will be totally faster and some tracks they will be totally slower. Also in 
 some sectors you will blow them away and then in some sectors they catch up. It seems like you 
 build up a very big gap and then you lose your gap quickly. Although the game is outdated, it is 
 not neccesarily a bad thing since you get race as retired 7 time champ Michael Schumacher and also 
 former champ Jacques Villeneuve and current Nascar driver and former Indy 500 winner Juan Pablo 
 Montoya. You also get to race tracks such as Imola, Indianapolis, Montreal and Magny Cours, all 
 of which are not in F1 anymore. Being outdated is not good though because Raikkonen is still in 
 Mclaren, Lewis Hamilton is not in the game (I'm totally fine without him but his fanboys won't 
 like) You can't play great young drivers such as Robert Kubica, Heikki Kovalainen and Sebastian 
 Vettel which for me as an F1 fan kinda sucks. But still this game is a pretty cool and decent racing 
 game that anybody could enjoy espcially the F1 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleMD03
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Formula 1 Championship Edition has so much to offer any racing gamer, and is also able to do many 
 of these things very well. Having said that I still feel like I want more from an F1 title. With 
 the power of the PS3 and Xbox 360 we should be left with a fantastic memory of the game we have 
 just played, and with F1 we should have one hell of an adrenaline rush, but are often left with 
 the feeling that we are being shoveled the same content by the designers just because any die hard 
 F1 fan/gamer will most likely buy it.
  
  The tracks in the game looked very well done and had a very nice feel to them, even when it came 
 to the curb heights and locations. Pit lanes, lighting, and course layout I found to be very accurate, 
 and almost all of the multiple camera angles gave a great sense of speed. Also just as the tracks 
 were great, the cars were even better, each had its own unique winglets, steering wheel, and curves 
 about it. The only thing I found a little frustrating was that Formula One changes so much even 
 over the course of several weeks that I found the game to feel very dated very fast. Certain features 
 would be nice to have in future F1 titles, such as, a larger driver pool so that if a driver is 
 having a bad season he would be replaced or demoted to the test driver position for a time. If 
 anything, having more drivers to choose from would be great for the F1 fan that really likes a 
 certain driver but that driver has been a test driver for years upon years, the gamer would have 
 the power to simply kick the number one driver to the curb and toss their favorite pilot to the 
 wolves. Career mode was nice as always, offering some new little features that gave it a slightly 
 more personal feel. I like a great sense of control when it comes to any career mode and I found 
 only a few in this title, being able to play out test sessions and "try out" for bigger, better 
 teams was nice, also being able to control the car on the parade lap and warm the tyres and such 
 was to me the best small feature in a racing game since the interactive pit stop. Race Car Evolution 
 was another great F1 game feature for the race fanatic, and was very easy to use. The more control 
 I have over the car setup the better, and if you can even show me a percentage increase or decrease 
 with lap time comparison, well then it is game over for anyone racing against me. Audio in the 
 game was not bad, but at times I found it to be a bit glitchy, and almost annoying when the sounds 
 would come while in a certain camera position, mainly the cockpit camera, and you would hear sounds 
 that come from nowhere it seems and hear them over your revs.
  
  The AI is still something that designers continue to struggle with when it comes to F1 video games, 
 in the past the AI was either non existent, or crazy tough. It seems the same is true in F1: Championship 
 Edition, but it offers both settings of super easy, and super tough, and I'm not sure what the 
 problem is, but I have a few ideas. In the future the designers need to take advantage of AI "memory" 
 so that they will recognize you as rival, teammate, or even in house rivalry, no more of these 
 mindless drones peddling around the track, swerving out of your way no matter if it is for points 
 or not. Drivers in F1 are ruthless, and in the contained world that is racing it is so very hard 
 to forget anything that happens to you or your team. My racing ladder never saw a rung near F1 
 through no fault but my own (and not because the talent wasn't there) and when you travel around 
 with the same guys competing for the scraps as it were, you can't help but lookout for the SSDD 
 and fight a psychological war each and every weekend! Game designers take note of anything Ayrton 
 Senna ever did or said when shaping an F1 AI. 
  
  In closing I would like to offer the future publishers of any F1 title a few ideas and pointers. 
 First, don't leave the gamers wanting so much more in these days of high power consoles. I would 
 love to see an F1 game where the gamer was thrown many options, and one option that I always come 
 back to in my mind is being able to exit the car and walk through the pit bay, paddock and even 
 over to the strategy tent across pit lane. A non cutscene animation of the tv box being put on 
 the car would be great, watch other drivers attack the track and see what the weather conditions 
 are like. On the topic of weather, please please drop the sun a bit, lower track temp, and increase 
 engine performance in the Friday and Saturday morning sessions. I have many nice memories from 
 GP at Indy, when the cars would take the track in the early morning hours and the track was almost 
 empty, and those cars would rip loose down the pit lane exit and into the first turn, it was even 
 better when the V10s were around. An "XP" system or reward point system would be great to so that 
 you could gain points from fast laps, overtaking multiple cars, pole position, podiums, race wins, 
 etc and use the points to add abilities to your career mode driver so that the character would 
 optimize the car automatically in regards to brake bias, tyre wear, even renown with team, and 
 teammate. Lastly, more classic cars, a feeder series (GP2) , more legends of F1 (Jim Clark, Ayrton 
 Senna, Gilles Villeneuve, Keke Rosberg) these would make great unlockables or even DLC. And a 
 final note to the publishers, please let the designers take their time and an all-time great racing 
 game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexyyz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  I wanted to get this game for a long time, but i could never get it cause the stores would always 
 been lacking stock.
  
  The long wait was worthwile! This is the best F1 game I have ever seen! It really feels that you 
 are a F1 driver making throung your career.
  If you have any doubts about buyin this game... your doubts are over. Just go and buy it! You will 
 not regret it.
  
  The graphics are great, playability is awesome! You can do almost anything that a real pilot can 
 do. can crash your car into others to take them out of the race, you can ajust your fuel strategy, 
 pit stop strategy... choose your tires, suspension, etc... You can set the real number of laps 
 or any percentage you like.
  So basically if you want you can take 2 or 3 hours to make one GP... like practicing, tunning the 
 car the way you want, testing, learning the course... then testing again, qualifying and then racing.
 
  Not mencioning that you can play in every real F1 circuits of the World!
  The feeling of speed is very realistic... the sound of the wind... the camera shaking with the 
 soil inferfections... very cool!!
  
  The coolest thing is that you can create a driver that will start in a small Scuderia and then 
 you go evolving until you reach Ferrari and the major Scuderias.
  To see your name in the starting grid togheter with Felipe Massa, Michael Schummacher.... its really 
 awesome!
  
  The weather efects are great!! rain, sun, everything changes the visibility, like in the real life!
 
  
  This is a great game for Starters and for Experts, cause you can customize the level of dificulty 
 according to your skill.
  
  I just did not gave a 10 cause I think a bit of track information is lacking when you are racing... 
 like how far away is the guy behind you. But anyway you can always check the map, but i guess this 
 kind of detailed information would add one more thing to this incredible game.
  
  Overall this is the best racing game ever! if you are a fan of this genre! go and buy it today! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Its taken me a while but ive finally got round to reviewing F1 for the PS3. 
  
  All I can say is that its by far the best F1 racer brought out since the first f1 game (of this 
 new 3D world gaming arena) ever.
  
  Ill try to keep it short as I am a massive fan of the sport and all of the games and been waiting 
 for this. The game is great, and that's that. There are plenty things for you to do, race time 
 trails, championships and even start a Career mode that lets you start off in a low rate team and 
 beat the teams expectations, its F1 and its great.
  
  There are some bad sides though and this is ultimately what stopped me from giving it a 9. The 
 customisation of the car is too simple and not really that much use, there is a good idea with 
 Car Evolution Trial where the game gets you to drive a few laps and then you get to choose which 
 of the set ups were the best f but ultimately I have found this totally useless and a total waste 
 of time. The physical Playstations controls are just too small, or at least the grips are for me. 
 My had Freaking wrecks after playing this game as im one of those mad players who will qualify 
 the three times and then go and do 15 laps + some practice time if im really slow on the track 
 . . but im not as I can pole and nearly first place all the races on hard . . which I have to say 
 until you get used to how you can push the car is hard.
  
  Online is great with this gameas it features an 'auto jump in' mode if the race has already started, 
 this I have to say is the best feature ever seen in a game like this as im sure you are all sick 
 of waiting in lobbys for races to end!
  
  If I had to clutch at a major problem with this game it is literally the speed vs slowing down 
 of the car, its all too arcady . . . even with all the assists off. Timed laps also have a flaw 
 ,im not 100% sure but I think the timer doesn't actually go up in milliseconds as I can get the 
 same time over and over and over again in some sectors.
  
  Overall a brilliant game and a must for any f1 fan. I know the game is old now but I just got it 
 . . ive just been holding my breath as I couldn't face the fact that it could have been like the 
 first F1 game on the PSP, saying this though, this game seems to be a straight copy (with improvements) 
 of the PSP's F1 06 .. for all F1 fans, you'll experience a time warp playing this game as it still 
 contains the likes of Montoya and Villeneuve.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamduffield
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  This is abit of a late review of a game that has been out for more than a year but I find it highly 
 addictive and still enjoy playing on it! The graphics are well presented and the sound is top notch, 
 making it an easy game to get focused in! The career mode on hard will have you playing for months 
 as you struggle to find your way into the top teams but enjoy not always finishing first!
  The world championship mode also plays well, being able to save mid way through the race is an 
 excerllant Idea, shame they did not include it on career mode aswell!
  The rewards you unlock such as cars, helmets and memorabilia also adds to the fun of gameplay. 
 
  Online play is very competitive aswell, being able to race people all around the globe will get 
 you palying longer too!
  
  Great F1 game to fill you in until Codemasters produce yet another masterpeice (fingers crossed) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PompVR
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Being an F1 fan who is very persistent, I am overwhelmed by the depth of this title. If you switch 
 off the driving aids and throw yourself straight into the 5 season long career mode with full race 
 distance, you feel very comfortable with the layout of the game. Studio Liverpool have recreated 
 the racing weekend pretty accurately so if you are familiar with F1, you will know what is going 
 on.
  
  If you arent an F1 fan, or if you just arent entirely comfortable with driving games you may encounter 
 some problems. Some of the features are not very well explained, which may frustrate you, but on 
 the other hand you can just throw yourself into a race without touching the career mode and there 
 are plenty of driving aids to help you.
  
  The graphics are sleek and clean, but almost too clean, which can make the game look bland. However, 
 at the speeds you travel in the game, you won't have time to criticise any graphics. The frame 
 rate always stays phenomenally high even if you are weaving through the entire pack down the pit 
 straight. The only graphics I dislike are the textures for the track surface, which could be greatly 
 improved. The most impressive graphical touch is the rain effect. When it rains in a race it becomes 
 the most difficult game ever created. Your camera will be covered in rain which will get worse 
 if you sit in the spray of another car and better if you are driving at 200mph with no one in front 
 of you. The rain actually pours down the camera and is blown away from the center very realistically.
 
  
  Although I have only been playing this game for 10 hours or so, it has made a HUGE impact. I took 
 up a contract with Toro Rosso and have so far taken part in 3 race weekends. You go through a detailed 
 Friday practice session where you trial out the changes that your team makes to the car's downforce, 
 camber, balance etc. and compare the laptimes from different setups to choose the one you want. 
 Then you go through the qualifying sessions which are as they are in real life.
  It is all so epic.
  
  If you can handle 3 DNF's in your first 3 races and still have a smile 
 on your face and be excited for the next race, you are the right person for this game.
  If you can't handle that... don't touch the career but I would still recommend this game for you.
 
  It is just so fast paced and technical and you really get a sense of achievement when you get 
 something right.
  
  And speaking as a neuroscientist, I would recommend this game for accelerated enrichment of reaction 
 times and peripheral vision.
  ... sorry.
  
  GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  In my mind, this is one of the best racing games on the PS3. It is highly addictive, and once you 
 start, you will not want to stop. This game follows the 2006 season, so if you were expecting drivers 
 like Lewis Hamilton, or Sebastian Vettel, sorry! My favorite driver from that time was Michael 
 Schumacher, the king of F1 in his mighty Ferrari! When Michael retired, I had no favorite driver 
 until after last year's Australian Grand Prix. Lewis Hamilton became my new favorite driver, and 
 still is today. Ok, enough fooling around. You can setup the car to your liking with the Evolution 
 Setup Runs. These runs are the Friday Practice Sessions. In Carrer Mode, you can customize your 
 driver. Choose the face, head, helmet design, and nationality. You can earn Classic cars, and one 
 Circuit after you have won a race, or the World Championship.
  Here are the classic cars:
  Alfa Romeo 158
  Cooper Climax
  Lotus 49C
  Lotus 72E
  Renault RS01
  Williams FW06
  Williams 
 FW18
  Here is the Track:
  Cicuito De Jerez
  I kind of wish that there were more Classic Cars, and Tracks.
  Suggesstions:
  Classic Ferrari (s)
 
  Classic McLaren (s)
  Classic Tyrell- 6 wheel from 1977
  Long Beach Street Circuit
  Watkins Glen
  Spa-Francorchomps- did not race here in 2006
  Rheims
  Nurburgring-Norschliefe
 
  Overall, awesome F1 game, rosters are out of date though, addicting gameplay, fun customization, 
 your favorite tracks on the 2006 F1 calendar.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoJ22
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Hey!, this is my first review, so dont expect to much.
  
  I can start with the graphics i got to say, that even it is a first gen game, of PS3, its looks 
 good, nothing out of the normal, but it will make it work, but i got to make a little space for 
 the rain, the rain looks pretty awesome, feel the water in your face, ha ha, its cool.
  
  The playing its cool too, you can just play a single race, easy, but you will be able to do your 
 own racer, and start from just a second racer of a little team, to be the Michael Schumacher of 
 your generation. 
  Off course a Time Trial, you can do a little training before the Grand Prix, with all the great 
 teams, and the drivers.
  
  The Difficulty its well divided you can have many ways to help you when you are starting, but 
 it will be getting harder.
  
  Something else, ON-LINE GAMING, its pretty cool, because you can play with 11 player off all around 
 the globe, this will be the real challenge.
  
  So this is just a little taste of Formula 1 Championship Edition, if you are a fan of the F1 this 
 will be a great way to be closer to the F1 famous racers.
  
  Thanks for Reading
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is vey smooth and well put together. Those that have never played a formula 
 one game will have a hard times getting used to it. If your a beginner to formula 1 racing, leave 
 the Aids On to help u get the hang of braking on time. The high learning curve is for those that 
 are new to Formula 1, those that are already fans of F1 will love this game for its realism.
  Score: 8
  
  Graphics: The game looks great, from the sunny days to the rainy days, it just 
 feels like your really there. The sense of speed it great and looks like your y reallin the cockpit 
 going 200+ mph. The damager is realestic and your car will react to the damage with realistic effect.
 
  Score: 9
  
  Sound: The cars sound very real and you even hear the sound of the brakes burning as there slowing 
 u down. All together the game sounds very good.
  Score: 8
  
  Value: If your a formula 1 fan, this is a must buy seeing as there are no other choices for formula 
 1 action and the game isn't that much (at time of review) . Also if your a hardcore racing fan, you 
 should check it out for a challenge.
  Score: 9
  
  Tilt: I enjoyed Formula One Championship Edition very much, i've been a formula 1 fan for some 
 time now and have been wanting a good formula 1 game in a while. This game has delivered in what 
 i wanted, a solid formula 1 game that doesn't try to do to much but just enough for formula 1 fans 
 to enjoy.
  
  Score: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying that im a fan of F-1. i live in the southern USA so as you can 
 understand i do not get exposed to much F-1. every one here is diehard Nascar. of wich im not a 
 fan lol. I have played a number of F-1 games starting with F-1 pole position on the snes. This 
 edition of the series that iirc started on the Ps1 is a fine addition.
  
  The graphics, are great for being a first gen ps3 game. Not up to GT5p but still very easy on the 
 eyes. The Weather effects are as good as any i have seen.
  
  The controls are good but not great. I unfortunitly am only able to play with the standerd controler 
 not the race wheel. the analog sticks just do not have the range of motion for this type of racing 
 imho. the cars just do not of a fine enough control with the sticks so thay tend to feel very jerky/twitchy. 
 there is a in game setting that helps and with enough practice you can get it to handle well enough 
 but for me there just is not enough sense of fine control. In no way am i saying this makes the 
 game unplayble just that it is far more difficult than it should be to have a smooth control of 
 the cars.
  
  The car physiscs are very well done. with options to make them more arcady or more sim like.
 
  
  The AI is good. Makes mistakes ect.
  
  The Car tuning is a bit of a let down if your a big time gearhead. GTR2 on the pc has a bit better 
 set up as far as that goes.
  
  You have deffernt options for race's such as quick race, carrier and championship. i prefer the 
 championship my self as the carrier is far to much of a pain to progress enough to be able to actualy 
 race the cars. 
  
  All in all the game is well worth the price. Lots of varity and solid gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Formula One Championship Edition could have been a totally awsome game. The driving system is perfect. 
 The sense of speed is intense and if what you want is speed than you won`t be disappointed. The 
 system can also be configured on pretty much everything, meaning you can have it pretty easy with 
 all kinds of driving aids turned on like breaking assist, turning assist, even a race line... or 
 you can have it pretty hard with all those things turned off, which takes a lot of getting used 
 to in terms of not locking your breaks, spinning out of control, or cornering a turn just right 
 -- which is surprisingly challenging with all assists turned off. So if what you want is a challenge, 
 play the game on hard mode with no assits and you`ll get your money`s worth.
  
  Where the game suffers the most is visual representation. The menu`s are handled very nicely, and 
 the in-game lighting effects are amazing. The cars looks pretty good too, no complaints there. 
 But the environments are just plain, flat, and drab. The circuits could have been a lot more detailed, 
 and are basically pretty boring to look at. All circuits are taken from real world F1 circuits, 
 but they could have thrown in a handfull of fictional locales with more interesting visual design 
 just for the fun of it. Other than that, the grass and dirt and sand just look like solid color 
 mats. They could have been worked on some more, especially the grass, since you see it all the 
 time, could have been made to actually look like grass. The pavement could also have benefitted 
 from more detail and resolution. Also wind tunnel effects are noticeably abscent. Such details 
 would have worked to emerse the player into the game and make for a more enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Overall, the game plays great but could have looked better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok i like F1 im no F1 geek but i enjoy watching it, and i have enjoyed playing various versions 
 over the years, i like the smooth racing lines the satisfaction of out braking someone and so on. 
 
  
  I'll make this review fairly brief, GS seems to think the presentation sucks, for me i think it's 
 pretty well presented graphics are nice, the rain effects are tremedous, all the teams etc from 
 the 06 season are present, could be a downside to the hardcore among you but for me it's just fine, 
 so many nice little touches in this game, like being able to do a parade lap before the race and 
 heat up your tyre's etc, interactive pitstop's too are good, gives you the feeling that you do 
 actually make a difference in the pit's and those few vital seconds can get you out ahead of someone.
 
  
  The addition of the older classic cars is good too, albeit you can only take them round on time 
 trial mode, still nice to try your hand with and old lotus and so on.
  
  There are your usual modes championship, single race, time trial, mulitplayer and so on, the real 
 gem is career mode, you start off doing 3 trials for the lower 3 teams and after your try out they 
 may offer you a position if you are quick enough, some will offer test driver some race driver.
 
  
  Now the downside's, the first is a minor gripe more than anything, when doing the trials as mentioned 
 above or if you do get a test driver job, you generally go round tracks on your own against the 
 clock etc, they set all these test's and trials at dawn, which believe me is a pain when your trying 
 to get perfect corners and you cant see diddly from sun glare and overly dark sections of the track 
 as the sun isn't high enough, can really mess up your laps and make trials and test driving a nightmare, 
 i for one never accept test driver jobs for this reason.
  
  Now for the main issue with this game, which drives me absolutely insane and prevents me from giving 
 this game a stupidly high score......... the AI, or lack of........ if you are doing a flying lap 
 for qualifying and you are in a rubbish car and someone behind you is on cool down lap in a ferrari, 
 they don't slow down or get out of your way, they hassle you and don't move!!..... annoying..... main 
 race i always seem to get the attention of Ralph Schumacher he will do anything to ram me and get 
 me out of the race, the game has nice little touches, wheres the touch where i can complain and 
 report him for that or where's his black flag? It even gets to the point where if you pit and you 
 come out behind your slow team mate, he aint going to move out your way, HELL NO he's gonna get 
 in your way then take you both out. All in all i really hate the AI. the icing on the cake though, 
 after you have been destructed by Schumacher, you go back to your pad to get ready for next race, 
 your team take great pleasure in sending you an email stating how you sucked at the last race and 
 you need to improve or your lookinjg for a new job, i was rammed out not my fault!!!!
  
  Overall a nice game good presentation, terrible AI. If your an F1 nut buy it for sure, if your 
 a racing fan, rent it first, if your neither, don't bother it's sure to drive your mad!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CADMAN_3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  F1 games have come and gone. Some where pretty good and some just down right sucked.
  But F1 Championship Edition by SCEA, Liverpool Studios did an awesome job with this game in every 
 aspect. Just watching F1 TV in the game is amazing. The graphics, the weather, the cars are just 
 breath taking. It's nice to see even the fans move around and not just be 2d cutouts that so many 
 other games do.
  Sure some people will complain that this game is based on the 06 season, but that doesn't hurt 
 this game one bit.
  You get to race against Montoya, Schumacher, Massa, Raikkonen, to name a few people. You get to 
 race with teams like Ferrari, Toyota, Red Bull, BMW Sauber on tracks like Hockingheim, Istanbul, 
 Monza, Shanghai, Silverstone and many more.
  You'll run one track several times before you start a race. You'll need to do test run on your 
 car to get the right settings, then you'll need to do a couple laps for pole position.
  This is a game that you won't just jump in and start winning races right away. Even on easy mode 
 you'll still find this game to be a challenge. This over all really isn't a bad thing.
  I wrecked several with this game just because of watching the view of the tracks.
  While racing 
 you get arrows that pop up on the screen before each turn. This is a really big help with making 
 turns. If the arrow is red this means you need to slow down before you take the turn. Once the 
 arrow turns green then you're at the right speed for the turn. 
  This isn't a game that when you drive you can slam a car to over take them like GT and Forza. You 
 have to use some skill and you have to figure out when to make your pit stop. Which is something 
 you can adjust when you make a pit.
  For the F1 fans this is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerone1
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  When I got my ps3 it came with a standard package deal with a game. Unfortunately at the time there 
 were very few games out and the choice was not particularly mind boggling. In the end I decided 
 to get Formula 1 Championship Edition because it looked like a good, fun sim. What more could you 
 want than to experience and control over 750BHP in pure HD experience! Unfortunatly the shop was 
 out of stock so i received my ps3 but no game. Of course they were going to give me the game but 
 i had to wait for it to come into stock. Now i had a curiously frustrating problem. I had a Playstaion 
 3, I had it all set up but i had no game to unleash it's power on. 
  Thus being so I went out and bought Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII as it was another game which 
 interested me. Because of this F1 Championship Edition wasn't the first game i ever owned but when 
 it did arrive i was happy enough to be able to play it. First impressions were "Great game" "Good 
 fun". 
  
  It is at it's heart, a good game. It's the surface where it starts to crumble leaving the heart 
 exsposed to the critisism of the gaming world.
  
  This game without doubt has slik graphics that set a great, although not entirely true impression 
 on the game. When i first played it on my old CRT tv i found it impossible to read emails due to 
 small fonts being displayed at 576i resolutions. Now that i have a Sony Bravia LCD HD tv i can 
 read them but i would have been happier to know that i had been accepted into the Honda racing 
 team half a year earlier.
  
  Also there is one thing about this game which can make it all the more exciting, if only it were 
 possible to understand. The customisation of cars. You can adjust the suspension, the angle of 
 the weels, the height of the car and all those fine details which allow you to get your gar to 
 behave exactly how you want it to. I would have done this long ago if i had know how to do what 
 and what to do how. There is no decent help system. Here in this game i find myself comparing it 
 to Colin McRae Dirt. In that game you can also adjust the technical details of your car but there 
 is one difference. There is a great help system. I CM Dirt you can acheive exactly what you want 
 to as it tells you what deos what and what happens if you adjust this and that and what to adjust 
 if you want understeer, oversteer. What is good for dirt tracks, tarmac and others. It is all made 
 easy where as in F1 Championship Ed you have to guess or just leave as is. This annoys me because 
 i want to customise my car. 
  
  Also in this game you have driving aids. I like these as they allow players or all age and skill 
 to play with ease. I still find driving fun when i let th ps3 do all the breaking. It still feels 
 like you are in control, in general because you are actually probably on the track rather than 
 a steaming reck on the side. 
  
  I like this game although i do not find myself playing it as much as i wish, as i do not feel the 
 urge that would be there in a truly great game.
  
  As for online play i have yet to try this when i get an internet connection. :-)
  
  Buy this 
 game if you really like F1's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfoxmania
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  If I can quote gamespot's message prior to typing your review:" When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean"
  
  I'm sorry but it's just so hard to do that when I see that your reviewer says that the learning 
 curve for the game is one hour. Umm, it's formula 1 dude - the learning curve for an F1 simulator 
 is at least 3 months - that's if you're really really talented. But if you enjoy having the game 
 steer and brake for you yea I guess it could be an hour or to be more realistic 2 minutes, cause 
 you really don't need to do anything.
  
  Anyway, I could not believe they gave this game a graphics score of 8, cause really when I see 
 some other PS3 or XBox360 titles getting a 9 or a 10, then let me say that this game deserves a 
 graphics score of 20, and that is NOT exaggerated. It's far better looking in real time then some 
 games have managed to do in a pre-rendered cut-scene.
  
  I waited until now to write my review (which is hardly a review cause I'm just venting as I"m pissed 
 off) , cause now GT5P came along. The game looks very inferior to F1 Ce, graphics-wise, and yet 
 they're praising it as the one game that really showcases PS3's power. Well I've had enough of 
 your ****
  
  Also the F1 game controls beautifully, the Logitech G25 wheel now works like a charm with the new 
 force feedback patch, but it's online play is the worst you can ever ever find. I cannot even start 
 to explain the HORRIBLE cruel joke that its online architecture is. So all in all this game gets 
 a score of 6. If it didn't look so damn well and control so tight with the driving aids turned 
 off, then it would be a 2 or a 3 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  sim racers. i gotta love hate relationship with them. id rather play wipeout or ridge racer. 
 
  but something about this game lured me in. this isnt the first sim racer to do this. ferrari on 
 the dreamcast did to. the reason is simple. this game lets you grow into the racing gradually. 
 it starts you out with assist and you slowly take them off til your comfy with the gameplay. brake 
 assist and steering assist driving lines and spin control. its all there to help you.
  thats not to say its easy once you get the racing down. one wreck on medium difficulty with the 
 asist off and you will be lucky to get back in the top 3, but being able to get a top 10 finish 
 will give you a feeling of accomplishment videogames rarely give you.
  finishing the season as a top 10 driver will give you a rush of joy and will motivate you to try 
 it one more time. you can adjust the number of laps for each race so you can technically do a whole 
 season in a few hours. good stuff.
  the control is spot on. the dual analog controls work best especially with the new duel shock 3. 
 the rumble lets you know when you are braking to hard if you pay attention.
  the graphics are good but they are hardly pushing the PS3 with little to no effects. you will not 
 find much if any bump mapping or other nifty effects. you will however get a smooth game with a 
 very clean look with no pop-in. the rain effects and shadowing are fantastc. best rain effects 
 ever.
  this is one of those niche titles that may be your cup of tea if givin a chance! it wont appeal 
 to everyone and the graphics could of been better. liverpool studio did wipeout pure on the PSP 
 and the upcoming wipeout HD for crying out loud. still, there isnt to many F1 games out. so if 
 your a fan this is a no brainer. 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  F1: Champ Edition is an updated release of the same game for the PS2 console. Now on the PS3, we 
 see updated visuals, updated physics and superb online play. In my own opinion F1: Champ Edition 
 is one of the most underated racers on the current consoles. You don't need to love Watching F1 
 to like it, but that defiantly helps.
  
  Studio Liverpool, a developer currently working on the highly anticipated WipeoutHD have done a 
 superb job with the PS3 installment of F1: Champ Edition. It's easily the best F1 game to come 
 since the Great PC Racer Grand Prix 4 some years back. The game looks great, but most importantly 
 runs great, All the cars (though a few years out of date) all look amazing and there even better 
 to race. F1: Champ Edition is all about timing, (much like F1 itself) and to master the game you 
 need to master the tracks. Not an easy thing. Though the game offers help guides in stering and 
 such, the fun factor doesn't come until you take off all the nappies and get down to where skill 
 matters. Getting every bit out of the track is a great challenge but a hell of a lot of fun. You 
 have both Single Player and Multiplayer options, Single Playerwise you can do a quick race, a F1 
 weekend (Practice, Quality and Race) . You can do a whole F1 season or a career. There all superb 
 and are a lot of fun, Career can be a little frustrating at first but given time is a lot of fun 
 and surprisingly challenging at times through your career with a chosen team willing to take you 
 on. Winning races provides you with trophy's to show off in your special styled Trophy Room. I've 
 a good selection from currently being in the middle of a racing season but some still I miss out 
 on. Thats the fun with an F1 game, its not always about close styled racing, its about putting 
 in the laps and closing or pulling the gap away from your nearest compeitor. Most Importantly Races 
 should be fun, and although there are issues here and there most of it is superb and most importantly 
 fun to do. 
  
  As I stated, its not all perfect. One of my biggest complaints is that if you lose your wing you 
 will automatically be removed from the race (aka crashed out) which seems wrong, because in F1 
 it's very possible to survive until you reach a Pitstop. A. I can also sometimes be as thick as 
 two planks of wood, but to be fair most of the time (especially when passing backmarkers) you just 
 need to use your wit and take your time. They may come across on you and smash into you, but take 
 note of areas on the track where passing is easy and won't spoil your lap to much. Qualifing also 
 thankfully is the newer style of three levels which is great and although it's about 2 seasons 
 old its doesn't really make a huge difference. So no Lewis Hamilton, but that shouldn't stop you 
 buying this game. Multiplayer is great fun and one of the games best features. There are a lot 
 of adult gamers on there and I've had a few good races with a good amount of players. I actually 
 usually do pretty well (2nd is my current best tho) and its a lot of fun. Studio Liverpool have 
 done a great job with F1: Champ Edition.
  
  PROS:
  - Great Racing and Great Sense of speed.
  - Superb Both Online and Offline.
  - Great Visuals 
 on all levels.
  
  CONS: 
  - Sometimes stupid A. I
  - Issues with crashing and being knocked out of a race.
  - Playstation Controls can sometimes 
 hurt your hand after a good amount of time playing.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall, Studio Liverpool have done a superb job with F1: Champ Edition. Not just the best F1 games 
 since Grand Prix 4 on PC. But one of the best current Racing games on any Console. Its just sad 
 that Sony aren't going to be using the F1 License anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougs11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the first I purchased for the PS3 and it is a game that is a huge leap forward 
 in terms of graphics. The sense of speed is just incredible, so much so that it becomes key to 
 know many of the tracks by heart. The lighting is also very impressive, but best of all is racing 
 in the rain. The rooster tails that come off the cars makes it really feel like you are racing 
 in the rain, and best of all the framerate is completely solid no matter how many cars are in front 
 of you or what type of weather is occurring.
  
  There are some downsides to the game. First off, the tracks aren't at all flashy and at times the 
 graphics, even though awesome, can feel somewhat bland. Secondly, the career mode isn't very inspiring 
 and a race weekend can take a very long time to do. It replicates what happens in real life quite 
 well, but sometimes it is hard to stay interested. 
  
  Overall, the game is a blast. If you like racing similar to Gran Turismo, just at a faster pace 
 and without having to earn cars or money, then you will probably want to pick this one up. If you 
 are more of a casual gamer that goes for titles like Burnout or Need for Speed and can't stand 
 Gran Turismo, you probably should stay away. Unless you just wanna show off what the PS3 can do! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  At the PS3 launch, F1 Championship Edition was one of the biggies to impressive, did it? The gameplay 
 is the same as every other F1 racer with only minor changes and fun mini-games at the pits. It 
 features the 2006 season as expected and really in this area has everything that the other games 
 had. The visuals are really the only outstanding part of this game. They are smooth and crisp, 
 the car detail is amazing and really should sell for that alone. As for the rest it is all fairly 
 average (as you would expect) and authentic (as you would expect) . So overall F1 CE does everything 
 it was expected to do but could be bought for its gorgeous visuals alone, but sadly it never seems 
 to attract interest due to its lack of 'fun' - 7.0
  
  + Superb graphics
  + Easy controls
  + Pit minigames
  - Similar to previous games
  - Too easy
  - Sometimes 
 boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRM-Billy
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to playing this PS3 version of F1 so I was very disappointed to find 
 it has some frustrating flaws. Easy is too easy and Hard is too hard. Time trial and recruitment 
 tracks are always timed so the sun obscures your vision. Had to do a recruitment test at Silverstone 
 in the wet at dawn couldn't see anything, an whoever heard of one lap recruitment tests. I don't 
 mind a challenge but to do a one lap time quicker than the fastest time ever recorded by a Super 
 Aguri in an all day testing session is asking a lot. Commentary is so dull it's better turned off. 
 The pit crew could be more vocal with things like "Schumacher is 11 seconds ahead" or "your rear 
 wing is slightly damaged. Do you want to pit?". GTR has the best pit crew of any racing game I 
 know. One glitch I found was I spun the car and came straight into the pits, left the pits and 
 was shown a orange spotted black flag but my car status showed green so had to pit again to get 
 rid of the flag. Split times cancel after 10 secs so you won't know if a Ferrari is 13 secs behind 
 you. The list goes on. It does have the best graphics and sound of any F1 game I've seen, the quick 
 race option makes for an exciting blast but this is F1 and for fans like myself who want the full 
 package to feel like we're really involved in racing an F1 a quick blast just doesn't seem right. 
 With no future F1 games on the horizon it looks like the PS3 is stuck with this for a while. If 
 you found a copy in a sale for 20 then I'd recommend it, but if you want a thrilling quick blast 
 then I'd go for Burnout, Ridge Racer or Need for Speed which are better suited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizeguy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Formula One Championship Edition is a great game all faults aside and as an honest man i refuse 
 to nitpick about the small little things that drive me up the wall so i will start with the good 
 things
  
  Graphics
  They seem a little dated but its still very possible to immerse yourself in a season and lose complete 
 track of time
  
  Sound:
  I run my PS3 through a 5.1 and its incredible. from the sound of the cars at your back to rumble 
 on the grid they spared no expense on the sound
  
  Gameplay:
  For a racing tragic like me this game is perfect. They could literally call it "The idiots guide 
 to F1" because with the aids on its practicly impossible (although i found a way) not to be competetive. 
 Turn the aids off however and you will need some serious practise before you go anywhere near a 
 race unless you like gravel and grass up your clacker
  
  Gamelife
  After you do the championship 50 times then set all the gold medal lap times the lack of a split 
 screen racing mode may cause you to throw it in the been there played that pile 
  
  Faults:
  No splitscreen multiplayer
  this game has absolutely no splitscreen multiplayer so 
 you are robbed of the chance to race against anyone unless you go online or you know somone else 
 iwth a PS3 
  
  Outdated roster
  Gamespot has already harped on this so i wont go into it but needless to say that the roster is 
 2006 so you have no luis hamilton which is very dissapointing
  
  In summation
  *A great game for racing tragics
  *No split screen multiplayer except lan or net
  *out of date 
 roster
  *Great sound
  *steady frame rate
  
  IF you love F1 or just like racing its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicy93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have all ways been a huge fan of the f1 games and as soon as i got this one i really amazed at 
 the graphics, sound and the rain which looks absolutely amazing. Carrer mode has allways been great 
 in these gamesand i havent played my other games for over a month so all they are doing is collecting 
 dust. The game is highly addictive and very easy to play if you have never played a f1 before. 
 The only thing i hate about these games is you cant really damage your cars propely all u can do 
 is damage your wing or lose a wheel instead of having the crumple after hitting a wall at 250kmh. 
 Still i have to say this is the best game in the series and they have done a great job especially 
 with the six-axis which isnt so hard to use for this game. Online mode needs a lot of improvement 
 but i am sure it will all be fixed for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rapid_Fire_360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow! what else can i say? this game is amazing, the graphics are spot on and also the sound effects 
 are great! I am a huge fan of Formula 1 and this game is probually the closest i can get to the 
 real thing! lol, anyway, Its a shame that its not 2 player, but i have the Playstation 2 version 
 (Formula 1 2006) which is 2 player whats cool.
  The best part about this game is that you can have your own career and also there is a Wales helmet 
 on this game for career mode! and i'm Welsh which is good as i can use a Wales helmet! :) 
  The good and bad points about this game:
  
  The good: Graphics are amazing on a HD-Ready TV 
 and also the sound effects are superb, the 2006 cars are spot on! if your not very good at racing 
 games there are brilliant driving aids that you can choose to have on or off.
  If you have this game on Hard Mode its really challenging which is good as its fun having to push 
 hard to win races.
  
  The bad: This game is not 2 player.
  
  
  I have not been online on this game yet, so i'm sorry, but i'm not sure if its any good online.
 
  I hope this review helps :) 
  Thanks =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitamiX
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Unless you like to sit around watching stock car racing all day, I'd steer clear of this surprisingly 
 pretentious racer. I guess I'll dissect it to give you the *ahem* lay of the land
  
  Gameplay- 2. I might've played it for 30 mintues. It... it's just not fun. I don't know about more 
 advanced racers, cause I'm a Mario Kart man, F-Zero if I want something without items, but I think 
 the overall play is weak and ungratifying. It's fun for the first 2 minutes, though, in the Wow, 
 the graphics and sound are the best pert so it's realistic way.
  
  Graphics- 8. ... They're *sigh* great...
  
  Control- 1. Weak. Like, I'm a PS3 owner and I'm 
 gonna admit that the control sticks suck. You need to move them 2 cm before the system picks anything 
 up.
  
  Sound- 4. Sounds like cars. That would warrant a 2 usually but I'll give them points for making 
 them sound a lot like cars.
  
  Tilt- 3. A waste of my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoF1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Formula 1 Championship Edition is a game like his previous but with some updates.
  In this case the updates don't innovate but they're quite good to make it the best Formula 1 game.
 
  The game has beautiful graphics. 
  The gameplay is excellent with a wheel (I recommend Logitech G25) but if you play with sixaxis 
 won't be so good and realistic.
  The motor's sound it's very good.
  But the game has last year cars, drivers and tracks.
  And a few small errors makes the game a 
 little bit worst.
  Anyway, that game is a must buy for everyone who like Formula 1.
  Feel the speed of the fastest cars in the world!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Raiden-
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  this game rocks! if your a fan of racing games you'll love
  this one. if your a fan of F1 you'll have a hard time finding time to stop playing long enough 
 to eat. the graphics, gameplay, A. I., realism, its all there. I don't know how well a F1 game will 
 sell in the U. S. but studio liverpool should be very proud of this game. this game is next gen
 
  Reader's Ratings for Formula One Championship Edition The cars are absolutely mind boggling, in 
 regards to the amount of detail that went into each car. No just a side note, the official title 
 of the game is Formula One Championship 2006, so you are going to be racing in 2006 liveries so 
 you won't be going past an orange pylon in the form of a Spyker F1 car. Also when you get up to 
 speed and braking and accelerating again you will find that the screen gets a little hazy because 
 of the amount of G-force put onto the pilot during these maneuvers (pretty realistic) . The downpours 
 is the game make the racing even more beautiful when you get a chance to see past the rain clouding 
 your vision, like a normal TV broadcast, they did a fabulous job with the rain and it's good to 
 see them spend so much time on an equalizer such as rain. Once again, the graphics are sick (even 
 in 720p) , the PS3 is finally starting to show what it can do.
  
  All in all, this is a well-put together game. But be advised this is not an arcade-style game, 
 this is a simulation of a sport that trumps NASCAR back to the 1950s. It is a good game to fill 
 that niche within every Formula One fans hearts. And I am impressed with this purchase. Go get 
 it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The driving is very realistic, the graphics are awesome, weather effects are very cool 
 too, sadly i played about 4 races and could never get myself to keep playing through the extreme 
 dullness
  
  Positives: Graphics, Online play is more fun then the game
  Negatives: Very boring story and career mode, after 1 race youve really seen it all, it takes an 
 hour to get through one race weekend with all the qualifying and minimal laps and then the only 
 thing to do is start the whole thing over
  
  Final Thoughts: if there has been more videos, maybe a few more awards, offline multiplayer mode, 
 and mini games the game may have been savable... pretty graphics doesnt make a game
  
  Rent or Buy??
  RENT... you'll return it early 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Amazingly, Formula One Championship Edition captures all of these themes. Perhaps the greatest 
 compliment that can be paid to this game is that it feels markedly different than a NASCAR racing 
 game.
  
  OMG, The Speed A big part of the reason that the game feels different is the hair-raising, awe-inspiring 
 sensation of speed. The first three or four times I played, my friend Matt was hanging out with 
 me. At one point, I flawlessly executed the final 180-degree turn at the Bahrain track and, as 
 I entered the straightaway, hit a top speed of 210 miles per hour. The feeling of speed was so 
 intense down this straight that we both went slack-jawed, wide-eyed nuts, uttering a chorus of 
 profanities salty enough to make a nun faint. But this is how F1 Championship Edition rolls. Clearly, 
 the power of the PS3 has been successfully harnessed because the game's speedy gameplay does not 
 come with any sacrifice to graphical quality. The cars, environments, and race tracks all look 
 close to photorealistic. Fun For Everyone - Including You, Race-Game Hater
  Believe it or not, there's an element of game design here that is actually more important than 
 the photorealistic graphics and manic sensation of speed. With F1 Championship Edition, Sony's 
 UK-based Liverpool development studio has crafted an authentic-feeling experience that won't piss 
 off inexperienced gamers who don't know F1 from B12. The key is a series of gameplay aids that 
 help you race without destroying yourself. As an example, as you zip around the course, a virtual 
 green line is painted on the screen that demonstrates the ideal line that you should utilize when 
 entering corners. Another example is the auto downshifting of gears as you enter tight turns. Even 
 better, during race week, AI mechanics make all the necessary car adjustments based on your driving 
 performance during practice laps. Hardcore racers will be happy to know that you can turn off all 
 these aids and manually adjust and control every racing element to your heart's content. This is 
 not to say that F1 Championship Edition is easy. In my first two races, I blazed top speeds that 
 landed me in the pole position. But racing against a field of 22 drivers is a different experience 
 entirely than racing against the clock. In both races, I choked and wrecked out in the first three 
 laps. Frustrating, sure, but it's refreshing to have some goals to work towards in a video game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  right so I went to Blockbuster last night to rent a game for my PS3 just to see if there were any 
 others out there that I might like, I had orginally planned on renting Pirates Of The Carribeian 
 At Worlds End. Even though the case for that particular game was in they had taken that game off 
 the shelf do to damage. So I go looking around, this game had caught my eye and I thought why not 
 let's try it. So I then start my career mode on easy, this is because I have never played any F1 
 games, only NASCAR and other random racing games. So after just 2 races I'm hooked and will be 
 buying this game when I get the money, the graphics are great, the tracks are cool, only complaint 
 is the CPU drivers act a little stupid but they will likely preform better if I raise the difficulty. 
 The evolution testing is great, especially since I don't know how to set up an F1 car. If your 
 a racing fan this game is a must have, if you watch F1 on TV, get this game. And if your like me 
 who's a NASCAR fan/player usually and are looking to try something new then buy this game. Also 
 the weather is a very nice touch, something that EA has never implimented into NASCAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie-27
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game for the F1 series, but i feel like it could have been better if they 
 made it this season instead of last season. The graphics are great and so is the game play but, 
 i feel like they should have added the 2007 f1 season drivers instead of the 2006, i feel like 
 it would have made a great game if it had updated itself Apart from that though it is a great game 
 it lets you play as any of the drivers in a season, against friends or around the world. The graphics 
 on this game are fantastic especilly with a HD tv. Alot of people are bummed in the fact it didnt 
 inclued lewis hamilton, but no matter because it will inclued him next year. So for now this game 
 is a great game for all F1 addicts and driving addics.
  
  Thank Youy for reading and please leave a comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallyry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Formula 1 Championship edition is an amazing game. The last time I played a F1 game was back on 
 the PS1, and that was rubbish. This game is highly addictive and very enjoyable. Gameplay:
  The gameplay of this game is good. It is easy for beginners simply because of the braking assistance 
 and the green vertical line around the whole track. Gameplay is very high-quality.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics on this game are world class! All the cars look very realistic and so 
 do the tracks. There are different kinds of view, which make the graphics look even better. Quite 
 simply, the graphics are amazing!!!
  
  Sound:
  The sound is so good in this game. When you accelerate, its sounds just as if you are listening 
 to a real Grand prix.
  
  Value:
  This game will keep you going for hours and hours. You have a wide range of things to do, like: 
 career, world championship, grand prix weekend and more!
  
  Career:
  In career mode, you have to battle your way through 5racing seasons. You dont start with the best 
 car out there; you start with a lower class car like Super Aguri. If you want the best car, you 
 have to win races all the time. You get new messages and new car offers. Rise from nothing to become 
 the champion of racing.
  
  World Championship:
  This isnt part of career. This is a separate world championship where you choose who you want 
 to be like: Alonso; Massa; R&auml; ikk&ouml; nen; Schumacher and many more!
  
  Grand Prix Weekend:
  This is just a full weekend of F1 racing. There are Friday practises a Saturday 
 practises a qualifying session and the race day.
  
  Time Trial:
  Time Trial is where you have to beat the clock. There are three times for you to beat. Your ghost 
 will appear if you beat a time.
  
  Quick race:
  This is just a fun race where you can choose anyone you want at any circuit with any options on. 
 Have this if you want to mess around with your mates one afternoon.
  
  Pit stops are so fun. This bit is testing your thumb quickness and ability. You have to press the 
 right buttons when they appear on the screen. If your thumbs are fast then you will get a fast 
 pit time, if not you might loose.
  
  Formula 1 Championship Edition is a fantastic, so buy it because it is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridenne
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  this is a great (and fun) game. Real adrenaline flows through you when racing for dear life, praying 
 not to crash. I first downloaded this game on the PSN and have been driving it since then. More 
 fun than Grand Turismo (no damage) , more exciting than Motorstorm (oh no, I jumped offa cliff again) 
 and more real than Dirt (awful physics) . This game can be a fun arcade game, but it really hits 
 the mark on a simulation level. Grand Turismo is NOT a simulation driving experience, just because 
 you never had any damage on the cars and can use the walls/rails to your advantage... which is 
 not true in real-life, but I digress... I was a big fan of the series.
  
  The career mode puts you in control of the testing, 3-step qualifying, warm up laps... and finally, 
 the racing itself. If you don't do your homework with the testing, you will suffer during the race. 
 No wonder the drivers are so upset when they crash on the first lap. Soo much work had to be done 
 to get there in the first place.
  
  Physics are great, visuals are good (not excellent) . Many various modes for your racing pleasures. 
 The courses are accurate and fun (compared to racing in circles merry-go-round with NASCAR... yawn!) . 
 Don't know why the staff gave it such a low review... I think their reviews are starting to stink 
 IMO... they give poor games, great ratings. This is a gem for true racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakep123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Ive read a bunch different reviews on F1 from different magazines and websites and I think its 
 a truely underrated racing game. Being a fan of all types of racing games I am very critical towards 
 them. Not saying that F1 is the best racing game out there or that its perfect, but its a dam good 
 one. Graphically its beautiful, the gameplay is smoother then a babys butt, the weather effects 
 ( especially the rain) are great and the lighting effects are some of the best of any racing game 
 ever. The menus could be a little better but who cares if the gameplay is good. The difficulty 
 is there and according to what kind of driving aids you choose to use, you can really make it is 
 hard as u want it to be. The car physics are great and there enough engine, suspension, brake, 
 tire and aerodynamic options to satisfy the biggest gear head. Now you cant design a car or track 
 wich would be really cool but its really not neccessary, there are a handfull of classic cars to 
 unlock to get ure fix of different cars and there enough game modes to keep u busy for awhile. 
 The online play is fun but could be a little better, ive never had any connection problems or choppy 
 interuptions. I do like the fact u go through other players online because some of the people on 
 there dont know what there doing and they would just mess all the real racers up. Now if ure more 
 into fake arcade action type of racing this probably wont be the choice for you because its more 
 of a racing sim. Overall i am very pleased with the purchase and would recomend it to anyone that 
 likes racing games or just likes cars, its fun, its good looking and its underrated, go get it...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronrusso75
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  How on earth did this game become my favorite game for the PS3?!? Let me say that I never watched 
 a F1 race in my life, but I decided to download the free demo since there weren't any other decent 
 games on the PS3. Right away I was impressed by the incredible graphics! F1 still seemed alien 
 to me, but it got me intrigued. I eventually found a used copy and snatched it up - a little apprehensive 
 because this might have ended up being played 2 or 3 times before ending up collecting dust on 
 my DVD rack. But I powered up the PS3, selected a quick race at Monaco and realized I found a new 
 love.
  
  Gripes: Gamespot is right on the mark pointing at the poor presentation. The commentator is the 
 driest English accent you'd ever hear - think European coverage of golf tourneys boring! But fortunately, 
 his contributions are brief and you'll soon be hearing the beautiful hum of your Ferrari, or Renault 
 or Mercedes engine.
  
  Online play is also not the greatest, primarily because there just doesn't seem to be many people 
 spending their nights playing this game (you actually feel a little lonely even trying to tap into 
 a game. But the single player is good enough to get your money's worth.
  
  If you are a beginner like me, you'll fall in love with this game. And if you are a F1 fan, then 
 you will experience F1 in a way that you never could have experienced it before. You can't help 
 but marvel at the care and attention to detail that the designers put into this game. Usually I 
 would say that Gamespot is on the money with all of their Game Grades, But this game is definitely 
 worth a lot more than a 7.2. Trust me, if the free download intrigues you, then you won't be disappointed 
 buying the whole game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  It can be picked up and played by practically anyone on easy level since all the breaking is done 
 for you and most of the turning to lol, but a move to medium level and you will surely be tested 
 a little, times become faster and aids such as breaking must be turned off if you are to win.
 
  
  Cars are beautifully rendered and all have a unique sound and feel to them even the steering wheels 
 are very different which is a very nice touch, the wet weather is awesome, but it can become incredibley 
 hard to see where you are going due to the great affects which can be a small hinder, altho after 
 a while you do get used to it so just be patiant lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Formula 1 games I've ever played. The graphics looks awesome, the 
 physics is close to what it should be in reality and the gameplay is intense. I have to say that 
 the difficulty of this game is quite high and if you've not played much racing games before you 
 will find this game to be challenging. Even on the easy level it's not that easy to beat the times 
 necessary to pass the tests in the career mode. That is mainly due to the fact that the physics 
 in this game is very, very good. You also need to know the track like the back of your hand because 
 this is a very fast paced game (like it should be) and you do not have the time to look at the 
 map to see what's coming next. So if you are looking for a game that you can occasionally pick 
 up and play and beat all of the opponents, then this is not the game for you. If you are looking 
 for a complete Formula 1 experience, stunning visuals, realistic physics, and more then you should 
 definitely check this game out. The only part that I did not really enjoy about this game is the 
 online play because it does not seem to be very developed. Other than that the game is a hit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: other44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  GORGEOUS scenery, realistic visuals. Camera angles just like watching Formula 1 on tv! no.. I don't 
 know how the game play is I have only watched my boyfriend play I am betting I couldn't keep the 
 car on the road. He seems to really like it though and he's into realistic racing games. What makes 
 Formula One so great? Formula One is a test of one's temperament and driving skills; there is a 
 sense of supremacy attached to it that no other sport can offer. It requires a driver to respect 
 the racing track and high concentration levels to navigate through those really lethal turns. Acquiring 
 these skills and actually delivering good performance on tracks is the challenge. Just the thought 
 of racing at a speed more than 300 Km an hour taking mortal turns could get your adrenaline rushing. 
 Well, the reason I am talking about Formula One basics is because to play this game you need to 
 know everything about the sport. Don't be intimidated, the game is easy by default for beginners, 
 but for a Formula One veteran, there is a lot to explore here. The car and racing physics have 
 been tuned to perfection therefore higher levels of difficulty require loads of concentration. 
 Next up are the key features of the game. The game features all the official cars, circuits, drivers 
 and teams of the 2006 season, which means Alonso is still the enemy and you can play as Michael 
 Schumacher. The game has breathtaking high definition visuals, full surround sound, changing weather 
 conditions with drastic results on the circuit, try racing after a heavy shower and authentic vehicle 
 damage. Realism flows throughout the game with formation laps, interactive pit stops, official 
 race rules and unexpected collisions. You can make your mark internationally with races in Europe, 
 America, Asia, Australia and the Middle East, with all official tracks including scalable gameplay 
 mode to suit both beginners and racing experts, which I believe is a great concept. There's online 
 play with full 22-car grid, although I couldn't access it. Also, try driving with the motion-sensitive 
 gameplay with wireless Controller on, and feel the pressure mount on your head. For beginners there 
 are driving aids, spin recovery and automatic braking assistance. Extensive car, track and lighting 
 details, make the cars look genuine and as shiny as they look on the real racing track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  A perfect adition to the F1 franchise. 
  Formula One is not a well known motor sport in America, but a Formula One game can spread the influence 
 of the Sport.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The game handles pretty well. Lets see, a car, check, a team, check, hot tires, check and no check. 
 You see If you choose to have a parade lap you need to drive and heat up your tires as if the road 
 was some sort of microwave.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  I say, the guys in the Visuals department needs some praise. The graphics are GORGEOUS!!! Reflecting 
 light and shadows, varying weather, nice detail on flying tires. If you got a catchy eye, you can 
 see that the audience is cardboard. That's not really new. None of the motor sport games have 3-D 
 audience, even GT, but they're getting there.
  
  F1 vs NASCAR
  
  Formula One uses these tiny cars and has strict rules for them. NASCAR uses stock cars which is 
 basically production cars from Dodge, Ford, Chevorlet, and Pontiac with all but one of the seats 
 removed and a roll cage. Formula One has their tracks divided into sectors while the tracks in 
 NASCAR are too small to be divided into sections. In F1, the cars are weak enough to have your 
 tire pop off from slamming it into the wall at 30 mph. NASCAR on the other hand, requires you to 
 slam your car a number of times and you'll eventually blow a gas tank, or an engine. F1 has road 
 courses for tracks. NASCAR has some too, but they are rarely seen during the season. You'll start 
 going real fast in F1, like up to 250 mph. In NASCAR it is a surprise that you make it to 200 mph.
 
  
  Why should I get this game?
  Because this is one of two PS3 games not being a piece of crap, the other being R: FoM. If you're 
 a graphics and detail lover, this is a game you'll want to get .
  
  Many of the decisions made during practice is confusing, and qualifying has a racer elimination, 
 so you seneslessly do qualifying 3 times if you snag PP each time.
  
  All in all, Formula One Championship Edition unoficially gets a 9, out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't quite tick all the right boxes, but it is almost there. The graphics are excellent, 
 with the cars giving a very shiny reflection of its surroundings, the tracks accurately representing 
 their real-life counterparts and the weather effects adding to the game enormously. The races themselves 
 are also very good, with the AI behaving correctly and sticking to the rules of F1 (not cutting 
 corners etc.) Collisions are also very realistic, with pieces of the cars flying off if you hit 
 a wall or another racer (the wheels are particularly tricky to keep on the car!)
  
  However, all that said, the lifespan of this title is short - with career mode running through 
 the 2006 season over and over again with little change from the previous times. The commentary 
 adds to this monotony - with the two commentators saying the same things every race with the phrase 
 you can really feel the tension cropping up numerous times. Finally, I will say that this game 
 is good for filling an hour a day for a quick race but does not keep you entertained for long (although 
 a steering wheel and the online play does add something) . It is worth buying if you are an F1 fan 
 like me, however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Sony's Formula One titles have been a mixed bag. In the early days of the Psynosis developed games 
 they were great arcady racing games. Once the company was re-branded as Studio Liverpool and following 
 the success of the more sim-like F1 series from EA and Infogrames' legendary Grand Prix series, 
 Sony's F1 franchise became much more focussed on realism. Early attempts were great in some areas 
 but poor in others. Handling changed drastically from game to game and features came and went as 
 the developers experimented. Formula One 2005 was as close as they came to the perfect sim. Last 
 year's Formula One 2006 suffered from being ridden with bugs but what we have now in Championship 
 Edition has been well worth waiting for.
  
  What you notice straight away with this first next-gen, PS3 F1 game is that it is easily the best 
 looking F1 game and even the best looking racing game ever made. It is just superb. The car models 
 are incredible in their accuracy, including elements like moving suspension and incredible real-time 
 reflections. The environments are also marvellously detailed. The Cell Processor has made full 
 3D crowds possible, as well as an unprecedented amount of trackside detail. You also get a much 
 wider selection of (much improved) camera angles. All this and a framerate that never skips a beat.
 
  
  The sound has been much improved over the original. Commentary now matches the on-track action 
 far better and the pit radio chatter has become much more imformative. The cars themselves sound 
 tremendous, particularly when they roar past track-side cameras in replays. Its taken many years 
 but the sound of F1 has finally been nailed in a video game.
  
  The handling in the game solves all the problems from Formula One 2006 on the PS2. The horrendous 
 understeer that plagued that version has gone and the general car physics are near perfect. Another 
 thing you'll notice out on the track is that the AI has been ramped up, again thanks to the power 
 of the Cell. Drivers will back off if frightened by a daring overtaking move and backmarkers move 
 out of your way much quicker, both in races and other sessions such as practice and qualifying.
 
  
  The now standard set of customisable driving aids which the series has become famous for are all 
 available, allowing hardcore F1 fans and Grand Prix noobs to settle in to the game and play it 
 exactly how they like. There is also an 11 player (half a full field of cars) online mode, in which 
 the remainder of the field is made up of AI cars. Being able to run full Grand Prix with friends 
 is a great idea but the sport just doesn't lend it that well to online multiplayer.
  
  Overall, with its magnificent presentation and much improved handling and physics, Formula One: 
 Chamionship Edition is the best F1 sim yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buubua
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of racing games, especially realistic ones. Formula 1 is just that. People might 
 complain that it is still the 2006 roster but I dont think that it is that big of a deal. The graphics 
 are really good and amazing in HD. The rain graphics are awsome and makes it feel even more first 
 person. The handling is very good and when it rains depending on how hard the rain is it makes 
 it more difficult to control. Another different part of the game that I like is that during a race 
 the weather changes and I havent seen that in any other games. Career mode is also realistic. You 
 dont just start out with a team and a car and your their number one driver. You have to tryout 
 for teams or submit an application and its only for teams that are offering posistions on their 
 team. You dont have to be the number one driver either and sometimes you cant. There are 3 different 
 jobs, number one driver, number 2 driver, and test driver. That is another element I havent seen 
 in any other game.
  
  The online play is good. Although you wont find a bunch of games, the few games that are up have 
 lots of people in them. The one complaint that I have about online play is that the damage isnt 
 quite the same as single player. If someone rear ends you, you seem to take all of the damage and 
 if you rear end someone you take little or no damage while they spin out. That is very unrealistic. 
 But as long as you know how to keep distance and stay out of peoples way you'll be fine. Overall 
 this game is great, I love everything about it. I would recommend this game to anyone who loves 
 racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ResidentEvil-
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Formula One: Championship Edition is one of the PS3's launch games. F1 season started and it's 
 not a miracle that Sony releases this game when PS3 come out.
  
  Unfortunately the game doesn't offer nothing new, only new graphics. License is old and that sucks. 
 There is no Lewis Hamilton or Heikki Kovalainen. And Michael Schumacher is still in the game.
 
  
  Driving is also pretty similar than on PS2. Practically this means pretty good game for pad-controller. 
 The game contains lots of driving aids and it means that this game suits for everyone. Beginner 
 can concentrate for driving and accelerating.
  
  Game has lots of modes example a normal race and of course, a career mode. In the career mode you 
 start to finding driver's place from one team. When you get prosperity, you can go to the biggest 
 teams and you can win F1 Championship. There is no surprises in the game modes but the game has 
 enough modes, altough they are old.
  
  The game has great graphics and it looks great. Commentatorers are same than previous versions 
 and they aren't really good. This game's graphics are pretty good but not the best. Particularly, 
 the speed feeling is great and the raining effect is very good.
  
  This game is the same good formula game than on PS2, but better graphics. They can wait a next 
 year formula, who have Formula One 06 but other formula-fans surely like this!
  
  THE GOOD
  +Driving contact is good
  +Suit for everyone
  
  THE BAD
  -Slightly of innovations
 
  -License is one year old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoomzoomyepyep
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is filled with fun. It has to be the best racing game out on the market for the ps3. 
 This game is completly focused on racing, and not like burnout and full auto where your suppose 
 to be wreckless. The gameplay is very intense, and I just can't sit all the way down while racing. 
 It can be an easy game or an extremely hard game depending on what settings you have on. I play 
 with most of the help features off, such as the auto-brakes. This means that you have to really 
 pay attention when playing. If I take my eyes off the t. v. for a few seconds I sometimes find that 
 I have totaled into a wall, and thus lost. The gameplay itself it AMAZING, the thrill of passing 
 someone is a great feeling. I also find this game to be funny sometimes. Like when I tap the back 
 of another racers car and one of his wheels pop off, or he crashes into the wall. Often this method 
 backfires, and my wheel comes off or i get substantial damage to my front bumber which messes up 
 my driving abilities. Also, Some of the other racers crash into you when you don't expect it. For 
 example, one time I came out of the pits, and I was going slow to prevent an accident, then some 
 other dude floors it while comming out of the pits and completly recks me, while he gets off the 
 hook. I usually just laugh when the other racers wreck me, I usually deserve it, after what I've 
 done to them
  
  But overall, this game is just great, its filled with suspense, intensity, and is just a fabuslous 
 racing game.
  
  By the way - Practices (practice laps) are NOT mandatory, they are optional, I usually skip this 
 part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoostedSupra
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm late with this game, but man this game rocks. I even let my cousin play it, who is not 
 into racing games. Man he loved it, he even went online with it. We were playing for hours on end. 
 This game is very addictive and the graphics are awesome. The sound is so SWEET, the car's sound 
 is so like the real thing. The wind flowing by the car on surround sound is truly a amazing.
  
  The online experience is what really make this game, racing amongst some top notch racers is 
 extremely fun and hard at the same time. I would recommend this game to anyone who is or isn't 
 a fan of racing games. I'm sorry I didn't get this game sooner. Go out there and buy this game, 
 you won't be disappointed.
  
  Shame on gamespot for such a crappy rating. You guys complain about menus and the constant practicing? 
 Wow, just wow. You guys are some bias SOB's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmecbe
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, i enjoyed this game! Formula One Championship Edition follows the 2006 FIA formula one 
 world championship season in which has all the official cars, circuits, drivers and teams. The 
 graphics are i think up to the PS3 standard although at the moment they aren't going to get any 
 better until someone starts to improve them, which they will im sure. Firstly the career mode follows 
 you as a formula one driver starting as a rookie from the bottom of the pile and you must work 
 your way to the top over a five year period. The career follows the real 2006 calendar with all 
 the 17 circuits in order. The circuits follow the real life tracks exactly and have all the correct 
 architecture in the real grand prix's. As a formula one driver you must even tweak your car and 
 get all your desired specifications if you want to make your car go in the quickest time possible. 
 So a couple of days before the race you get an hour to race your car around the track and work 
 out what works best for your car. The one thing that could have been improved here is the lack 
 of depth for the hardcore fans of the formula one series for when it comes to tweaking the cars. 
 You can alter suspension , fuel/ tyres and camber just for a couple of examples but the computer 
 automatically alters these settings for you so all you do is race. After the hour is up you must 
 the go through the qualifying rounds. These rounds were designed to be used for determining your 
 postition on the starting grid in the actual grand prix. They consist of three races in which you 
 must qualify into the next round to try for pole position. If you make it into the last round then 
 you have a top ten starting spot in the grid. Then where you finish in that last race determines 
 your final place before the race. The races can be altered by the options menu. One of the options 
 is for you to change how long the grand prixs can be. This can vary from you having to do a range 
 from 6 to 60 laps depending on how many you wish your grand prixs to have. The game also features 
 all the top drivers to date including Fernando Alonso, Fillepe Massa, Kiimi Raikkonnen and Michael 
 Schumacher. Overall this game can be as simple or as difficult as you make it. The game has great 
 visuals with gameplay that will keep even the most hardcore fans satisfied for its lifespan. Every 
 option is taken into account whether it be changing weather conditions, authentic vehicle damage 
 and all your in race features such as an interactive pit stop with realistic petrol gague and type 
 wear. Overall this game will keep all f1 fans happy dispite its lack of depth in certain areas 
 of the tweaking process the game is still entertaining and interesting. This may not be the game 
 for none f1 fans however as the rules may be hard to follow and some of the terminology can be 
 difficult to understand to the average person. So this was an impressive first attempt from the 
 liverpool stuidos and i expect the next edition on the PS3 to be even better!.
  
  Lastly im going to write comments on the attributes to tell you why i gave them these marks.
 
  
  Gameplay: Has a 5 year career mode which i think is maybe too short and just a simple one of race 
 option whtether it is just a time trial or a grand prix weekend. Put that with an online mode and 
 i give this 8 out of 10 because for the people that want this game will enjoy it.
  
  Graphics: I expected better from the Playstation 3 although i do think that this is a much better 
 step up so i generously give it 8 out of 10 for graphics. Great but maybe expectations were too 
 high
  
  Sound: The best attribute of the game. The sound is incredibly realistic with all the great sounds 
 and exciting atmosphere out of a grand prix. 10 out of 10!
  
  Value: A shortish career but enough to keep hardcore fans interested for about 20 - 30 hours of 
 gameplay. 7 out of 10 because i expected a lot more depth and a longer career. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 14, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of F1 and had greatly anticipated this game. However the hype splashed a little 
 once i got my hands on the game. I opted to write this review once i was done with the career mode 
 and at least completed the championship mode also.
  F1: CE is a beautiful game. Cars, tracks, pit are all true eye candy. Speed effect is there even 
 when u not racing. For true fans of F1, the start of the race is the moment to behold. Weather 
 effects are by far one of the best aspects of the graphics. Sound is decent, while the base sounds 
 of engine and so on are as authentic as it gets, the pit talk and commentary are severely lackluster. 
 As for the racing itself, it is all any true F1 enthusiast would want it to be. However, where 
 the game start losing its value is the career mode and the preentation. Career mode has all of 
 5 years. Drivers don't retire, teams don't trade drivers, and in addition to that the rosters are 
 beyond outdated. One thing that bothered me is that they actually allowed racing assistance in 
 champ and career mode.
  Online mode was, well, not so exciting. Races can get laggy and there are no tournaments or racing 
 leagues, thus in process making it just simply racing against other ppl for well, self props?
 
  All in all, a solid racer, and than some more for a fan of F1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgray187
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright I'll admit I was a little afraid to purchase this game. But all I can say is that I am completely 
 impressed. This game is amazing. For a racing game of course. The graphics are just top notch as 
 far as I'm concerned. I haven't seen 1080p graphics yet but I think this game has some amazing visuals. The 
 gameplay is awesome and the game never gets boring. Its a really fun game and should not disappoint 
 any racing fan. If you like racing games just get it. Trust me. Its awesome. Not perfect but definately 
 a great game. Must own for all racers. Pick it up. Its a racing game. It can't get any better than 
 going around a track and passing cars at incredible speeds and this game looks great while doing 
 it. What more do you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most realistic formula 1 game to date, it is also the mmost realistic and graphically 
 advanced.
  
  This game is one of the best PS3 games that have been released so far, if you are a fan of formula 
 1 like me then this is a must have. Pit stops are great, you have to come in push the right buttons 
 when it comes up on screen but not before or it will take longer and you want the fastest time 
 possible for a pit stop, when leaveing the pits dont go too fast or you will be penalized. To enter 
 the pits you must first push select to let the team know your coming in if its an unscheduled stop, 
 you will have to come in for: refualing, tire change (tires wear as time goes on) , repairs. The 
 number of laps in a race vary from as low as 3 laps and then go up by 10%, 20%, 30% and so on. 
 There is also the option for a parade lap to warm up your tires before the race start, of course 
 this is after tuning your car for qualifying and so on.
  
  There are different modes in the game, theres career where you start off as a guy with no job and 
 apply for a trial with MF1 as first driver, supar aguri as a test driver or another team which 
 i cant remember. I started off as MF1 and am now with McLaren so im doing fairly well. There is 
 also world championship weekend where you choose a driver from the 2006 line-up to race as and, 
 well....... race.
  
  F1: Championship Edition makes use of the sixaxis motion sensing capabilities, you basically can 
 turn left to go left or turn right to go right (obviously) , although i prefer using the analog stick.
 
  
  If you are not a very good racer then you can switch on the driving aids as a beginner and as your 
 skills increase you can turn them off and rrace more on your own. There is also a race line which 
 tells you when to brake and accelerate around the track or a blue line for entering a pit stop.
 
  
  For my final point, i will tell you that this game has online play, and yes thank god, it has GHOSTING 
 so no more idiots annoying the hell out of you by intentionally spinning you out. Of course you 
 can have collisions if you want but it can get annoying after a while. The max amount of laps allowed 
 in an online game is 20 and bots can be added to the race.
  
  So this is the end of my review, unfortunately i havn't covered many of the great aspects of this 
 game but i have covered a few. If you are an F1 fan you have to get this game, it is amazing and 
 not just because of the spectacular graphics but the realism involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehonda2
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 12, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Graphics: On HDMI TV it actually feels like your driving. On Standard TV lol dont bother getting 
 PS3 sorry. Sound: Close enough to the real thing if you have good surround setup.
  Gameplay: -GOOD- One of the main cool things about F106 was the rain. It is unpredictable and pretty 
 realistic as the road wont get slippery after 1 or 2 laps of rain so enough time to get to the 
 pits for a tyre change. Going 250kmh on a straight down Monaco is dam terrifying and intense especialy 
 playing the cockpit view. The AI is perfect on hard and actually pressure you and they also make 
 mistakes but needs improvement in some areas. The fuel and tyre wear also good, lesser fuel = faster 
 lap times worn tyres = bad handling etc. warm up lap (paradelap) is awesome actualy makes a difference, 
 to bad about the steering assist though. -BAD-
  One of the things that they promise was the replay.. In F1 04 ps2 vers. We couldnt save replay 
 for a whole GP race instead we could only save 1 min of the replay. One of their interviews say 
 that Ps2 didnt have enough space or something, and that they'll fix it on the next console. Sadly 
 the replay on PS3 is identical to PS2 version : ( PS3 =20-60Ghdd!!! The career mode is the same 
 as PS2 ver the emails that you receive from your agent and team management is so DAM repetitive, 
 they send the same message most of the time. The AI is so stupid when you're in front of them and 
 you have a slower car.. you can actualy make them not pass you even if you're doing about 100kmh 
 just keep blocking them and they cant pass you, still not even a penalty or somthing. So much of 
 other things that i didnt mention about good and bad, but i wont bother as this game is worth to 
 buy if you're an F1 fan as Most of other titles out now are either games that we already played 
 on other platforms or just plain CRAP. If you're not an F1 fan dont buy this game coz you wont 
 get that intense feeling when under pressure and the .323 split times that realy make a difference, 
 and the inportance of a pitstop etc. Overall this game is just ok for me, at first i played it 
 non stop but after a week, it kinda got repetitive, and not much players online. still love the 
 game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homer1492
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  This is the best ps3 game in my opinion. I absolutely love this game. There is slight online problems 
 that force me not to give it a perfect. And why the hell is there no split screen? Otherwise though 
 this game is perfect. The graphics? perfect! The Gameplay? perfect! The online? flawed but good! 
 The things I like about this game include, trophy room, career mode, time trial unlockables and 
 online late join. The only thing I am really annoyed about is the latency in the online, causing 
 your fastest lap to lose up to 5 seconds. Another thing is the lack of online career mode. They 
 aren't enough to ruin the game though and I am extremely pleased with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanBlocker
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  After many years of Europe only releases, Formula One Championship Edition also hits the US to 
 compete for pole position on the PlayStation 3. Featuring all the official cars, circuits, drivers 
 and teams of the 2006 FIA Formula One World Championship along with High Definition visuals (720p) , 
 full surround sound, changing weather conditions and authentic vehicle damage F1 fans should be 
 in for a real treat.
  
  As with previous versions in the F1 franchise single player game play has all the features we come 
 to expect from any racer. Championship Edition has five different but essentially the same game 
 modes. For those wanting to get behind the wheel straight away can do so in Quick Race mode. If 
 you fancy racing against the clock to improve your racing skill or just to learn the tracks then 
 Time Trial is also available. If youre looking for the intensity of a full race weekend complete 
 with practice and qualifying sessions you have the option to race in a Grand Prix Weekend mode 
 or take part in the full eighteen circuits of the 2006 season in World Championship mode. If you 
 still feel the need to hunker down with the game there is Career mode in which you work through 
 five seasons looking to become world champion.
  
  Career mode requires you to make a customized driver to thrust into the limelight of F1. You start 
 your career looking for a team to race for. At the start therell be a few offers from some of 
 the back of the grid teams. Some offer a race seat or a test driver position. After applying for 
 one of the positions you must complete whatever test they have for you to prove yourself worthy. 
 The difficulty of these tests will be determined from the setting you chose prier to starting your 
 career. There are three different difficulty settings in the game, each noticeably different, along 
 with a range of driving aids to ease new comers in to the race. I struggled on the normal setting 
 with no driving aids while Im at least two seconds faster than the pack on the easy setting. This 
 in turn led to gaining a test drivers position.
  
  If your like me and decide to go into a race with not driving aids and all the damage and realistic 
 settings turned on then your in for a harder drive than you would expect. More often than not I 
 manage to out brake myself and veer of off track or into another car. This nearly always leads 
 to terminal damage of my vehicle and ends my race prematurely. This however keeps you from just 
 chucking the car into a corner or barging passed the AI to gain places. Looking after your car 
 will defiantly improve your chances of a finish, possibly even a win.
  
  Controlling your vehicle works on different levels. It all depends on what settings or driving 
 aids you have enabled or disabled. Never the less when you get into to grove of driving one of 
 these cars you can pretty much handle it on any track. SIXAXIS steering is available but hard to 
 master. This in turn leads to frustrations from lack of improving your driving and results in defaulting 
 to the standard analogue sticks.
  
  The AI in this game could be a little better. While there driving is what you might expect there 
 behaviour is not. When trying for a pass they often have either little reaction to your presence 
 or none at all, resulting in a few seconds of off road action. While there are different difficaulty 
 settings these seem somewhat too different. I tend to leave the pack behind on the easier setting 
 while struggle to keep up on normal. I have yet to entertain the harder setting as a result of 
 this. The AI does occasionally make the odd mistake when you pressure them. This however harder 
 than it sounds as you either pass them rather quickly, fall back for what ever reason or go into 
 a corner a bit hot and slam into them. There will be the random engine failure or AI on AI collision 
 but a lack of safety car or the instant removal of the damaged vehicle makes for no surprises on 
 the following lap. While the AI is competitive it still feels like AI. This in turn edges you to 
 explore online play as there is no split screen action to be had.
  
  Racing online in Formula One Championship Edition sounds better than what it really is. On most 
 occasions you end up in a game where people insist on forcing you to spin during a pass. This is 
 easily achieved as the slightest tap on the rear wheels will send you into at least a 180 spin. 
 There are options to turn collisions off but this of course comes down to the host. AI is available 
 in online races meaning there is the possibility of full 22 car line ups. This also allows later 
 joining. Any player who wishes to join a race in progress can do so and will be squeezed into a 
 random AI car. As with the single player the AI is not up to much and is often left behind after 
 the first couple of laps. It can also be set as ghosts. This means that although there racing you 
 can pass through them. On the downside this can get a little confusing in crowed areas such as 
 the first turn.
  
  For those of you who have played previous Formula One games on the PS2 will instantly be struck 
 but how better this game looks visually. Real time reflections on the cars as well as on wet tracks, 
 heat haze from the engine and possibly the best rain effects in any game to date, along with intense 
 volumetric lighting that fills the screen and causes you to squint makes the game look superb. 
 The different teams and drivers all have there own cars as well. If you ever get close enough to 
 see you will notice that each teams car model is not only different to each other but realistic 
 to there 2006 real life counterpart. Individual drivers have there names on there cars as well 
 as there personalized helmets. The sound is what you would expect from any racer on this gen. Some 
 cars have noticeable engine differences and as such sound a little different. The game also features 
 commentary though sometimes a little delayed as well as the pit crew chief telling you the obvious.
 
  
  As a whole this does make for a nice showcase for the PlayStation 3 and is way better than previous 
 F1 titles. If youre looking for a nice looking racer that gets a little repetitive then this is 
 for you. F1 fans should consider this a must have though it doesnt attract many new comers to 
 the sport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGaming
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: Smooth graphics all across the board and flat out awesome weather effects. Fun gameplay, 
 Great sense of speed and tight controls. A lot of different tracks to pick from. Fairly deep career 
 mode.
  
  The Bad: The roster of drivers is out dated. The overall sound and presentation seems a bit dull 
 at times.
  
  Overall: Formula One Championship for the PS3 was definately a huge suprise to me. The game doesn't 
 really have any major flaws and is probably one of the mose realistic and addictive racing games 
 I have ever played. In my opinion this is a must have for any racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  a fantastic game all round and it is massive on the part of realism, from the soft touch of the 
 sunlight on the track, to the unbelievably realistic pshyics. the only problem this game has is 
 it a game that you must set your minfd to want to be good at the game, IT IS NOT A PICKUP AND PLAY 
 KIND OF GAME!!!!, it is after a while very fun ounce you get enough practice in and are able to 
 compete with the computers. the game is fun just to play, and the options of the car evolution 
 are very good at getting the feel of the car, and the champioship and the carrer mode add some 
 depth to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickolas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, F1 looks great, I felt more like I was guiding the camera around the track on a flyby than 
 driving a 19,000-rpm racing beast.
  No one can deny that F1 is a truly gorgeous game that absolutely wallows in the rich culture of 
 formula one. Even skilled racing enthusiasts are going to struggle with how sensitive and twitchy 
 the steering can be and anyone used to the way an F1 car accelerates and stop. Unless you're some 
 kind of race-driving savant, you're going to need to spend a few hours in idiot mode with the barking 
 and steering assists turned on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathieu7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  just plain amazaing looks like te best formula one championship game ever to come on on any systhem 
 a must buy for all the racers her. the sound is great and the graffics are amazingly real. the 
 publisher is rather new but what an awsome jobn they did to pull this game off. this is realy the 
 futre of racing and graffics. AMAZING JOB SCEA AND LIVERPOOL STUDIOS KEEP UP THE AWSOME GAMES AND 
 HOPE TO SEE MORE OF THIS COME OUT IN THE NEAR FUTURE. ALSO THIS IS A VERY FAST PASE GAME FOR ALL 
 YOU RACE FANS OUT THERE LOTS OF ACTION AND SPEED HOPE TO SEE YOU GUYS AND GIRLS ON THE TRACK MY 
 ENGIN IS REVING AT 10000 RPMs HAHA SEE YOU THERE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravspdr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Lives up to the hype created. Has fantastic gameplay, incredible sound and great graphics. This 
 is a must have for any PS3 OWNEER. The tracks are masterfully recreated. The only thing that I 
 wish they did more was to make it a 1080p game instead of the 720 that it is... well maybe they 
 can do that in the next one!!!! The driviers roster is old becuase they released it at the end 
 of the season but hey I'm not goign to complain about being able to selsct Michael Schumacer in 
 his red Ferrari. lol Control wise I found it really difficult to use the analog stick for direction 
 and I had to use the d-pad which was a bit annoying at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickr3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Take it from someone who has been to F1 races and has been in the pits as the great Michael Schumacher 
 raced for Ferrari, you wont want to miss this game. The graphics are superb. Wait till you see 
 while you are driving in the rain!
  The testing and setup of the car made me feel like I was really taking part in the race. You have 
 the ability to customize the difficulty so you dont have to be an expert to drive. The knowledge 
 base that comes with the game will also teach you the basics of F1 racing, so you dont have to 
 be an expert F1 fan either. The only downside is that I am still looking for a steering wheel that 
 will work with the game before I have nubs instead of fingers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  First an admission, I'm an F1 nut. I love my Formula One, which means I always watch it on the 
 telly and even went to the British GP at Silverstone a few years ago. With that in mind I'm going 
 to try and be unbiased in my review.
  
  I had fears for this game, I read a few reviews in popular games mags and it was getting very poor 
 reviews between 50-60%. The surprising thing for me was this is the game that changed my mind and 
 got me to purchase a PS3. I was refusing to buy one originally due to Sony delaying the European 
 launch and also because of the software backwards compatibility debacle. My self imposed ban ended 
 the second I played this game on a friends imported PS3. The next day I preordered my PS3, that's 
 how good I found it.
  
  This game is really for those who are into driving games or into F1, it may sound silly, but if 
 you don't like driving games then don't bother with this, it really wont be much fun if your not 
 into this genre of game. Ok, so now we've got rid of all those who aren't petrol heads I'll continue. 
 This game is great and probably my best game on PS3 so far out of the 8 games I got at launch.
 
  
  Graphics - fantastic, the most important thing for me is that the game is silky smooth, even with 
 all the cars on the track. Too many racing games sacrifice framerate for graphical detail. I always 
 find a good smooth framerate much better in racing games and would prefer to lose some graphical 
 detail in some games for a smoother game (Need for Speed games take note!) . F1CE manages to look 
 fantastic and still remain smooth all the time, I haven't experienced any slowdown yet. Some people 
 have criticised it for looking a bit drab or boring. I kind of agree, but then these are all real 
 world tracks and this is how they look in real life, most of the time you'll be concetrating on 
 the tarmac in front of you anyway. I think the game does a good job with the graphics for the other 
 cars and the trackside objects.
  
  Sound - The sound effects are really nice, they've managed to capture the sound of real F1 cars 
 quite nicely, of course nothing comes close to hearing an F1 car in real life, but this is the 
 closest I've heard in an F1 game and the sound effects are second only to the GTR series on the 
 PC. The commentary on the English version leaves a lot to be desired and would certainy be an area 
 I'd like to see improved upon.
  
  Handling - It can take some practice to get good using the PS3's pad, it can seem way to sensitive 
 to begin with, but you get used to it with practice. With all the driving aids turned on this is 
 very much an arcade experience. I like my F1 games a bit more serious so once I'd turned all the 
 aids of things got much better. I still wouldn't class this as a simulation in the same class as 
 say Live for Speed, Rfactor or GTR2 on the PC, but it gives enough of a challenge. For the most 
 part the cars handle nicely and the game does a good job of making sure things like tyre wear and 
 fuel loads have an impact on handling. I especially like the car evolution mode, this is were during 
 a practice session for a race your team send you out with different car configurations such as 
 little fuel and worn tyres, or full fuel with new tyres and lots of downforce etc. Each time you 
 get sent out you need to put in consistant laps and eventually the team will come up with a race 
 strategy as well as a car setup that suits your driving style.
  
  A. I. - sometimes leaves a bit to be desired, the computer cars seem to stick to the racing line 
 a bit to much for my liking, overall not bad though and enough of a challenge, be warned though 
 that sometimes the faster A. I. cars will not seem to notice your there and just go into the back 
 off you.
  
  Online - Excellent fun, you can have up to 11 real players racing online with the remainder of 
 the field filled in with A. I. cars. The performance of the game online is very good and I experienced 
 very little lag, the only big problem so far is that the penalty system for not going into the 
 pits is to lenient with your car slowing down for a few seconds, I've had a few races where the 
 winner had decided not to pit (which can takes about 30-35 seconds) instead they took the few seconds 
 of slowdown penalty and went on to win. I really hope this gets fixed via a patch soon as this 
 could ruin the online aspect.
  
  Overall F1CE is a very good game for racing fans. It is a fantastic looking game and deserves to 
 get much better scores in the mainstream mags than it has been getting which is a shame really. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pink_Mink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, this appears to be another game where the magazine reviewers seem to have got it very wrong!
 
  
  I was looking forward to playing F1, but a serious doubt was cast in my mind after reading some 
 reviews. One magazine only gave it a lowly 48%.
  
  Thank god I didn't take their advice. I whacked this in my PS3 at 5pm this afternoon and I've only 
 just stopped playing it check my emails and write this review.
  
  Presentation isn't that good, but the gameplay, graphics and engine noise are top notch.
  
 
  A great game that I reckon will keep me hooked for a while to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thegame1456
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Formula1 Championship Edition........ The first F1 game for the Playstation3!!
  This game has many good points such as excellent graphics and excellent gameplay!! To start with 
 graphics I had to say that is very good but it could be much better in the second game!! The gameplay 
 is the best I have ever seen in a racing game!! The value of the game is still good but the weak 
 point of the game I think that is the sound......!! The sound of engines are ok but the comendator 
 is predictable....... To sum up Formula1 Championship Edition is nice game maybe the best launch 
 racing game after Motorstorm!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzzer77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Simple, if you like F1 you will love this game. After reading all the reviews i as skeptical but 
 after an hour i could not believe how wrong they were. This is easily the best F1 game i have played 
 to date and it's attention to detail has to be admired. Most reviews say its boring but thats not 
 the games fault its just the nature of the sport. I found it quite intense and enjoyed it greatly. 
 It looks impressive as the detail is high and the sense of speed is higher. If you like racing 
 games you will like this. Nice stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  We haven't seen a formula one game for a while in North America and finally we can get our dirty 
 hands on one if you own a PS3 that is and well that's only a small fraction of gamers in America 
 right now but either way let's go on with the review.
  
  Graphics : Before I begin with the graphics, when I bought my PS3 about three weeks after launch, 
 first thing I checked was the PlayStation Store. I was surprised to find a demo for this game available 
 for free. Smartest move to get America aware of the beauty of this game. F1 is not very popular 
 in the States and with the fiasco at Indianapolis in 2005, the sport lost even more fans. With 
 this demo, it gave a chance to Americans not only to get to try out the game, which they probably 
 wouldn't have otherwise but also gain a little bit of interest in the sport.
  
  What we found in the demo and now in the full game is an eye-candy experience unlike any other 
 in the genre. Every car has its own specific details that you can find on the actual models. The 
 tracks are all there and recreated to perfection. When you drive one of those machines, you really 
 feel the speed as you drive around at 200+ MPH. Most F1 games in the past got criticized for lacking 
 the spectacular crashes that can occur in an actual race, in this game while you can experience 
 some good looking crashes, they didn't make me jump from my seat. But then again with games like 
 the burnout series and the recently released motorstorm, you don't buy an F1 game for its crashes. 
 The lighting effects are very well done especially when you do the early morning practices. In 
 certain parts of the circuit, the sun will hit you directly in the eyes and partially blind you. 
 All these details add to the realism the developers wanted to get out of this game. This game shows 
 excellent potential to what the PS3 can do and will be able to achieve in the future. A little 
 note that I was playing this game with a standard definition television and this game can get up 
 to 720p resolution on high definition.
  
  Controls : Studio Liverpool (The developers) wanted to get as large an audience as possible with 
 this game. What they wanted to do was to attract the casual gamer as well as the hardcore F1 fan. 
 The way they did that was by making the driving mechanics highly customizable. You can add steer 
 assist, break assist, spin control and a few other aspects of the driving to make it easier getting 
 familiar with the game. You can also turn all these things off and make it a complete simulation. 
 There are three different ways of controlling your car. First is by using the analog buttons of 
 the controller. While it's effective, it doesn't really give you the actual feeling of driving 
 an F1 car. The second option is by using the sixaxis functions of the controller. It works but 
 takes a lot of practice to master. The last one is by using one of the Logitech wheels. If you 
 have bought one with your PS2 and has USB connectivity, chances are it will work on this game. 
 I have the Logitech driving force pro which I bought with GT4. This wheel works extremely well 
 with only one small problem. PS3 = no rumble, therefore there is no force feedback. But it doesn't 
 affect the gameplay much. Investing in a wheel is a good option for this game.
  
  Sound : Formula one is characterized by the unique sound of the cars' engines and this game duplicates 
 those sounds in a way that has never been done before. I have someone else playing, I turn around 
 and I can believe I am listening to an actual F1 broadcast, it's that accurate. If you have a fancy 
 5.1 home theatre system, make sure you use it to its full potential, it's definitely worth it! 
 The TV commentary is good but could have been done better, it's repetitive and very limited. On 
 the other hand the pit crew commentary is much more interesting and is actually necessary in order 
 for you to win. They will let you know when to pit, how many seconds behind you are, etc. Again, 
 realism is key here and in the audio department, it doesn't get more real than this!
  
  Gameplay : Everything you expect from a standard formula one game is here and some more. You obviously 
 have your quick race mode, time trial and grand prix week-end race. In addition you can do a championship 
 season where you will go through the whole 2006 season. You will also be able to go through the 
 brand new career mode. This mode offers you the chance to be part of a team as a test driver and 
 work your way up from there. The better the performances, the better your chances are at participating 
 at races and wind up eventually in better teams, and ultimately becoming world champion. Also Formula 
 One Championship Edition offers multiplayer options. You can either play online or via a local 
 area network. Sadly there is no offline multiplayer through split screen. I haven't tried the LAN 
 mode and honestly think that very few people will have the ability to use it. (2 TVs, 2 PS3s, 2 
 games) On the other hand, the online mode is where the multiplayer gameplay is all about. 11 human 
 controlled players can race at the same time while the other 11 are controlled by the AI. Many 
 options are available in terms of customization for the race like collisions can be turned off 
 for example. You can race also for up to 20 laps. There is a ranking system and a few interesting 
 stats are tracked for you and other people to view. The experience is a bit shallow but it's still 
 a lot of fun. There is lag once in a while but nothing that affects your race since it stops for 
 half a second to about one second and starts you back at the exact same spot.
  
  Pros :
  
  - This game offers an extremely realistic experience (sense of speed, wonderful visuals, unique 
 engine sounds, etc.)
  
  - Many different gameplay possibilities
  
  - Online play
  
  Cons :
  
  - TV commentary is repetitive and boring
  
  - The use of the analog and/or sixaxis 
 controls is not as fun as with a steering wheel
  
  - Online mode is a bit shallow and there is no offline multiplayer except for LAN
  
  This is 
 an experience any racing fan will enjoy. It's a very difficult but at the same time a very rewarding 
 game. The AI is very challenging especially if you play at the hard level. Definitely one of the 
 top games right now for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SicBMX84
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I been a Formula 1 fan from 7 years old to now. I got into F1 from the first Formula 1 game on 
 the PS1 and then I saw it on TV and I just got hook on it and I just love it. Any ways about the 
 game lol. I have to say this is one of the best PS3 games I played so far and the best Formula 
 1 game too. The graphics by far are amzing and the sound of the cars is real to the real life cars. 
 I like the gameplay, it easy to pick up and play with the help aids on, but I take them off and 
 I have more fun. The AI isn't really what I going to think it will be on the PS3. The AI some times 
 will move out of your way if your faster but some times they will fight you. If they see a open, 
 the AI will go for it no better what you do and the AI will fight with other AI and that cool to 
 watch far back lol. The game is out of date. But i think there just sawing what things to come 
 down the road for F1 games. I give this a 9.4 out of 10 because the game out of date. So if your 
 a F1 fan get this game. If your not a fan rent it first to see if you like and then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curdledmilk187
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The online is expecially intense. If you make one mistake thats all it takes to get so far behind 
 you have no chance in hell to catch up. It takes a quite a few laps per track to get it right and 
 just when you think you do whoops not quite into the gravel you go. I think the sound is great, 
 the engines even sound accurate to the particular car you are in and I have been waiting for F1 
 to start for what seems like forever. The pinnical of motoracing is accurately depicted in this 
 great title. I hope they keep it coming to us in the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2khardtop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised people are complaining about last years drivers, and lack of more depth..... It's 
 a RACING game. The graphics are awesome, and the racing is very good. I've racing sports cars professionally 
 for 15 years, and while the physics aren't perfect (some PC games much better) , the graphics totally 
 engulf you. Let's only hope the next GT is this good. In the past, GT games have been horrible.
 
  
  F1 is the first HD console game I've played, and I'm very happy with it. I'm sure there will be 
 more winners to come, but it really is a great game. So far my favorite PS3 game..... we'll see 
 with Motorstorm on the horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: checoasis
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Formula One World Championship is nowadays the best race game ever made, graphics are just amazing, 
 even when it is rain you can feel the realistic movement of the car.
  
  Career mode is just exciting and very realistic. I could take hours of gameplay getting sitted 
 by a Ferrari or a Mclaren car.
  
  Sound: It sounds great on a Dolby Digital 5.1 system, of course, the most that you will hear is 
 the engine. But, who do not want to hear this 7 gear engine?. Music still sounds good at the main 
 menus, but I rather prefer popular music (like many EA sports do)
  
  The gameplay is very easy, A configuration allow gamers to throttle and break, even make gear changes 
 softly... But it also allow you to explore your SIXAXIS and imagine that you're in front of this 
 amazing sports car.
  
  In conclusion, Formula One World Championship will bring gamers hours of fun, even for those who 
 do not like the F1, that is because driving experience is faster even than Gran Turismo and Need 
 for Speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehran_kimi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The game is a package of addiction and professionalism if you wish to call it so!
  
  The Graphics:
  As everybody knows, it has immersive graphics. Lighting is so real that it becomes 
 annoying as it is in reality! The damage modeling is also utterly realistic. In real life F1 racing, 
 the cars are fragile, and so are they in this game!
  
  On-Line Gaming:
  This part is probably the most addicting part of the game. I'd rather play the on-line game instead 
 of playing the game itself!
  
  If you are a fan of F1, you will find this game as the best game ever made in F1 gaming history. 
 If you are not a fan of F1, you will still be able to enjoy it using the most unprecedented driving 
 aids. After you become professional, you will like it so much!
  
  I hope that this game will have its sequal soon, here, in US!
  Do not believe the Game spot's 
 rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarizaga
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  After a long wait, F1 is finally back to the US in the best format available: PS3. A lot has been 
 sad of graphics and sound, but when it comes to recreate a sport that is son technical, Sony has 
 done an outstanding job. By now, it is obvious that this is no arcade game. I've tried several 
 F1 games in the past, but none capture the essence of the sport, specially when EA sports was in 
 charge of licensing. Car setup is very detailed. I haven't seen this amount of options available 
 since the PC game Gran Prix II from Micropose, back in 1992. Starting from the downforce all the 
 way down to manage individual gear ratios, this game takes the simulation to a next level.
  
  Unlocking classic race cars from the past was my favorite feature. Driving a Lotus and just 
 enjoying the sound of those V8 engines is simply priceless. Great detail too!
  
  Minor details could be improved, such as more commentaries from the pits and commentators, a better 
 celebration at the end, or a more interactive pit stop. None of these however, will change the 
 fact that the game rocks.
  
  One thing that could improve though, is the multiplayer options. There is no mic option available, 
 and the interface is a bit confusing. Trying to get realistic is a challenge, for example, if somebody 
 igonres a pit stop and rans out of gas, he will just be re spawned in the track with more gas. 
 The lenght should be bigger, I know there are several fans dying to try a full scale race, with 
 the actual qualifying session. For what the games costs nowadays, multiplayer support should be 
 something to keep in mind. Anyway, this games is 99% solo game, career mode is quite a challenge. 
 Simply the best F1 simulator out there, and I totally disagree with the low review from Gamestop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Forget about NASCAR. Formula 1 is what it is all about. The cars are absolutely incredible, and 
 the drivers, the most skilled anywhere. With that being said, this game lives up to the high pedigree 
 of F1, like no other game before it. While F1 may be a tad different than what most people are 
 used to, with pit strategy playing a huge role in the success of a driver. a large part of your 
 success in the game will come down to memorizing the tracks to shave off mere seconds of your lap 
 times. But then again, isn't that the same for any racing game. On-screen aids like a visual racing 
 line and Brake-Turn-Accelerate markers help to ease the transition into the fastest sport in the 
 world. Fans of racing need to check this out, as the customization options for the cars are amazing. 
 While there is a little bit of a learning curve, this is ultimately a very good game, one of the 
 better on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that really shows off the PS3's capabilities. I truly cannot get over how great 
 this game is. The level of detail is simly unreal. From tire temp to fuel consumption being different 
 in differing weather conditions to the crash physics, this game nails it all. The only problem 
 is the race schedule in the game is 2006, not 2007, but it is such an intense game, the schedule 
 really doesnt matter. If there is one racing game to get for the PS3, it is this. this game is 
 superb... its honestly in the top 5 games ive ever played in my life... a must buy for any racing 
 fan. However that sad, i think everyone will have a blast with this game.. simply amazing... n i 
 thought motorstorm was the best racing game for the ps3 after the demo.... motorstorm, although 
 a very different racer, is not even close 2 the awesome factor of this F1 game... WOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lameboy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  For those waiting for an F1 game to come stateside, Sony delivers! For those fanatic fans who watch 
 every race on SPEED TV, this game is for you! It replicates the 2006 season to a tee!
  
  Going through the practice and qualifying rounds are exactly like the real thing. You have to watch 
 who's out on the course, the best time posted, etc. Then you find you spot and kick it!
  
  There's a pretty high degree of difficuty here, but therein lies the challenge and return on investment 
 , right?
  
  Everything's totally customizable and there's even a tutorial that sets your car up based on your 
 performance during practice runs. If you're overwhelmed by downforce, fuel load, toe, and camber, 
 Sony has set up a pretty cool system to help you figure out how all those setting affect your car. 
 It's immersive and tough, but satisfying as you work your way through.
  
  The sense of speed is insane. I've played every F1 game out there, I've learned Monaco, Interlagos, 
 Melbourne, etc. With the insane level of detail in this game, you'll rediscover the nuances of 
 each course like never beforeI jumped into Melbourne, because I thought I knew that course by 
 heart....... and got taken to school by the Ai. After a few runs, though, I was competitive and 
 could take pole, etc.
  
  Awesome game! But only for those who crave F1. If you're a NASCAR fan, this ain't for you. Too 
 many right turns, hairpins, and inclines to float your boat. But if you're into technical precision 
 and follow F1.... this game works just fine! Buy it..... and even without force feedback, my Logitech 
 Driving Force Pro Wheel rocks!!!! I was pleasantly surprised by that. I thought I have a limp, 
 spinning wheel, but there's resistance, enough so you can feel your way around the turns. Force 
 Feedback would have taken this game over the top, but for now, driving with the Logitech far surpasses 
 the controller.
  
  &reg; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsfan23
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  A game that is one of the first real Playstation 3 games, Formula 1 makes a great return to the 
 North American continent. The racing isnt as popular as in Europe, but the racing is incredible, 
 and definitely should not be missed by a true race enthusiast. The graphics make a great impression 
 on newcomers to the Playstation 3. No slowdowns means fast action online and off.
  
  Online is 11 players, with no mic support. With the March update, mic support may be added. Lag 
 is not evident online.
  
  Two player splitscreen can be played. The player can choose from all of the official F1 teams, 
 including the Ferrari, BMW, and MB-McLaren class. The controlls are very easy to work with, and 
 the rewards of mastering them is great. Online leaderboards keep the player motivated to race. 
 Overall, every piece of this game is complete, with a few minor drawbacks
  -No online mic support
  -No online racing league's
  -Commentary is subpar, though the player 
 would normally ignore it, and mostly wont even realize the commentary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrislovesdana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Up until I logged in today and saw that Sony had settled with Immersion, I was pretty pissed that 
 the boneheads at Liverpool Studios dropped support for my wheel. Sure they support every other 
 freaking wheel Logitech makes and the demo works with my wheel but not the full release. And without 
 force feedback, I'll be damned if I'm going to drop another $100 for a wheel for PS3. Luckily, 
 Sony sorted that lawsuit thing out and I'm now slightly more willing to switch out. Now on the 
 bright side of this, I was forced to try using the SixAxis controller on setting F which makes 
 it work like a steering wheel. HOLY CRAP THAT'S COOL. I thought I was going to hate it. The feature 
 reviewed badly on Gamespot, but I love it. If my arms didn't eventually get tired, I'd probably 
 play like that all the time. The graphics are great, the game play is great, the physics are great 
 and I'd even go as far as to say that if there were force feedback, it would kick Gran Turismo's 
 ass. Online game play is top notch as well, however there's no support for the headset, so you 
 can't talk any smack. On the bad side, the lighting looks cool at first but just gets annoying 
 over time and like I said earlier, kicked us in the nuts with the plain old Driving Force wheel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMUboi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  As others have reviewed about the game in general, I will only review its PSP and online capabilities 
 of this game. The single player mode is the most fun and I rate the single player mode a 9.5 because 
 there is no safety car.
  
  I will not be discussing about the single-player mode as it is exactly the same as the PS2 and 
 PSP counter-part. The only add-on to the US PS3 release is its online option. Therefore, I will 
 review this part of the game and will also attempt to transfer my PSP game data to my PS3 as well 
 as looking into the remote play functionality of the two titles I have (PS3 and PSP) .
  
  As we all might know, is that there are only 20 laps maximum per race. Now normally, this will 
 not be an issue if you can find 10 other people of equal competitive caliber to challenge your 
 online skills, but most of the time, you will be racing against one or two good players, while 
 the rest of the field is left behind. Given that most people will quit when they start losing, 
 bringing a full lap version of the game is just not feasible at this time (not considering the 
 possible time-out that could occur with your connection) . Therefore, I find races of about 10 laps 
 to be just the right taste, as it gives you enough time to find your online rhythm and for you 
 to find out if you are really a master of a particular track. It would be nice, if the PSN could 
 pair players of similar skill levels, but this doesn't really solve the problem as some players 
 will prefer the more realistic and challenging single-player mode where you find yourself battling 
 with collidable smart AIs and avoiding little stupid back markers. Some of these offline players 
 can be very good but if they don't play online, they don't build an online ranking because your 
 accomplishments doesn't really do much for your online profile.
  
  Another option that would have been nice would be a full-season league option. While groups can 
 do a full short season online with 10 other players, you cannot just save and quit a tournament 
 going on.
  
  Another disappointing option is that you can only select a team you prefer to race for. So if you 
 are a Ferrari fan and Schumi's seat is taken by another player, you cannot occupy Massa's seat. 
 I personally think that this is a silly option because it doesn't allow team work and most people 
 would prefer not to race in mid-level or low-level cars.. imagine being forced to drive a Super 
 Aguri.. a very out-dated car with low top speed. While it has been said that AI fills the vacated 
 seats, the truth is that you can only see the rest of the field if you select the half-grid option, 
 whereby a possible of 11 people fill in all the 1st driver seats while the computer will fill in 
 the second. If you choose to only have 4 players, then only four cars will be on the grid. If you 
 are the only person in that game, then the AI will fill the other three seats. There are no other 
 cars on the grid, just the 4 cars.. This is pretty sad because most people prefer to drive the 
 big three followed by Honda or Toyota and Williams.
  
  In most public reviews, it has been said that if the collision option is turned on, you will be 
 in contact with fellow human players while you seem to flow through AI cars. I think that there 
 should be another option whereby you can flow though human players as most players do not follow 
 the racing lines correctly and most people tend to brake very late and hit you from behind, taking 
 you out of race win contention. AIs drive very good and dedicated lines and also use the defensive 
 racing lines if you are behind them. Since this mimics real-life racing, it would be more of a 
 challenge to battle AI racer depending on the difficulty level.
  
  As for my saved PSP F1 06 game: I was unable to transfer my PSP career to my PS3; at least not 
 in an out-of-the-box manner. I also did not manage to configure my PSP to play my PS3 F1 game, 
 but I could remotely connect to my PS3. Go figure. This means I cannot watch TV while play my PS3 
 on my PSP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disposeableHero
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  With MotorStorm just around the corner a lot of people are going to overlook this game. And that 
 is a true shame because this is one of the best racing games I've ever played. That says something 
 coming from a Gran Turismo fanatic and Forza player.
  I have never been so immersed in a racing experience until this. Everything comes together so smoothly 
 in this game and it really makes for an exhilarating experience. The gameplay is excellent, with 
 all the responsiveness that you would expect out of an F1 racer and all the speed and excitement 
 with it. The sense of speed in this game is second to none. The backgrounds look great, but they 
 look too clean if you stop and check them out, but you are never stopping to check them out, in 
 fact, you are moving so fast in this game it's hard to focus on anything but the road if you intend 
 to win. It doesn't do anything exceptionally new, but what can It do right? It's a racing game, 
 and it's a fun one, so it does it's job.
  The visuals are truly a sight to behold. This game makes use of some of the most advanced lighting 
 techniques and really shows off the power of the PS3. One of those techniques is volumetric lighting, 
 for those that don't know, that's the simulation of light illuminating the particles in the air 
 and such when the light rays are hitting them at just the right angle. Describing it doesn't do 
 it justice however, you have to see it first hand, like when you're driving by the stands and the 
 sunlight is seeping through each support structure or all the beams in the ferris wheel besides 
 the track. Not only that, but volumetric lighting coupled with fantastic use of HDR (High Dynamic 
 Range) lighting that isn't overly abused make for the most realistic racing game I've ever seen. 
 Most people forget about lighting unless it's coming from their flashlight, but ambient lighting 
 can really separate a game from being photo realistic and just looking like a good looking video 
 game (ex. Project Gotham Racing 3) . F1 Racing is one of those photo realistic games and there's 
 never any slowdown.
  The developers have really put a lot of time into every aspect of this game. With fully modeled 
 driver models that look damn near their real life counterpart and fully modeled garages in the 
 pit lanes when you're picking said drive. That goes without saying the cars themselves look amazing, 
 with very high detail textures mapped onto their surfaces with equally high detailed reflection 
 maps. Choosing a circuit has it's own cool factor too, as you can press X instead of just selecting 
 through text and watch pre recorded videos of each track and get a description on each in case 
 you don't know anything about them. There's also a whole lot of tweaking to be done here, with 
 just about as much car setup options as that in Gran Turismo (if not more actually) .
  The online is great too, and unlike most games, F1 CE takes your PSNetwork friends list and uses 
 that automatically. So that means you don't have to add your friends over again like you had to 
 in Resistance. Inviting friends and joining friends online is too easy. This is a great game and 
 any PS3 owner that likes racing games should definitely pick this up. It's an exhilarating experience 
 and a true testament to the PS3's power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkipker
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Folks, this game has been underrated here... the scores are not fair! I've been running the F-1 
 Game since early Jan. I purchased the Japanese version and thought this game was fantastic. Just 
 got my US game this Am and it's even better... cause now I have all English menus... LOL!
  
  OK... let's talk about the game:
  
  GRAPHICS- are second to none compared to any racing 
 game on any console and/or computer game. I have GT4 on PS3 ... Sucks! I also run GTR2/GT Legends 
 at 1920 resolution and this game is more impressive... and I love GTR2. Frame rates at 720p/1080i 
 (my 24 dell monitor does not support 1080p) are excellent! Never seen a drop/pause. Not played 
 online yet. One guy mentioned the early morning Sun this is true to life for F-1 Friday morning 
 practice is Am and Sun is always a factor if weather is clear. I think the sun affect is AWESOME!
 
  
  SOUND-Perfect... the engines are awesome sounding and the gear shifting is Great also. I like the 
 commentators comments, sure I guess in time it may be a little redundant, but what game does not 
 become a little redundant. I hate playing music while racing and hearing the same songs over and 
 over... but you can play music in the game as well. No comment on in game music... I turn off so 
 I don't know.
  
  GAMEPLAY- AWESOME... set game w/no damage, use race line on track and practice in time trail against 
 your own ghost until you get the hang of the game. I use a Logitech wheel... DF Pro... I recommend 
 this wheel for this game. response is spot on! You can choose any real racer like Michael... or 
 even Scott Speed the US F-1 driver... and as you complete races/levels/set records in time trails 
 you unlock tracks vintage cars. You can do a complete difficult career where you have to be accepted 
 by your team... or just do a Championship career and race each track. You can also select any track 
 right off and race a weekend... with full Friday morning qualifying, earn the pole or not and race 
 a full timed event. Replayability for any racer/hard core sim fan will not be disappointed in my 
 humble opinion.
  
  Sure no Force Feedback and many will fault the game here but remember PS3/Sony did this to us 
 race fans claiming this is old generation technology and they went with new technology the Sixaxis. crap! 
 Why remove proven technology that people liked and wanted with new technology! I say leave what 
 works and add new technology we should have received both for the price a PS3 cost but thats 
 another story.
  
  This game is PS3 elite racer makes Ridge Racer a joke IMHO and for old time games like GT4. Which 
 I have there is no comparison in my book. If you like F-1 Racing. This is a must have game. If 
 youre a racing fan gamer this is also a must have game. You can make the game as hard as you like 
 are as easy just give it a little time to adjust to the accelerated response when turning the 
 wheels cause in F-1 this is how these cars respond. Razor Sharpe handling! Best PS3 game on the 
 Market !
  
  Hope this review helps you decide or at least rent it and try it!
  RKip A Perfect 10 for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaypro1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  First of all, the retail game is much better than the demo. The frame rate in replays, for example, 
 are rock solid (unlike in the demo) . The graphics are look a little better than the demo if that's 
 possible. Physics are very realistic.
  
  The garage setting/tuning options are quite good but are not quite as well laid out or eas extensive 
 as in GT4. Some settings are in percentages, but most can be adjusted in numerical values. Any 
 simulation fan won't be disappointed with any of the settings options especially when you can adjust 
 tire pressure (a feature sorely missing from Gran Turismo) . You can lock up the tires while braking 
 (another plus) and damage modeling is quite nicely done with tires and parts flying everywhere. 
 There is no way to damage your car in Time Trial mode, which I find strange, but during a Grand 
 Prix event you can damage your car in all of the practice, warm up, qualifying laps, etc.
  
  The sound is incredible and did I mention the graphics? The tracks are the most incredible 
 I have ever seen in a racing game on any platform. The lighting is fantastic, although I wish that 
 every time trial did not take place in early morning/late afternoon light as it makes areas of 
 the tracks either too dark or too bright as you drive towards/away from the sun. Not a big deal 
 though.
  
  The car models are perfect. The textures on the cars, when viewed up close with one of the many 
 replay cameras, are very high resolution with smooth edges all around. Beyond compare. Also, you 
 can save your replays!
  
  I don't understand the low scores that Gamespot and IGN gave this game. When you see a field of 
 22 High Def cars roaring past on a High Def track at a high frame rate in 720p with not a hint 
 of slowdown you will shake your head in disbelief. Lowering a review score because a game is focused 
 is incorrect in my opinion. Does Madden get a low score because it focuses only on football? As 
 for the complaints about difficulty, I have been playing the game for about three hours now and 
 I have turned off all of the driving assists (the first thing I did) and I use the manual transmission. 
 I am not an expert and I won't be winning races or setting any lap records it is just that the 
 game has such depth that it is endlessly rewarding to set it up that way. Highly, highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Ok let me say this straight .. if you are a F1 fan this is the game you MUST own !! Is next gen 
 in many aspects starting from the really pretty graphic and the sense of speed that you will get 
 when flying (literally) at 300+ Km/h on one of the many circuits.
  
  Pros:
  - Really nice graphics, I do use a 42 inch 1080P Sharp LCD TV, the game runs at 720P with NO framerates 
 drop (unlike the demo that's out there on PSN) , cars are very well detailed, the mechanics at the 
 box should get an update , special effects are amazingly realistic.
  - Many ways to customize the racing experience so that even novice players can approach the game 
 painlessly. The game offers also a lot of level of customization for the pro racers and big fans 
 of the F1 circus so that there is always a good level of challenge. A really big jump is when you 
 will switch from automatic transmission to manual, you will be able to feel all the power of the 
 racecar in ur finger.
  - Multiplayer is a blast, 11 players at once on a circuit might not sound like a huge number ... 
 but trust me is almost the right amount for many intense and challenging races.
  - Unlockables are super funny, I just got a vintage car to use on the time trial, looking forward 
 to discover many and many more goodies hidden here and there in the game.
  - Excellent sound effects (especially if u have a 5.1 sound system)
  - Great collision effects 
 and car destruction physics.
  
  Cons:
  - No voice chat .. well .. yeah is for free babe !!!
  - Annoying in-race commentary
  - Voices 
 from the box should have a little bit more variety - At the maximum level of realism you MUST be 
 Shumaker to be able to keep the car on the track without disintegrate it.
  - I loved the feeling of the rumble effect when going above the shoulder in old GT game ... i sorta 
 miss it here, but is not the game's fault.
  - In a couple of online races I noticed twice a little lag (one fraction of a second) but nothing 
 to really worry about.
  - It is F1 .. here in US people are more accustomed with Nascar ... so it might not have a great 
 impact on this side of the ocean.
  
  So again this is a really good game that will definitively satisfy every F1 and racing fanatic. 
 (I am really amazed that got only 7.2 on GS and IGN .. it really deserves more, especially being 
 a first gen PS3 game it shows a really great potential) .
  
  Peace 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
