-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fracture
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/fracture/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great soundtrack.
 Multiplayer Excavation mode is cool.
 Collecting data chips encourages creative terraforming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terraforming is vastly underutilized.
 Many derivative elements.
 Tons of frustrating, cheap deaths.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.4, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 230 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Day 1 Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The ability to alter terrain isn't enough to save Fracture from becoming the latest run-of-the-mill 
 shooter. 

  By most accounts, the future's going to be a terrible place. Books, movies, and games typically 
 aren't kind when they predict the plight of the human race, and Fracture is no exception. To deal 
 with the rapidly changing climate of the 22nd century, the West Coast (the Pacificans) began altering 
 its citizens' DNA, while the East Coast (the Atlantic Alliance) decided to ban genetic engineering 
 and go the route of cybernetic enhancement instead. Long story short, the Pacificans get all bitter 
 about the ban, secede from the union, and threaten to take over the world. The Alliance isn't a 
 big fan of this tactic and sends you, Jet Brody, to apprehend the Pacifican general responsible 
 for the uprising. The general decides not to go quietly, so it's up to you to spend the next eight 
 hours or so trying to track him down in this exceedingly average third-person-shooter that has 
 few noteworthy features outside of Jet's ability to raise and lower terrain.  

           One day a game is going to predict a bright and rosy future for Earth. This isn't that 
 game.      

  You've probably already played several games like Fracture. You can regenerate your health by taking 
 cover; you've got machine guns, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, and more at your disposal; and 
 you'll drive a futuristic (poor-handling) off-road vehicle. Fracture differs from other, similar 
 games in that you're able to use your guns or grenades to alter terrain. Although the game hints 
 at some interesting applications for this ability in the tutorial, the reality is you'll raise 
 the ground to reach ledges and lower it to get under some walls, but not much else. The only puzzles 
 that require terraforming are exceptionally simple. The situations in which you can change the 
 terrain to kill soldiers are few and so contrived that in the middle of the action, the game points 
 out that the ceilings are low so it might be a good idea to raise the ground to crush them. Really, 
 the only time you'll use the mechanic without being prompted is when you make a hill to use as 
 cover. It's a shame the concept wasn't taken further because it has potential, but its execution 
 here is underwhelming.  

  You progress through the game's linear levels by blasting wave after wave of similar-looking enemies. 
 Once you clear an area, you'll hit a save point and then do it all again in the next room. The 
 bad guys aren't smart, but they make up for their lack of brainpower with sheer numbers. In fact, 
 on what amounts to "normal" difficulty, Fracture is quite difficult. Unfortunately, from the first 
 level all the way through to the final boss Fracture's challenge is often more frustrating than 
 it is fair. Enemies will blast you from all sides while you search for a safe corner and struggle 
 to keep the camera at a useful angle. Although save points are frequent, you'll play certain areas 
 over several times as you figure out the best way to exploit the bad AI. If you're able to keep 
 your frustration in check or play through on a lower difficulty, there is some fun to be had. Headshots 
 yield a satisfying spray of yellow goo, and sticking foes with an explosive fired from the black 
 widow gun then taking your time before you detonate the charge is entertaining, if not a bid sadistic. 
 Data chips, which are hidden throughout the game, do little more than unlock the pointless weapons 
 range, but because you need to be creative to reach many of them, they're fun to collect.  

  Like other aspects of the game, Fracture's multiplayer doesn't take any chances. Solo and team 
 Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, King of the Hill... all play fine, but you've seen it all before. 
 Well, almost all of it. Excavation mode has teams traveling to specific areas, digging down into 
 the ground, and then raising a giant spike to denote the location is in their possession. The team 
 earns points for as long as the spike stands, but it can be destroyed by the other team. This results 
 in a cat-and-mouse game where players quickly scurry to an enemy foothold while trying not to leave 
 their own territory undefended. Teamwork yields the best results in Excavation, but you'll still 
 have a good time with the mode even if everyone on your team goes their own way.  

           Raise the ground to make a hill. Lower it to make a hole. Why? Because you can.      

 
  Fracture plays like most futuristic shooters so it's not surprising that it looks and sounds like 
 most futuristic shooters. Jet Brody looks and sounds like his name should be Jet Brody, while enemies 
 are nameless, faceless shiny dudes. There's also enough gray, green, and brown in this game to 
 make you wonder if you caught some sort of disease that makes your eyes unable to see any other 
 colors. Some aspects of the visuals, such as the ground, and most textures aren't much to look 
 at, but they're not all bad. Some of the bigger explosions look nice, and the snow that falls in 
 a later level is impressive. Outside of some hitching at save points, the frame rate is solid -- an 
 impressive feat given the amount of carnage that sometimes occurs. Although most of the audio could 
 have been taken from a CD called  Noises to Use in Your Futuristic Shooter, Volume 1 , Fracture's 
 music is noteworthy. The catchy theme from Michael Giacchino, Chris Tilton, and Chad Seiter is 
 intense, without being overbearing. It's a real pleasure to listen to -- it's too bad it's not featured 
 more.  

  Other than sometimes frustrating gameplay, there's not a whole lot really wrong with Fracture -- but 
 there's not a whole lot really right with it either. If you need another shooter and you need it 
 right now, you could do worse than Fracture. You could also do better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First if all - not hard. Why is it siad that this ame is so hard? It's not at all! I went through 
 it easily. The only hard thing was the final boss, but it was just right. Anyways, I guess the game 
 is ok. I only rented it, but it was still fun. I think shooting enemies into the air with the terrain 
 was fun. Yes, the game is good - but it has it's flaws. Boring story to me, no point really. There's 
 a 'boring feel' to it. Like, you can play it - but your just not having that much fun. Boy, I'm 
 kinda' bored just writing this. I don't really know what else to say but out of all the games I've 
 played, well... this one is kinda' down there. I'm not saying I hate it! I got through it and it 
 was nice, but I've played much better games. What else to say.... I know this game isn't great, but 
 it doesn't deserve a 6! Not that bad.
  ................
  Well, anyways I guess that's all I got. Sorry, not much compliments - just cool enemies really.
 
  
  So............ I guess that's, it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbentonslaught
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game i thought "oh this is an awesome video game!" then it got hard then 
 it wasnt fun. You may have fun on this game if you set it on easy difficulty if not your life will 
 be a living heck!! The ability to alter terrain may be awesome at first but it will get useless. 
 I soon found my self hiding behind rocks and not using terrain deformation at all. The enemy AI 
 is completely oblivious to whatever you throw at them, if your trying to build a trench while there 
 are 10 enemies around you you might as well be digging your own grave. If your in one of the turrets 
 the enemies will just overwhelm you with their great numbers or you will completely destroy the 
 entire battalion of soldiers that they send after you. Overall the only fun thing in the game is 
 the weapons testing where you can summon enemies to fight summon crates load a cannon and destroy 
 these to large power cells with the cannon which opens a door. To unlock this weapons testing you 
 have to collect a certain amount of data cells. How did lucasarts create such a mediocre game ill 
 never know but you can avoid these grievances by not renting the game at all or setting it on easy 
 difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  So many bad reviews surprise me, because to me this is a really enjoyable fantasy adventure. First 
 off, altering the environment is one of Fracture's most creditable and positive gameplay elements, 
 as you can deform the terrain whenever you want using this object called the entrencher on your 
 arm. You can raise and lower the ground at will and use this to your advantage against your enemies. 
 Also, there are many cool weapons to do the same to the environment. My favourite weapon is this 
 torpedo launcher which fires mini rockets under the ground and you can detonate it right under 
 the enemies feet. Best grenade is the vortex grenade, which creates a tornado and sucks enemies 
 and objects into it and then explodes sending everything in random directions with brutal force. 
 Unfortunately only a few on the game.
  There are also a number of great locations to use all of these objects and weapons in ranging from 
 snowy street areas to dark, muddy and wet areas with creatures that burrow under the ground and 
 try to eat you.
  If your not sure about this game then rent it first, as most people have a mediocre view on the 
 game.
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 2/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 4/5
  Sound- 3/5
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: Alter the 
 terrain anywhere, useful weapons, cool grenades, good locations, good graphics
  
  Bad Points: Repetitive gameplay, Short game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then a game comes along with an innovative new feature that makes you wonder why 
 nobody thought of it before.
  
  But all too often the game itself turns out to be a bit of a dog, although it goes on to attain 
 a certain cult standing for being the first to introduce a feature which becomes commonplace. Fracture 
 from LucasArts may well be one of those games. Its terraforming technology breaks new ground (pun 
 intended) and with any luck it won't be the last we see of it. However, Fracture itself just doesn't 
 do the technology justice. The year is 2161 and North America has turned to custard. The Midwest 
 has flooded due to climate change and the resulting sea has divided the East and West.
  
  You are cast as Jet Brody of the Atlantic Alliance (East) and are tasked with infiltrating the 
 Republic of Pacifica (West) who have been experimenting with genetic modification. It's a decent 
 storyline which breaks the traditional shackles of the Axis vs Allies, Aliens vs Humans or Zombies 
 vs Humans fare.
  
  Following in the footsteps of Gears of War and Halo, Brody is equipped with a high-tech body suit 
 which not only protects him but contains a very special tool called the Entrencher. This tool, 
 which can also be used as a weapon, is the main attraction in Fracture and is what lifts the game 
 slightly above being just another third-person shooter. The Entrencher allows Brody to raise or 
 lower the ground. This can't be done just anywhere, only on bare dirt which is often strategically 
 placed. But in wide open areas of earth you can go nuts and completely alter the level.
  
  The Entrencher is fired like a weapon using the crosshairs. The shoulder bumpers will either raise 
 the ground in a mound (subsequent firing will raise it further) , or lower the ground like a blast 
 crater. Raising it can be handy for reaching high places, raising bridges or creating ramps - and 
 even crushing enemies against the ceiling if you're lucky enough to get one standing in the right 
 place.
  
  Perhaps the coolest thing about raising the ground is that in a frantic fire-fight you can create 
 instant dirt mounds to take cover behind. It's something that you'll use a lot when you're allowed 
 to. It's great to create a mound for cover and wait until an enemy flanks the mound only to have 
 you fire up another mound under him sending him flying. Lowering the ground is useful for getting 
 underneath obstacles and sometimes creating cover, but there's not too many other applications 
 I've come across. Along with the Entrencher there are a number of the traditional weapons that 
 you'd expect to see in any shooter. The ALM-37 Deep Freeze has a point of difference though in 
 that it turns enemies into ice so you can proceed to shatter them to pieces. The Rhino fires electrically 
 charged boulders at enemies and is handy when there is a tightly packed group of them. There is 
 also a sticky grenade launcher that can bring down structures if you use it to take out their supports. 
 You can only carry two weapons at once (not including the Entrencher) and four types of grenades 
 (which are designated to the D-Pad) .
  
  The grenades are anything but traditional. Three of them change the terrain in the form of creating 
 a hill, a crater and a granite spike which is handy once again for raising bridges and getting 
 you to hard to reach places. The fourth is called a vortex grenade that, when thrown, creates a 
 mini black hole which swirls around and sucks in everything in the immediate vicinity then blows 
 it to smithereens. It's an awesome weapon but makes the game a tad too easy as you end up using 
 it all the time when there's multiple enemies.
  
  You're thinking the game sounds fun so far, right? Well, maybe  but you're wrong, because it isn't. 
 Fracture is very restrictive in how you approach the game and linear in what you must do to achieve 
 certain tasks. Most of the chances you get to use the Entrencher are in a corner patch of dirt 
 at the end of a corridor to get to another level to complete an objective. This excellent feature 
 just seems to go to waste. There's very little variation in gameplay either  it's a case of clear 
 a room/area, run a corridor, clear another room, go outside, clear that area, wash, rinse and repeat. 
 It's almost as if you're playing one never ending level like Microsoft's Too Human. That makes 
 Fracture rental-fodder, as finishing the game would take some serious determination. Sure, there 
 are some parts where you have to lower and raise ground in a puzzle-like nature to turn things 
 on and off, but all in all it's just a bit of a yawnfest.
  
  And then there's the enemies themselves. Did someone say dumb? The AI is awful. Some enemies will 
 take appropriate cover, but others will stand quite happily out in the open and beg to be plugged. 
 When you hit them, they barely react until you deliver the fatal blow. It's sloppy and is another 
 nail in Fracture's coffin.
  
  There is one saving grace, however, and that's the multiplayer. While not enough to recommend shelling 
 out cash for a purchase, it's pretty good fun for a short time. There's eight maps and eight game 
 types for up to twelve players at once. All the usual culprits are here, such as Capture the Flag, 
 Deathmatch and King of the Hill, but the Entrencher gives them a breath of life and an extra dimension 
 to gameplay. Perhaps the best multiplayer mode though is Excavator. Here, using the Entrencher 
 is paramount to victory. One team must attempt to take several points on the map by lowering the 
 ground and therefore raising one of the opposition's basalts, you can then choose to defend this 
 point or continue on to another. All the while the opposing team is doing the same to you. It's 
 a great mode and really illustrates the promise that terraforming weapons have.
  
  Graphically I must liken the game once again to Too Human, i. e. a huge disappointment. Explosions, 
 battles and Brody's suit all look nice and pretty, but the cutscenes are an embarrassment, the 
 framerate drops dramatically in places and the checkpoint saving makes the game stutter a few frames 
 rather than just pausing play for a couple of seconds.
  
  Overall, Fracture has some nice ideas but doesn't back them up with a memorable game. The whole 
 experience just stinks of mediocre. With any luck someone will pick up the terraforming idea and 
 run with it. I can see it having successful applications in a number of franchises, especially 
 Halo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natesurfs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok i give it to you Halo is much better but this game but this is so much more fun. The good is 
 that it has a cool weapons testing feature BUT you have to get 10 data cells. I dont know how the 
 online part of that game ic because my freakin system wont update it. If you like this game you 
 wiil love LEGENDARY. Its a good game but i beat the game in like 5 hours. The good, Nice graphics, 
 Awesome guns The bad, hard to figure out, Hard to aim, you can die in a second. So, thats how the 
 game is.   
 rjkbvjulh. fbv  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  When Gamespot announced Fracture was going to give the character the ability to change the landscape 
 around them, I thought this might end up a very good game because nobody has ever really thought 
 of such an idea. Then I actually played it and realized that that was probably to only real aspect 
 that kept me playing. The rest was held back by an extremely weak and uninteresting story, weak 
 weapons, and when you think about, there are so many other and better games that you could play. 
 Just to name a few if you have a PS3 there's play Metal Gear Solid 4, or Littlebigplanets. If you 
 have an XBOX 360 you really should be spending your time looking at Mass Effect, or Fable 2. If 
 you have either there's Call of Duty 4, Fallout 3, and Dead Space. It's not even that this game 
 is terrible it's just dull and mind numbing compared to all the other games. However it does deliver 
 a new and novel idea, and if you want to give it a try you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theexlaw999
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, rent it first b/c someone out there may have a liking for this game. I personally 
 did not, it was too limited, making a hill there, or a dent there is not too inspiring, while some 
 moments of "terrain formation" or deformation, whatever, are cool, too many aren't. And talk about 
 FRUSTRATING! I have never played a more frustrating game in my life (and i've played ICO, for those 
 who know what game that is) . So there you go, take this as it is and make your own decision like 
 i said. But please, rent it first so as to not give LucasArts an inflated ego thinking they made 
 a worthwhile game, that's not what they need right now. Wait for that Indiana Jones game (cross 
 your fingers) or get the Force Unleashed, both look like better games than this one. Not to mention, 
 the story was killed by the voice acting, GOD! It was bad, robotronic and flat, 0% emotion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatslick911
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I didn't even have to buy this game to know that it is a terrible game. I played the demo and right 
 off the bat I instantly thought of Haze. A game that looked like it might get between an 8-9/10 
 but ended up in a complete failure. This game looks like a cheap, terrible adaptation of Halo. 
 The only cool thing about this game is changing the terrian, everything else seemed worse than 
 a PS2 game. The game looked very bland and the controls were horrid. I couldn't even finish the 
 demo because I was disgusted. That's the reason why I wait for reviews to come out and try demos 
 of games so I can have an idea on whether or not it will suck. What this game could've been with 
 the right developers. Only God knows. Save your money for NBA 2K9, Socom Confrontation, Dead Space, 
 LittleBigPlanet, BioShock, Far Cry 2, Fallout 3, Resistence 2 etc. I think you get the point.
 
  
  Graphics: 6.5/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Sound: 5.5/10
  Presentation: 5/10
  Replay Value: 5.5/10
  
  Overall: 5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  It looks like Alone In The Dark controls fiasco didn't teach anyone anything. Fracture is just 
 as hard to control as AITD. The camera control is absolutely horrible, with obstacles getting in 
 the way: you look at your character from behind, and sometimes, when you need to aim, there's something 
 in front of the camera, between the camera and the character, so you can't really aim and have 
 to fiddle with controls, trying to find a way to aim without obstacles getting in the camera view.
 
  
  Then again, the speed with which the character is moving is ridiculous: ants run faster than the 
 guy does. Even when you push the "sprint" button all it changes is image gets all blurry, but the 
 speed doesn't change much - you're still crawling like a turtle.
  
  And then the enemy. They are exceedingly resilient and can shoot you no matter how fast you move 
 and whether you try to jump left and right or not - every shot of your enemy will reach you. Considering 
 that you can't move really fast, you'll be dying and reloading, dying and reloading, and so on, 
 and so forth, on any difficulty level above the very easy one. And there's very little ammo available.
 
  
  So considering the fact that the controls are screwed up, and it takes your almost entire arsenal 
 of weaponry to kill just one bad guy, the game becomes only frustration and nothing more. It's 
 not even fun anymore, and after awhile I thought: frak it, I'm trading it in for something more 
 decent. So if you're thinking about getting the game - I'd suggest you rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  In the vast library of next-gen games, Bioshock is the equivalent of Shakespeare, Resistance is 
 Michael Crichton, and Fracture is some trashy action book on the Clearance rack. It's not well 
 written, it's not nuanced, but it does provide some decent thrills despite its flaws. That said, 
 you wouldn't buy a mediocre book at full price and you shouldn't pay full price for Fracture, either. 
 This is most definately a rental.
  
  Fracture's story concerns tough ethical issues such a stem cell research and global warming, as 
 well as more personal issues like the deaths of family members. While it seems that any two bit 
 author could make at least a good story out of these base elements, Fracture lays the groundwork 
 for greatness and leaves it at that. It's as if the game's writers came up with an intruiging concept 
 at the beginning of the development cycle and then instantly forgot about it. While this lack of 
 story is disappointing, it's anything but unexpected. After all, you know you shouldn't expect 
 much of a story from a game whose protagonist is named Jet Brody. 
  
  Since Fracture's story is almost instantly abandoned, it's up to the action to get the message 
 across. While the action is quite solid, it's uninspiring when compared to, say, Uncharted. One 
 of the main features that keeps Fracture from being utter trash is the terrain deformation that 
 is unique to the Fracture universe. Using the L1 and R1 buttons, it is possible to lower or raise 
 land, respectively. While raising and lowering land seems to have little to nothing to do with 
 shooting (seriously, who came up with that idea?) , it actually works pretty well. If you ever need 
 cover from enemy fire, simply raise the land in a circle around you and lower it under your feet, 
 creating a makeshift trench. The technology behind TD is impressive, but other than creating cover 
 it is pretty much nonexistant in firefights. TD is mostly used in puzzles that feel extremely forced. 
 It's as if the developers realized after their project had been greenlighted that raising and lowering 
 land has very few practical uses in any game other than Viva Pinata. Want an example of these painful 
 "puzzles"? No? Well I'll go over one anyway:
  In one "puzzle" early on in the game, you need to restore power to a lift (on a side note, have 
 you ever played a futuristic shooter that didn't at some point require you to restore power to 
 a lift?) . Shortly after getting your objective, you come across a giant power cord that has been 
 broken in half. The first half is still standing, while the second half is splayed across the ground. 
 You must... raise the land under the second half until it touches the first half, which magically 
 repairs the wire and restores power!
  
  Yeah, so if I haven't somehow established this already, Fracture is stupid. Dirt stupid (no pun 
 intended.) The core mechanic has little to do with the actual action, as it has only one practical 
 application during combat. What, then, resues Fracture from the slick precipice of mediocrity? 
 To put it bluntly, Fracture rips off so much from Halo 3 that Halo is likely to die bleeding. And 
 while this makes Fracture feel a bit derivative, it also gives it an immediate feeling of familiarity, 
 like you are instantly thrust into your comfort zone when playing. The controls are mapped sensibly 
 (read: the same as Halo's,) the shield recharge works perfectly (like Halo's,) and Jet jumps nice 
 and high (like Master Chief.) Day 1 Studios could not possibly screw this game up too badly, because 
 on a certain level, it's just a worse version of Halo 3. 
  
  Another feature that contributes to Fracture's success is its unique array of weaponry. While the 
 standard shotgun, assault rifle, sniper, and rocker launcher are accounted for and work as well 
 as you'd hope, Jet also has access to an array of Ratchet & Clank-esque weapons, such as a black 
 hole grenade and a torpedo that burrows underground. These weapons are the highlight of the game, 
 and feel more than a little bad@$$. 
  
  Fracture also sports some pretty decent graphics and sound work. Character models look quite nice. 
 They really deserve to be in an all around better looking game, though, because the environments 
 can feel pretty boring at times. Towards the end of the game you move from the Midwest to Washinton 
 DC, and the scenery change brings with it cold weather. The snow effects in DC are a surprising 
 high point to the otherwise mediorce environments. The sound work isn't necessarily bad, but it 
 feels like it should belong in a different game. Specifically, a Star Wars game. So although the 
 music is pretty good, it still feels out of place. Voiceovers are largely phoned in, especially 
 with Jet. He sounds like... well, he sounds like a guy named Jet should sound; clueless and possibly 
 inbred. That's right George Lucas, I said it.
  
  If you're thinking of playing multiplayer in Fracture, think again. While I can certainly see the 
 game being fun with a full room, right now games are anything but. The largest online game I've 
 played consisted of three people. It sucked. This is really unfortunate, because judging from multiplayer 
 videos online and the small online games I've played in, the versus modes are the best part of 
 Fracture. Too bad nobody is playing in them now, and I don't anticipate seeing many more people 
 online. 
  
  Overall, I am not terribly disappointed with Fracture. If you, like me, laughed out loud when you 
 initially read about this game, you'll probably be pleasantly surprised. No, Fracture is not total 
 garbage. It's not a boring game. It can actually get pretty intense. Fracture's problem is that 
 it is not an ambitious game, and it has no problem flaunting this fact. It makes for a decent weekend 
 of gaming, but not much more. When all is said and done, I'll play this for three or four days 
 and then trade it in. 
  
  As a side note, if you're a shooter fan still considering buying Fracture, stop for a moment and 
 think:
  Do you own the following games already?
  -Uncharted: Drake's Fortune
  -Battlefield: Bad Company
  -Resistance Fall of Man
  -Metal Gear Solid 4
  -Ratchet & Clank 
 Future: Tools of Destruction/Quest for Booty
  -CoD4
  -Rainbow Six Vegas/2
  If your answer is no to any of those, screw Fracture and buy the game you're missing. Any one of 
 them will provide a more enjoyable experience. If you have played all of those games and hunger 
 for something more, Fracture is a worthy rental.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10: Nice character models, TD effects, and snow effects. Icky everything else.
 
  Sound: 6.75/10: Not really bad, but it sounds out of place.
  Gameplay: 8/10: Inside of the concept meeting at Day 1 Studios: 
  - "What do you say we copy 
 and paste Halo 3's code, and throw in some crazy gimmick?"
  - "Great! We can make it in third person, so the rip-off isn't immediately apparent!"
  - "It's 
 perfect!"
  Entertainment: 7/10: Certainly not a bad game. Fracture will provide you with a decent 7-8 hours 
 of fairly challenging gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  It's very sad to see that the expectation for Fracture was high. With Lucasart, expectation is 
 always high, but Fracture is the most disappointing game I've ever played on PS3.
  
  So, as I always do, I go rent the game, put it in my PS3, start the game and... oh! look at this. 
 I got a 1080p screen and the resolution as been drop to 720p... first disappointement. Then, I start 
 the game trying not to concentrate on the resolution to much, but surprisingly the graphic are 
 not that bad. Even I love them, reminding me of Unreal Turnement, but on the Xbox 1.
  
  Then after the training, I watch the game and start watching the allie and the enemy. The enemy 
 is spraying you with their bullet wierd bullet. But your allies dont do a damn thing. You will 
 maybe see them killing one enemy but not more. Not surprising that the enemy (Pacifican) seems 
 to be having control the us because in any of the level you'll be playing, you'll be severely outnumbered. 
 
  
  And all of these Pacifican looks like green blooded alien. What kind of wierd future are we heading 
 too. About the control, it is BAD!!... the control really sucks in this game. It IS! the most disapointing 
 thing of the video game. You have the dodge option by puching L3 but you dont care because it's 
 impossible to sneak, it's barelly not impossible to shoot and when you dodge you move slow. The 
 fire button is also something anoying. In every game that I've played the R1 button was the fire. 
 But here It's R2.
  
  Anyway. I had the timje to try the first patch and.... it doesn't change a thing.... the game is 
 still bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micmill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  I am genuinely baffled by the lukewarm reviews on this game. I bought it yesterday and played it 
 all day... I seriously couldn't put the controller down! The terrain deformation is extremely innovative 
 and impressive gameplay technology, but no one is talking about how cool the weaponry is! For example, 
 the vortex grenade is CRAZY (creates a big cyclone that sucks everything in the vicinity into it; 
 very impressive real time physics) . Seriously, this game is bad ass. The online play is awesome. 
 All the dudes with mics I was playing with were all loving it. (Have you ever played online in 
 a shooter where everyone can manipulate the ground around them on the fly? Didn't think so -- it's 
 really cool) . I love shooters (Gears of War, MGS4, etc) and this is a great game. Seriously, I 
 am scratching my head with the reviews saying it's "just another shooter". I have never played 
 a shooter where the weaponry completely decimates the ground you stand on. The grenades, the rocket 
 launchers, everything decimates the environment. Hunkered down by gunfire, no problem, just create 
 your own bunker with your entrencher real quick. It is so sick. How are the reviewers saying this 
 is not anything but extremely innovative??? If you like shooters you have to at least give this 
 game a try. Go rent it and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  From the missions I've played so far, this game seems like a standard shoot-em up. You are an invincible 
 tank named Jet Brody. If you hide behind a wall for 5 seconds all of your health will recharge. 
 Even so I'll give this game credit on origanality. Terrain deformation makes you feel, if possible, 
 even more invincible. Creating a trench for yourself to recharge gets old after a while. The fact 
 that your enemies also have this tech spices things up a bit. And the AI works beautifly you'll 
 find yourself wonderfully amazed and annoyed when an enemy you trying to get to keeps rasing the 
 terrain so you can't get to them. Sadly though, you can't exactly say the same for your allies. 
 I've only seen one use for them. And that's to pick of enemies that I shot to within an inch of 
 their lives. There also pros at stepping right in your line of fire.
  
  They really do a good job on playing modern issues to the limit. Like global warming. The Mississippi 
 river floods and splits the USA in two. Quite an inspired idea in my opinion.
  
  Overall, this game is beautiful in the way its character models are designed and has wonderfully 
 done battlefields. (Not that they look the same after you've run through them, raising the terrain 
 like there's no tommorow) The plot is well done, and the voice acting is good to a point. Overall 
 it is a fine edition to all war games and deserves a place right in between Call of Duty and Halo 
 on your game shelf. Well done Lucasarts 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
