-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Full Auto 2: Battlelines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/fullauto2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Has a more stable frame rate than the previous Full Auto.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad car physics make everything feel too light.
 no communication options in the online mode.
 enemy artificial intelligence feels very robotic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.5, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 706 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Pseudo Interactive
Genre: Car Combat
Date: Dec 7, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Full Auto 2 is technically proficient, but almost every aspect of this car combat game's gameplay 
 is messed up in one way or another. 

  The original Full Auto debuted on the Xbox 360 and tried to be a thrilling combat racing game but 
 ultimately failed. The explosions were cool, but the handling was bad, the car physics made everything 
 feel weightless, and the weapons weren't much fun to use. Full Auto 2: Battlelines has switched 
 sides and is exclusively available on the PlayStation 3. It makes some changes to how you outfit 
 your vehicle, attempts to add a storyline, and adds a new arena mode that makes it a bit more like 
 the car combat games of old. But it doesn't fix the core problems of the first game, so all the 
 new modes only serve to make the bad handling, questionable physics, and dull weaponry stand out 
 that much more. Whether you're familiar with the previous game or not, this game probably isn't 
 for you.  

          Full Auto 2 attempts to add a story to the single-player mode, but it's barely there and 
 kind of dumb.     

  The storyline has you answering to a computer-based authority figure called S. A. G. E. This female-voiced 
 computer summons you because an evil gang is running the streets. The police can't stop them, so 
 it's up to you to enter the gang's car combat events and take them out from the inside. It's a 
 very thin story that doesn't add anything meaningful to the game. The career mode takes you from 
 one series to the next, and each series has a number of different events in it. While there are 
 more events than there are tracks or arenas, the game changes things up by giving you different 
 primary and secondary objectives. Sometimes you'll just need to finish first. At other times, you'll 
 have to gun down a specific vehicle, then finish first. There are also arena levels that take away 
 the racetrack and give you a wide-open level on which to fight. In the arena levels, you'll have 
 to blow up your enemies to succeed, and you're usually on a time limit too. You'll have to hit 
 the primary objectives to move on, and meeting the secondary objectives, helps you to unlock more 
 stuff. But you'll unlock most of what you need just by getting the primaries, so unless you're 
 crazy about getting new paint jobs for your car, you don't need to get every single little thing. 

  So the main focus of the game is racing around in cars and shooting everything that moves; two 
 things that are cornerstones of the video game industry. But the way Full Auto 2 brings them together 
 isn't very exciting. The driving is brought down by poor car control. The vehicles all very floaty 
 and weightless, and the way they fly through the air after hitting jumps just doesn't feel right. 
 Also, the handling lacks finesse, making it very easy to just bang your way through every corner 
 without really caring that you're hitting walls all over the place. The hand brake lets you slide 
 a bit through turns; but the sliding, too, doesn't feel right at all. In addition to basic driving, 
 you can fire two weapons. You select your weapons individually prior to starting the race and unlock 
 more as you go. So the weak machine gun and smoke screen combo you're limited to at the beginning 
 quickly gives way to a shotgun, grenade launchers, mines, and so on. The fire controls work decently, 
 and you can even aim some of the front weapons with the right stick. But because you need to hit 
 the face buttons pretty frequently to fire your secondary weapon or hit the hand brake, you don't 
 have much time to fiddle around with aiming your front weapon. The other two things at your disposal 
 are a speed boost and "unwreck," which is a button that lets you rewind time when things go wrong 
 and hope that they pan out a bit better the next time. Unlike the first game, your boost and unwreck 
 are linked to the same meter; so if you boost a lot, you'll be unable to unwreck as frequently. 
 But the speed boost almost always seems more useful than the ability to rewind your mistakes, so 
 unwreck feels mostly useless.  

  In addition to the career mode, you can jump into any race or arena via an arcade mode and just 
 play, but you'll still be limited by what you've unlocked in the career. The multiplayer options 
 let you play two-player games locally or up to eight players online. The online mode has options 
 for ranked and unranked arena battles and races, and you can limit which cars are chosen to help 
 keep things fair, but the weapon selection is always based on what you've unlocked in the career. 
 Of course, there is a catch. It's either a function of the rarity of the PlayStation 3 or a statement 
 about the popularity of Full Auto 2, but it seems like almost no one is playing this game online. 
 Ranked matches require four players to start, and even after sitting in a ranked connection screen 
 with one other racer for more than an hour, no one else joined up to play. Unranked games can go 
 with just two players, but even those seem to be in extremely short supply. To add an extra layer 
 of frustration, there's no way to communicate with other players, so you can't even put on a headset 
 or plug in a keyboard and say "Hey, instead of sitting here for another hour, how about we go try 
 an unranked match instead?" In the few multiplayer games we were able to find, the game ran reasonably 
 well, but there was a noticeable amount of jumpiness and lag to the way the opposing cars move. 
 Of course, your mileage may vary when it comes to online experiences of any kind, but don't expect 
 to find a bustling community to play with online.  

          The game's multiplayer options are fairly bare, but considering it's tough to even find 
 other players online at the moment, it sort of doesn't matter.     

  Full Auto 2 runs in 1080p, if you're equipped with a television that can handle it. Even at this 
 high resolution, the game runs at a mostly stable frame rate, but it isn't as smooth as Ridge Racer 
 7, the other 1080p racing game on the PS3. The game has decent explosions, but the environments 
 are sort of plain, and the game doesn't deliver an especially thrilling sense of speed either. 
 If you're looking for a point of comparison, it does look better and run smoother than its Xbox 
 360-based predecessor, but the difference never seems huge. The sound is essentially what you'd 
 expect it to be, with plenty of explosions, gun fire, and engine noises. The music is pretty generic 
 electronic music that fits with the action. The more important vehicles in the career mode actually 
 have licensed music associated with them, with the idea that as you get closer, that car's theme 
 song starts getting louder and louder. But the jarring switch from the regular racing music over 
 to the licensed track and then back again if you fall behind, makes this better in concept than 
 it is in practice.  

  In fact, that's the case for all of Full Auto 2: Battlelines. A high-speed racing game with action-packed 
 weaponry and destructible environments is a solid, if somewhat uninspired, concept. But in practice, 
 not a single aspect of the game comes out feeling right, and what's left is a generic racing shooter 
 that fails to excite from end to end. Unless you're absolutely, positively desperate for something 
 new on the PlayStation 3, you can most definitely stay away from Full Auto 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all, 5.7 really? I think not, this game was the first gmae I played when I got my PS3. 
 Now it was only a demo but it was sweet. I found myself playing it over and over again. So I went 
 out and picked it up. Great idea if I do say so myself. I really liked the game, im a huge Twisted 
 Metal fan, and racing fan, its pretty much a mix of the two. I thought it was gona be all deathmatch 
 type levels, but there are alot of racing levels mixed in. You have lots of objectives in the racing 
 levels, like take out 3 of these guys, and 5 of these signs, collect this and that, or try not 
 to die. Which is hard. After a couple of tries you'll get it down. You can rewind in this game, 
 that is really cool, if your just about to make it to that health and someone hits you with a missile 
 you can go back and take a diff route, to ensure you get that health. That was a great move, and 
 there are lots of great cars, and weapons that keep getting better and better through the game. 
 Some say the first one is better, I have'nt played it yet, but I just may have to. Don't always 
 just trust the games score, I would've lost out on lots of great games if i did that, check out 
 the game and see for yourself, Im glad I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The first Full Auto was the first game we saw in motion for the Xbox 360, at first it looked really 
 cool with all the explosions and the breakable stuff, but when finally got ahold of it, it was 
 mediocre; all the cars handled exactly the same, the cars felt really heavy, there wasn't a good 
 sense of speed, and there really isn't much of an improvement in this installment. 
  
  Average graphics, there's nothing special here, bad damage system*, and the cars sound pretty much 
 the same. The gamplay isn't fun, that's all I have to say about that. 
  
  I'm begining to think that Sega is loosing whatever talent they had; the latest Sonic games were 
 absolutely horrible, the only decent original games that they have put out in 5 years are the Condemmed 
 games. Fin.
  
  Completely off topic: The original Sonic games were great arcade titles; I really had a lot of 
 fun with them. The latests ones (I know they are aimed at kids) they were terrible, they need to 
 let Sonic die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narutofan30
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Why is GameSpot Haten on this game!!! I had more fun with this game then any racer before. There 
 saying the cars are bad! The Ferther you get the more SWEET CARS and Weapons you get! 
  
  Its realy a good game and the Grafics are amazing!!! So Its like a Fighter, Shooter, and Racing 
 game in One. You Have a car with gus and soot down people ether to win a race or a Battle. You 
 fight Smaller bosses and when you defeat them you get there car and then you fight a Boss and get 
 there car. So the More Races you win the more cars and weapons you get. Cars are in classes S, ABCD,
 
  
  After beating story and Getting to AWESOME S Rank Cars, You can Go Online, VS a Freind, or do free 
 play Battles and Races. Or do them before of imbetween the story. All the cars are avalible online 
 but the cars you get in Free Play Depend on what you unlocked in Stroy.
  
  So:
  Grafics: 10/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  Story: 9/10 Long Took me 3 (10 hour) days 
  Online: 5/10 Its 
 ok, But you cant comunicate and you mined as well play free play. But haveing all the cars is nice.
 
  Multiplayer/Free play: 9/10 Only 2 players. Having to unlock things is a way of life but It takes 
 forever!
  Rating: 9/10 
  It defenetly no 5.7/10 This game can compare to Burnout and Need for Speed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto 2 ain't no classic. But it doesn't want to be.
  
  In the end, it achieves what it sets out to do; entertain.
  
  The graphics are very good, and 
 while the handling could be a little more accurate - you'll get used to it's unique physics-defying 
 style.
  
  The game's a trickyone to master, mind you, and it'll take perseverance. For the first few hours 
 you'll find yourself just fighting to stay in one piece in what is an extremely destructable environment. 
 But, gradually, thinks become more about reactions than thought, and the career mode offers enough 
 to satisfy the player by this point.
  
  Some of the modes are good fun, but the "gladiator" option deserves to be singled out as one to 
 avoid. The career WILL make you play this quite a few times, and it's just not fun. You almost 
 feel like it was designed for foot battles, and the vehiicles just aren't agile enough for it to 
 be any fun.
  
  Overall, though, if you like your racing games loud, brash and ridiculous, you might find yourself 
 enjoying Full Auto 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Since i do not own a 360, i havne't played the first Full Auto. But, i liked Full Auto 2's appearance 
 and decided to check it out. I rented it from Blockbuster and sat down and played it. This game 
 is really fun! It has a wide lay out of cars and weapons to choose from all having their own different 
 uses for different tracks or other racing situations. It does look great using PS3's graphic technology 
 not perfectly, but to a good degree. There isn't much of a story in this game, except something 
 a long the lines of destroy these guys to save the city. That's basically it. The computer that 
 gives you info on the situation of the city and your progress can get really annoying or too harsh 
 on your failures. Some enemies cheat also, using better weapons than you even in the beginning 
 levels, but this gives more of a challenge. I don't know for sure if Full Auto 2: Battlelines is 
 the same thing as the previous version, but i still find it to be a racing game worth mentioning, 
 and achowloging to any peron looking for a fast paced trill driven game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bombfanatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  the game that got me into racing games. it mixed shooters and racing. I now play motorstorm thanks 
 to it. I recommend it to someone who likes racing games or shooters. the games campaign is fun 
 and can easily be replayed. the amount and various type of cars makes playing the game different 
 every time. great when you bored with a friend. The offline multiplayer adds more fun to the game. 
 so many ways to enjoy this game.
  the online multiplayer was fun. there weren't many people but it is playable. you can beet the 
 game and still have stuff to do with unlockable content to get after you beet the game. I still 
 play the game from time to time. its a decent party game. 
  the campaign puts you against criminals with great abilities. you fight bosses every few levels. 
 every level is exciting and full of action. the game is enjoyable for all. now with it's low price 
 it is a deal. it is worth every cent. grab a copy ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragster2000
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  this game after playing for a couple of hours was a complete let down 
  while playing i noticed the game got harder and harder as i went but not in the normal way 
  
 it went from easy to hard to very hard to insanely hard
  it just got worse and i only got about a quater into it and i just got stupidly hard so i just 
 gave up and got rid of it so wasent a good buy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froman2000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  full auto 2 is really fun. you go through a story mode that lets you unlock cars and weapons that 
 you can put to your use. you can choose from a primary weapon and a secondary weapon. all the cars 
 have bars that show you how much weapony that you can put onto your weapon. mutliplayer with your 
 friends is awesome on thsis game. with all of the action though the ps3 can freeze up. you can 
 pick from varius tracks included in teh game. its 2 player multiplayer so you can only play iwth 
 one more friend. on the courses there are some things that you can blow up to kill some of your 
 opponents. 
  online on this game is pretty fun too. it consist of just baout all of the things that i said about 
 the multiplayer. but there are ranked and unranked races that you can go on. 
  full auto 2 was pretty fun to me. if you want action, gun, rockets, and fast cars, you should go 
 and get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logan2k_17
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Now this is not the best game i have ever played but it is very addictive and extremely fun. The 
 graphics are not that bad although the multiplayer is very shoddy. This is a twisted metal clone 
 with a new age feel and a mediocre story. This does not mean it is a mediocre game. This is a mindless 
 action based racing game and you can't take away from the fact that it delivers exactly that. A 
 good selection of weapons vehicles, and mission, make up for the challenge and variety this game 
 forgets to deliver. Aside from that, just a time waster.... I liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSteve16
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  The first time I ever played Full Auto 2, I was impressed. It was fun, addictive, fast and furious. 
 For anybody who has ever played Full Auto2: Battlelines, they proberly know, I was playing multi- 
 player. Yes, if one player was as good as two player, this game could have gotten a 9 or a 10. 
 But no, one player offered hardly any fun, it was no where near addictive and it wasn 't a fast 
 or furious mode. The career mode see's you taking out some of the top crime gangs of the city. 
 It's a pretty simple plot and maybe thats the reason why it's so boring. Winning races, destroying 
 car's and doing odd jobs isn't as fun as it sounds and the only reason I decided to finish the 
 story mode was to unlock all the cool cars so I could play them in multiplayer. So the story mode 
 gets about a 3 or a 4 and the multiplayer gets about a 9 or 10. Based on these results I gave the 
 game a 6.5, but the two player really deserves more credit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalalchemist
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay --- 7
  
  The gameplay of Full Auto 2 is easily the best part. I mean Cars + Guns + Bigger Guns + Race to 
 the Death = FUN! Theres three main modes of play in Full Auto 2, Career (I beat the game) , Arcade, 
 and Online. I haven't played online yet so I can't exactly review that but I'll tell you about 
 the other two.
  
  Career mode is where you unlock all the cars, weapons, paint jobs, tracks, and other good stuff. 
 You basically compete in a tournament against a terrorist group called the Ascendants for the good 
 of Miridian City in a weak story with a bad ending. But forget the story, were here to play! You 
 face off against the Ascendants to unlock new cars and goodies in two different game types. The 
 first type is just a race with specific goals that need to be achieved. The second is just an all 
 out gladiator death match which also has goals to meet. You meet the goals, you move on. Nice and 
 easy. But maybe not so easy... Some of these races and death matches are just a pain and you'll 
 find yourself trying to beat them over and over and over. The last level is just plain annoying 
 as far as this goes. But other than that its still fun =]
  
  Arcade mode gets boring real quick unless if your playing with friends, so just stay with Career 
 and Online if you please.
  
  Other than that all I can say is there could have been more cars and maybe more weapons.
  
 
  Graphics --- 7
  
  We have to remember that we're in the next generation here so graphics need to be AMAZING to catch 
 my eye. Full Auto 2 had good graphics, they just could have been better. Games like Burnout 3 on 
 the PS2 are almost on par with these so I can't say too much there.
  
  But Full Auto 2 has almost completely destructable enviornments which is very nice. It also has 
 a very nice physics system and the cars damage quite nicely. So the graphics had some good points
 
  
  Sound --- 6
  
  The game has good in game sound but the music ruined it.
  
  The gameplay sounds are well done with explosions, shattering glass, machine guns, tires skidding, 
 etc. So thats all well and good, but then you have the music. Theres probably only like seven licensed 
 tracks, some of which are by good bands like Sum 41 and The Used. But they seem to switch back 
 fourth spontaneously with some techno and drumb n bass songs so you can barely hear them most of 
 the time. The songs they have are good (for the most part) , their just used horribly.
  
  Value --- 5
  
  You probably won't be playing this too long after you beat it.
  
  ---FINAL 
 RATING ---
  
  Graphics - 7
  
  Gameplay - 7
  
  Sound - 6
  
  Tilt - 7
  
  Value - 5
  
  Overall - 6.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NibbleZ_Killa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  ok so i got my full auto game like 3 months ago an after unlockin like 4 cars i put it away. WHY 
 becouse i had better games to play: P. then after i had no money to by new games i started the game 
 the game all over again becouse i deleted the data i had befor.
  ok in the first race u have a really ugly car thats hard to handle and is pretty slow and it looked 
 lik every thing gets smashed really fast u cant see were ur going or what ur doing but u get use 
 to it really fast. and after that level i never used that car again becouse there are better cars 
 [looking and faster wih better hadling]
  they use cars like cadillac escalate and giv them diffrent names. they looked really cool but you 
 couldnt rutat around the cars and that pissed me off. u could choose the colour u wanted for ur 
 car but they didnt have a big variety of colours to choose.
  THE WEAPONS: they had machine guns shotguns missils mines etc they had a great variety of weapon 
 they looked really cool to
  THE END the end was just ok not really any thing that wows u * i ant going to tell u what happens 
 favorite thing in the game was the fights in the arenas MAD COOL
  THANKS $ READIN MY REVEIW
  plz till me what u think of my first reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugattiveyron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game has been badly underrated by GS, this game should deserve a 7, at least ! Yes, the career 
 mode has a small story that is kinda dumb, but who cares, we bought this game to blow things up 
 and go fast ! And the missions change a lot, it varies from massacres ( kill all the opponents 
 ) to protecting ( which includes blowing stuff up too ! ) . Well, you usually don't have to destroy 
 every car in the race, it's kinda hard with machineguns and smokescreens ( these are the weapons 
 you have in the beginning ) . Ok, to the point. To complete a mission, you must complete the Primary 
 Objectives. But then there's also Secondary Objectives, which you have to complete to get some 
 of the cars, some of the weapons and to get skins.
  The cars vary too, from class A to D. A class cars are fast, but weak and class D cars are slow, 
 but durable. And then theres B and C, and they are something in between. Now the ones that have 
 completed, or have almost completed the story will start thinking Wait a minute, that's not all 
 ! , but let's keep as a secret, so that we won't spoil the noobs' fun. :)
  I always forget that I'm writing a review, not a factoid, but let's just say that Full Auto 2 rocks, 
 except it's hard to find people to race with in the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Next gen Twisted Metal 
  This has to be one of the best racing games I have ever played. Take a racing game, add guns, amazing 
 physics, awesome graphics, and tons of variety to get this game. Unlike most racing games where 
 you just race to be first, this has other objectives, like killing a specific enemy a certain amount 
 of times, or killing them all, or blowing up targets. You can race through buildings, leaving shattered 
 glass and concrete in your wake.
  
  The career mode is better than most racing games. You get a few primary objectives (ie: come in 
 first) and some secondary optional ones. The more objectives you complete the more stuff (Weapons, 
 cars, skins, levels) you unlock. This adds a ton of replay value to the game. Most levels aren't 
 that hard and can be beaten in one or two tries. Later on they get pretty hard, and you have to 
 work for it. And that's what makes it fun. You have to suck pretty hard to do bad at this game 
 though, it's the first racing game I've ever liked and I'm on the last level right now.
  
  The default controls suck, but once you change it to the legacy/classic controls that are pretty 
 much the same as the 360 version it's smooth sailing.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Full 1080p, high framerate except when you blow up large buildings, reflections 
 and bump maps galore. And the detail in the cars, and the damage modelling. The city is highly 
 detailed to, and it's just plain bliss to level it to rubble.
  
  The audio is great. The rev of the engine, the explosions, the weapons firing, the soundtrack, 
 all sound great in 5.1. I especially like the computer voice which sounds like Ziggy from Quantum 
 Leap.
  
  Some enhancements have been made over the 360 version. Most noticably a framerate increase, and 
 a complete removal of the v-sync tearing which plagues many 360 games. You now can select both 
 weapons rather than a weapon theme pack. The sense of speed is increased to the point where sometimes 
 it's hard to process all that's wizzing by at break-neck speeds. SIXAXIS's superior triggers solve 
 the Crazy Taxi finger pains associated with the Dreamcast style thin triggers of the 360 controller. 
 Arena mode (which lets you drive around Twisted Metal style) is a very welcome addition, and is 
 worth the price of admission alone. The turbo gauge no longer has to be full for you to use it, 
 which is a major change. And there are now Twisted Metal style power ups like temporary infinite 
 ammo or turbo, nuclear bombardment, health, etc. And last but not least, load times have received 
 a significant upgrade.
  
  Pros: It is in every way superior to the first game. Better graphics, controller, physics (environments 
 are even more destructable) , career mode is better than most racing games short of Gran Turismo 
 itself. Arena mode is a lot of fun.
  
  Cons: Some later levels get pretty difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkbengamer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Everybody loves a bit of destruction! And that is essentially what this game is based on. Driving 
 different cars with different weapons trying to destroy everything and everyone is destroyed! And 
 of course a good basis for a game is important. But somewhere in its production something from 
 the game was lost just like the first one, fun but not brilliant like it could be.
  
  The graphics are quite good. But then as next-gen graphics go actually they're not really so thats 
 a weak spot but not the big problem. The sound is in all ways terrible: the music, if you can call 
 it that, is rubbish, the gun sounds aren't really all that realistic and the cars don't really 
 make much noise at all. But still thats not the underlying problem.
  
  The car selection is uninspired. They're not real cars, just as in motorstorm, but in motorstorm 
 the cars were still a good point because they were imaginative and fun. The Full Auto cars on the 
 other hand are boring. And thats a problem because with no actual characters the cars are essentially 
 spoken of as the bad guys rather than the driver. And that lack of character leaves the storyline 
 weak and less engaging than many game plots. Which of course leaves the career less exciting than 
 possible. This is the problem with the game, its not so engaging as is possible but there are other 
 reasons for that to.
  
  The gameplay: this is of course the biggest factor in a game. This is a bit of a mixed bag. Firstly 
 I like the game modes like tam gladiator and base attack etc. But the car handling is highly unrealistic 
 (as are the game physics but it would be boring if they were realistic) and the level of enjoyment 
 of blowing each other up just wears off after a short while. And thats why its stops being engaging 
 it just gets boring blowing each other up think of some more ways of destroying each other for 
 the 3rd one and maybe it will then finally become the game it always should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosebumpsfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the best multiplayer game I have for the PS3. Better than any racing game other than GT4 
 (Gran Turismo 4) . The gameplay, graphics, and sound is just right. The whole game was a big demolition 
 derby. I have never been so impressed with a game. Being good in all ways. Head to Head, Career, 
 and Arcade this game is the Best of the Best. I think people should be complaining about Motorstorm 
 and complimenting this game. These PS3 games can have their ups and downs. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone. This game expresses PLAYING B3YOND . However, I conclude and give this a PERFECT 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Continuing my Ps2 Vs original 360 game trials I thought I'd give FA 2 a spin, well if it was crap 
 then I could take it back so nothing lost! Well lets put it this way, I bought the game at 1pm, 
 played it at around 2pm and took it back to the shop at 3pm! I really enjoyed the 360 edition of 
 FA and really thought that the additional tweaks and extra's would make the Ps3 version even better, 
 WRONG! TERRIBLE TERRIBLE gameplay killed this game instantly! You have NO idea what your car is 
 doing, there's absolutely no sense that your actually controlling the car. Its just a mess in everyway 
 possible. They shouldn't have called this a driving game more a 'gliding game'. Its pants with 
 a HUGE capitial P. After having a reasonably good game on the 360 how did this go so very badly 
 wrong!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CookieMcC
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty disappointed with this title, after looking at the box and images online. I wish I'd 
 played a demo first before forking out my money.
  
  I probably wouldn't have bought it if i had.
  
  If you like racing games that have a control 
 of Burnout, you may be happy. It seems you can never take a corner right. I always end up smashing 
 into the corner on the inside, or going wide and ending up exploding against some wall somewhere.
 
  
  After getting used to it for a while, I realised that although I was finding it hard to control, 
 I was generally quite into it. Not sure why, perhaps it was a voice inside me forcing me to like 
 the game after spending &pound;49.99 on it. I'd moved through a few levels, unlocked some new cars, 
 new weapons, and was starting to control better, but there are limits to what you can do.
  
  The idea of shooting and driving has always been good (Lucky &amp; Wild, anyone?) and this 
 game tries to do it well, but the truth is, unless you have your target directly in front of your 
 reticule, you'll find it hard to blast them and stay on course at the same time. Unless you have 
 three thumbs.
  
  The music is ok I guess, nothing special. Just about what you'd expect from a destructive racer. 
 The graphics were a little disappointing to me, I could easily see this game appearing on a PS2 
 instead of it's younger but bigger brother. They just didn't wow me like Motorstorm and Formula 
 1. It's a pretty hard game, if you're planning to attempt unlocking every single thing you can. 
 Alot of the secondary objectives will be very hard to get, and I'll probably miss a load out. In 
 total it probably took me about an hour to get to a reasonable control level. I've got loads of 
 driving games that only took me a few minutes, so that was a little disappointing too. I couldn't 
 just jump right in.
  
  Trying to connect to multiplayer wasn't much good, after searching all game types, I saw a greatly 
 hefty one other person online. Since you need 4 players minimum to get in game, I didn't wait to 
 see what happened. I'll try again after a few days. Some others might get online in the meantime.
 
  
  Overall, if you're just looking for something to pass the time (and you have money to throw away) 
 then this might be up your street. Enjoyable once you've mastered it, and gives a good feeling 
 of relieved aggression when you blow your opponents up. If you want something solid, deep, and 
 long-lasting, you'd better wait for something else. This game could have been far better. I for 
 one am thinking of seeing if I can take it back and swap it for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8erBoy1993
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto 2: Battlelines is a good game if you just feel like blowing up stuff and racing. You 
 first pick a car then pick one primary weapon then a secondary weapon. the career mode is a little 
 hard but once you get good cars and weapons it gets easier. The multiplayer is ok not alot of features. 
 There are two cheats for this game but youll have to look them up yourself i dont want to give 
 them away. You can get different powerups like unlimited boost and fire bombs. Its a pyromaniac 
 rececar drivers fantasy game. Its almost like a demolition rally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Do NOT buy this game! Plain and simple! you WILL waste your money! The graphics are great, but 
 thats about all you're going to get from this game! If is stupid and old-fashioned. It is rip-off 
 of the twisted metal genious, but did a terrible job at it. The game play is so simple it will 
 bore you within the hour. If you are thinking about getting a play station 3 game, look somewhere 
 else. You will have more fun playing twisted metal than you will ever have playing this game. Save 
 yourself the 60 bucks and the headache. It will be a waste of money and time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is good enough to write a review about but the game could have been way more better than 
 how it is now. this game is cool how you can shoot other cars ,block their view with smokescreen, and 
 throw gernades at players but this game, but this game was'nt what i expected it to be like. the 
 controls are kind of tricky, the cars are too fast, and there are never pedestrians. this game is 
 missing a whole lot of things but it is worth it to play it. i like the game but it's not that good. i 
 give this game one thing though, it sure has alot of graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RapMatster
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto 2 if u wer to look at the case of this game, u would probably think that its a game to 
 want play because of its nice graphics and variaty of cars.
  But its the total opposite from that the cars in Full Auto 2 are great but their handling is terrible, 
 espiecially when making turns in the races.
  Heres the overall:
  
  The GooDs: 2
  1) The graphics are pretty nice
  2) The cars are good looking
  
  The BaDs: 5
  1) The story 
 mode is pretty bad because of boring races and junk prizes.
  2) Game gets very boring fast
  3) Car handling is terrible
  4) Very Difficult to complete all tasks in races
  5) Prizes for 
 winning races are crap, such as car decals Overall I think to just sit this game out and get a 
 better destuctive racer, such as Twisted Metal or Destruction Derby. At least those wont bore u 
 to death after playing it for a hour or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelRush
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Full Auto 2, it sounded incredible. Cars with weapons on them, how could can 
 you go wrong with that concept? Therein lies the problem with this game. The game just falls short 
 of living up to it's fun premise. The tracks, the cars, everything is uninspired in this game. 
 The story is not interesting at all, and does nothing to keep you interested. This game has so 
 much untapped potential, it's sad really.
  
  As far as the graphics, they are alright, but do tend to chug at very intense moments. The sound, 
 like everything else in the game is uninspired. Nothing in this game gets you excited. I'd recommend 
 anyone looking at this game to either move along, or just download the demo from PSN, as that offers 
 the full game experience unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smith447
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my ps3, not by my choice my dad got it for me. I played it for a little while, 
 maybe like an hour, and then i started to get bored. Not like I suck at this game so im not going 
 to play it anymore bored, but like this game sucks bored. haha. I have to say though the graphics 
 are pretty nice, and I havn't seen any glitches yet, although i havnt played it much. You have 
 a computer that talks to you and it's pretty messed up, but that's just me. It's a game that i 
 wouldn't even bother renting, it would be a waste of money. This game should be in the 4.99 bin 
 at your local used game store. There's nothing else that i can really say, it's not a good game. 
 There's been so many games like this in gaming history it's just getting old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  his has to be one of the best racing games I have ever played. Take a racing game, add guns, amazing 
 physics, awesome graphics, and tons of variety to get this game. Unlike most racing games where 
 you just race to be first, this has other objectives, like killing a specific enemy a certain amount 
 of times, or killing them all, or blowing up targets. You can race through buildings, leaving shattered 
 glass and concrete in your wake.
  
  The career mode is better than most racing games. You get a few primary objectives (ie: come in 
 first) and some secondary optional ones. The more objectives you complete the more stuff (Weapons, 
 cars, skins, levels) you unlock. This adds a ton of replay value to the game. Most levels aren't 
 that hard and can be beaten in one or two tries. Later on they get pretty hard, and you have to 
 work for it. And that's what makes it fun. You have to suck pretty hard to do bad at this game 
 though, it's the first racing game I've ever liked and I'm on the last level right now.
  
  The default controls suck, but once you change it to the legacy/classic controls that are pretty 
 much the same as the 360 version it's smooth sailing.
  
  The graphics are amazing. Full 1080p, high framerate except when you blow up large buildings, reflections 
 and bump maps galore. And the detail in the cars, and the damage modelling. The city is highly 
 detailed to, and it's just plain bliss to level it to rubble.
  
  The audio is great. The rev of the engine, the explosions, the weapons firing, the soundtrack, 
 all sound great in 5.1. I especially like the computer voice which sounds like Ziggy from Quantum 
 Leap.
  
  Some enhancements have been made over the 360 version. Most noticably a framerate increase, and 
 a complete removal of the v-sync tearing which plagues many 360 games. You now can select both 
 weapons rather than a weapon theme pack. The sense of speed is increased to the point where sometimes 
 it's hard to process all that's wizzing by at break-neck speeds. SIXAXIS's superior triggers solve 
 the Crazy Taxi finger pains associated with the Dreamcast style thin triggers of the 360 controller. 
 Arena mode (which lets you drive around Twisted Metal style) is a very welcome addition, and is 
 worth the price of admission alone. The turbo gauge no longer has to be full for you to use it, 
 which is a major change. And there are now Twisted Metal style power ups like temporary infinite 
 ammo or turbo, nuclear bombardment, health, etc. And last but not least, load times have received 
 a significant upgrade.
  
  Pros: It is in every way superior to the first game. Better graphics, controller, physics (environments 
 are even more destructable) , career mode is better than most racing games short of Gran Turismo 
 itself. Arena mode is a lot of fun.
  
  Cons: Some later levels get pretty difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I am seriously starting to rethink my video game rental membership. After renting Untold Legends, 
 Genji and this game for the Playstation 3, its definitely starting to feel like I jumped the gun 
 on buying the PS3. As it stands, right now it is simply a very expensive wireless controller for 
 my old PS2 games and its missing dual-shock so even that kind of bites. All of these release games 
 are doing little to bolster my confidence in the big shiny brick that is the new Sony system. Full 
 Auto 2 has some story about trying to stop some gang of some sort or another called the Ascendants. 
 Im honestly not too sure to be honest; you dont play games like this for their award winning 
 stories so I wasnt paying attention to the annoying computer voice. Thats how this games story 
 unfolds by the way; you are spoken to by this annoying over computerized voice. She also gives 
 you tips and such along the way, but all of it is really common sense. The career mode is probably 
 the biggest lump of turd I have ever had the privilege to play. You are given a bunch of annoying 
 objectives and side objectives that you need to complete during each level to beat it and unlock 
 things. While it doesnt seem all that bad at first, where you are told to complete laps in X amount 
 of time or take out five enemies, it quickly enters annoying territory. You will encounter levels 
 where during the race you must take out a certain competitor and take a high rank in the race. 
 Now this isnt all that hard at first glance because a symptom of blowing up other racers is that 
 you gain positions. Its actually a reliable way of gaining places in the races with the bigger 
 cars. Blow up the opposition, gain a rank, go after the next guy and repeat. But you would be ever 
 so wrong if this sounds like its easy. The developers knew that we would see this sort of thing 
 as actually fun. Well as we know, some game developers are loathe to allow their games to actually 
 be fun, they must be challenging. But not challenging in that Ghouls n Ghosts way, it is challenging 
 in that so annoying you pull your hair out sort of way. As you try to race down and destroy these 
 targets, the other racers on the track arent going to simply race and try to gun you down. They 
 are going to stop in their tracks, turn around and follow you around trying to destroy you. So 
 not only is it you versus four or more enemies, they are all going to do their best to follow you 
 around and destroy you as a team. Yeah, that is real fun. The controls in this game are fairly 
 awkward feeling at first, with the buttons spread out all over the controller. It seems very hard 
 to control, and it is at first, but with time you will eventually get used to where the buttons 
 are. Thats not so say that you will get used to controlling this game however, dont make the 
 mistake of believing this. The car controls are so sloppy and haphazard feeling that there is no 
 point where you feel comfortable controlling the cars. You will be surprised at how fast you end 
 up going and how often you slide out during a turn and go right into a wall. This honestly doesnt 
 bother me at all in the faster cars, high speed often comes hand in hand with high impact, but 
 with the bigger trucks it seems kind of silly. The graphics for this game are top notch, but this 
 works against you quite often. The cars all look fabulous as does the surrounding city. Its a 
 bit odd that the only pedestrians you will see are other cars, but this was likely done to avoid 
 an M rating, so its understandable. But everything you could want to see in this game looks great, 
 whether you and another car are swapping paint or if you are smashing through a storefront or into 
 a wall. Brick walls break, glass shatters and cars crumple all in very realistic ways. However, 
 there are a lot of explosions to be had in this game and it seriously works against you. Sure, 
 the explosions and the ensuing cloud of smoke and dust looks fabulous, but it comes at a heavy 
 price. There will be times where the screen becomes so saturated with explosions and debris with 
 dust and smoke flying all over and you will not be able to see a thing. While this is realistic, 
 it does make the whole racing part of this game a very dicey proposition. Especially considering 
 the fact that the computer AI makes little to no mistakes during the race, all it takes is one 
 crash due to lots of smoke and debris and you are pretty much guaranteed last place if you dont 
 know the course like the back of your hand. The audio is fairly lackluster in this game as well. 
 Now this isnt to say that it is bad per se, but more that it doesnt really stand out very much. 
 You have your typical sounds of deadly weapons being throw about, missiles and machine guns and 
 the like, and you also have the sounds of explosions, crashes and the like. This is all to be expected, 
 but added to the sub-par computer voice that you are forced to listen to and the lack of interesting 
 music and you have some pretty sub-par audio to deal with. What you really get with Full Auto 2: 
 Battlelines is a decent enough game that really doesnt do anything all too well. The racing isnt 
 the best, and this hurts because it is part racing game. The car combat isnt the best because 
 the enemies are far too smart, they gang up on you and are generally ten times better than you 
 are. Basically, this game takes the frustrating, omnipotent and team minded AI of the Twisted Metal 
 games and meshes it with the over necessity to memorize every shortcut in every stage, a serious 
 necessity in racing games. This leaves you to hunker along, dealing with the games annoying flaws 
 in the hopes to milk a decent experience out of it. It is possible, but this is very much a matter 
 of taste.
  
  Pros: The game looks great, there are a nice variety of cars and weapons and the particle effects 
 are wonderful.
  
  Cons: You cant see a bloody thing once explosions start, the enemy AI is totally flawless, game 
 is hard but in an annoying way and the controls are too loose feeling.
  
  Score: 6
  
  Recommendation: Rent this game and see if you enjoy it. If by some miracle you do, then you can 
 consider if it is worth the price to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first Full-Auto game so much on the XBOX 360. I still have that game and it's just 
 cool as helll so I was amped to get this game. It's the 2nd PS3 game I bought. It's missing something. 
 It seems like it's a port from the PSP like it was made for the PSP and they didn't do anything 
 to it but bring it over to the PS3........ maybe I'm wrong. I'm still getting some enjoyment out 
 of it but it's just not what I expected. Some of the campaign is so damn hard I was ready to punch 
 my hi-def TV right through the wall. The first one was not so aggravating. And the first one just 
 seemed so fluid. and smooth. Whereas this one feels kind of choppy.. I'm still gonna play it and 
 hopefully finish it but I just have to say I'm a bit disappointed. This could have been a great 
 game. I dunno. Sorry Full Auto...... I really wanted it to be greatt I have to say it's just pretty 
 good. First of all the controller setup I found after a couple of days was one thing that was annoying 
 the crap out of me. What they did to the L2 and R2 buttons on the new sixaxis controller I think 
 is unneccesary and not practical. And in the default controls for the game R2 is the accelerate 
 button... it just feels crappy. One I switched it back to classic controls it works better. But 
 still the feel you have when driving is pretty bad even for an arcade-style game it's pretty bad. 
 In Full-Auto 1 the driving by no means was realistic but it was fun at least. Oh well....... I'd 
 say rent it or borrow a friend's I almost took it back and traded it in but I like to collect games 
 so I haven't. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gory-Gamer-25
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Game looked really cool from commercials but when i got it it was a total letdown the graphics 
 are great dont get me wrong but the game itself just sucked big time it bored me within like a 
 week started playing was okay but i think we should leave the cars with guns to the twisted metal 
 games!!! And i realized is that when one thing blows up its like a chain reaction and everything 
 starts blowing up and it gets really excessive like if you hit a car and it blows up all of a sudden 
 a train blows up and then more cars oil cans buildings busses and all that crap its just severely 
 excessive and it just bugs the crap out of me and i think its a big rip-off of the twisted metal 
 games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  OK this is my review about full auto 2 battlelines for ps3.
  ok first if all the sound
  
  SOUND: The sound sucked MAN!, seriously god like those stupid soundtracts it puts on while ur playing 
 like i am glad i rented it!
  
  GRAPHICS: The grahpics are good and not the best of the best tho, there pretty much like xbox 360 
 and not (ps3 like) which is gorgeus.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Here comes the fun part!!! this games game play is **** terribiel seriously!!!!, dont play 
 this game!!!, like i just dont get it . whats with the stupid car combat if theres a evil empire 
 invading a stupid city, i suggest using troops, millitary vehicles like tanks, fighter aircraft, jeeps, and 
 so on....
  and that would be alot more fun!!! not bringing ur cheap un-licsensced car and putting a gay and 
 fake looking machin gun or a stupid ram jeez... MuLT-PLAYER-I saw the videos at gamespot about 
 this game (sighs)
  and i said ooo look at the multi-player its gonna be loads of fun ok i rent the game next morning 
 and boot my ps3 up what do i see? nobody playing first of all -----and dont forget if u want fun 
 in multi-player get call of duty 3 !!! man its the ****
  
  Value: A game to rent not buy but plz if ur in canada and go to rogers video dont waist ur 7.00 
 dollors on crap!
  
  Overall: i already told u .its a very gay game
  
  I HOPE MY REVIEW HELP U AND PLEASE AVOID THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto 2: Battlelines is the PS3 follow up to last years Full Auto for the Xbox 360. One would 
 think that with an extra year of development FA2 would fix the issues with FA1 but for the most 
 part that isnt the case.
  
  One of the biggest issues with Full Auto was that none of the cars had a sense of weight to them. 
 They all felt really floaty and equally controlled that way. Battlelines does fix that problem 
 and adds some weight to the cars. Unfortunately the actual car controls still feel a bit loose 
 which can hamper your experience during a race.
  
  The first Full Auto bragged about its fully destructible environments, which in the case of gameplay 
 really didnt affect the race. Battlelines does add a few more interactive pieces which will affect 
 the course of the race. Shooting a stack of pipes will cause them to roll onto the street blocking 
 the road for the racers behind you. While the destructibility is cool it still feels a bit unrefined 
 in terms of actual gameplay uses.
  
  Pseudo Interactive had an extra year to polish the games graphics for the PS3 but the finished 
 product is just a bit meh. While the game manages a steady frame rate and the visuals of seeing 
 object get blown up is cool, the overall graphics arent that much of a step up from the 360 version. 
 Even though you wont be able to fully analyze the graphics due to the fast speeds youre racing, 
 the game does feature some sketchy textures if you slow down. The art design of the various courses 
 is decent but theyre not anything you havent seen before and there is no definitive style like 
 the Burnout titles. The actual cars and visual effects are decent but once again theyre not anything 
 you cant do on the 360 and look somewhat poor compared to a game like Motorstorm.
  
  Driving your car is sharp for the most part but drifting around corners is a bit loose and can 
 result in total spinouts. Shooting vehicles is pretty effortless but there are a few problems. 
 The circle and x button handle your primary and secondary weapons while the right analog stick 
 handles targeting. Its a bit hard to get a precision shot via the right analog stick when you 
 use one of the face buttons to fire despite R3 being a secondary fire button.
  
  Battlelines has the standard race modes, career, online, and arcade. Arcade mode is straight up 
 action, career mode has a series of events with different objectives. Unlike Full Autos career 
 mode, Battlelines actually attempts a laughable excuse of a story for the career mode. You play 
 as an undercover agent who is being helped by a female A. I computer named SAGE, with her help you 
 need to take down a gang that is holding these dangerous tournaments in the city. Before each race 
 youll have to listen to some pretty lame dialogue from SAGE. The career mode is ok but it wouldve 
 been better without the story.
  
  Just like Full Auto you can customize your cars with various weapons both in the front and rear. 
 There really isnt anything different between the previous installment and the newest one. You 
 still have the standard smoke screens, machine guns, and shotgun armaments that you can equip on 
 the various cars which range from sedans and SUVs.
  
  The online aspects of Battlelines are decent if youre aching for some vehicular combat. Battlelines 
 uses Gamespy and not the Playstation Network Platform but you dont need to make an extra account, 
 itll automatically use you PNP account. Online racing has a few modes and race options for users 
 to choose from. When playing online there is no lag so the experience is equal to the single player 
 one.
  
  If youre aching for a PS3 Burnout or the next Twisted Metal the perhaps you should give Full Auto 
 Battlelines a shot. Its not a perfect title and after half an hour of play you wouldve seen everything 
 the game has to offer. And if youve played the 360 version then you pretty much have played Battlelines. 
 Battlelines is a rent and not a buy in the end unless youre really desperate for some PS3 games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestorm91
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Full Auto 2: Battlelines is a car combat game for Playstation 3 and the first Full Auto was originally 
 released for Xbox 360. Full Auto 2 features lots of destruction with customizing cars, putting 
 guns on them, and using tons of force to destroy basically anything. It's too bad that the game 
 isn't as great as it sounds. The gameplay in Full Auto 2 is a bit annoying. The first thing you 
 will think is Wow! This game is awesome! but once you get into the game, it does get a bit repetitive. 
 As you get further in the story mode, it gets unbelievably hard. It's not impossible but it's hard, 
 trust me. Shooting is a little annoying, sure it's cool at the beginning but the aiming for guns 
 are just terrible. Some players will get messed up with the controls but it might take some time 
 to get used to. For some reason, I didn't like the driving style in this game. It's probably because 
 it's too arcade-ish. Anyways, the gameplay isn't that great.
  
  The graphics are nothing to die for in Full Auto 2 but they are great. The vehicles are well done 
 along with the gun models. The destruction sequences look very cool, when you destroy buildings 
 and tear them up with your guns, it looks amazing. The design for the levels look actually pretty 
 good. There are skins for vehicles that you unlock, some look cool, some look like crap. It's just 
 a matter of what you like. In the end, the graphics are great.
  
  The sound is okay in Full Auto 2. The engines sound, well, not bad. The gunfire sounds pretty good. 
 The game features an online mode and a 2 player mode. Both are fun but there aren't many players 
 online. Playing with a friend would be the best value for this game.
  
  Overall, Full Auto 2: Battlelines isn't a bad game but it's definitely not worth a purchase. Features 
 a bunch of cool weapons and cars but has an annoying style of playing. Not as great as it sounds 
 but it's maybe a weekends' rental for any player that wants this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racefan48
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is a desent game for a while. The gameplay is repetitve and starts getting dull after 
 a while. This game kept me entertained for about 3 days but that is just me. This game is like 
 twisted metal just better graphics and it is for the playstation 3. The levels are just as desctructive 
 as they always were. The cars look really nice and also the enviroments are well detailed. The 
 damage has been improved. If you played the first one their is no need to play this one. If you 
 liked the first one then you should like the second one. This is a game that you rent not buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game deserves well above a 5.7. ign gave it a 7.8, which is better, but still deserves better. 
 I wasnt a huge fan of the Twisted Metal games so i didnt know if i was going to like this, but 
 i sure do. i love this game. the career is not stupid, it seems like a fps storyline, just with 
 cars and guns. The graphics are excellent. especially with the HD, i play in 720p and its incredible. 
 the gameplay keeps me playing for hours at a time, and the sound is about par with other games. 
 I am almost done with the game, but there is still tons of online which is super fun, and more 
 unlockables that you can get. I recommend this game to anyone who is wating for all the huge game 
 releases coming in the months to come. Trust me, its a great game! do not believe gamespot's rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that I don't like racing games, but I do love car combat games such as Twisted Metal 
 , Interstate '76 and other such games. So I figured I'd give this game a try -- hey, how bad can 
 it be?
  Sadly, this game is just plain bad. It lacks any kind of depth and lacks any sort of enjoyment. 
 While it does have guns and your car can destroy other cars, the basic point of this game is nothing 
 but racing, racing, racing. The game boasts about being able to customize your vehicles to your 
 liking, but really the customization lacks any sort of depth at all. The gameplay is clumsy, the 
 sound is crappy, the music sucks, and even the graphics don't look that good for a PS3 game. The 
 game seems rushed in almost every aspect.
  
  This game is just not fun. If you like racing games you might enjoy it, but most likely you will 
 not. I'm glad I rented this game and didn't make the mistake of buying it.
  
  The game is a disappointment through-and-through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Despite Full Auto's absolutely pathetic attempt at a storyline and its God-awful reviews, its fun. 
 The game provides you with a pleasing array of differing vehicles and, most importantly, an amazing 
 arsenal. The arena battles aren't that bad, I actually find them pretty fun, but the races are 
 a blast. Now, I do have my PS3 hooked up to a 1080p HDTV via HDMI, but the graphics are still beautiful. 
 I think that's one of the strongest parts of the game; how amazing it looks. If it makes any sense, 
 as a game, FA2 isn't your brightest pick. But for fun, it's extremely entertaining. Full Auto 2 
 is at least worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  First off, don't trust Gamespot's review of this game because they obviously don't know what they 
 are talking about. This game is game is a big jump forward from the one on the 360. The gameplay 
 in this one is extremely fun and addicting, and although it does have a couple control issues these 
 aren't enough to turn you off from the game. The graphics in this game are simply beautiful. Everywhere 
 you turn there is a highly detailed building and when you blow them up there are frequent hi-def 
 explosions that will satisfy anyone's need for destruction. The only noticeable problem in this 
 game is the sound. About every 20 seconds the sound will do a little skip. Overall I think this 
 game is worth your time and your money and I don't think you should miss out on this title if you 
 have PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  In all politeness I have to disagree with the full review in a few aspects. One highly criticized 
 point of this game is realism, but this is not the aim of the game. The game has a few different 
 modes of play, but all of them are fast-paced and clearly made for multiplater action. The singleplayer 
 mode lacks story, but the focus in singleplayer mode is to introduce different aspects of the game 
 and game modes rather than dazzle you with its plot.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay is spread out amongst five different modes, but when broken down to their basics, 
 they stick closely to the original two modes which are Race and Gladiator. In race mode you will 
 find yourself in a high-paced action packed competition for first place, even if your opponent 
 is faster, or you crash and he passes you, the weaponry equiped on your vehicle can allow you to 
 either desimate his car directly or make use of the many destructable items in the enviroment to 
 regain your rightful place. In gladiator mode you find a gangsterized demolition derby where your 
 sole purpose in life is to destroy everything you can.
  One drawback is a lack of differentiation between levels, however this is pretty common amongst 
 car games so its not too shabby.
  
  Graphics: 9
  They are next gen quality and thats all you want out of release titles.
  
  Sound: 6
  Pretty 
 basic sound effects and lacks in good music to match the high-speed action the game presents.
 
  
  Value: 8
  A very enjoyable game for most, though I suggest you rent it first.
  
  Personal Tilt: 7
  Its a game I can enjoy with my friends though the singleplayer ends up being 
 a chore to obtain vehicles and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subleak
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great on HDTV's in higher resolutions. Too many car explosions near the screen will 
 produce a mild video lag that can be annoying. As for non-HDTV's the UI scales horribly making 
 it hard to see your car during car selection as well as an odd screen slowdown during menu option 
 changes (Not a problem on HDTV's) . The storyline isn't very immersive, truthfully i was hoping 
 for a little more then what was provided. Solo game play is enjoyable for a few hours of play, 
 as well as multi player battles. Car physics do need work, personally i was hoping for more of 
 a Twisted Metal feel driving.
  
  Again worth the rental if available, though i wouldn't recommend buying the game unless you really 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  well full auto 2 is much better than full auto 1 the gameplay has increased sound very much and 
 graphics very much i thought it was not going to be a good game but it actually was i got it today 
 for christmas and opened it up along with call of duty 3 and resistance not as good as those but 
 pretty good i like this game and i think a lot of people will like it to and the only thing i dont 
 like is the story is kinda wierd and farout. but i say its a must buy for ps3 and a must rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james3579
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot seems to have an overwhelming bias when it comes to anything PS3. Lately, their reviews 
 are all wrong, but if you want a good review, check out ign ;)
  
  Anway, this game is pretty damn good, definatly an improvement over the first game in every way, 
 despite what gamespot thinks.
  
  The combat is top notch, the sense of speed is great, the framerate holds solid, and the destructions 
 look great.
  
  The mulitplayer is a blast, endless hours I have spent on it, and im still not bored! The game 
 options are pretty much all a blast, the destructable levels let you crush up your enemies really 
 good :D
  
  Definatly a must buy for PS3 owners. (Despite what TeamXbox2 (gamespot) thinks!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxFull-LifexX
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  It seems Sega has been experiencing a downfall, in recent history, as far as the quality of games. 
 As far as Full autos quality is concerned, very run down. The game has almost no improvements over 
 it's predecessor. Lack of online communication leaves much to be desired. Graphics are mostly unimproved. 
 However the frame rate seems much more fluid this round even in the largest action sequences. In 
 single play AI is shaken and engagingly dull, besides those times you throw your six-axis controller 
 at your new mahogany coffee table in frustration over the games numerous glitches. And believe 
 me, that table is probably worth more than your life, so, don't purchase this game children. (Unless 
 you want step daddy to break out the salad forks again) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokifa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  i enjoed playing it for the first hour. you should rent it first. i got the first so i might trade 
 the 2 one. although the story is a little dumb u shuld still trie to beat it. full auto 2 is ok 
 remember it is kind of like the first. jak x is funner and story will keep u interested over all 
 full auto is fun at first but if you have the first, just keep it like that. there is no point 
 in getting the second one but you could rent it and give it a try. if they made a second full auto 
 they should make a sevond or sequal to jak x combat raceing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMonster360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto 2: Battlelines brings so much more to the table than the original on the XBox 360, it's 
 no wonder it's a sequel. The additions of both single and multiplayer modes have added much needed 
 depth to the game.
  
  Modes online are probably the strongest point. From Base Assault to Cat &amp; Mouse to the old 
 classic Arena Mode, the game play online is something that any racing, shooter, or video game fan 
 could find something to like about.
  
  The graphics are slick and run amazingly on 1080p.
  
  I can't wait for more Full Auto and am 
 EAGERLY awaiting the PSP version now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Full auto battlelines is a great way to make up time for the wait of Burnout 5, in a couple of 
 ways it feels a little like burnout (except for the guns and rewind time part) the crash cam is 
 there and the joy of ramming someone into a wall is still there.
  
  The overall gameplay is great fun but can kind of get repetitive and repetitive is not a good thing 
 in a game in my mind. Sega needs to change the gameplay a little so it isnt the same old thing 
 each race.
  
  Graphics are basically the same but the world level of destruction and detail has risen. The sound 
 can get a bit repetitive with the constant chattering of your gun, they need to pick better tracks 
 for the music as well.
  
  You will start to play the online for hours and hours in the arena mode because blowing up someone 
 around the other side of the world never gets old.
  
  I a hoping for a third installment of full auto series and to see if they will improve on the gameplay, 
 graphics, framerate and length. Overall the game is a great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The next installment of Full Auto is a good one. Let me tell you why. The graphics are pretty sweet 
 and the controls are great. What i really like about this game is the enviorements. You can make 
 walls collapse on your opponents or make have 10 barrels roll onto the field causing crazy explosions. 
 And not every level is a race. There is even some levels where you have to get the most kills. 
 No laps just kills. The vehicles are much better too with better weapons and much better detail. 
 Full Auto 2 is a must purchase if you enjoyed Full Auto on the 360.
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  Super crisp graphics with some great detail. Beautiful explosions and much more.
  
  Sound - 
 9
  Awesome soundtrack and with surround sound hooked up its a whole new world. You can hear other 
 crashes from behind you, next to you, in front of you. Surround sound! BRILLIANT!!
  
  Value - 9.5
  Along with a fantastic single player mode comes a great multiplayer mode. It is 
 loads of fun online and will have you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  It's been 10 months since the last Full Auto came out on the Xbox360. This time Full Auto 2 Battlelines 
 is on the PS3. I wasn't too crazy about Full Auto for the 360 the game had terrible framerate issues 
 and the sound and graphics weren't that great. So from the previews and review I decided to give 
 the sequel a chance. I've noticed there's a little enhancement on the graphics the second time 
 around. But the framerate which is still there from the last game but not as bad as the 360 version. 
 You have 4 different type of game modes in the game. You have Career more where you have a couple 
 of objectives to complete in order to move on the next level. It's broken up into 2 objectives 
 Primary and Secondary objectives. As long as you complete one of them you'll probably move on the 
 next level. Depending on the objectives you complete you unlock weapons and cars for your career 
 mode. The next mode in the game is Arcade which is all the tracks and cars that you unlock in the 
 single player are all available for you to play with. Another mode is Head to Head this is where 
 you play with a friend on split screen where you guys battle it out in a arena and racing. And 
 then there's Online Mode where you go online to face other PS3 online members to racing and battle 
 it on in a arena. The sound in the game is a little better from the first game and the car models 
 look much better. You have a three different types of cars in the game exotics, Pick up trucks, 
 and muscle. If you like games like burnout and if you like the first full auto than you should 
 definitely check this game out. It's an improvement from the first game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
