-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Genji: Days of the Blade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/genji/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great graphics and sound show off some of what the PlayStation 3 can do.
 four considerably different playable characters plus multiple unique weapons.
 some exciting boss battles and other impressive set pieces.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Level design is often dull, and sometimes frustrating and confusing.
 repetitive hack-and-slash combat rarely demands much skill or finesse.
 some noticeable cut corners throughout the story make the game feel rushed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 5.8, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 1,117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Game Republic
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While this action adventure game flexes a bit of the PlayStation 3's graphical muscle, its rather 
 shallow, derivative gameplay makes it difficult to recommend. 

  One of the first games available exclusively for the PlayStation 3, Genji: Days of the Blade is 
 the sequel to a PlayStation 2 action game from last year, which was inspired by the legendary adventures 
 of a duo of warriors from Japan's ancient history. You don't need prior experience with the original 
 to dive right into this one because some opening cutscenes set the stage for the many hack-and-slash 
 battles to come. Genji features vibrantly colored, high-definition visuals and some exciting showdowns. 
 But once you get past the pretty pictures, you'll find a conventional, simple, sometimes-frustrating 
 experience that feels rushed in spots. It's as if the priority was to gussy up the graphics rather 
 than flesh out the gameplay. Although the graphics really are the best thing about it, a decent 
 story and pretty good combat system make Genji worth playing. So, as a technical showcase for the 
 PS3, Genji's good; but as a game, it's just OK.  

          Days of the Blade is a basic hack-and-slash action game with much better than average graphics. 
     

  Genji: Days of the Blade picks up soon after the original Genji: Dawn of the Samurai left off, 
 and the introduction summarizes what happened in the first episode. Once again, the hero of the 
 story is Yoshitsune, an noble young master swordsman charged with defending the Genji clan, led 
 by his own brother, against its rivals -- namely, the Heishi clan. In spite of its apparent defeat 
 the last time around, the Heishi return in Days of the Blade, complete with some unholy new powers, 
 which cause its legions of soldiers to transform into hulking demonic warriors with these strange, 
 pinkish crystals that jut out of them. Joined by his unflappable and very tough friend Benkei, 
 Yoshitsune once again sets out to defeat the Heishi and its leaders. Eventually, his quest will 
 be joined by two other characters that are new to this installment, including a pretty priestess 
 and an intimidating man who's the spitting image of one of Yoshitsune's old enemies. The story 
 in Genji: Days of the Blade indulges in a lot of predictable anime conventions but is delivered 
 through some captivating, richly detailed cinematic cutscenes that help drive it forward. Although 
 the story is mostly there to justify putting you through one battle after another, there's at least 
 one interesting twist.  

  The game is quite easy to control using the PS3's stock Sixaxis controller, so if you've played 
 Genji for the PS2 or any other games like it, you'll be in familiar territory. Gameplay mostly 
 boils down to slashing away at droves of demonic enemies and sometimes having to slog through some 
 environmental puzzle. These puzzles are made somewhat more confusing than they should be because 
 of a fixed camera angle and a map system that gives you no feedback about where you're supposed 
 to go. That is to say, on the occasions when there's nothing to fight in Genji, it can sometimes 
 be difficult and tedious to figure out exactly what to do next. Thankfully, the combat is pretty 
 solid, if unremarkable. You can easily string together moves to create different attack combinations. 
 It's also possible to quickly attack in all directions, which is essential, because you'll be dealing 
 with foes who'll constantly try to surround you. Although the game is at its best when you're fighting 
 one of its boss opponents, regular opponents offer a decent challenge and get bigger and stronger 
 as the game progresses. As for the bosses, some of these guys are pushovers, while others are quite 
 tough. However, these battles provide some much-needed contrast and variety overall.  

  The four characters are also all quite different. Yoshitsune is the most versatile and overall 
 best character because he can attack almost nonstop with his dual samurai swords. Benkei is slow 
 to the point of being sluggish, but he can shrug off most enemy attacks and smash aside multiple 
 foes with a single swing of his club. The priestess, Shizuka, is armed with a sort of grappling 
 hook blade weapon, which has a wide attack range that makes up for her slight physique. And Lord 
 Buson fights with a spear-like weapon, which he can rapidly twirl about to form a defensive shield. 
 Even once you've met all four characters, some sequences will limit which of these warriors you 
 may use. But when you can use them all, you'll probably stick to Yoshitsune, although Benkei's 
 good at quickly putting the hurt on some of the game's bosses. Each character has his or her own 
 health bar, so switching fighters is useful for when you're about to die (or you can use one of 
 the many healing items that you'll find) . Strangely enough, it's game over if any one character 
 runs out of health, even if all your other characters are unscathed.  

  Interestingly, you'll find multiple new weapons for each character and be able to upgrade the attack 
 power of the weapons you've got. The new weapons tend to give your characters completely different 
 move sets, potentially adding a lot of variety to the combat. Unfortunately, the system just doesn't 
 seem thought through because there's little tactical advantage from one weapon to the next, and 
 they're roughly the same in terms of attack power. So even though you get a different set of moves 
 with each one, you'll naturally be inclined to rely on your starting weapons because they'll be 
 the ones you've used the most up until that point. Your characters also get somewhat stronger as 
 you play. You'll be able to upgrade your maximum health and pick up a variety of useful items the 
 further you go. The system for finding health power-ups is quite nice: The tip-off that one of 
 these hidden items is nearby is that a trinket on your character starts to glow. Then, it's up 
 to you to slash around to find the thing.  

          You get four characters and multiple weapons to choose from, but Yoshitsune and his deadly 
 blades are usually your safest, best choice.     

  You view the action from a third-person perspective and use the left stick to run around in the 
 environments. The face buttons, by default, are used for several different attacks and for jumping. 
 You can hold down the right shoulder buttons to block and lock onto nearby targets, respectively. 
 However, in practice, it's safe to ignore these moves and just concentrate on swinging wildly at 
 everything that moves. Rather than control the camera perspective, the right analog stick lets 
 you perform evasive flips, dodges, and rolls in any direction. The D pad lets you freely switch 
 between any of the characters currently in your party. There are never situations in which more 
 than one of your characters can be fighting at the same time, and the game is noticeably missing 
 any kind of cooperative mode for two or more players. Yet the ability to switch between your characters 
 on the fly adds a bit of depth and variety to the action.  

  The left shoulder buttons are used to instantly switch to an alternative weapon and to initiate 
 your "kamui" power. Initially, switching weapons at any time seems like it'll open up a great deal 
 of potential for unique attack combinations, but it turns out to be largely unnecessary. On the 
 other hand, each character's kamui power is essential because it lets you quickly devastate entire 
 groups of foes practically before they can move. This ability has changed since the first game, 
 in which you unleashed defensive counterattacks against foes coming at you in slow motion. Now, 
 just by dialing in button sequences as they're shown onscreen, you'll lay into one nearby foe after 
 another. This will go on until you mess up, or they're all dead (or, at least, severely hurt) . 
 The effect of the kamui power is really slick at first, but it's roughly the same each time, which 
 gets to be repetitive. Yet you'll still rely on this technique to efficiently mop up groups of 
 foes or seriously injure boss opponents. Interestingly, a few late-game foes will turn the tables 
 and use this same power against you.     

  Genji does support the Sixaxis controller's unique gyroscopic features by optionally letting you 
 perform your evasive maneuvers by jerking or shoving the controller in different directions. This 
 is somewhat novel at first, but you'll also likely find your character dodging around unintentionally 
 once in a while. There's no sensitivity setting to try to fine tune this feature, either, so the 
 motion-sensing aspect of Genji: Days of the Blade feels thrown in, like a gimmicky alternative 
 to the standard controls. The option is tellingly set to off by default. Meanwhile, the Sixaxis' 
 omission of a rumble feature probably won't go unnoticed here if you've played Genji for the PS2 
 or the many other games like it, with their dramatic clashes of steel that seem to invite some 
 sort of tactile feedback.  

          Genji's fixed camera angles effectively show off some of the game's vibrant scenery, but 
 they often get in the way as you're trying to fight.     

  It's too bad the motion-sensitive dodging mechanic wasn't implemented better, since this might 
 have freed up the right analog stick for moving the camera angle around. Genji's fixed camera angles 
 certainly help show off the game's detailed environments and character models, but they're often 
 not ideal for gameplay. Examples of this can be seen in the many sequences in which your character 
 will be running toward the screen while hordes of enemies await just beyond your viewing area. 
 Ironically, you'll be forced to spend a lot of time looking at the ugly, plain minimap in the corner 
 of the screen because it shows you nearby enemies and helps you remain oriented as the camera angles 
 keep shifting on their own. Although the minimap is useful, it won't prevent you from getting lost 
 because it doesn't clearly point you toward the direction you're supposed to go next. A larger 
 area map is also available, but it's practically worthless because it doesn't reveal any landmarks 
 or anything other than the most basic layout of each stage.  

  The level design in Genji is really the biggest culprit. In spite of the lush scenery, the minimap 
 reveals these areas for what they are -- a bunch of rooms interconnected with a bunch of corridors. 
 You can smash barrels, crates, and things in the environments, but they're woefully noninteractive 
 overall. Early on, the game sets you up for some puzzle-like sequences when it explains how Yoshitsune's 
 acrobatics and Benkei's brute strength can be used to overcome different obstacles. But the implementation 
 of these special moves feels completely contrived because Benkei is only capable of smashing down 
 certain and very specific objects in the environment, while his club will cleanly pass straight 
 through everything else. It's disappointing to feel so limited in what you can do within areas 
 that look so lifelike.  

  Genji also appears to be missing some intended content in a few spots, including a couple of cutscenes 
 that seem to promise some sort of horseback chase sequence is going to ensue. However, there are 
 no such sequences, which probably would have helped add more variety to a game that gets really 
 repetitive. Apart from the boss fights, the occasional jumping puzzle is what breaks up the monotony 
 of fighting the same few types of enemies over and over in droves. Take Genji's often-bad camera 
 angles and combine them with cumbersome, decade-old platform-jumping level design, and you've got 
 yourself a recipe for those types of sequences that, at best, make you feel thankful that you'll 
 never have to play them again once you finally get through them. Also, we even ran into a significant 
 bug fairly early on in the game that prevented us from progressing any further because we managed 
 to fight through a particular sequence without picking up a key that's ostensibly necessary to 
 leave the area. When we returned to the area later, the key was gone. So we couldn't go back, which 
 forced us to return to an earlier save file. While most players probably won't have this experience, 
 the confusing level design prevented us from knowing that we'd done anything incorrectly by not 
 finding that key.  

  It bears repeating that the game certainly looks nice. It saves some of its most dramatic-looking 
 sequences for later, such as one level in which you must traverse the enemy's huge naval fleet 
 by literally jumping from ship to ship. The brightly colored enemy ships set against the glow of 
 the sun reflected on the surface of the ocean are really quite striking. Subtle motion blur effects, 
 excellent motion-captured animations, and the overall level of detail in the different characters 
 help make this game pleasing to behold almost constantly. It's hard to decide whether the scenery 
 or the character animations are the best part of the visual presentation because both look great. 
 This is especially true if you're running the game at its highest resolution of 720p on a widescreen, 
 high-definition display. Although the graphics are impressive, they're not earth-shattering and 
 have some rough edges such as how the game's frame rate will noticeably bog down when a lot of 
 enemies are onscreen. Some of the battles in Genji really throw a lot of enemies at you, evoking 
 a Dynasty Warriors sort of feel to the hack-and-slash action. But as good as these parts look, 
 the game seems to struggle a bit to keep up with it all. Note that the frame rate drops are apparent 
 even when playing the game in lower resolutions.  

          Some frustrating jumping puzzles and confusing levels drag down this otherwise fairly fun 
 action game.     

  Genji also features some excellent audio, including a musical score that's filled with traditional 
 Japanese instruments and haunting vocals. Some of the tracks repeat too often, but overall, this 
 soundtrack is very well suited to the game. Although the repeated hacking of Yoshitsune's blades 
 will be most of what you hear, the sound effects are solid. Cutscenes are all fully voiced in English 
 by actors with rather thick Japanese accents, which fits the theme, though the quality of the voice 
 acting isn't that great. Thankfully, the ability to switch to a Japanese language track is available 
 (with optional English subtitles) . Other extras include a hard difficulty mode and the ability 
 to watch any of the prerendered cutscenes or listen to any of the music tracks from a menu, which 
 isn't much. And although this seemed to have little impact on the game's fairly brief loading times 
 or anything else, you have the option to install Genji to the PlayStation 3's hard disk drive if 
 you want.  

  The limited selection of games available around the launch of a high-profile new console means 
 that a bright spotlight is cast on each of them. Genji: Days of the Blade is an example of this 
 effect because this really is an average, forgettable game that's only interesting because there 
 aren't many other PS3 games to choose from yet. It's worth checking out if only as evidence of 
 what Sony's new system can do from a graphical perspective; however, its 10-or-so hours of repetitive 
 combat shouldn't be the tipping point for anyone who wants to justify getting a PS3.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:36 am PT
Review:  Whoa iam very surprised by this heaping pile of plastic. Get call of duty or something else. The 
 graphics in this are very ps2 ish. Controls are good, sound is ok. I just dont think alot of time 
 went into the game... it seems very rushed and incomplete
  
  
  Nothing short of "Horrible" Do not spend your money on this trash.
  
  
  
  on my 50 inch 
 plasma the characret looks very big, to big, so I cannot see anything else. Cannot see who are 
 you fighting very very often if your enamy is behind you "kind of stupid".
  
  thanks 
  
  Genji was this fist Game I bought, played, and traded in at my gaming store. What an honor 
 for this "feudal japan" game. It's Pros are few and superficial and it's cons are many and tremendous. 
 the first and biggest problem I had with it was the fixed non rotational camera, A beheading offense. 
 It also left so much more to be desired, in level design, character design and all around cliche-isms.
 
  You have you're plucky, young, crazy haired hero. Gruff, older, quiet side-kick, the "hot", yet 
 untouchable love interest, and we can't forget the bad to his eyeliner foil. As another reveiwer 
 said it best
  "The game play is hack and slash. All that happens is "kill this giant crab, wonder around, go 
 through the door, activate cut scene, repeat." There's no variety in the game play that keeps the 
 player interested." -Kora
  And I couldn't agree more. Long and short (with only a little ranting) this game was a MASSIVE waste 
 of time, that I could have watch grass grow with, and be more entertained. This is NOT interesting 
 or hard in any way unless you want to really be Zatoichi and fight blind. I would love to see it 
 regain some honor and preform Seppuku. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman2815
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Genji days of the blade is not a bad game its just not a great game you have to take the good and 
 the bad with this game great graphics and sound and some old out dated simple game play with bad 
 camera angels and repetitive button combo game play. the game can be at times pretty easy and at 
 times pretty hard and confusing. You will deff. get stuck every once and a while. The game can 
 be pretty fun at times but some times it gets very frustrating. the storyline is ok nothing special. 
 the game does have some technical difficulty's, the game has frozen on me a few times. the game 
 has a good variety of 4 different characters for you to chose from such as the big barbarian type 
 benkei who is my favorite to play as but some of his movies are a bit slow because he swings a 
 big log around, then there's the fast paced swords man Yosh*tsune the small and agile "Sh*zuka, 
 is armed with a sort of grappling hook blade weapon" and "And Lord Buson fights with a spear-like 
 weapon, which he can rapidly twirl about to form a defensive shield" the graphics have great vibrant 
 colors the game also has some annoying puzzles that are harder then they should be because of the 
 games annoying fixed camera angels. you can also find and unlock better weapons and power ups and 
 there's some pretty good boss battles overall genji days of the blade is not a bad game. but it 
 defiantly has the Potential to be a lot better i would like to see sony try one more time and just 
 get rid of the bad camera angels add more Customization and some more creative game play add a 
 multiplayer option maybe even a online mode and take there time and not rush the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat12kenny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Genji is a game that is usually played and forgotten about its one of those games you play and 
 think this is a good game but then you finish it and leave it to gather dust on your game rack. The 
 gamelpay is very typical and shallow. But the graphics are some of the best i ever seen. This is 
 a great game in its own right but the characters arent great like that big guy and the girl its 
 very like the devil may cry 4 in a way you cant connect with the characters and their is some terrible 
 camera angles and cheap gameplay. AS i siad befor though this game comes through it all to becaome 
 a great game with good ideas and great graphics if thier was a sequel that poloshed these flaws 
 and give it depth. Though its still a great game. people who never played this game should check 
 it out. I would highly recommend this game if you are just starting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  The Heishi clan, seemingly vanquished at the end of Dawn of the Samurai, has returned, its military 
 strength bolstered by the use of unholy magic that allows its legions of soldiers to turn into 
 hulking demons. **** and his stalwart friend Benkei must do battle with the newly-restored Heishi 
 army; this time, however, they gain two powerful allies in their war -- the priestess **** and 
 the spear wielder, Lou Reed. Sounds complicated, and it is. But with mind blowing design, it's 
 a must have game...
  
  This game put's you in control of varius characters, a samurai and the protagonist of the previous 
 game; Benkei, a giant club-wielding monk, a female crescent blade wielder; and Lord Buson, a spear-wielding 
 warrior who bears a striking resemblance to one of the games old foes, each having there own special 
 ability, look, weapon and voice. The main character is probably the best and only one you will 
 need to play as, but other characers do the simple jobs, like kicking a crate or pulling a sword 
 out of something. Day Of The Blade has amazing visual design, nicely done sets and graphics, but 
 it does seem a little blurred and too original. As with the original Genji, the gameplay will bear 
 strong similarities to that of the Capcom's Onimusha series. Days of the Blade is one of the first 
 games for the Playstation 3 that utilize the built-in hard drive. When you first load up the game, 
 you are given the option of installing a large portion of the game's data onto the Playstation 
 3 hard drive, drastically reducing load times.
  
  Day Of The Blade's plot is complicated, with varius characters and enemies just popping up in the 
 storyline with no meanings. Although, what does add to the great qualties of this game is the boss 
 duels. You take on massive foes, mad ninja's and powerful crystal warriors. All this add's to the 
 design, which is very good. The only large problem is the camera angles, and they are not positioned 
 that well and confuse you, and makes the game bumpy and jerkey. But, overall a good game for any 
 fighting fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfoxmania
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  All doubts about what the new HD era would bring visually to the next-=gen game consumer are answered 
 right from this PS3 launch title. The result is a fascinating color depth and a an insanely detailed 
 world with high resolution and ridiculously realistic forest sceneries. It is mid September 2008 
 now and it's been almost 2 years from the day the PS3 and this game hit the stores. It is amazing 
 how developers Japan Studio had so much less time to spend with the PS3 than developers nowadays 
 and still it is hard to find games that match the graphics quality of this title. It seems to be 
 beyond my capabilities to shut up about the graphics of this game already, but it really is THAT 
 hard to not be so hysterically impressed by it. When you see each blade of grass be so highly detailed 
 and just correctly lit (hint: most developers suck at this giving things a nasty non-realistic 
 exaggerated gloss) with your character's clothes so vividly red and green and he just gets two 
 new kick-ass also highly-detailed swords with different and new advantages from your older weapon 
 and all the trees and everything else being shown to you as if you were watching a Shrek movie 
 (yes it's that good) , then you're in kind of a trance. You cannot believe how is this thing a game? 
 Fire looks like fire - wood looks like wood, not as realistically as Ninja Gaiden Sigma portrayed 
 wood, but with a slightly storybook style given to it just like Naughty Dog purposely gave Uncharted 
 Drake's Fortune a non-realistic yet highly-detailed look. As good as all these other games look, 
 Genji Days of the Blade still owns a distinct look that hasn't been matched in almost 2 years of 
 the PS3's life cycle yet, not even by the same developer's big title "Folklore".
  
  However all things said, graphics are not everything, even for a person like me that drools over 
 visual beauty such as Genji's. If you read my review of F1 CE you will find out that I wouldn't 
 rate a game based solely on graphics either. A big reason I went on so long with graphics is that 
 it is the MAIN ingredient that new next-gen machines bring vs. older game machines and this was 
 a launch game.
  
  It is sad to see that the game play is not on par with the rest of the production. Thank God for 
 the boss battles that seem to have been taken seriously by the team, otherwise this game would 
 be too boring half-way through and the visuals would NOT be enough to keep you going. The simple 
 non-challenging fighting controls are a bad risk for any game, but it does NOT necessarily mean 
 that the game will fail to impress you just because of the lack of a real fighting control mechanics. 
 The greatest example that proves this is "Star Fox Adventures" for Gamecube developed by the highly-talented 
 "Rare", owned now by Microsoft Game Studios. That game had an even more disastrous fighting mechanic. 
 All you do is press the "A" button, BUT, I repeat BUT it was an amazing adventure that gave you 
 a crazy satisfying feeling after completing it. You never wanted the game to end. The secret apparently 
 was an insane variety in the game and lots of puzzles mixed with strong characters and amazing 
 side-kick support. Genji totally lack these ingredients that could save them from their boring 
 fighting moments. They ARE just moments and will NOT make you bored for too long, because the game 
 has its interests it awakens in you along the way, but it could've been much better.
  
  The cut scenes are one of the best you will see and remind you that graphics CAN in fact be even 
 better, but they are COLD in the sense that they don't really relate to the level you just played 
 or to the one you will be playing soon. It's like you're reading and browsing paintings on a nice 
 story-book and someone made you skip pages or chapters. Even when there are no cut scenes in between 
 levels, still some levels feel not connected, which is sad to see, because it really takes away 
 from the game's potential. It is easy to see however that this was definitely a time issue: the 
 studio had not enough time to finish the game by its deadline and some levels were thrown there 
 quickly, because otherwise the journey would have been too short. Usually we've seen in the past 
 that when levels get rushed this way they are terrible to play, but LUCKILY most if not all of 
 these levels are fun to play and designed good, not great but still good, the only problem is that 
 they feel like a greatest hits music CD from different artists rather than a solid album from the 
 same artist with self-compatibility.
  
  Whereas the above-mentioned problem was part of the developer's conscience, the next major problem 
 of the game is I think by accident. The game gives you at certain times a cold feeling where you 
 don't see any characters at all for too long or they are just not animated enough - like a drawing 
 with no soul (anima) . Now Tomb Raider always had this factor but it had the fascinating Egypt and 
 other locations environments and all sorts of mysterious tombs and temples and grand scale buildings 
 that Genji lacks. Maybe if your enemies in Genji didn't just drop in front of you out of nowhere, 
 then you could start caring that these characters are some organisms that are indeed alive. Even 
 zombies of Resident Evil games have more personality and even individuality. Not the case with 
 Genji.
  
  However the game overall is hard to score lower than 8 as it's a very much enjoyable, somewhat 
 fantasy-like experience with its own unique and well-deserved highlights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackJts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  In the beggining it's not that exciting but then you find out that it has some nice combos but 
 not too much, the graphics are awesome, I think that it has one of most innovative graphics done 
 for the PS3 until now, but the most big problem is the camera because sometimes you need more viewable 
 angles.
  And the boss fights are kind an interesting because not all the characters can beat some bosses 
 and that makes you use other charaters in a way that you don not get stuck in only one charater.
 
  The stages are very interesting and are like the bosses, they do not fit to every single character 
 because the stages have situations that only fit for some characters special abilities and strenght.
 
  And sometimes the stages became boring because are very long and repetitive but that is not an 
 aspect that make it a bad game because all the good aspects are so good that make you forget the 
 bad ones. 
  Beside the little bad part is a very nice game, perhaps great... but definetily not fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade is a bad game. I hate to say from the beginning that a game is bad, but 
 this game, is really bad. It get's you into a story which you don't and won't care about and wants 
 to look like a next gen title, when it certainly isn't.
  First of all the graphics: not bad, I might say. But, here comes the but, this game could have been 
 a visual masterpiece if the producers had created a camera which you can move around as you like. This 
 is one of the biggest flaws of the game. Instead of letting you look at certain landscapes in the 
 games, the game fixes the camera and you have no control over it. This is what makes the game look 
 bad and makes it unplayable. The graphics are good, as I said before but because of this fixed camera 
 you will be missing on a lot of things.
  The sound is terrible. The music isn't that good and the sound effects will just stick to your brain 
 because they are easy to remember. There was so little job done on the sound of the game that I 
 think that a 1930' mute Oliver and Hardy movie has better sound effects than this movie. The voice 
 acting is also bad. I even switched from English to Japanese because I couldn't stand that horrible 
 voice acting. In Chinese or Japanese or whatever it is the game sounds better and you can have subtitles 
 in English.
  The story isn't that good and you won't really care about it and the characters in it. Usually this 
 sorts of game have great stories, while this game wants to seem great but it just isn't. It fails 
 even at it's story.
  The gameplay is one of the most important things in a game. But in Genji it is horrible. I don't 
 mean that the controls are bad, or that they don't feel good. Eventhough you will play 4 characters 
 in the game and will be able to switch between them at any time, and each of them will have special 
 moves, combos and will be better to use in certain boss fights, even with this complexity the game 
 is bad. This is only because of the fixed camera. You will sometimes get lost or won't know what 
 to do, or you will miss a jump or won't be able to make a jump, and this only because you won't be 
 able to move the camera. This takes away a lot of the fun of this game, and this game becomes almost 
 unplayable.
  Another bad thing about the game is it's difficulty which is pretty high and the lack of savegames. You 
 won't be able to save your game whenever you want and this just makes the game more frustrating 
 then it already is.
  I would say not to buy this game. But if you have a friend who has it go at his house and watch 
 him play this game. This game is really great to watch, but not to play. It will be healthier for 
 you not to play it.
  
  My Score 5.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade was a game I was very interested in since it's rather embarrassing debut 
 at E3 2006. (Giant enemy crab, remember?) Ya know, I thought it looked cool, Japanese culture interests 
 me, and it was a launch title for the PS3. Now, aside from Resistance Fall of Man, this game stood 
 out in the launch for me. Why? Because I hadnt played it yet.
  
  I bought this game, looking forward to some bad ass button mashing. After all, a button masher 
 sometimes is the most brainless fun you can have in a video game. Pop the disc in, and an hour 
 into the game, I'm bored to tears. The graphics arent that impressive (the Gamespot review makes 
 it sound like it's a real graphical leap from last gen... it's not) , and the camera absolutely 
 sucks, you have no control over it. There was one point in the game I was "stuck" at, when really 
 the one problem was that I need to come toward the camera to open a door. That was a huge problem 
 for this game. Maybe if you could use your right thumbstick to move the camera around to see things, 
 it wouldnt be so bad.
  
  As far as combat goes, it's... meh. It's ok. Nothing particularly great about it, but it's not 
 terrible. 
  
  Until this game hits 20 dollars, (it's still at $50 sixteen months after launch) - stay away. Stay 
 far away. It will only make you regret spending money on this game. Even when it hits 20 bucks, 
 rent it first. It's not that good and realy spoiled next gen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake0084
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  After playing the first Genji for the ps2 i was expecting this game to be just as good if not better. 
 Boy was i wrong, they completely ruined the genji series for me with this game. first off the camera 
 angles in this game aren't that good so its hard to tell where your being attacked from. Another 
 thing that i didn't like about this game is they pretty much took out the rpg elements from this 
 game. What i mean by that is, like in the first one you didn't have to rush through the game and 
 you could explore a little bit. In this one your forced to go through without side tracking any. 
 You can't buy swords or healths like you could in the first one. i rly like the first one but i 
 just thought they did a poor job on the sequel. Finally i don't know how other people felt about 
 this but i actually thought it was better when they had japanese voice overs with subtitles. The 
 new voice overs were kinda cheesy to me. I would not recommed this game to anyone. This game is 
 good for a rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade... second game of the Genji saga...
  
  there isn't much to say of the good things...:
  - great artistic design, one of the best of 2006 
 
  - great colors and fantastic creatures - The fighting combos are better than the first one... (see 
 in the bad things the rest...)
  - 4 playable characters: Yoshisune Benkei, Sizuka, Buson, each with a different fighting style! 
 
  - The Heishi are back! With a new power - masogane - you can still use the beautifull Kamui! (see 
 below the bad thing...) 
  - very creative creatures to fight!
  - In this game you can upgrade your weapons with the masogane 
  - you can download free content 
 from the PSN 
  - some funny clothes ^^ 
  - Much bigger than the first game! The first time you play the Genji 1, you finish it in like 6 
 hours or 8, but if you play it for a second time... you finish it in 2 and half hours... In the 
 opposite this game is bigger (10 hours or more!) 
  - Great story line! It's japanese alright! Very Onimusha style!
  
  Now the bad things... if 
 you think there are lots of good things... wait until you see the bad things of the game:
  - I said the combos were better... because they are a bit more beautiful... but they're still very 
 repetitive 
  - yeah! kamui... -.- It's beautiful, but worse! Every time you use kamui you're almost invincible... 
 and it's always the same... square sometimes, and then circle... wtf?... 
  - The camera is terrible! It's frustrating! It's a fixed camera... but still terrible! Sometimes 
 you're fighting someone and you can't even see yourself! 
  - Yes there is motion sensor :D! but... The motion feature is to evade... (same as the right analog 
 stick...) wtf? -.-
  - If you die you start from the last save point... Including in the wars! When you go to war, you 
 waste a lot of time to make the mission that is given to you, and if for some reason you die... 
 you're first action is to turn off the PS3 because you have to begin from the beginning of the 
 war all over again...
  - Only 4 weapons for each character!? the last game had 2 characters and has more than 20 weapons 
 for each... 
  - Four playable character, although you only want to use two of them: Yoshisune and Buson... 
 
  - The controls are too easy... 
  - uiiii you can download free content... -.- is that the only online feature? at least make a ranting 
 for the players like in ninja gaiden sigma! 
  - (don't remember more... I'll edit this review when I remember more of the bad things...)
  
 
  In conclusion... you just keep playing the game because you like to finish what you've started...
 
  This is your host! - NaughtydogMania
  hope you liked the review... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titiembe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  As much as I liked this game, it wasn't the best hack N slash I have ever played. The good things 
 are many, there are really good graphics, music is well played, interesting characters, bosses 
 aren't too easy.
  
  But the bad things include that the camera is just horrid, it has gotten me killed twice already. 
 The battles and such are repetitive though, fighting the same people over and over can get tiring 
 and boring. The storyline was rushed and skipped over some key events as well. There are some buttons 
 you can easily abuse and use over and over as well. Overall, it was worth playing but I wouldn't 
 have actually bought it, (in fact I only did because it was the only non sports game available 
 for PS3 at the time) . Still a fan of the game, though.
  
  I give this game a 7.5 out of 10, mostly because of the camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade was a game I was very interested in since it's rather embarrassing debut 
 at E3 2006. (Giant enemy crab, remember?) Ya know, I thought it looked cool, Japanese culture interests 
 me, and it was a launch title for the PS3. Now, aside from Resistance Fall of Man, this game stood 
 out in the launch for me. Why? Because I hadnt played it yet.
  
  I bought this game, looking forward to some bad ass button mashing. After all, a button masher 
 sometimes is the most brainless fun you can have in a video game. Pop the disc in, and an hour 
 into the game, I'm bored to tears. The graphics arent that impressive (the Gamespot review makes 
 it sound like it's a real graphical leap from last gen... it's not) , and the camera absolutely 
 sucks, you have no control over it. There was one point in the game I was "stuck" at, when really 
 the one problem was that I need to come toward the camera to open a door. That was a huge problem 
 for this game. Maybe if you could use your right thumbstick to move the camera around to see things, 
 it wouldnt be so bad.
  
  As far as combat goes, it's... meh. It's ok. Nothing particularly great about it, but it's not 
 terrible. 
  
  Until this game hits 20 dollars, (it's still at $50 sixteen months after launch) - stay away. Stay 
 far away. It will only make you regret spending money on this game. Even when it hits 20 bucks, 
 rent it first. It's not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CERB3RuSX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This games is decent i really wanted Uncharted by my family cant buy me games so i ended up with 
 this. Not that there is anything wrong with this game but i would rather have Drakes. one thing 
 i love about this game is the flipping everything else is average the camera at times can be terrible. 
 The flipping is really all i play the game for i want to beat it so that when i get a new one and 
 forget about it, it just wont be sitting there not beaten. This is why i give this game a 6.5 out 
 of ten yes i love the flipping that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeySteroid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade is based on a real Japanese war just like in Genji: Dawn of the Samurai 
 which was the first game. The characters are based on real historical figures. Even though it is 
 based on real Japanese history, some fiction has been added to the game such as demons, the magical 
 Amahagane and so on. Either way the 2 Genji games still have a pretty nice story and set character 
 and they are both overall great games. Those who are fans of Samurai's, Japan, or Japanese history 
 with a little fiction added should try it out.
  
  It has been 3 years since Yoshi*sune Minamoto and Benkei Musashibo used their Amahagane to defeat 
 the Heishi and their leader Kiyomori Taira. Of course this wasn't the end of the Heishi. They have 
 risen again with their new leader Kuyo and are using an evil stone called the Masohagane to transform 
 into demons and become more powerful. Of course it is up to Yoshi*sune and his allies to stop the 
 Heishi from defeating the Genji and from taking control of Japan. So now Yoshi*sune Minamoto , 
 Benkei Musashibo, Lady Shizuka, and Buson fight beside the Genji army lead by Yoritomo Minamoto, 
 Yoshi*sune's brother.
  
  Throughout the game you will take control of Yoshi*sune Minamoto, the Samurai who is the main character 
 of both Genji games, Benkei Musashibo, the Monk Warrior who fought alongside Yoshi*sune in the 
 first game, Lady Shizuka, the Priestess who fused Yoshi*sune's and Benkei's Amahagane in the first 
 game, and Lord Buson, a God who can't come to the human world in his normal form so he is Kageyiko's 
 body. 
  Each character has their own attacks which Differ depending on the weapon that character has equip. 
 Each character has a total of 5 different weapons which will be collected as you progress throughout 
 the game and each of these weapons has it's own moves list.
  
  Also each character has their own abilities that are required to get to certain parts of the game. 
 Yoshi*sune can run up and across walls, he can jump against a wall to get to certain areas, Benkei 
 can kick objects into place, and can break objects that others can't, and Shizuka can grapple onto 
 objects and pull herself towards them. 
  
  The battles are still basically hack and slash like before but this time you get to fight in the 
 battles in the war. So you will be fighting with other soldiers on your side and to me that's pretty 
 cool.
  
  The Kamui technique is a little different then it was before. You still fill the Kamui gauge by 
 attacking enemies. In the first game when you are in Kamui mode you simply press the square button 
 at the moment that it pops up on the screen to dodge the enemy and in the process killing the enemy. 
 You could have up to a total of 4 Kamui bars which could either be activated while already in Kamui 
 mode to slow down an enemies attacks and make it easier to time pressing the square button or could 
 be saved for later to perform a normal Kamui move. This time you only have one Kamui bar which 
 means you can't slow down the enemies attacks while in Kamui mode but that isn't really necessary 
 since this time when Kamui is activated you just push one of the buttons that appear on the screen 
 to perform powerful combos. 
  
  You can still collect the Essence of Amahagane which is used to boost your character's stats. The 
 stats you can increase are your health and your Kamui.
  
  Also Masohagane, the demon stone's that the Heishi use, are collected by killing enemies and when 
 collected can be used to upgrade your weapons.
  
  Items can not be bought like they could be before. Instead you just have to collect them.
  
 
  The graphics are noticeably awesome. The characters, backgrounds, everything about the graphics 
 are very nice. The normal graphics are awesome but 
  especially the special cut scenes!!!! 
  
  The sound is still pretty good. The sound effects 
 and music aren't quite as good as in the first game but still pretty good. Still pretty alike in 
 ways when it comes to the music and sound effects but not quite as good.
  
  Those who played the first Genji game know that it is a very short game and was only somewhere 
 around 6 hours long and could be beaten in less the second time around. Well Genji: Days of the 
 Blade is a few hours longer then the first game so it may take somewhere around 10 hours to complete.
 
  
  Fans of the first should find something to like here and fans of Japanese history, with a little 
 fiction added to it should surely like the game. Those who enjoyed the first Genji and thought 
 it was way too short and should definitely try this one out. Genji: Days of the Blade in my opinion 
 is a great sequel to Genji: Dawn of the Samurai and I think it has been a little underappreciated. 
 If you liked the first Genji a whole lot you should really try this game out this game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_StormRage
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  With this game... I don't know what to tell but to rent it first before buying it. This game could 
 of been good or decent, but it fell WAY short of even being rental in my opinion.
  
  First off in the game... Who designed the camera angles in it. That is the biggest thing that annoyed 
 me. The angles are stuck in place and can't be moved and at times... in combat... because of that 
 you'll loose the fight or be at a major disadvantage.
  
  Then there's the controls... All I can say on the controls is they are extremely touchy and uncooperative 
 most of the time. For example you'll try to climb a pillar and jump to something. When you finally 
 get on top fo the pillar (After moving around it a while because of the camera angle) , you'll probably 
 just hop off and have to do the whole process over again.
  
  I'm going to stop ranting at that, because after 5 hours of playing and giving it a good try. I 
 went and traded it in. Only good thing or decent thing this game had was graphics and thats it. 
 Its all shine and flashy and nothing else. I highly advice renting before buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Genji days of the blade is the sequel to the orginal version of Genji that was on PS2.
  The story takes place after the second if you played it Yoshunesune and Benkei In addition they 
 will be joined by a warrior priestess called Shizuka and the mysterious Lord Buson on a journey 
 to stop there mortal enemies, the Heishi who are wanting power. The gameplay is the same as the 
 first on basic controls kinda like Devil May Cry or Onimusha or God of War. As the game progresses, 
 each fighter will collect weapons and equipment to help the party on their way by leveling up to 
 gain HP, MP or skills, The grpahics are pretty rushed they should have mad it better then it looks, 
 sounding isn't to bad but your wondering about Yoshunesune doesn't he sounds like Sendhil Ramamurthy 
 who plays as Mohinder Suresh from Heroes I'm not saying that he is but siunds like like him. Also 
 the game is short again just like the first one you'll proppley get this game done in 1 day at 
 least best is to rent this game because it is a short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I had been blessed (... or cursed) as with many early adopters of the (then New) PS3 and had been 
 given the opportunity to try the PS3s first software title releases and I must say - there weren't 
 many to choose from. Its been months... say even almost half a year since I've played the game... so 
 this is what I can remember from it. Fortunately (for me) , I've sold the game,... er, traded it, 
 for better prospects and this is a RETROSPECTIVE REVIEW as opposed to some of my RETROACTIVE REVIEWs, 
 which generally means I go back and re-play games previously released and write reviews; I definately 
 hope that doesn't commpfused Ne1. Let me interject that I HAVE indeed played the Prequel to Days 
 of the Blade and so I fully understand the story arc and character development, so continuing on...
 
  
  The first Genji for the PS2 was a blast to play, it was fun, the controls were addicting, and well... overall 
 it looked great on the PS2. All the mechanisms worked for the niche title and I absolutely had 
 a blast playing the previous iteration of the game. I should in fact: write a retroactive review 
 on the PS2 title now that I mention it.
  
  Continuing on...
  
  The sophomore title sadly failed to replicate the fun of the first on and in fact felt so much 
 more dumb-down/ watered-down then its predecessor. The VERY NOTICEABLE and actually should have 
 been the very first hint to what I would be getting was title was getting the ESRB rating of 'T.'
 
  
  Dawn of the Samurai (the first) is rated 'M.'
  
  Now I understand that Sony probably wanted to broaden the playing field especially with its first 
 software titles... but sadly this more or less cripples that game and makes it a kiddy-fighter. 
 A great analogy with a similar title: Take away Kratos' Blades of Chaos and give him a pair of 
 soft rubber bats attached to chains, you'll get an idea of the loss of visual fidelity; which is 
 also a huge shame considering the PS3s amazing potential for unadulterated bloody fun.
  
  Once again we see the advent of the atrocious SixAxiS implementation which more or less was dead 
 weight, it felt like a slapped on feature just to appease Sony. Honestly, if I'm going to flip 
 to avoid attacks I'll just use the IMPLEMENTED DEFAULT controls to flip NOT shake the damn controller 
 around every time I need to avoid an enemy attack.
  
  I read a fellow review that started like this: Other than the weird camera, partially bad acting, 
 and somewhat rushed story, Genji is definately fun, and worth playing..., -AceDonald. (See Genji: 
 Days of the Blade Gamespot Player Review for that...)
  
  ... now, what part of that would make the game fun and worth playing?
  Honestly now.
  
  I'll 
 tell it to you straight: It sucks. It's boorish, cumbersome, repetitive (... its ironic... I know) , 
 and it most definately did not push the visuals very far.
  
  Think of it as a suckier version of Genji: Dawn of the Samurai... on the PS2.
  
  The in game 
 models are used extensively and ridiculously throughout the game, there will be VERY FEW instances 
 where they'll use the highly rendered models and you'll know.... unless you're visually impaired... on 
 that note: it wouldn't matter anyways... the game isn't that difficult.
  
  It isn't difficult, but it is most certainly annoying. Enter the Puzzles.
  
  The only sparing 
 thing that saves the insanity of Ninja Gaiden: Sigma (... or Black) from its ridiculous puzzles 
 is that it is EXTREMELY fun to combo-hack everything on the screen with pure visceral prejudice... and 
 enjoy yourself.
  
  Now in the instance of Genji: Days of the Blade, take all the hacking-and-slashing, minus all the 
 blood and gore, and put the player in a position where he has to solve ridiculously long puzzles 
 with sporadic and even non-existent battles in between. After solving that you're rewarded with 
 maybe... a long battle stage and maybe a decent boss. I tried enjoying the game for what it was... but 
 really, I WANTED to play Genji 2... not Genji 1.3. Perhaps if the game was Titled something else 
 then perhaps some leniency, but previous iterations set a standard that must be met and sadly this 
 game doesn't live up to its predecessor. Its a terrible rendition of Genji: Days of the Samurai 
 and sadly this maybe the last of a potentially 'good' series. I say: Boo to Genji: Days of the 
 Blade. BOO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game i played on my PS3. I rented from a nearby Blockbuster. I would have bought 
 Resistance, but I needed the money for something else. I don't see why eveybody says this games 
 bad. If you ask me, its really fun. I mean sure, the camera's bad, Benkai's voice doesn't really 
 match him, and some moves can be easily abussed. But Geji: Days of the Blade is extremely pretty 
 and vivd. Plus, playing this game feels like a bit of Japan's in your home. You should definately 
 check this game out, even if several game sites say its bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michel_sinay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  good graphics, fine gameplay. i dont know why gamespot gave this game a 6.4..... it really desarves 
 a higher score. bla blab  
  
 blablalb balblabla balblabla  
 blalbalb blalb alb alb alb alb lab lab lab labla balb lab la b
  good graphics, fine gameplay. i dont know why gamespot gave this game a 6.4..... it really desarves 
 a higher score. bla blab  
  
 blablalb balblabla balblabla  
 blalbalb blalb alb alb alb alb lab lab lab labla balb lab la b
  good graphics, fine gameplay. i dont know why gamespot gave this game a 6.4..... it really desarves 
 a higher score. bla blab 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Am bored, so went to get the buy 2 game get 2 game free promotion. Starting, was really impressed 
 by th graphica, i've played over 10 ps3 games but this one had one of the best trailer graphics 
 yet.
  
  So lets get down to the review, the game had good graphics even in game, which is impressive and 
 shows the capabilities of the ps3.
  The charactors weren't developed well, especially the O button charactor, call buson, it's quite 
 a lousy and hard charactor to use.
  Game is quite repititive, with repeated boss and other enemies.
  
  Pros:
  -great graphics
 
  -sound isn't too bad
  -boss stages are quit challenging
  -feel good button smashing, anyway it's a way to relieve stress if u don't know.
  -lots of cutscenes 
 to enjoy the graphics
  
  Cons:
  -really bad camera
  -unable to use all 4 charactor at one go
  -too little pickups, making the game hard at times
 
  -imbalanced period of save point
  -repitive monsters
  
  All in all, in my country, it costs SGD$42 only, meaning it costs $28 in USD. so a good buy for 
 me, am enjoying it, even ninja gaiden and heavenly sword are button smashing game too.
  Button smashing isn't bad, it makes u enjoy the game more, just stop saying button smash looks 
 cheap or wadeva with the fact many does like button smash.
  Not much games for ps3, this is one of the above average game for me.
  And, i rate what i think 
 abt this game and not get influenced by other ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrahel
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Excellent graphics (a must seen) but not very deep game play. Special powers could use some improvement. 
 I loved the different weapons and the upgrades (I used them a lot) . The voice acting is really 
 bad, I could felt the Japanese accent behind the acting. The sixaxis control option is useless 
 (better use the left analog stick) . The sound effects are really good and the music track too, 
 but a little repetitive. Not much variety of enemies, but very well done. The bosses are other 
 must seen. Very well done and very hard to kill. The loading times aren't that long, considerly 
 shorter than other games with worst graphics and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrantleySalter
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  If you like mindless button mashing and killing tons of people and martial arts manuevers, you 
 will probably enjoy this game. It's not deep, its story won't get you hooked, the characters are 
 boring and forgettable, there's some questionable camera work, and it can get damn confusing at 
 times. But, if taking down an entire army by your bad self is the type of thing that satisfies 
 you, it won't disappoint. You can choose between 4 characters and switch between them on the fly. 
 **** the main character, is the most well-rounded of the four. My advice is, use Yoshitsune. Use 
 the other characters if Yoshitsune is almost dead so you can buy time to heal Yoshitsune. That's 
 pretty much all they're good for. That and a couple of character-specific obstacles you will encounter. 
 Benkei is big and strong, and he can help you out if you are being swarmed by like 30 guys at once. 
 However, if you're playing as Benkei, good luck defending yourself. For Benkei to be effective, 
 you must attack your enemies before they have a chance to attack you, and Benkei is so slow, that's 
 damn near impossible. Buson, depending on which weapon he's using, can be a considerable force. 
 But when you first gain control of him, he seems so broken that you will probably never want to 
 play as him again. You have to wait until you get a better weapon for him to use. Shizuka is completely 
 broken and utterly useless save for her character-specific obstacles. Nuff said. In closing, Pretty 
 people are usually shallow; such is the case with this game. It looks great, though its gameplay 
 can't compare with its graphics. It's simple-minded fun, and it's pretty. If you like that, get 
 it. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Genji Days of the Blade is developed by the same studio who made the previous title in the Genji 
 Series, Game Republic. Unfortunately they were only average or maybe even below average games. 
 If you like button mashing type games, you should enjoy this. But really the gameplay is substandard.
 
  
  Mostly what you do is run up to an enemy an hit the attack button over and over again. Then when 
 they attack you hit the block button. When you have killed all your enemies you run somewhere else 
 and fight more enemies. It is also difficult to know where to go next, as the game tells you to 
 find something or go somewhere, but just sort of leaves you to do it yourself. I would recommend 
 a walkthrough or else you could spend hours just trying to figure out where to go.
  
  However the game does give you a great feel of the next generation with great graphics and very 
 good sound. These are the highlights of this game. However while this may have been a good game 
 early on to give you the next gen feel, you are probably better off waiting for the releases of 
 similar games such as Heavenly Sword and Devil May Cry 4, which are probably going to be better.
 
  
  You won't get much value from this game and unless you are a fan of these types of games, you won't 
 like it much. My advice: This game isn't really worth your money, but if you like these types of 
 games you should rent it but do so with caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSPS3Freak
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I expected more from this title.
  
  Not as disappointing as it could have been, but not as good either.
  
  The graphics have been 
 souped-up, so there I am relatively satisfied.
  
  Gameplay unfortunately has a lot to be desired.
  
  One thing that bugs me is the fact that 
 this game is quite repetitive. Basically you do the same thing over and over, with just a little 
 variation.
  
  This could have been a much more fun title if the designers had used a tad more next-gen thinking, 
 but I suppose at this stage most designers are still on a learning curve.
  
  All-in-all, I wouldnt go out of my way to buy this title, especially not if one is an experienced 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissp7
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game is not a hack and slash as many people call it. True, you are always fighting 
 the enemy, but mashing on the square and triangle buttons will get you killed within 30 seconds. 
 I would classify it as a hack and than quickly block and then slash game.
  
  I am mostly disappointed about this game because everything about it changed. It is not an RPG 
 anymore. unlike the last game where you could bring up a map and revisit places you've already 
 been to and defeated what was mainly going on there and get some items you missed, in this one 
 there is no down time, you are always in a place full of enemies, and you can't revisit previous 
 environments to collect the items you missed.
  
  Every single person who reviews this game complains about an extremely awkward camera angle. My 
 review will not change that. The reason why the view is so bad is that the camera is set right 
 behind your character instead of an obvious overhead view that would have been way better. And 
 often the camera is positioned so that getting where you want to go means running towards the camera 
 so you have no idea what is in front of you. The camera just makes you lose your sense of direction 
 sometimes.
  
  Despite not being able to be seen very well because of the camera, the game is an amazing artistic 
 achievement. The graphics, technically, are slightly above what you'd expect in a current generation 
 game, but Genji has incredible artistic visuals and colorful scenes that raise the bar and are 
 a breath of fresh air from playing something like Resistance: Fall of Man where it looks life-like 
 but is colored with 1800 shades of brown which is just so bland.
  
  The game sounds great too. The music is a little repetitive. If you're in a level that's like a 
 large battle where enemies are infinite expect to hear the song of people yelling something in 
 Japanese which gets your blood pumping and fits the setting but is different from the first game 
 where none of the background music had any lyrics. The game does things a little differently with 
 voices too. Unlike the last game, the language defaults to English which is useless because there 
 are still subtitles is cut scenes.
  I personally switch the speech to Japanese because the English has thick Japanese accents anyway 
 and Japanese speech has the original voices of the last game.
  
  Now for gameplay. The most different feature in this game from the last is the ability to switch 
 between characters. But this time there are four characters as Lady **** the wielder of Yosegane 
 from the first game, and Lord Buson, the God of War in the form of **** greatest Greatest enemy.
 
  
  Yoshitsune is the main character of the story and is usually the best choice for combat as his 
 attacks are quite fast and do considerable damage. He is also the easiest to describe.
  
  Benkei was the other playable character from the first game. He is seven feet tall and extraordinarily 
 strong. He carries what I would call more of a support beam than a club . He is slow but can take 
 much more damage than the other characters. Unfortunately he cannot chain his square attacks like 
 he could in the first game. He can charge his attacks and when fully charged, his attacks can do 
 some cool things to certain enemies that other characters cannot do.
  
  Lady Shizuka carries a fan-like blade that she can swing around and is very good with crowd control 
 as she has better range than her comrades. She has the least amount of health and power. She can 
 do this cool attack where she plants an explosive of sorts on an enemy. The next time you hit that 
 enemy the item will explode causing an area effect
  
  Lord Buson sucks ass. He is the God of War and he has taken the form of Yoshitsunes greatest enemy, 
 Kagekiyo because his dead body was deemed suitable as a shell. He has the fastest attacks but he 
 doesn't move as he performs them which makes him difficult to control. When he does hit an enemy 
 they just move away and you cant continue to hit them and he does minimal damage. However you can 
 chain the triangle attack of his fifth weapon and it looks so brutally cool but you could stab 
 that enemy 15 times and he wont die.
  
  Overall, Genji: Days of the Blade is a fun game like the first with amazing visuals and great audio. 
 But with a better camera, better directions of what to do in some levels and multiplayer, It could 
 have been a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Days of the blad is the sequel of course to the first genji. You get to play as a few of the characters 
 from the first game as well as some new ones. The story is pretty much complicated if you havent 
 played the first one. It as a lot to do with the culture. The story line is entertaining and keeps 
 the game moving. GOOD THINGS: the graphics are very pretty, as well as the enviroment, characters 
 and especailly the cut scenes. Bold bright colors. The action is simple but entertaining. The upgradeable 
 system is easy and simple. The different charcters are all really cool. BAD THINGS: the camera is 
 REALLY frustrating, it gets too close during combat, a lot. and it also does the same thing during 
 boss battles, which is really bad. There is a lot of having to switch back and forth with the characters 
 a lot and that tends to get a little old. They are also trying to do some type of Prince of Persia 
 elements in their puzzles and it just makes it hard because of the camera angle. The bosses in 
 the game could have been a little tougher, you are half way thru the game before you start to actually 
 get a challenge from the game. OVERALL; This game is a simple action and adventure, some that liked 
 the first may enjoy this one. But 60 bucks is a lot of money, I say rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Like a gorgeous woman dressed in a steel clown suit, Genji DOB will frustrate you. But if you can 
 break through the pain, the combat system of Genji DOB is incredibly robust. I found the combat 
 in this game much more satisying than Heavenly Sword or Ninja Gaiden after going back and giving 
 it another chance. So go get yourself a cheap copy.
  
  There is finally a decent of walkthough on gamefaqs - you will want to keep that handy to blast 
 through repetitive maps and pathetically cliched puzzles as fast as possible. 
  
  One of the worst aspects is the weird and agonizing placement of save points. You might fight for 
 an hour and then be hit with a triple boss battle before you get a save point - one mistake and 
 you have to slog though an hour. Man, this is the pits, and why game designers think this is a 
 good thing I will never know. I do have things to do, and I may have to quit and save. So just 
 read ahead on the FAQ so you know if you need to set aside two hours.
  
  So why bother? The combat is graceful and explosive all at once, with lots of variety. You have 
 four very different characters to use, each with five weapons that greatly alters their combat 
 style. You can have a lot of fun just whacking enemies using each character and mixing up weapons. 
 By the way, there is a little costume change download for the group on playstation network that 
 I really liked much better than the default clothes.
  
  I also found if you use your power-ups to strengthen the girl and the 4th, least favorite, guy 
 (whatever their names are...!) you can get better use out of them than you may think. The girl 
 is especial fun, very quick, and powerful if you use the "stuff a bomb in your shirt" move (which 
 I didn't realize was there for a long time) .
  
  There are a couple save points after some big battles that let you go back to prior areas and fight 
 to your hearts content. 
  
  It is really a shame - this could have been a top notch game, and it's all the more heartbreaking 
 that the game designers placed so many obstacles to just enjoying what it does best. If the designers 
 can get their heads out their you-know-what's... I would love to see a sequel done correctly. All 
 it would need is:
  - more save points -absolutely a must have
  - no backtracking allowed - ever. Shorten the story, add more replayables
  - ease up the lame 
 platforming (let it be OK to be sloppy)
  This game also needs some replay/challenge aspects badly:
  - allow a replay of every boss battle. 
 Why Not?
  - nothing wrong with a two player arena fight mode
  - enemy arenas 
  - coop enemy arena would be do-able and very cool
  
  The arena/replay aspect is needed because 
 it will let players enjoy the combat system without slogging through the story. 
  
  In the meantime - get yourself a used copy of Genji-DOB, keep the FAQ handy, and remember to keep 
 lots of save points so you can try some of the cooler battles with all your characters and weapons. 
 I accidentally overwrote my save point just before the cool tiger-ish boss (a reprise from the 
 first Genji on PS2) and I am slogging (and I mean slogging!) through the netherword chambers to 
 get that save point back! I still enjoy loading up certain spots and doing some of the hard hitting, 
 yet oh-so artistic, combat moves. 
  
  FROM MY FIRST REVIEW:
  Game designers take heed:
  
  THE DEADLY SIN OF GAME DESIGN - STOP PRETENDING GAME DEFECTS ADD TO THE "CHALLENGE"!!!
  
 
  You know what I am talking about! When a game has a crappy camera you have to either (a) FIX IT! 
 or (b) Downplay it's importance in the game play.
  
  That means having OFF CAMERA archers isn't cool - it's lame. That means hiding the amagane... whatever 
 thingies and making them invisible and above the view of the camera is pathetic. That means when 
 you need to make some "precision" (read it as "badly designed") jump to a ledge it SHOULD NOT be 
 at the point the camera switches perspectives! Wow thats a big joke.
  
  Believe me I understand the limitations. This game reminds me of the dungeon crawlers that have 
 the "close up" view (I forgot which series have it.. sorry.. but there are a few) but the idea is 
 you can zoom in and get a nice close up of the character and action - but 90% of the time you need 
 to see that wide overview. "Genji - Days..." locks you in on the close up and then pits you against 
 10 enemies minimum so you NEED a wider view, but you cant get it. The ultimate insult is when you 
 jump your head gets cut from the view. Thats just a disgrace. Er... Nice resolution in the feet 
 though...
  
  There are so many issues with this game, it jsut needs a whole rethinking of a lot of aspects. 
 A lot of it has been covered in other reviews, but the designers deserve to get a spanking here 
 and come back with a better game experience. I'll add one last thought - I DO NOT need to fight 
 10 people at once every single blasted encounter. I would LOVE it to face a lone dude here and 
 there so I can take a breath and try different attack combos without getting blind-sided by some 
 off screen jerkl. MIX IT UP!! Give me some lone guards to ambush!! (How about an ambush move!!) 
 Give me a semi-boss ALONE or maybe with ONE sidekick. Just mix things up and stop with the endless 
 streams of regenerating monsters. This brings us to....
  
  DEADLY SIN 2: YOU CAN'T COVER UP WEAK GAME PLAY BY CONSTANTLY SENDING IN ENDLESS HORDES OF NASTIES!!
 
  
  In general - things should not respawn unless there is a specific reason. Maybe one or two areas 
 in the entire game. Otherwise each encounter should be well balanced, well DESIGNED. That's your 
 job, game designer!!
  
  There more stuff, but those two rules need to be out there... as far as this game, I almost hesitate 
 to even recommend renting it, but maybe it won't hurt if you want to check out the weapons on the 
 different characters. I bought it because I wanted to see some cool PS3 worthy graphics, and I'm 
 not really too happy about that decision - and I was warned, so it's my own fault. And if you like 
 KOTO music you might turn the sound way down while playing - so you will STILL like it after this 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyZ
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The overall game play is bad. The game tries to be fun now and then but falls short most of the 
 time. It's plagued by horrible controls along with the worst camera I've seen in any game. Very 
 frustrating at best.
  
  The graphics are great, big deal, that doesn't make the game fun. Eye candy is just that and does 
 not automatically equal good game design.
  
  The sound and music are very well done. I can see buying the soundtrack rather than the game.
 
  
  If you *must* play this game (which I recommend against) , rent it. It's short enough to finish 
 in a few days with a rental, and after that you'll never want to touch it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainvector
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 31, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has stunning graphics, sound effects and shows a little of what the PS3 can do :) . But 
 it lacks true game play. The basic hack and slash it provides gets boring about half way through 
 the game and the camera angle is another miner problem. This game could have been one great game 
 and a PS3 legend if more creativity was put into the game play. The game play could have been improved 
 by using a different fighting system and character combo attacks. But all in all the game is worth 
 playing in your free time, it has a great story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 23, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  genji: days of the blade is a next-gen game that feels like a last-gen game. if you ask me to describe 
 this game, i only have one answer: dissappointing. the graphics and sound are great but that doesn't 
 save this from feeling like a game that wasn't ready to ship. the graphics and sound are the only 
 good things about this game and there is a whole lot of flaws: boring level design, graphic  
 and repetitive gameplay, the useless map and camera, confusing and recycled levels, the flawed combat 
 system, vague puzzles, the lack of online or offline battles or even two player co-op and uneven 
 pacing. genji: days of the blade feels like a rushed job. this game is a  
 and frustrating game that's not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalBladePT
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 19, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Genji Is a Japanese action game where you start fighting normal ppl and end up killing crabs.. 
 The game itself isnt bad but The sound makes me wanna smash my ps3.. Graphics are Ok but they could 
 be a bit better and maybe if the game had Online Mode it wouldnt be so bad.. another problem of 
 the game is that Its So repetitive.. and youl find yourself playing With **** over and over because 
 the other characters Sucks (altough Benkei isn&acute; t so bad either) .. The game Isn&acute; t so 
 bad untill you reach the underworld but when you get there.. you might aswell say you finished 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tba405
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 12, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing this (an the only reason i bought it!) was because of the 'onimusha' 
 series . . it reminded me of it I then realised it was nothing like it . . . it was 10x worse! 
 . . . . THEN i forced my self into just playing it for more than 10 minutes this time . . .. . 
 . . and after that 10 minutes . . . after i got the moves on hand . . . after i had! to get used 
 to the camera angles . . . . . . . . belive it or not . . . . . it turned out to be a great game 
 . . . . . . . a unique game . . . and it nearly neeeeeeeearly seperates itself from 'onimusha' 
 . . . . . overall . . . at least try it! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uri1227
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 10, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The game looks amazing but i didnt like the gameplay i dont recomend it.
  its not the game that i expected, it was the first game that i had, you can buy a thousand of better 
 games than this one. its the worst game i ever played in my entire life, so dont buy this gamee.......!!!!!!!!:::.... 
 . .. . The game looks amazing but i didnt like the game play i dont recommend it.
  The game looks amazing but i didnt like the game play i dont recommend it.
  The game looks amazing 
 but i didnt like the game play i dont recommend it.
  The game looks amazing but i didnt like the game play i dont recommend it.
  The game looks amazing 
 but i didnt like the game play i dont recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doolum
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Genji Days of the Blade is such the game. You plan of having it, rent it. better. i wont tell you 
 to spend that money on a game that frankly is nice to play but in the end gets boring and repetitive. not 
 worth $60
  Graphics are the best for a first batch PS3 game. You see the difference. Characters are well rendered 
 wih nice soft features and realistic looks. Even the game environments are gorgeous to look at. The 
 outdoors, the forest. Yet some of the locales does lack lots of details in them. You will notice that 
 in the first levels of the game, the alleyways that you have to take are pretty dull and empty. Also, a 
 better camera angle would have been the most welcomed.
  While the story might be simple the gameplay is not. The game does get difficult gradually and at 
 time you will find it tiresome to come to face the same enemy over n over again coz you didnt 
 make to the next save point. It happened lots of times to me. Its at times like these that I miss 
 the games where you can save at any point. If in the beginning you come across lots of save points 
 as you have to move around the same areas, things gets pretty messy after the mountain scene. Havent 
 noticed any save points there, which means that if u die, you have to restart over. Things are difficult 
 in the area. The enemies are tougher and they tend to give lots of damage. This is where I have abandoned 
 playing Genji altogether. Archieved never to be played again.
  I wonder what score i will give to the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Genji days of the blade to start has a amazing graphics. it looks inbelievable in all aspects and 
 graphical slowdown is non-existant. the charcter realtime change is interesting and it adds to 
 the game and the swarming numbers of heishi in some areas are fun to destroy. but the problem lies 
 in the camera... the evil camera that is fixed and goes into the worst possible spots and it is 
 not movable and gives the player no opportunity to examine the beutiful scenery. and the gameplay 
 is out of date, the the horrid platforming reminds you that there are elements in the game worse 
 than the camera... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Genji looked really promising to me, which is why I picked it up at launch with my PS3, sadly I 
 was mistaken..... Here is why.
  
  First of all the graphics in this game are mostly nice, the characters look very good (unless youre 
 using downloaded clothing in which case they look a little blurred) Combat is generally good but 
 on one condition, youre playing as the main character, he has a fluidity within his moves that 
 none of the other characters have, with long strong and fast combo's that leave you free to move 
 around while performing them you will pretty much always be using this guy if you have the chance 
 to. The other three characters feel unfinished; they have very limited combos and are all pretty 
 bad. For example, the big guy ( I have forgotten all the names sorry :P ) has no combo's for his 
 standard weapon, hit Square and eventually he will swing his log type weapon... eventually while 
 all the time youre getting slashed to crap by the enemy and the other two are not any better (One 
 uses a fan which is weak and only hit's in a forward straight line while the other uses a pole 
 while he refuses to create any range for himself by holding it as close to him as possible and 
 simply spinning it around his body rather than actually swing it at people)
  
  The camera is retarded, to say it bluntly. All the time you will be getting hit by enemies who 
 are off screen and you will rely on the minimap more than the actual screen to find them as running 
 towards the camera (which is unmovable) will ultimately lead to your own demise. I gave up on this 
 game when your party is split in two, and you are forced to use the girl and crazy fat seven foot 
 log man for an hour with no save points to progress... only to get to a practically un-killable 
 boss... no thanks, not for me. 5.3 MEDIOCRE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swest90
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game was bought for me as a birthday present, and i seriously wish it hadn't been!
  The only thing the game has going for it is the graphics, which i will admit are impressive, but 
 once you stop staring in awe at the true power of ps3, you start to get annoyed. you would think 
 that after years of computer games, stupid problems with camera positioning wouldn't happen anymore, 
 sadly, this isn't the case. You will spend most of the game running in a circle trying to make 
 it so you can actually see what you are trying to fight, and when it comes to those wonderful jumping 
 sections we all so love (.... yeah, right) , you can't even see where you should be going, let alone 
 attempt (and fail many many times) try to get there.
  The fighting isn't that bad to begin with, but it's short lived. After doing the same moves a few 
 times, it just gets repetitive.
  And to top it all off, the music just plain sucks. I've had to spend most of the game with it on 
 mute just because it is that annoying!
  If you search for an FAQ for this game (there is only one, anywhere at all) , you will realise that 
 most people out there agree this is a game not to get! Even though there are not that many games 
 out for PS3 at the moment, don't use that as a reason to get this game, you will regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dezhem
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade is quite a fun little game. Sure, the game play and plot are somewhat 
 uninspired but people should look to other titles for a deep and involving experience.
  Just sit back and beat up hordes of bad guys, and enjoy.
  You play the role of **** brother to 
 the leader of the Genji clan. This is a sequel to a PS2 game, in which you battled the Heishi Clan 
 who were vying for dominance.
  Youll do so again in this instalment, but now the Heishi have invoked demonic powers to assist 
 them. Joining Yoshitsune are 3 other characters. Benkei, an old friend of his, a priestess called 
 Shizuka and a man who inhabits the body of the previous games antagonist, named Lord Buson.
  
  As mentioned, the gameplay doesnt exactly reek of innovation and revolution, but it can be 
 fun nonetheless. Throughout the game, you beat hordes upon hordes of bad guys into pulp, with the 
 occasional platform element thrown into the mix. It can be quite difficult at times, however. Especially 
 considering that if one character loses all health  Its game over. Some of the later levels throw 
 a *lot* of enemies your way, and you may find yourselves in some tough spots.
  The other difficulty comes from the platform elements. Not from the elements themselves, but rather 
 the horrid camera angles the game presents you with. Definitely a low point for Genji. A moveable 
 camera or behind-shoulder view would have been nice.
  You have access to four characters, each with their own unique fighting styles and weapons. Youll 
 likely find times where some characters are just better than others, and occasionally youll need 
 to use a few of your characters wisely to defeat an enemy. (Hey there, Giant Enemy Crab!) .
  You can find weapons throughout the game and upgrade them with shards collected from your enemies, 
 as well as boosting your characters stats with essences hidden throughout the game.
  The weapons are nicely designed and vary somewhat in their attackers, though youll likely end 
 up using only one of them for each character.
  
  The graphics are this games strong point and saving grace. It seems as though most of the effort 
 has gone here, perhaps as an experiment to show off the graphical capabilities of the PS3.
  Theyve certainly achieved this. The characters are all well detailed and move smoothly and powerfully. 
 The enemies arent lacking in this department either.
  The real kicker here is the scenery. Throughout the game youll be moving through some stunning 
 locations, beautifully rendered and detailed areas that youll hate to leave.
  It performs fairly well, hiccupping in frame rate in some particularly intense scenes. The sound 
 leaves something to be desired, however. The voice-acting, while skilful, sounds a bit low-quality 
 and metallic. Combat sounds are done well, however, and the music has a few memorable pieces among 
 it.
  
  If you can go into a game with an open mind and no expectations, youll like Genji. Just dont 
 hope for a deep, engaging plot or innovative gameplay. Enjoy it for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where unfortuately I allowed myself to listen to the opinions of others 
 and it clouded my judgement on this game. So I decided not to buy it out right, one because i didnt 
 have the money... and two because I heard it was not really a good game. So i decided to rent the 
 game and find out for myself. It has a good intro movie, the cutscenes look nice, and the graphics 
 really come through in this game. The gameplay isnt really all that though, yea sure the alternate 
 dimension combat is pretty creative, but it seems a little slow for me. The guy with the two samurai 
 swords is really the only character I could get used to playing with. the guy with the big hammer 
 object was way to slow for me. But like i said the graphics were mainly the only reason i played 
 this game as long as I did, but the puzzles were a bit complicated and the fighting not that great 
 either. If your into alot of good graphics and cutscenes, get this game. If not, I suggest you 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game just goes to show you can't trust reviews. Everyone is different and everyone likes different 
 things. What appeals to one may not to the next. I myself was told by an employee the other day 
 as I was about to purchase this game not to. It was at Gamestop. They actually pretty much wouldn't 
 let me purchase it because they told me it was so bad. Well I went back their today and got it 
 anyway. I thought, man I just want to see for myself what the PS3 released exclusively with this 
 new machine. And I had read all the reviews on here and in the mags. And man, I am just so pleasantly 
 surprised I can't tell you. oK I can tell you. I'm pleasantly surprised how good this game is! 
 I don't know why everyone's tripping on this. First of all you have to understand it's a Japanese 
 game with Japanese mythology. I happen to love their mythology (from what I know of it which isn't 
 alot) but I love their ideas and versions of spirits and magic and the Japanese style artwork. 
 I dig it. To me this game is like a Japanese version of Lord of the Rings games. That's the closest 
 thing I can compare it to. The gameplay is basically the same. For one thing, the graphics are 
 incredible. I mean not average..... not better than average, I'm talking incredible. There's some 
 cut scenes too that will blow your mind. I like this game cause it's different. I've never played 
 anything exactly like this. I've played similar games but nothing just like this. There's weapons 
 and moves and magic and stuff I've never seen. You can instantly switch between any of your characters 
 and each has different strengths depending on the situation you may need a different character. 
 Heck I just played it for about 3 or 4 hours at least straight the first time I played it. And 
 I can't wait to get back into it. So my recommendation is if you've purchased a Playstation 3, 
 I highly recommend this game because it will showcase some of the power of this console with the 
 awesome graphics and gameplay. It's definitely worth playing and most places have cut the price 
 down for the used ones to around 45 bucks now so pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klay07
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Genji
  Day of the blade
  
  If you have watched some the videos you may think that this game is a lot like the Dynasty Warriors 
 series. Well in some ways it is with strange looking warriors and magic and swords but in others 
 a lot different.
  
  Start off with is the camera. If you have ever played Ninja Gaded its a lot like that. For me 
 this is annoying, but you may like it. Next the graphics. So far they are looking pretty sweet 
 in my very small collection of games (got my PS3 today) , but I only have a rather rubbish 14 ancient 
 thing, and dont have a 360 to compare graphics. Next the game play. For me the camera spoils this, 
 but some of the moves are cool to watch. The game doesnt really use the six-axis controller much 
 which is a shame.
  
  This is the sort of game that you would play if you have it, but wouldnt buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Visual: I'd probably give the visuals in this game a 9. This visuals and graphics are top notch 
 for this game. CG movies are absolutely breath taking, with fine detail put into everything from 
 facial expressions into individual hair and grass pieces. In game itself is great as well. Everything 
 looks really smooth and the fire effects you see in the beginning actually look like fire. Imagine 
 that. Only problem I had was that the non-CG cutscenes looked rushed and halfassed. I honestly 
 thought the ingame graphics were better than the cutscenes which seems ironic. But cutscenes are 
 usually short and few in numbers so overall visuals gets a solid 9.
  
  Sound: Maybe an 8. It has some good sound quality, but sometimes it can get annoying. Mainly during 
 the earlier missions does the music get irratating. Once you get past the treasure vault room stage 
 the sounds get better. In large battle levels you can hear the roaring of people fighting and swords 
 clanging together. All the sound effects are well done and fits well with the game.
  
  Gameplay: This is the section where the game takes a dip. I'd rate it a 7 since there are minor, 
 but important factors that the game fails to deliver on. The biggest gripe people have is the camera. 
 The camera is pretty bad I will admit, but they do give you a mini-map to see where an enemy is. 
 Of course that is not good enough seeing as you will get hit from a blind spot every now and then. 
 It's adaptable, but a little annoying. They do somewhat make up for that problem with solid controls 
 and variety. Every character (4 total) has up to 5 weapons. Each weapon also has an individual 
 move set unlike Genji 1. This adds a fresh new experience each time you get a new weapon. Also 
 there are counters for those who liked the counter system Onimusha had. It's much more simple I'd 
 say, and it doesn't instantly kill the enemy, but it helps in taking out strong enemies. It also 
 looks cool since it slows down time and you see your character own the enemy in the face) The platforming 
 in this game was more irratating than fun in my opinion, partly due to the poor camera. They force 
 you to do some generic wall running and platform jumping which wouldn't be so bad if they didn't 
 force you to fight enemies in order to run through a path to get back to where you were, just to 
 find yourself messing up again. Also poor cameras force you to go through some trial and error 
 runs because you'll mess up quite a few times. Saves were a problem as well since there is never 
 enough of them spaced out throughout the game. Get used to running back to a previous save across 
 the map because you will often find that once you find a save, you won't find another save untill 
 maybe an hour or so away depending on where you are in the game. The bosses in this game are pretty 
 well designed, but unfortunately (or fortunately in some cases) aren't too hard. There are two 
 ways on beating a boss: 1) Use weaker people like Yosh! tsune and Buson to kill a boss or 2) Use 
 Benkei and just smash the crap out of the boss. Benkei is by far the most useful and powerful character. 
 Bosses can be hard if you make them that way, but they can be very easy as well. Sometimes you 
 will have to fight bosses in a row without any obvious save in front of you (that doesn't mean 
 you can't go back and save at a previous save in the level)
  
  Story: 7. It's not a story that will win any awards, but it's not awful either. The story starts 
 off really slow, but picks up at the end. I even found myself moved by the story for some weird 
 reason since I'm hardly ever moved by a story. Basically the defeated Heishi clan has come back 
 with demonic soldiers. You need to defeat them with your brother who is the leader of the Genji 
 clan.
  
  Rent or Buy? I'd say definetely a rent maybe a buy. Seeing as there isn't much to play on the PS3 
 right now you might as well play this game. There isn't a whole lot of replay unless you want to 
 play the game again on hard if you played on normal. There are some downloadable costumes you can 
 use as well. Genji 2 is definetly a solid game, just not something that will win any medals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemasterdrew
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  I think this game was pretty good but it being the 2nd PS3 game I bought I think it could've been 
 maybe a little bit better, but I still beat the whole game and it was still fun to play so I guess 
 I can't complain too much but if you are thinking about buying this game I would highly suggest 
 you probably rent the game first before going out and buying it and if you like it then by all 
 means go buy it it's still a fun game even though some parts of it could've been a little better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deaconmon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Overall a good game. The fighting itself is fun, and your character moves well. Graphics are amazing. 
 Gameplay can become a tedious button mashing exercise. But, there is enough variety if you use 
 all of the characters and weapons and techniques that you can make it more fun. You will definitely 
 get favorite characters and attack styles for different situations. That can help get you in a 
 rut, and can give you problems since there are areas in the game where you may not have that favorite 
 character.
  
  Kamui is cool, attacks are fun, most of the weapons are great, though several are, as far as I 
 can tell, completely useless (Lord Buson's third weapon, for instance) .
  
  I am amazed at how slow the characters get up when they ar knocked down. The girl, for instance 
 - sometimes it seems like she lays there for 3 seconds - enough time for enemies who are off the 
 screen to come over and attack her on the ground.
  
  The pain?
  
  The fixed camera angles really, really, really, bite. At least 20% of my battles have been fought 
 with enemies off the screen that I could not see because they were behind my camera. This includes 
 at least one of the bosses. This really affects the game! How do you know to dodge or block when 
 you can't even see what the enemy is doing?
  
  If I wanted a stupid jumping game I would be playing stinkin' Mario. Do NOT put platform jumping 
 into a fighting game. The only saving grace here is that they don't kill you because you miss a 
 jump. There are places where they say thou shalt jump or not proceed . I've almost just quit the 
 game a couple times because of the stupid jumping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasseymf
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  This is really not a good action game, especially is the game view, hard to control my roll to 
 where i wanna go, always feel sick and angry, but the effect still looks good, very glamour and 
 cool, but i still play it cos it's my first ps3 game. This is really not a good action game, especially 
 is the game view, hard to control my roll to where i wanna go, always feel sick and angry, but 
 the effect still looks good, very glamour and cool, but i still play it cos it's my first ps3 game. 
 This is really not a good action game, especially is the game view, hard to control my roll to 
 where i wanna go, always feel sick and angry, but the effect still looks good, very glamour and 
 cool, but i still play it cos it's my first ps3 game. This is really not a good action game, especially 
 is the game view, hard to control my roll to where i wanna go, always feel sick and angry, but 
 the effect still looks good, very glamour and cool, but i still play it cos it's my first ps3 game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, severely underappreciated. X-Play rated this a two out of five, and GS gave 
 it a 6.4... but I find that hard to believe. Sure, it's not the best game around, it's not even 
 the best of its genre, however, the graphics are themselves are a nice boost to it. Although I 
 usually don't care about graphics very much, these are truely next-gen., and worth mentioning. 
 Although I got nearly completed with the game in two days. It's very short.
  
  For the serious review...
  Gameplay: This is were it's a little iffy. Gameplay makes a game, 
 and this one has a somewhat lacking variety, or lack there of. It's basically a step-up from a 
 button masher, because there is a slight amount of strategy involved, mainly due to the four chars. 
 you play as, **** Lord Buson, Benkei, and Lady Shizuka **** the main char., is by far the best. 
 Using his quick attacks and duel-katana's, he can plow through most enemies so long as he's upgraded. 
 He is also the most agile attacker, can run along walls, and can double-jump off of walls or enemies. 
 Lord Buson is a God in a mortal's body, who is some enemy from the previous installment (I never 
 played Genji: Dawn of the Samurai, because DMC3/ DMC3: SE is just amazing, and I've only played 
 this because it's on PS3) , and he uses double-sided blade's/ lance's, or a spear-esque weapon. 
 He can use many consistent attacks that will last as long as you mash the corresponding button. 
 Buson can also perform what I call the triple evade . He, quite literally, evades three times without 
 stopping. This can also be useful for moving along the map quickly. Lady Shizuka the only controllable 
 female, is the fastest at moving, and uses blades attached to chains/ strings, and mainly attacks 
 at long/ mid.-range, but also boasts a few physical attacks, and can use explosive charges which 
 will detonate next time you hit the same enemy with the same weapon. Most of her weapons are good, 
 but she herself is mainly a back-up char. Finally, there's Benkei, the power-house of the team. 
 He uses gigantic pillar's to mow down the opposition, however, is, of course, very slow at attacking. 
 He takes quite a but of getting used to, but can be very useful if Yoshitsune and Buson are wounded, 
 and Shizuka is not in a useful position at the time. You change into a char. by hitting a button 
 on the D-Pad, up for **** right for Buson, down for Shizuka and left for Benkei. You will also 
 have a very brief moment to move freely after you switch without enemy resistance. You can also 
 use a very useful rage-esque attack where you go into a very graphically advance area of flower 
 petal's, etc. and can deal massive damage to a certain amount of enemies. This requires Kumai (I 
 think that's how it's spelled) . You can restore this by attacking enemies. Some enemies can also 
 use this against you, but you can easily counter-attack them during it. As you defeat certain enemies, 
 you will earn crystals which can be used to upgrade your weapon's. You can also locate hidden Essence 
 of Amaghene (the crystals) , which you can use four of to either increase max HP, or Kumai of any 
 char. You will also restore any lost HP in doing so to Health.
  Graphics: Wow. Simply amazing. A few frame rate issues, but nothing major. For the most part, just 
 absolutely insane. Especially the level design. Certain points are just outstandingly beautiful.
 
  Sound: There is some nice Japanese-style battle music, but nothing's very outstanding or noticeably 
 poor.
  Value: Moderately low. So many people don't like this game.
  My Tilt: High. It's a pretty good game, but you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has received alot of bad reviews i personally think this game isnt as bad as people making 
 it seem despite the annoying camera angles its still a fun game to play if you like beat em up 
 type games like i do
  
  Graphically its a very nice game to look at i really enjoyed looking at the environments in this 
 game
  
  I do like the fact how you can switch characters during a fight an do damaging combos an how each 
 character plays a special role to do certain missions and also upgrade your weapons The only two 
 drawbacks i have with this game it gets a little repetitive and those annoying camera angles If 
 your thinking about picking up this game i suggest you rent it first this game isnt for everybody 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The is the best and the visuals are top notch. The graphics are really cool when i poped this game 
 into my PS3 the visuals just amazed me. game play is alright. Its just your normal hack and slash 
 game but even better. With the newly invented or better version of the kumai systmes wich i beleive 
 puts you into this stage were you can hack your oppenent with a button command. Overall the graphics 
 are just a wow to me but the only flaw with game that there is no camera control which gets fustration 
 at times when your just trying to figure out where you are or where you are going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that a while back, Genji: Dawn of the Samurai was released and offered a fun experience, 
 albeit short. Now with the release of the sequel, Days of the Blade, we probably were expecting 
 more out of this game than the last, after all it did jump to the PS3. I guess to quickly sum up 
 Days of the Blade I can say that it is a sub-par action game with excellent graphics and sound. 
 First off gameplay is not exactly what we expected, as the basic hack and slash combat from the 
 first title seems to have been dumbed down a notch. Also the game is far too repetitive and simple. 
 You can get through this game in no more than 10 hours. We found this game to be a little longer 
 than the last but with simplified gameplay you probably won't want to play it all that often. By 
 far my largest gameplay complaint is the fact that the right analog stick should be used for camera 
 control but is instead used to dodge, so you have absolutely no camera control which is a shame 
 because the environments would have been nice to look at. In the graphics department, this game 
 is really showing off what some of the first-gen PS3 games can look like. The textures are rich, 
 the character models are photo-realistic and perhaps the most attractive feature of all is the 
 environments. They are beautiful and they vary quite a bit. In the sound department again better 
 than average with great sword effects. The voice acting may sound pretty goofy but it is still 
 pretty good. The only thing that might bother you is the annoying Japanese music always playing 
 in the background. This game is in no way original but it still has the premise for a very interesting 
 game. I hope in the future the developers will spend more time on the gameplay mechanics and still 
 keep the graphics looking as sharp as they do. For now the most that I can give it is 7.1/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yousef-320
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  The launch lineup of games will be available at various dates through the holidays, and will total 
 21 in all. Three PS3 launch titles will be first-party titles developed at one of Sony's Worldwide 
 Studios shops. They include the much-vaunted shooter Resistance: Fall of Man, the basketball sim 
 NBA 07, and the fantasy actioner Genji: Days of the Blade. Another Sony game, Untold Legends: Dark 
 Kingdom, is being classified as a third-party title because it's being developed by the company's 
 subsidiary Sony Online Entertainment. The third-party PS3 launch lineup runs a greater gamut of 
 genres. Five will be traditional sports games -- EA Sports Fight Night Round 3, Madden NFL 07, NBA 
 2K7, NHL 2K7, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 -- while another, Tony Hawk's Project 8, is of the extreme 
 athletic variety. Two others, Need for Speed Carbon and Ridge Racer 7, will focus on automotive 
 competition. Three other PS3 launch games will also involve motorized vehicles traveling at high 
 speed. However, they will also be armed, as the combat of Full Auto 2: Battlelines, Blazing Angels 
 Squadrons of WWII, and Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire will show. They won't be the only games to 
 feature flurries of gunfire, though. Three high-profile first-person shooters -- Call of Duty 3, 
 F. E. A. R., and Rainbow Six: Vegas -- will all go on sale before or during the holidays. Three role-playing 
 games will hit the PS3 from the get-go. Besides SOE's Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom, the console 
 will be graced by the expansive The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and the superhero-themed Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance. Last but not least, the platformer category will be represented solely by Sonic 
 the Hedgehog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  While it is hard to say that Genji: Dawn of the Samurai was a great game, it was certainly a memorable 
 enough game. It had an almost surreal feel, as it seemed to try to blend an actual Japanese setting 
 with just enough mystic mumbo jumbo to make it interesting. You would think that a PS 3 game should 
 be revolutionary, at least graphically. Sadly thats all this game has going for it. Days of the 
 Blade brings us to a time that takes place shortly after the first game. After the defeat of their 
 generals, as well as their leader, the Heishi forces are left in ruin. There is only a small group 
 of rebels left to be wiped out and then the Genji forces will have secured victory for themselves. 
 But as bad guys are wont to do, the tattered Heishi finds a new source of dark power to use against 
 the Genji forces. **** your main character, is going to have to assist his brother Yoritomo, leader 
 of the Genji forces, in doing this dirty task. As usual, things spiral out of control and next 
 thing you know, youre having to single handedly carve your way through the armies of the Heishi 
 to figure out what the source of their dark power is and how to stop them. The original Genji was 
 a short but sweet game, with an interesting storyline and some cool twists on the hack and slash 
 genre. It was hoped that the sequel would remedy the problems of the game and thusly propel the 
 second game in the series to the level of games like Devil May Cry. This is not the case, unfortunately. 
 There have been several good improvements over the last game, such as letting you switch your characters 
 on the fly using the D-Pad, much like in the X-Men Legends series of games. When you do this, there 
 is a delay where the enemies are slowed, but you can move at full speed. Using this strategically 
 lets you evade enemy attacks and set up character switch combos, which is a lot of fun. However, 
 take note that the major purpose of this is that there will be points in each level where you need 
 a characters special skills, like Yoshitsunes ability to run on walls or Benkeis immense strength 
 to break barriers. The controls for this game are very simple and easy to learn, but it takes quite 
 some time to master it. You have two attack buttons, a jump button, a special action button and 
 the right analog stick allows you to evade enemy attacks. Mastering what combos are best for each 
 situation as well as learning when to dodge and how to fight each individual enemy is key to survival 
 in this game. This adds an element of strategy to an otherwise dull action game. The key difference 
 between the action in this game and in others is the Kamui attacks. These are initiated by tapping 
 the L1 button when your Kamui gauge is full. You, and a number of your foes that are nearby, are 
 teleported to an alternate plane where you can do powerful attacks to these unfortunates. You will 
 be prompted by button presses, shown onscreen much like in God of War, and by tapping them in rapid 
 succession you can kill the enemies without giving them a chance to fight back. If you hit the 
 wrong button, the enemy blocks your attack and you move on to the next one, do it successfully 
 and the enemy will be killed, unless it is a boss. The graphics are also top notch for this game, 
 especially if you are using the PS3 on a HD-TV like it was meant to be. From the flowing movements 
 of the female character's clothing to the roaring flames in the background, everything is animated 
 wonderfully and looks great. The cutscenes are yet more breathtakingly gorgeous, showcasing the 
 PS3s graphical might quite wonderfully. Speaking to the Playstations' credit, even when you are 
 fighting eight or more enemies, with a dozen more fighting in the background, the game will barely 
 even slow down. That my friends, is amazing. Sound for this game doesnt fare as well. The voice 
 acting is fairly laughable, especially for the characters that have oddly British sounding accents. 
 Some of the main characters, like Benkei, have such a thick Asian accent that it I couldnt help 
 but laugh at them every time they spoke. What wasnt quite as amusing was the background music. 
 It seems as if there are only about four or five actual songs to be played in the background and 
 they all consist of lots of drums and yelling, both male and female. This gets very redundant, 
 very quickly especially if you are using Kamui mode, which has yet more yelling and chanting. Its 
 aggravating as heck to listen to for the fifteen hours this game takes to beat. While it sounds 
 like this is a great game, barring the background music, dont go and buy this game just yet. I 
 havent started to complain about the single worst aspect of this game, and this seriously kills 
 it. The camera in this game is so pathetically horrendous that it almost renders portions of this 
 game unplayable. You will find yourself having to fight enemies that have moved to an area where 
 your camera simply refuses to show you where they are. More often than not, you will find yourself 
 needing to use your mini-map more for fighting than for navigating. This is an inexcusable problem, 
 as I cannot see how the developers didnt notice how big of a problem this was. When this happens 
 against bosses, is that it catastrophically bad and will cost you many health restoration items. 
 This makes normally challenging portions of the game unreasonably harder and in a cheap way more 
 so than a hard way. Were this game not marred by such a horribly bad camera and some very frustrating 
 platforming segments, this game could have been an incredible launch title. As it is, it is simply 
 yet one more sad wretch of a PS3 launch title. This is a mediocre game and I honestly hope this 
 is the last Genji game. I dont know if I could bear to see a game that I liked savaged not once 
 but twice.
  
  Pros: Beautiful graphics especially in cutscenes and the game controls fairly well.
  
  Cons: 
 Disgustingly useless camera, enemies get very repetitive, storyline is not very interesting and 
 Buson, the fourth character, is incredibly useless.
  
  Score: 5/10
  
  Recommendation: Rent this one as it is only about 14 hours long and you can definitely get a feel 
 as for whether or not you actually care for the game. I heavily suggest against simply buying it. 
 If you dont wish to rent it, then I say skip it altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Mediocre reviews everywhere. I wouldn't have bought this game if it's not half-priced at play-asia. 
 It seems like most reviewers hate the camera but I'd say if you can get over it, this game is pretty 
 interesting. Please note that I did not play Genji on PS2.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  For those who love hack and slash genre and samurais, this is the game for you. Hack and slash 
 may start to get boring but the developers came out with some stuff which makes this game unique. 
 You have this special bar where the meter will fill up as you hit enemies, and once it's filled, 
 you can press L1 to go into bullet time to perform a special by hitting face buttons as they appear 
 on the screen. This is a nice touch compared to having pressing a button and specials are performed.
 
  
  Genji also requires you to solve puzzles where only specific characters can do certain task which 
 is similar to X-Men legends II and Marvel Ultimate Alliance. And like Onimusha, you'll have to 
 find keys to unlock doors.
  
  As for the camera problem, everyone knows it. It is fixed and you have a small radar on the top 
 right corner showing incoming enemies. I find the fixed camera makes puzzle solving and finding 
 chests in dark areas more challenging which is probably why developers chose that in the first 
 place.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  From screenshots to videos, I doubt any of those have not amazed you yet. The fighting animations 
 and combos look fantastic as well. I would have gave it a 10 if it's in 1080p/i. Sound: 10/10
 
  The music and sound is amazing. It gives you the feeling of ancient Japan and on par with soundtracks 
 in movies.
  
  Value: 7/10
  Why doesn't it has 2 players co-op?! The game is somewhat long winded and makes you not really 
 want to play through everything again. Final thoughts:
  If you can get past the camera problem, this game is pretty good. The demo in PS Store doesn't 
 make me want this game, the full version is better. Whether this game is worth the purchase or 
 not is definitely up to your own liking. Famitsu gave it an 8, and Gamespot gave it 6.4.
  
  I give it a 7.6, but rent it first, you may or may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nalani100
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This was the first PS3 game I picked up. I rented it expecting it to be somewhat like the PS' Tenchu 
 or Bushido Blade. Boy, was I wrong. Despite the game's spectacular graphics, it comes up extremely 
 short of what even a mediocre game would be. After playing the game for about ten minutes, I knew 
 it was horrible. The main character has the most basic of combos and the Benkei guy's ability is 
 simply to knock down breakable objects. He is slow and does not have any combat skills whatsoever. 
 He is slow and pretty much useless. I played on, hoping to discover that this game was not a total 
 waste. I found the gameplay to be bland and actually quite boring. It's not innovative at all. 
 You simply kill guys Dynasty Warriors' or Samurai Warriors' style and get lost attempting to figure 
 out where it is you need to go or what task needs to be completed. There should be an objective 
 shown in the menu that tells you what to do. The camera angle is a category to beat down in itself. 
 You can't control it and the angles that they choose for you to deal with are ludicrous. The fact 
 that you can't pan the camera to see where you are or where you would like to go is extremely frustrating.
 
  
  I am very disappointed with this game. The developers should have spent more time to perfect it... to 
 make it decent. I mean, I love fighting and platforming games. From Tomb Raider to Tenchu to Tekken 
 to Dynasty Warriors 5. But I entirely despise this game. Don't waste your time with this rubbish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Yup, that is the tragic reality here. The PS2 original is a better title. True, I DO think that 
 the entire line of titles is more than a little bit of a rip-off of better titles (*cough*Onimusha) , 
 but the first one was am amusing little romp. The sequel, though, is laden with problems.
  
  Now, I will say that the game looks stunning. The visuals might be the best on the system up 
 to this point. The fire effects are gorgeous, the animation is spot on --- it just LOOKS more next-gen 
 than any other PS3 title right now.
  
  And it makes the flaws all the more glaring. The camera, easily, is the worst I've seen this side 
 of Sonic. The camera almost seems to be coded to seek out the worst possible angle of the action 
 and, with that in mind, pulls it off with remarkable aplomb. The enemy AI is bad. There just isn't 
 a real need to actually THINK with the enemies, and that is no longer acceptable. And everything 
 is so slow. The fast characters are slow and, needless to say, the slow ones are painful. Controls 
 are also shaky as you will do more damage to air molecules than enemies. The camera will make contact 
 with the enemy a real headache and that, again, is a huge problem.
  
  This might sell some titles due to lack of other options, but the game is just not very good. Game 
 Republic can do better than this and Sony better make sure they do, because this is simply not 
 acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Good: Vivid environment; greatly detailed character models; stunning animations; game play does 
 well to keep it from getting boring fast; great soundtrack and sound effects; an engaging plot; 
 item collection weapon collection does good to add some more depth.
  
  Bad: Monotony will settle in after awhile of playing; not enough innovative features to draw a 
 line from mediocre to good; the weapons don't have a stat menu, so they all do the same exact damage. 
 Genji is the first game for the Ps3 and definitely makes a mark. The graphic show what the Ps3 
 can pull off, but overall the game doesn't do anything to keep you from getting bored quickly. 
 When you first start off, your a young warrior named **** Your part of some clan in ancient Japan, 
 and you get attacked by an enemy clan called the Heishi. They infiltrate your palace and after 
 some fairly short cut scenes you begin to play. The first thing you'll notice is that the camera 
 is very weird. The angle is always that it looks like your watching a movie, in fact, its been 
 used in many other games from movies. The camera can get pretty screwy at times, but can give you 
 a good feel to the game. As you fight, you use the classic combos in hack n slashes, but it feels 
 a lot more smooth in this game. Each combo can be linked over and over again so you can make some 
 really good looking moves. The animations when you slash look great, I cannot stress enough on 
 how slick they look. Its one of the amazing parts of this game. You can collect items that heal 
 your health, and collect weapons, but these do little to redeem game play value out of this game 
 seeing that they are all very similar. Monotony is a factor that will swiftly set in as you play 
 and will become very apparent after awhile since the environment doesn't change very often. Another 
 contributing factor that leads to the downfall of the game play value is the poor level design 
 that leaves you wondering where to go. It can get both frustrating and angering as you play, but 
 doesn't ruin overall value.
  
  Thankfully the graphics add a lot of the games greatness. The graphics are amazing, each and every 
 character model, and environmental component is detailed and it manages a pretty stable frame rate. 
 The environment is pretty detailed, but changes infrequently. Some areas of the game will feel 
 sort of tacked on graphically wise, but most of it really shows the graphical power of the Ps3. 
 The cut scenes have amazingly life like character models, but the environment looks the same as 
 in-game. The sound is pretty good. All the sound effects are great and the music is very good. 
 It gives you the feudal Japan feel during game play and overall adds a new level to game play.
 
  
  Overall Genji is a good game, but has minor problems, mainly concerning monotony and its repetitive 
 nature. Its a fair launch title that is really under appreciated. Its one of the best hack n slash 
 games, and I would recommend it as a rental, or if your a fan of the genre, a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamquah
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  When Genji Dawn of the Samurai came out, I liked it a lot even more than Onimusha because of its 
 stunning visual and great gameplay so when I bought Genji Days of the Blade, my expectations were 
 high and ended up being disappointed. Nevertheless it's still an above average game when you don't 
 compare it with its predecessor.
  
  Gameplay - Almost like Genji 1 where you are to move from 'scene' to 'scene' to progress through 
 the game. First are the good things, this sequel we are given two new characters to control who 
 are Shizuka and Buson (he's the main villain in Genji 1) . To ease players, the developers have included 
 a switch feature where with a touch of a button we are able to switch between the four characters. 
 The same feature also applies to weapons but you can only assign two weapons for each character. 
 That's it, now the bad things. Perhaps the most unacceptable is the camera view. It's one of the 
 worst ever seen in gaming history. In Genji 1 the characters are rendered much smaller in relative 
 to the area so you can see the surroundings without problems whereas in Genji 2 the player is so 
 huge, he or she covers almost half the screen most of the time and causes you to not being able 
 to see your enemies around you making you get hit a lot. What's worse is you can't turn the camera 
 around. Because of this you will find yourself hitting air a lot. Another thing is there are too 
 little weapons in this game. The shop is also removed in this sequel meaning you can't buy or manufacture 
 items like in the previous game. One major let down is how the Kamui is executed. Last time timed 
 presses will result in stylish executions but now it is replaced by 'sequential action' which means 
 press the corresponding button displayed on screen and it's almost possible to clear everyone. 
 Visual - The graphics are just normal it's expected for a PS3 game. The character models are done 
 nicely but not stunning. The levels are nice and the background scenery is just wonderful. What 
 is bad about the visual you ask? Well as you play through the levels, you'll notice that the experience 
 is very similar to watching a documentary which is you can only see the place but you can't get 
 there. Yes, they may look beautiful but you can't explore them.
  
  Audio - The voiceovers are horrible, the Japanese accent is hilarious it will make one wonder if 
 they are real Japanese or some western guys imitating their accent. The sound effects are average 
 and the soundtrack is okay with great samurai feel. Overall - While most sequels tend to exceed 
 their predecessors in every aspect, this sequel does the opposite. Instead of replacing the bad 
 stuff with good stuff they replace the good stuff with bad stuff. In the end, Genji 1 feels more 
 like the sequel despite not having next gen features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverKeyMan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since I've played a game this frusterating. On one hand, it's beautiful beyond 
 belief. But the fancy visuals come at the price of the camera, which is fixed, zoomed right into 
 your character, and often pointing the wrong way.
  
  Imagine having to jump into the camera to reach a platform that you cannot even see, or fighting 
 enemies in a location where the camera transitions between two fixed angles as you dodge between 
 the left and right. This is the sole drawback of this game, IMHO.
  
  Despite this, I did have fun, and would probably purchase this game again if I had the chance. 
 I'd be hard pressed to recommend it, however, without first suggesting that you rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Genji: DotB is a good game that is under-rated and under-appreciated. I really liked the Original 
 Genji, but was also under-rated and under-appreciated. However, if you follow the story from 1, 
 you'll be excited about 2. I was very worried about the graphics on this game before I bought it. 
 Everyone was saying it had bad graphics before the PS3 came out. I was skeptical, but I pull through. 
 I bought this game and I was AMAZED on how good the game looks on HD. This game gives some really 
 good Eye Candy. There is one other thing I was worried about before buying this game. I was worried 
 if it was DUBBed, I'll won't enjoy it fully. I'm a huge fan of SUBBed Anime and games. I can't 
 stand bad voice-overs. Anyways, once I heard that this game allows you to choose Japanese Dialog, 
 I was sure I'm going to get it.
  
  In Genji: DotB, now you get to choose 4 characters instead of only 2 in the first game. This will 
 give you some amazing combos you can do. The only downfall of this game is its camera angles, but 
 once you know how to control where you're character positions, you'll be fine with it. The developer 
 wanted to give this game a movie angle, which is fine, but they could've done a better job.
  
  This game is way under-rated. The story is good and the graphics are amazing. Gameplay, it 
 is like playing Onimusha, which is another great game I like.
  
  If you like Anime and Japanese Samurai's, this is the game to get for your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MellowMikey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the PS3 had it's game title launch in November, I have had my eyes set on Genji: Days 
 of the blade. It was the only game that I wanted at the time, and everything about it fascinated 
 me. I was looking forward to buying it, but after I read all of the reviews, I had second thoughts 
 as to whether I should purchase it or not. After about a month or so, a friend of mine was telling 
 me how good of a game it was, he decided to let me borrow it, and I am glad that I had the chance 
 to play it. I would have to say that it is one of the best launch title games to ever come out 
 for the PS3. I couldn't understand how a game this good would have such a bad rating. Now don't 
 get me wrong, the camera angle is awful, and trust me when I say this, it is AWFUL, but if you 
 look past that, it is a really and truly an incredible game, the graphics are superb, and the music 
 is magnificent. Personally I happen to like hack/slash type of games. I have liked them ever since 
 Onimusha came out for the PS2. I would definitely recommend this game to those of you who are into 
 this sort of thing, but if your not, I would probably have to say this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  First off the gameplay suck. wow you can run across walls. But most of the time you may not get 
 it right. second the running up the wall with a flip. Whats the point of that when you can't do 
 a attack or rebound off. Another thing is the girl which is a playable character in here only use 
 is to get across big gaps. so what. she could of been more useful if the creators of the game put 
 more effort into it. Then Benkai (sorry if i misspelled his name) He also could of bin use more 
 like move objects except for the part when he had to move a carriage and that was it. Then Lord 
 Buson. He's a GOD. Give him better powers than a crappy shockwave which takes long to recover. 
 Next is the weapons. OH MY GOD, they f*** up the weaponry. Almost all the weapons sucked because 
 there was nothing really different and mostly had suck a$$ combos. And increasing it only makes 
 it shinny and stronger. I didn't see an upgraded combo or anything. Next is the fixed camera angle. 
 We know that this game has some good graphic but we don't want to look were you tell us and it 
 is hard when your fighting enemies.
  
  Some ways they could have fix this is add a little Prince Of Persia style to this and the game 
 play could possibly reach an 8. Next fix all the weapons with better combos and upgrades. And based 
 the weapons on the ones that exists. Next make all the playable characters interact with the environment 
 more. And give more challenge to the puzzle/maze solving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Right away you're thrown right into some cool evil ninja demon fighting with many cool moves weapons 
 and characters. I like the fact that there are many combos and moves in this game, the dodging 
 is really cool too. But the combat system makes for an intense fighting atmosphere with lots of 
 jumping, slashing, flipping action. Definitely keeps you wanting to play. The other characters 
 you come along are also useful in their own ways but the main character is of course the best. 
 The various upgradable weapons with completely different fighting styles to each one makes for 
 a more in depth fighting experience. The AI in the game is also quite good, for example when there's 
 a whole bunch of enemies they don't just wait to go one on one, they will surround you and try 
 to come at you from all angles. Way more realistic this way. Another good thing about this game 
 is the scenery, you can see all the details of the high caliber graphics on both environments and 
 characters, makes for a more enjoyable experience. I'd say that Genji is definitely worth checkin 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  When a system launches, many of the games feel like theyve been rushed out the door so that theyre 
 available in time for the desperate launch market. Genji: Days of the Blade is one of those games, 
 and likely in the ways youd expect. Although the games presentation is fantastic and gives a 
 promising window into the technical capabilities of the Playstation 3, several egregious design 
 flaws make the gameplay passable at best and extremely inconsistent and confusing at its worst. 
 If you want to see what kind of visuals Sonys shiny new console can produce, Genji is a fine example 
 of that. Its just not the kind of game youd want to add to your collection.
  
  Days of the Blade is a continuation of Genji: Dawn of the Samurai, which was released on the Playstation 
 2 in late 2005. However, the games opening scene will catch up any players who missed the first 
 chapter just fine. Like in that game, the story revolves around a samurai of the Genji clan, **** 
 This sequel goes in a more interesting and personal direction with its plot, and its rife with 
 very Japanese themes such as family and honor. The plot fails to go anywhere meaningful though, 
 and it mostly exists simply to set you up against dozens upon dozens of the rival Heishi clan samurai, 
 demons, and often a genesis of both.
  
  Those who did play the first game will be in familiar territory here, as Days of the Blade retains 
 the same one-sided balance of hacking and slashing through enemies with some brief and extremely 
 basic environmental navigation thrown in to break things up. This handles like youd expect it 
 to; the left stick is used for movement, and the face buttons give you normal, stunning, or aerial 
 attack options, as well as the ability to jump. Youll also have the ability to block with the 
 shoulder buttons and dodge around by flicking the right stick on the PS3s stock Sixaxis controller. 
 You may opt to move the dodge controls to the controllers unique motion-sensor, which will make 
 your character dodge depending on how you jerk the pad around, but ultimately its much too temperamental 
 to be an effective alternative.
  
  Youll start the game with Yoshitsune, but youll quickly pick up additional playable characters. 
 Like in the first game, Benkei is available to battle with, sporting what looks like a gigantic 
 telephone pole that does big damage, but at the expense of speed. Days of the Blade adds two more 
 characters to the mix; Shizuka a character in the first games story, in now playable, and her 
 speed with the chained blade can help for make up for her lack of strength; finally, Lord Buson 
 is a god of war who will aid the Genji fight against the Heishi, although his surprising appearance 
 leads to speculation from the other characters.
  
  All of the characters are imbued with the power of the Amahagane, a sort of divine jewel that allows 
 you to upgrade your characters vitality (giving them more maximum health) . More importantly, though, 
 it gives you the power of Kamui. After killing enough enemies to fill the gauge, pressing the L1 
 button will start Kamui, a sort of magic plane of existence where your character and any nearby 
 enemies will stand amidst a vast emptiness. Your character will then take a run at each enemy, 
 now frozen in time. All you need to do is tap whatever button shows up on screen. The games pretty 
 generous about the timeframe you have to hit the buttons, so this ends up being an extremely effective 
 way to take out groups of enemies. Bosses will also be extremely damaged with a Kamui attack, and 
 some require some fairly long strings of button presses, which makes things a bit more fun. In 
 the end, the surreal look of the Kamui sequence begins to wear a bit thin, although some cool surprises 
 keep it relatively fresh. Be prepared to defend against some incoming Kamui attacks on top of dishing 
 out your own!
  
  Once a character joins Yoshitsune in his quest, he or she is instantly selectable by tapping the 
 digital pad in different directions. Upon doing so, your surroundings will freeze and dim as one 
 character jumps off screen while another jumps in. Theres a split second pause during this time 
 that will allow you to score one hit on an enemy before they can begin moving again, effectively 
 allowing you to spread combos across some or all of the characters. Although its a neat idea, 
 its never even close to necessary to do so, and unless youre restricted to certain characters 
 (which happens from time to time) , Yoshitsunes samurai swords are typically your best bet, as 
 they strike by far the best balance between power and speed. Although other characters are quicker-but-weaker 
 or sluggish-but-strong, its not balanced very well; Lord Buson and Shizuka both feel inherently 
 weaker than the other characters, and Benkeis extremely slow movement speed limits his effectiveness 
 to small groups of enemies and bosses. So despite the supposed effort that went into creating the 
 different characters in Days of the Blade, it ends up being a bust.
  
  The same handicaps that plagued the first Genji title also persist here, amplified both by their 
 increased severity and presence on a brand-new console. The biggest problem is by far the camera. 
 Genji uses locked cinematic camera angles to show you the action, and while this leads to a number 
 of visually impressive vistas throughout the game, it doesnt do much more than that. Since enemies 
 approach Yoshitsune from all angles and the camera takes no pains to frame them properly, youll 
 frequently be fighting blind, swinging at enemies that are just off the edge of the screen. This 
 is especially frustrating if your opponents are attacking with bows and dont have to close in 
 on you to attack. Likewise, flying enemies are frequently cut off from the waist up by the camera, 
 and its exceedingly tough to tell when theyre about to make a move on you. The camera frequently 
 hides obstacles youll need to circumvent or break with Benkeis club as well. Since theres no 
 way to adjust the camera manually in any way, youll just have to learn to live with it.
  
  Another big problem is the level design. Although sometimes the dramatic camera angles can lead 
 to some stunning scenes, the levels feel as though theyre built around the camera system. This 
 makes the game feel unnatural. Early on in the game, youll happen upon a riverbed surrounded by 
 two tall rock faces. Although the creek winds around realistically enough, the rock faces youre 
 expected to climb line up directly with the camera, and while this is one of the rare moments that 
 youll have a good view of your surroundings, it goes too far in the other direction and feels 
 overtly obvious. Levels also have a frustrating serpentine design, and youll frequently be running 
 around dozens of same-looking hallways wondering where to go next. Whats worse, youll sometimes 
 have to revisit some of these areas multiple times. Needless to say, that wears thin pretty quickly.
 
  
  Its not to say theres absolutely no entertainment value to be had from Days of the Blade, but 
 unless this is the very first action adventure game youve played, youll be able to pick out other 
 titles that have done the same things, but better. You know a game is in a bit of trouble when 
 you can hand-pick aspects of other games to substitute for its half-baked elements.
  
  Despite its array of rather serious problems, youll probably stick with Genji longer than you 
 might think, thanks in no small part to its good looks. This is a game that definitely shows a 
 good deal of potential for Sonys new system. A fantastic-looking opening scene utilizes a good 
 deal of fire effects, and every object is rife with detail. The character models in particular 
 are quite striking, moving with an impressive fluidity, helped along by some cool-looking blur 
 effects. Clothes and hair drape around their figures realistically. Enemies are almost as good 
 looking with appropriate bump-mapping and sheen effects, although few of them are ultimately memorable. 
 The problems stem when more than half a dozen or so enemies are on screen, during which time the 
 frame rate can become a problem. Its never enough to make things unplayable, but things get inarguably 
 choppy in spots.
  
  The audio in Genji achieves a similar level of greatness, particularly in how authentic and true 
 it feels to the Japanese culture. The moody Nogaku flute, drum, and chorus arrangements really 
 set the stage nicely for the ensuing action. The games voice acting is a bit flat, and steals 
 away a bit of the games otherwise authentic Japanese feel. A voice track in the Japanese language 
 is available, which is definitely a better way to experience the game. Otherwise, the sounds of 
 steel against steel and other aural features are crisp and come through with a nice, even mix.
 
  
  Its frustrating to play through Days of the Blade, simply because you get the idea that this would 
 have been a great game with several more months of development. As it stands, this second Genji 
 takes the problems of the original game and coated it with an impressive presentation. In the end, 
 that turns out to be decent at best, and is certainly no reason to rush out and pick up a PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I haven't quite finished the game, but I've played enough to know the game . On the graphics end, 
 i dont think i could ask for a whole lot more. Pretty much everything is well done. But the game 
 play is quite repetitive and sometimes confusing. I've found myself wandering around several sections 
 just to find out how to advance the story, so leading the player to the next area would be one 
 of my gripes.. it shouldnt be as difficult as its been. The other irritating part of the game is 
 the non-user controllable camera. You have to rely on a mini map to show you around and see whats 
 behind you . So ive found myself swinging into where i cant see just to try and hit something. 
 Finally, the last part that is a bit irritateing is that you're never instructed that the points 
 and amahagane can be used to upgrade your character or weapon... if you are, i totally missed it, 
 and that would be difficult. So i didnt figure out upgrades until i had a ton to upgrade. The manual 
 is pretty much garbage too. So those are my compalints about the game. The good part is the story 
 is fairly interesting, the different characters are fun (although i find the last 2 useless) , the 
 fighting is entertaining (but repetitive) . Overall its one of the better games available this early 
 in the launch, but thats not saying a whole lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predator1015
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Well, SCEA needed a game to use as an example for the graphical capabilities of the PS3, and they 
 got one. The trouble is that behind these good graphics is a game that is missing several things 
 crucial for a good hacknslash.
  
  First of all there is the moves. Most hacknslashes have a good and large set of moves that you 
 can pull off. look at Star Wars episode three. Sure it had it's problems, but in the end it was 
 a fun and satisfying sword swinger because both of the playable characters had a large set of moves 
 that they could perform. Genji does not do that. there are four characters but each one only has 
 around 8 to 10 moves. Yes it's fun for maybe half the game if your lucky. But as you keep going 
 through the story, it gets very repetative and pretty boring.
  
  The sound is sub-par. the music only has about five tracks in it and these are short, looping songs. 
 These arn't bad, but they arn't anywhere near good either.
  
  As i've said before, the graphics are amazing, especially if your playing it on an HDTV. There 
 are very few games out there that can match the textures and the amount of detail that has been 
 smashed intothis game. But even the graphics don't save it from it's worst factor.
  
  The camera. truly this is the worst camera i've ever played with. It is totally uncontrollable 
 and it frequently goes behind barriers or walls and hides your view entirely. It is not an uncommon 
 occurence when you get hit or killed by an enemy that is just to the side of your view.
  
  If you want my advice, don't waste your 60$ on this load of crap. if your still not convinced that 
 a camera could ruin a game, then take the time to download the demo, you'll see what i mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stumpt25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade, was pleasantly surprising fighting game with georgous graphics, a pleasing 
 story line, and some addicting fighting sequences. The games is about the ruling Genji clan, being 
 attacked by the rebellious Heishi clan - who have now found demonic powers. You fight as one of 
 four characters: **** - a fast fighting sword wielder with the ability to take on bosses and a 
 good amount of foes. Slightly slow when it comes to dodging, but his fighting comes from moving 
 as he uses his sword.
  
  Benkei - the strongest character in the game by far. Not used so much, but he is a good character 
 for starting the battles, whether it be smashing through a bosses armour, or swinging enemies to 
 the floor. His attacks can be slow, and he usually needs alot of space to carry out his attacks, 
 but can easily smash an enemy to pieces with his blows.
  
  Budon - A crazy spear wielding god that has come to help the Genji clan in the form of a human. 
 He is at his most powerful when against large groups of enemies. With the ability to inflict large 
 amounts of damage on enemies and quickly dodging away to a safe distance before they even get to 
 raise their swords. However, he is weak against bosses.
  
  And finally, your disk throwing priestess who can quickly fly towards enemies and kick them into 
 the air, or from a distance slice them with her disks attached to ropes. Fragile, yet deadly.
 
  
  Thes characters are useful in their own ways, and are good in different situations.
  
  The graphics are georgous with a slight blurr to the charachters when dodging around to give a 
 sense of real speed, colourful scenery makes the game so enjoyable to watch, and lighting is so 
 good at creating an atmosphere of where you are. The cinematics are absolutley stunning, comparable 
 to Warcraft.
  
  Sound, is great when it comes to sword fights and smashing things. But the music can get annoying 
 when it repeats itself over and over again. Another problem with the sound is that it doesnt get 
 quiet when the game is paused, so if someone walks in, you cant really hear them.
  
  The gameplay is fun, and the objectives arent random and meaningless. However, often there is some 
 kind of puzzle for you to solve that doesnt have any relevant clues, and you will spend ages wondering 
 around trying to find a lead to get through it.
  
  Over-all its a good buy, and should give you a good few hours of entertainment. I've really enjoyed 
 playing on it. I hope you do too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DylanDJK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game hs gotten LOTS of bad publicity. Mainly, all from E3 where people refer to as Massive 
 Damage for this game. The game isn't the best or the worst on the Playstatio 3, but it certainly 
 is far from its Weak Point.
  
  This Game takes place 3 years after the defeat of the Heishi clan. I don't know much on he story 
 backing because i didn't play the first one, which isn't really nessecary. But you start as Yoshtisune, 
 a master warrior and my highly favoured of the 4 people you will play as.
  
  Visually the game is stunning! The character models are great and the overall feel just makes the 
 game seem very vibrant. The textures seem quite well done, but some lack serious detail. Overall, 
 I honestly think these graphics are a little better then Resistance: fall of man but only slightly. 
 One thing Resistance has that this game doesn't, gameplay.
  
  I love the gameplay don't get me wrong, but people who aren't into the whole Hack n' Slash genre 
 will find it getting old pretty darn fast. Although there are interesting boss battles that require 
 different strategies (insert Giant Enemy crab joke here) .
  
  Overall, the game is lots of fun and is a good game to just whip out and play without to much thinking, 
 just lots of button mashing. The only real big complaint that I can say, and as well as everyone 
 who has played this game, is the Camera. It offers visually great view but doesn't let you see 
 some enemies, making it hard to fight or navigate a level.
  
  Not a mind blowing perfect game, but decent fun. Wait till this puppy hits the bargain bin to pick 
 it up unless your into the whole Hack n' slash genre such as myself. Overall: 7.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Genji is probably one of the most talked about PS3 games but for all the wrong reasons. At E3 2006 
 it got the attention of many due to a somewhat poor stage demo complete with the instant catchphrases 
 of the year Massive Damage and Real Time Weapon Switching along with having historically 
 accurate monster crabs. Many have shrugged Genji off since E3 but Genji is actually one of the 
 more surprising launch titles.
  
  Genji Days of the Blade picks up 3 years after the events of the first Genji. The hero of the first 
 game, Yoshi has successfully driven away the Heishi forces. The land is in a state of peace until 
 the Heishi strike again imbued with the power of Amahagane, divine stones that bring godlike power 
 to its wielder. Yoshi and his partner, Benkei, have to take on the Heishi along with the help of 
 two new characters, Gozen Shizuka and Lord Buson. Both of these new characters have their own motivations 
 as to fighting along with Yoshi and Benkei and taking down the Heishi. Genji has a good story and 
 if youre a fan of the previous installment or the Onimusha series then youll certainly like Genjis 
 mix of fantasy and historical events.
  
  Genjis combat system does have more than the Massive Damage and Real Time Weapon Switching. 
 The combat system for Genji is actually quite good and easy to get a grip off. Each of the four 
 playable characters has their move sets and abilities. Yoshi can jump onto ledges, Benkei and push 
 objects, Gozen can use her weapon to swing between ledges and Lord Buson wields a double saber. 
 You can also upgrade your weapons and abilities to become more powerful. The system may not be 
 that deep compared to other titles but its still nice to have. Another major feature of Genjis 
 combat is the Kamui mode. When your gauge fills up you can press L1 which sends the player and 
 the surrounding enemies to another plane of existence. Once in Kamui mode the player can effortlessly 
 take out all the enemies through timed button presses. Using Kamui mode is a good way to take out 
 large groups of enemies since at times you will be fighting 10 enemies at once. Kamui mode is also 
 visually stunning due to its somewhat ethereal look.
  
  Control is an important aspect of any game and Genji does quite well in this category. Dodging 
 enemy attacks and fighting 10 foes at once can be quite effortless at times thank to the easy control 
 scheme. Performing combos is easy and the controls really make the player feel the role of an ancient 
 Japanese warrior.
  
  The visuals are another surprising part of Genji. While the game may not be on par with future 
 PS3 titles such as Heavenly Sword or Devil May Cry 4, it is a very sharp title and has excellent 
 art design. Each character and environment has a unique color palette and design which really immerses 
 the player into the world. Genjis opening level starts off with very impressive fire and smoke 
 elements complete with heat blur. From there the environments only get more impressive both from 
 a visual and art design standpoint. One of the most impressive levels is one that takes place in 
 a forest with sunlight shining through the trees and falling leaves, it almost seems like a scene 
 taken from the films Hero or House of Flying Daggers. The characters also are very visually appealing 
 thanks to flowing hair and swaying clothing. There is some occasional slowdown during intense battles 
 but not enough to ruin gameplay.
  
  While Genji may be backed by impressive combat and visuals the core gameplay is a bit flawed. The 
 levels are very straightforward and the player is often forced to backtrack to find certain items 
 or to open doors. The game is much longer compared to Genji 1 but you may grow tired of doing the 
 same item quest/combat/boss routine for 10 hours plus. The gameplay is also hindered by the camera. 
 Genji employs a Resident Evil style camera that despite offering cool camera views really bogs 
 down the gameplay. At times you wont see all the enemies and sudden changes in the camera may 
 confuse the player. If Genji allowed the player some form of control over the camera it wouldve 
 helped greatly during some portions of the game. It is nice that the player can switch between 
 any four of the characters but it is not really needed during gameplay except for a few occasions 
 such as selecting Benkei to destroy a rock boulder.
  
  Genjis most impressive part is its audio. There are tons of cutscenes throughout the game and 
 both the voice acting and score is top notch. Unlike the last Genji, all the voice overs are in 
 English and not in Japanese. This may disappoint some but its not really a major issue. All the 
 voice actors are professional and the score is on par with films of the similar genre such as Hero 
 or Crouching Tiger. Genjis audio is definitely the flawless part of the game and should keep players 
 interested in the story thanks to the compelling performances.
  
  Genji certainly deserves more credit than its getting. While there may be some issues in the game 
 it is still an enjoyable experience. If youre a big fan of standard hack n slash games then you 
 should give Genji a shot. While the camera is a bit crap at times and the core gameplay can get 
 old Genji is still a solid combat title. Hopefully the developers, Game Republic, will listen to 
 what game players have said and give Genji another shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Genji: Days of the Blade is a nice decent PS3 launch game. I got the game with my PS3 and I love 
 it, start with its graphic, it's beautiful. The art design in this game is very strong, you always 
 get the feel that developer wants to deliever: a stylish hach-n-slash game, and it is a success!! 
 Too bad this game only support up to 720p, if it's 1080i or higher that would be sweet~
  The music in this game is unique, you sort of having a background theme music that gives you the 
 battle feel, it's not pumping your blood, but it feels right. The gameplay is fun, but nothing 
 special if you've play the original Genji on PS2, although they add some new feature to the series 
 such as real-time characte/weapon change. So far I'm just played it for 3 hours, and I don't know 
 if there's some replay value of this game or not, but I'm satisfied as far I went. The camera angle 
 is controled by the game, so there are some blind-angle momemt, good thing is they put a map on 
 the top right screen, just like FF10, so it's acceptable.
  This game is strong Japanese samurai theme, and I just can't get enough of the katana slashings, 
 therefore, I like this game pretty much.
  Just my thoughts for your consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman-X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok i got the 1st Genji and i loved it, so when i saw the new Genji coming out i was happy. I got 
 it the 1st day, the game has very good graphics and play very solid, also very good story line. You 
 have 4 player to play with and each player has 5 weapon to choose from which give them a whole 
 new fightin style. Yes the game starts off slow in the beginning, but it picks up in no time. This 
 game reminds me alot of Dynasty Warriors with ALOT more to it. And yes it has some camera issues, but 
 6.4??? come on. Ninja Gaiden and sooo many other game had bad camera issues but u didn't give them 
 bad ratin did u. But anyway try the game out it's worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually amazing despite what the critics say. The game is beautiful. It oozes with 
 graphics. The game play is a hack n slash rpg, but its better than the ps2 version. The fighting 
 and the moves are really cool. You have 4 characters this time around. Instead of leveling up with 
 a new weapon, you can level up each specific weapon and each weapon has its own move list which 
 helps with the repetitiveness of a hack n slash. You can also switch weapons and characters on 
 the fly. This is a huge improvement over the last game. Theirs a lot more enemies on screen to, 
 which may increase the difficulty, but nothing to harsh because the save points are often. All 
 levels look pretty, but some levels are just to long and keep going. When you get sucked to the 
 neither realm, it seems forever before your out. I still really enjoyed this game. Now the big 
 con of the game that keeps this from reaching huge levels of coolness.... the damn camera! You have 
 no control over of the camera at all. Each scene has a set camera that is ok or just plain horrible. 
 This makes you fight off screen enemies a lot. Now for me the beginning of the game was the worst 
 for this. You have to give this game at least 2 hours. If you dont like it then, you wont like 
 it at all. I didnt like it at first, but it grew on me and was to beautiful to put down. This game 
 is worth your time if you like hack n slash Rpgs and beautiful graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougzer9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  This is a fun fighting - adventure game thats a little bit old school but with next gen polish. 
 What's wrong with that? Sometimes a little button mashing and enemy slaughtering can be fun. The 
 camera is a little awkward at first but its not terrible ... it does the job and allows you to 
 concentrate on fighting instead of camera control. Definitely worth a rental .... if you dont like 
 it past the 3rd of 4th save point then no harm done but I think more than a few of you will get 
 hooked and want to finish the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dropkickgamer
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Now as a fan of Genji one the biggest disappointment for me was that it was rated teen. The tale 
 of **** Minamoto and Saito Benkei Mushashibo should not be told in anything shy of a mature rating. 
 Now the games like dynasty warriors have a lot of fans, why, because when we are pissed of at something 
 we don't want to play dance dance revolution, we just want to press one button and be able to kill 
 thousands of people. Another thing is the fact about the camera angles, quite simple really wait 
 till this game reaches its onimusha dawn of dreams status. For the graphics. Game republic is a 
 young game making company. Genji which was drop dead beautiful, does not really need anything new 
 about it's graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Genji is the PS3s first foray into the oh-so-popular genre of the Onimusha-style feudal Japan 
 hack and slash. Its quite a delight to look at but uninspiring to play. Plagued with a maddening 
 camera and repetitive, clunky combat system the visual highs are punctuated by a parade of gameplay 
 lows.
  
  Genji 2 is an action game which is based on Japanese history
  
  Genjis plot is relatively incomprehensible but has something to do with battling an undead army 
 (the Heishi) powered by magenta crystals (mashogame) and led by a wrinkly octogenarian crone, all 
 the while making your way to the underworld. Its a nice touch that elements of the game are supposedly 
 rooted in actual Japanese history, but the notorious giant enemy crabs and glowing undead enemies 
 remind us that clearly (and thankfully) historical fidelity is not what the developers were seeking.
 
  
  Real time character changes
  
  Your party is composed of four warriors: **** a double sword wielding samurai who is the most dynamic 
 fighter of the bunch, **** the curiously blonde warrior woman whose weapon doubles as a grappling 
 hook, Benkei a giant club-wielding monk who is strong but slower and less responsive than his counterparts 
 and finally Buson who wields a staff thats good for some twirly rhythm gymnastics and not much 
 else.
  
  Swapping between characters on the fly by tapping the d-pad is an important element of the game. 
 Some characters are better suited to certain situations than others and you are encouraged to switch 
 between characters for better combos in combat.
  
  Giant enemy crabs
  
  Genjis visuals are more than impressive. Environments and textures are a delight to behold. The 
 screen explodes with color in a refreshing departure from the washed-out, brown palette of most 
 other next-gen games weve been seeing. Genji also has plenty of final fantasy-style CG eye candy 
 to keep the cutscenes interesting. The music of Genji does an excellent job selling the mood of 
 ancient Japan (think drums and wailing) . However, sound was completely lost in a cinematic or two. 
 But overall the pleasure of simply watching the action goes a surprisingly long way to improving 
 the overall enjoyment factor of the game
  
  Famous battles which actually took place in Ancient Japan
  
  Sadly, no lovingly rendered character 
 animation could completely make up for Genjis stunning shortcomings. Most frustrating is the games 
 tendency to leave the player in the dark. You are often left with very little indication of your 
 destination or mission. The game lacks a real tutorial and often fails to inform you of abilities 
 and important gameplay elements (like the leveling system) . Its all too easy to find yourself 
 unable to advance the game without reading the in-game manual or wandering aimlessly until a cutscene 
 is activated.
  
  Moreover, the missions and environments are disappointingly linear. Environments that seem to be 
 wide open are actually far smaller than they appear, and are littered with invisible walls that 
 make exploration all but impossible. And whats the use of a beautiful forest if you cant explore 
 it on your spirit animal quest? The levels in between the epic battlefields and boss fights are 
 wasted space, glorified loading screens  designed simply to get you from battle A to battle B. 
 These great conflicts are clearly where the game should shine but even they fall short.
  
  Controls are transparent and simple to master but characters can be unresponsive and slow. Combat 
 has a comfortable degree of difficulty, and weapons can be leveled. Switching on the fly between 
 characters and weapons using the D-Pad is especially intuitive. The option to use the controllers 
 motion sensor to dodge comes off as shoddy and tacked on - the action is so imprecise its difficult 
 to understand why someone would ever use it.
  
  Combat in general is standard hack and slash button mashing fare. You can pull off combos by switching 
 characters on the fly, but repetition is truly king here. An interesting addition to fighting is 
 the kamui plane. When you have filled your kamui bar, you can go into another mode of gameplay 
 that is basically a minigame. Well timed button presses will dole out more powerful damage to any 
 enemies in the vicinity.
  
  Genjis true Achilles heel is the camera. Its static and closer to the characters and the ground 
 than usual which, in theory, brings the player closer to the action. In reality it frustrates at 
 every turn. You will often find yourself fighting enemies that are off camera, or between your 
 character and the camera. It can be depressingly more useful to use the tiny, spare map to fight 
 and locate enemies rather than actually look at the screen. A camera like this, clearly forged 
 in the belly of a mythical hellbeast, has no place on a PS3 launch title.
  
  Attack its weak point for massive damage
  
  Genji is a beautiful but deeply flawed game whose 
 mediocrity is all the more frustrating when you consider that gameplay could have been vastly improved 
 with a few simple fixes. With a controllable camera or targeting system, the game would easily 
 transition hateful to average. Now imagine how great it would have been with compelling gameplay! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1706
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so heres what I thought of this game.
  
  Gameplay: Not too difficult to figure everything out. It's pretty easy to get the hang of the new 
 kamui system and the weapons that you gain throughout the game. I liked the fighting system but 
 I hated the camera angles. It would of been better if the right analog stick controlled the camera 
 angle. But thats just my opinion. Graphics: Pretty good graphics in this one. Especially in the 
 extended cutscenes. It's very detailed. All in all, the graphics are just great. Storyline: The 
 storyline in this one is great. Just when you think you've figured it out theres another twist 
 added to it. It keeps you guessing, basically. The game itself: I loved this game but there were 
 a few things I didnt care for. It got boring in some parts. It was just a couple parts that I got 
 bored with but still. Difficulty: Really this game isnt too difficult. the boss battles are kind 
 of difficult but not too bad. And some of the major battle scenes can get frustrating. Sound: Now 
 I have to say it. Some of the music can get annoying. Because its that stupid girls voice making 
 that annoying noise. and its very repetative when it does play that music. But really, the only 
 time that it plays that music is when you use the kamui. Other than that, the sound is pretty good. 
 its one of those things that you'd have to hear to understand. And no, this game isnt short like 
 the one genji game. All together I'd say buy this game. It's a good story and a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinku
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  this is a great underated ps3 game... sure its pure hack and slash but who doesnt like hack n slash.. hmm.. play 
 it try it buy it... great graphics decent game play,., nice story... nothing over the top but hey 
 what realy is? gears of war got a 10.. and its halo with a twist.. duck and cover the graphics 
 make that game.. this game is what it is.. nothing more .. they dont come out and say we are a 
 new twist on game making... see this game for what it is a hack and slash with a good story .. and 
 great graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juro4dark
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  ... beautiful...
  see here, im not understanding something here, why is everyone giving this game such a bad rating, 
 i mean the graphics look spectacular, the gameplay is a beaut, and the overall storyline is orgasmic (jk) ... but 
 to the point everyone isn't playing this game to its full capabilities, and i've played the first 
 installment to Genji and i'd have to say that its nothing compared to the first and i love the 
 first one, so all i have to say is that this game really deserves a try, and a better rating, cause 
 for some reason Gamespot editors always give good games a bad rating and this is an example of 
 one of them, but don't take my word for it, go pick it up and see for yourself, and in the meantime 
 tryout Genji: Dawn of the Samurai for the PS2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Genji is the sequel to the Genji game on PS2. It has some of the same characters as the original, 
 but also introduces new ones. Some Pros about this game are the battle system, which is hack 'n' 
 slash, but the special moves add some zing to the gameplay. The graphics are also one of the high 
 points of this title, they are by far the best I have seen on the Playstation 3. The difficulty 
 of this title is a little hard though, I have not yet played this game on the hard difficulty yet, 
 but even on normal this game feels as if it is on hard. The voice acting is a low point for this 
 game. The mouths of the characters move occasionally, but the words dont seem to come out. When 
 their mouths are moving, they dont go along with the words they are saying. Besides voice acting, 
 this game has excellent sound. You can hear every sword clash and every foot move. All-in-All, 
 this is one fun game with challening gameplay and an engaging storyline. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
