-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Golden Axe: Beast Rider
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/goldenaxe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brutal dismemberments.
 Campaign is reasonably challenging and long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No cooperative mode a la classic Golden Axe.
 Many, many invisible walls.
 Combat system rewards inaction.
 Lame sound effects deflate dramatic moments.
 Beasts handle like plodding mechs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.5, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Secret Level
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 14, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This halfhearted revival attempt leaves Golden Axe lifeless and dull. 

  A flashy hero with formidable combat skills sets off on an epic adventure through fantastical environments. 
 Sound familiar? These basic elements are the framework upon which countless action adventure games 
 have been constructed. While many games seem to expand and embellish far beyond this rudimentary 
 foundation, Golden Axe: Beast Rider does not. All of these elements are functional at best, and 
 even the one stab at originality, the eponymous beast riding, is merely average. The result is 
 a disappointing game that, while not broken per se, is so thick with in-your-face mediocrity that 
 the only thing you'll take away from it is the strong desire to play something else.  

  The face of Golden Axe is Tyris Flare, a woman who, reprising her role from the original Golden 
 Axe, wears an outfit is every bit as fantastical and cliched as the adventure she embarks on. On 
 her journey to avenge the slaughter of her people and slay the archfiend Death Adder (or Death=Adder, 
 if you prefer the erratically used alternate spelling) , Tyris will travel through rocky mountains 
 and dry wastelands peppered with enemy strongholds. The limited color palette gives most of the 
 levels a similar feel, though the ancient ruins and massive scenic elements (like the bones of 
 giant beasts) add a bit of variety. Any immersion the setting might engender is negated when you 
 realize that Beast Rider has more invisible walls than a mime convention. At best, these barriers 
 will put a disappointing end to your exploration; at worst, they will shunt you off cliffs or into 
 environmental hazards. So, your adventure ends up being very linear, and the occasionally interesting 
 scenery youll see really doesnt do much to help.  

           This kind of thing doesn't happen enough.      

  Most of your attention will be focused 
 on the myriad enemies you'll be hacking apart. Gory deaths are the order of the day in Golden Axe, 
 and when you land a death blow you'll often chop off arms, legs, heads and torsos and be rewarded 
 with geysers of blood. This can be quite satisfying, but the limbs pop off with an incongruously 
 muted clipping sound, and the blood and bodies soon disappear, leaving no evidence of your passing. 
 Once the dust has settled, your only reward is tribute (points, essentially) that goes towards 
 unlocking a few spell upgrades, as well as new swords that can be used when replaying levels. You 
 can increase the tribute you earn by fighting flawlessly, but saying this is difficult would be 
 an understatement.  

  Beast Rider is not an easy game. Many enemies can be dispatched with a flurry of quick and strong 
 attacks, but you'll need to work in blocks and parries if you hope to survive tougher encounters. 
 When enemies attack you, their weapons flash with a colored light. Blue strikes must be blocked, 
 while orange strikes must be parried. These evasion moves are not interchangeable, so parrying 
 a blue attack will get you a face full of sword. Attacking directly after a successful evasion 
 will do much more damage, and it's the ebb and flow of evade and strike that makes combat initially 
 engaging. These maneuvers can also trigger particularly brutal counters, though the unclear timing 
 and precision requirements make these a frustrating rarity.  

  Against more difficult foes, post-evasion strikes are the only effective way to deal damage. Tough 
 foes will be armored, which means your attacks will not interrupt theirs until you manage to chop 
 away their protection. To weaken them, you'll want to attack, but while straight-on assaults may 
 work with lazier enemies, they are tantamount to suicide when facing vigorous foes. It's like this: 
 Though you can theoretically interrupt your own combos with evasions to avoid your enemy's strikes, 
 you can't reliably interrupt your own attack animations, so you're sure to get slammed if you go 
 in swinging. This means you are better off just waiting for your enemy to attack you and then evading 
 and countering. What kind of action game rewards running up to your opponents and standing still? 
 To make matters worse, the spotty enemy AI will sometimes wait for you to attack first, so you 
 can find yourself hanging around with a bunch of murderous goons waiting for someone to make the 
 first move. There's certainly a challenge in restraining yourself, perfecting your evasion timing, 
 and trying for high tribute bonuses, but just because it's hard doesn't mean it's fun.  

           This critter can turn itself and its rider invisible. Crafty!      

  Magic is also 
 a reliable way to dispatch foes, but mana refills are rare enough that you won't be able to use 
 your spells too often. Thankfully, beasts are more prevalent, and you'll spend a good amount of 
 time clomping around on the backs of these hulking monsters. Each can be easily mounted with the 
 press of a button, but you'll often have to unseat enemy riders first. Your best bet here is a 
 jump kick; attacking the beast directly can force it to throw its rider, but then you'll be mounting 
 a weakened animal who is closer to gory, blood-spouting death. Setting your enemies alight with 
 the fire-breathing Abrax or tearing through a large group of unsuspecting enemies with the Lynth 
 can be quite satisfying, but using some of the beasts' special attacks will drain their health. 
 Still, these powerful maneuvers are helpful in a pinch, and using a berserk Mirigore to rend everyone 
 limb from limb is some of the best fun Beast Rider has to offer.  

  Unfortunately, these thrills are tempered by the fact that every beast sounds and handles like 
 a giant, clunky robot. This awkwardness forces you to attack in very specific and limited ways, 
 especially when confronting the aforementioned armored foes whose attacks will still proceed unblocked 
 even when five tons of Krommath comes crashing down on their heads. Though these bungling beasts 
 offer a few moments of fun, they ultimately add to the feeling that the whole game was a missed 
 opportunity.  

  At the very least, the campaign is fairly lengthy and will likely take you upward of 10 hours to 
 complete. There are level-by-level replays and combat arenas if you want still more action, but 
 these bonus modes only highlight the conspicuous absence of the cooperative play that put Golden 
 Axe on the map back in 1989. This baffling omission is par for the course in Beast Rider, a game 
 with lofty potential that ends up wallowing in mediocrity.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vonbig
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun from the moment I popped it in. It looks wonderful and seems to have 
 drawn upon its predecessors: Heavenly Sword, Conan, and God of War. It successfully imitates the 
 hack/slash/combo style of these other games, while adding its own element, beast riding. The beast 
 riding is a lot of fun, although I wish the beast were a bit easier to control, and harder to kill. 
 The campaign is fairly long, and while fighting hordes of enemies does get somewhat repetitive, 
 the unique block/parry/attack element of the game keeps the player challenged and intrigued; trying 
 to figure out how to deal incredible amounts of damage, while remaining as unscathed as possible.
 
  
  While the multi-player element of Golden Axe is what carried the series before this game, I do 
 not lament SEGA's decision not to include that aspect in this game. It works rather well as a single 
 player campaign, and because it is a single player campaign, Tyris is not confined to one weapon. 
 Recall in the old games how the dwarf could only use a single axe, the woman could only use a single 
 sword, and the man could only use a single two handed sword. In this new game Tyris wields a number 
 of swords and the actual Golden Axe. 
  
  If there are future games, then SEGA should consider adding the multi-player option, but only if 
 you can turn this option on or off. In my opinion, this game is a success, and worth at least a 
 rental if not a purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmpdesign
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Playing on old themes is generally an easy way to make a few extra dollars without a lot of effort 
 in most cases, though in this case I can't say that the programmers didn't try to program a decent 
 game.
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing above average, and still in need of refinement to stop the chopping 
 when you turn... but they arent bad. Tyris doesn't really remind me of Tyris from the original, 
 but it is difficult to compare 2D to 3D sometimes.
  
  My problem with the game isnt in the graphics, its not even really with the story. I dont expect 
 literary works of art in game stories every time I pick one up. My issue lies in the overall feel 
 of the game and the speed of the progress.
  
  The game is, without a doubt, boring. Sure you could say the original was nothing more than hack 
 and slash, but for that day, it was new. The original entertained gamers with (then) state of the 
 art graphics, a good sound track and well thought out map progression. This game really doesnt 
 entertain at all.
  
  The first thing you do is learn the two basic controls of the game that will make you hate playing 
 it: dodge and parry. Basically the entire game you have to focus on what your enemy is doing and 
 be ready to dodge (blue lights) and parry (yellow lights) . Yes there is a glowing light around 
 the enemies hand etc when it attacks and you have to dodge it... over and over and over and over 
 and over and yawn and zzzzzzzz.
  
  Your character is extremely underpowered to the enemies that will horde around you, and unfortunately 
 as you progress, you only get to be a worse underdog.
  
  Instead of rewarding you with abilities that make you more powerful, any upgrades you do find come 
 too little too late. By the end of the game you will find it a trial just to move in between map 
 segments.
  
  There are hints of the original scattered around the game if you are familiar enough with the old 
 version to catch it... though most of the geography and lore have been lost.
  
  The lack of two players or multiple characters to select really puts a damper on things as well.
 
  
  All in all, the game is a 5. If you have never played a better hack and slash like Ninja Gaiden 
 or God of War then you might have some fun with this, but for $69.99 list, I would definately skip 
 it or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  So, one of my brothers came by with this game, since he, in his own words were: "Done with this 
 game." And he figured i should have a shot at it, before returning it to the local games shop.
 
  
  Hmm. Im having trouble finding words for this game, im used to playing mediocre games, but this, 
 this takes the biscuit.
  
  Uninspirering graphics. Uninspirering sounds. 
  
  And the plot. Oh, the plot. With one hand on my heart, and the other one on the bible, i can solemnly 
 sware that i, myself, would be more qualified writing storyboards, than the fumbling and obviously 
 confused writers of this game.
  
  Im running! Wait, stop, some nefarious cretins decided to jump me! I kill them! Now that i feel 
 more comfortable with the controls, im running again! Oh no, even more evil familiars are taking 
 away what is most precious to me, or atleast preventing me from getting closer to what is most 
 precious to me!
  
  Rhinse, and repeat. Cos this is it, folks.
  
  Im not wasting any more energy on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I was actually guite excited when I heard about it and then the cover to Play was really putting 
 it on, but playing it, well, I knew a game by Sega was going to be dissappointing... excuse anything 
 with Creative Assemply.
  The graphics are a bit last gen, the voice acting a second or two too late, and the battles only 
 worth it at boss encounters. The thing I do give it, is that it has arena and match battles -something 
 Heavenly Sword and Conan definitely lacked and lost major points for. It is difficult and tests 
 your patience/timing, but rarely do you really get to unleash the combo meters since there are 
 rarely enough foes to unleash on, and when you do have one going, the color attacks, well, you 
 can't defend both at the same time, so you're screwed a good number of times no matter what.
  I am playing it, and so far wanting to go back to it, but only because I want more Conan, but having 
 none, then I'll settle for this -which is not saying much for a game. The control scheme can be 
 changed for user style and even the camera can be changed, which is good since while you're fighting 
 one foe, another off camera is attacking and you can't see the color to parry/block to. The music 
 is ok, and the sound effects are somewhat hollow, but the dialogue has way too much to be desired 
 -it looks/sounds like it is all one second out of synch which really makes one scoff at the whole 
 thing...
  Anyway, for 2nd gen consoles, and having games like Conan, Viking, and even Beowulf, it is inexcusable 
 how Golden Axe looks and sounds. 
  There are some points to it, Tyris seems to look good on close ups and the cinematics are tolerable, 
 combos (when done) are gruesomely fun, but yeah, 5-6 is definitely being good to it. dang, seriously, 
 I'm too bummed to even want to talk about this game -hadn't they seen Conan, Viking et al?!! come 
 on! I'm tired of developers talking big and then putting out mediocrity! This game could have been 
 so much more... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Lots of reviewers have already posted there hate for this game, going as far as to give it 3 out 
 of 10. Is it broken? No. It is actually insanely mechanically sound. Poor graphics? No, it is very 
 much on par with 3D action games. gameplay? Yes and no. The game play is an exact replica of the 
 original golden axe ,but in 3D. You fight an enemy and another gets you in the back. The enemies 
 take multible hits before dying. They even turn to stone when they die. What they hate about it 
 is that it is an amazing remake of Golden Axe, when what they wanted was a FPS or a turn based 
 RPG. If you hate this genre, then golden axe isn't gonna win you over, but worth the money for 
 a real fan.
  
  Most of the frustration lies in the insane learning curve, but is no worse the Ninja Gaiden 2 and 
 in my opinion Golden Axe in most cases is much better then the Ninja rehash from earlier this year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadesaway
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Golden Axe: what to say? I was actually guite excited when I heard about it and then the cover 
 to Play was really putting it on, but playing it, well, I knew a game by Sega was going to be dissappointing... excuse 
 anything with Creative Assemply.
  The graphics are a bit last gen, the voice acting a second or two too late, and the battles only 
 worth it at boss encounters. The thing I do give it, is that it has arena and match battles -something 
 Heavenly Sword and Conan definitely lacked and lost major points for. It is difficult and tests 
 your patience/timing, but rarely do you really get to unleash the combo meters since there are 
 rarely enough foes to unleash on, and when you do have one going, the color attacks, well, you 
 can't defend both at the same time, so you're screwed a good number of times no matter what.
  I am playing it, and so far wanting to go back to it, but only because I want more Conan, but having 
 none, then I'll settle for this -which is not saying much for a game. The control scheme can be 
 changed for user style and even the camera can be changed, which is good since while you're fighting 
 one foe, another off camera is attacking and you can't see the color to parry/block to. The music 
 is ok, and the sound effects are somewhat hollow, but the dialogue has way too much to be desired 
 -it looks/sounds like it is all one second out of synch which really makes one scoff at the whole 
 thing...
  Anyway, for 2nd gen consoles, and having games like Conan, Viking, and even Beowulf, it is inexcusable 
 how Golden Axe looks and sounds. 
  There are some points to it, Tyris seems to look good on close ups and the cinematics are tolerable, 
 combos (when done) are gruesomely fun, but yeah, 5-6 is definitely being good to it. dang, seriously, 
 I'm too bummed to even want to talk about this game -hadn't they seen Conan, Viking et al?!! come 
 on! I'm tired of developers talking big and then putting out mediocrity! This game could have been 
 so much more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodwolf97
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Golden Axe: Beast rider is hard but rewarding!!....... there is 4 different type of arrows red (means 
 u cant do anything either run or jump) green (a weak attack tht can be easily blocked) blue (u 
 can parry and counter) and yellow (can either be evaded or blocked but is much better if u evade 
 becos u can counter and if u block then it takes awhile to get bak to normal) there is 5 types 
 of beasts, abhrax he is normal speed and can do fireball and a normal attack and the lynth which 
 is very fast and can go invisible and do a pounce. mirigore which is slow and strong. krommath which 
 is rly slow and can batter through herds of ppl. and one tht is only known to the best of riders. the 
 graphics are nothin special but is 1080p the nbeast riding is great but the beasts die a bit too 
 easily the combat is brilliant and has a lot of depth. i wud recommend this game to everyone!. thx 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Boldman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  So now i've finished this game on the normal difficulty setting what are my thoughts? Well, firstly 
 comparisons to Heavenly Sword are inevitable (guess i'm a sucker for scantily clad female warrior 
 types) . Both have a coloured enemy attack warning, but here it's easier to use, for Orange glow 
 you press L1 for Blue R1. Then you have X and SQUARE, X for horizontal attack, and SQUARE for vertical, 
 once you get the timing right you should move from enemy to enemy. It's all really hack and slash, 
 something that's been kept from the original game (s) , so anyone looking for a deep game should 
 look elsewhere. The lack of co-op didn't bother me as that would take away from Tyrus' story rather 
 than add. The learning curve was well ethed out, even if the game isn't allways clear what it wants 
 you to do to proceed. The beasts feel sluggish to begin with but once you get a feel for them and 
 their unique attacks and movements that won't be a worry. A more open world would have been welcome. 
 Nice ending too, Golden Axe II anyone? I'm allready waiting for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvchickon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Golden Axe is all it's cracked up to be. It does have normal and hard difficulty, but it's difficulty 
 is what makes it Golden Axe, just like back in the day. Play until you are a master. Tyris is the 
 perfect character, you may have wanted to select from the warrior and the dwarf, however that can 
 wait until golden axe 2 or whatever they decide to name the game. Sure there are disappointments 
 from dying all you need to do is get back up and try again. You will master the blade, magic, parry 
 and evade or you will die by it in this game. Be a master, don't be a wimp and give up because 
 you think its too difficult so you end up rating the game unjustly. I don't enjoy this 800 minimum 
 characters to write, how many more do I have to type. I mean this is a little too many when I don't 
 have the time so I will make time to fill in these last few inklings of characters to make the 
 review long enough, there is that enough or you want some more, how about an oneiric landscape 
 to dream about, pick up that sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Azeus
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  OKay, the headline pretty much say enough.
  THis game is simply put a huge disgrace to the much revered Golden axe franchise that most of us 
 have grown to love as part of childhood memories.
  YES, no multiplayer, no co-op, abysmal storyline, no choice of character to select, laughable animations 
 and graphics. But it comes with the beast which are a big control disaster and magic of course 
 which is about the only thing worth talking about barrely. AI is poor, controls are not really 
 responsive, puzzles are broken, so many graphical glitches. In fact everything screams  
 and complete fails in every way to make it to the line of mediocre. About the only thing u can 
 get from this game is hack and slash, complete waste of time and money.
  IF you thot Vampire rain was the worst game ever to be produced on the next-gen platform, then 
 it's about time to change that because golden axe beast rider has just re-defined and claimed that 
 status thus raising vampire rain to classic status. golden axe beast rider is plain golden mediocrity 
 and should only be purchased by those who have more money and time than common sense period! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex77k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Graphics is subpar, presentation is, well, at least it has a presentation, there is only one playable 
 character and it's a female and it got horrible reviews (3.5 from IGN) .
  
  However I rented the game after hearing "depth in combat", "fun for action game fans" in user reviews. 
 I am glad that I rented the game. Golden Axe: Beast rider is no AAA game, it does not elevate the 
 genre to the next level, but it is a fun game for what it is.
  
  It's a "button masher" with a few set of combos. Well, that doesnt sound like fun, right? But somehow 
 it is a lot of fun. Evading, parrying, then countering... you can pull a "fatality" counter by 
 pressing the correct button (light/heavy/light+heavy) depeding on the "size/type" of enemy. On 
 top of it, you can time your regular attacks to get the sword "burning". Then add the beasts, a 
 bit of magic and you realize the combat system has considerable depth and it's fun.
  
  Cons? well, there are plenty: graphics are plain, uninspired; camera doesn't help much; saving 
 system is "arcade like"; getting gang banged while laying down isnt much fun; presentation is lackluster... 
 If you can overlook the downsides, you may find a fun game underneath waiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuprADM64
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I was going to buy this game instead I rented it, good thing! The controls of fighting suck there's 
 not many fighting moves and it's pretty hard to fight on a beast. The game doesn't have much of 
 a story so far I have only played about a 3rd of the game. The Slashing threw the body's is pretty 
 cool and it does show a lot of blood. I thought the game would be better. I think the game should 
 have more fighting moves and it wouldn't be so hard when all the enemy attacks at once and stay 
 on the beast better with them staying alive a bit longer. There is a lot of fighting and gore but 
 every seams the same it really don't feel that excited to see what happens next. All in all so 
 far it's OK. A bit hard and nothing like the original Golden Axe maybe it will get better I will 
 go finish playing the game and let you know if it gets any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miclowgunman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is exactly what it is trying to be, a next gen version of Golden Axe. If you where expecting 
 anything more, you will be disappointed. Take the old Golden Axe, add some fancy 3d graphics. It 
 feels about the same.
  
  I'll start with the beef first. I expected to have a revisit to the old Golden Axe world with a 
 fairly decent story. What I got was a revisit to the Golden Axe world with the same basic game 
 play and a few added gimmicks. Instead of "battle, move right, battle...", you get "battle, move 
 right, battle move forward, battle, go down the hill..." The story is to be expected, a little 
 weak. But I was ready for that. The thing that gets me is each stage is broken up into "challenges". 
 You will play so far into a level, then it will tell you how well you ranked, and then you move 
 onto the next part of a level. I don't have a problem with this at the end of a level, but the 
 placement make you feel like each segment is more like an American Gladiator run then part of a 
 fluid story. I feel it drags an already weak story down more.
  
  Then there is combat. The idea is sound. It has been used since the dawn of games. Bad guys spawn, 
 good guy fights the spawn, on to the next fight. The problem is the animation. The enemy's attacks 
 have a color to them so you know to dodge or block. This looks pretty neat if it is you vs. up 
 to about 4 minions. Any more then that, though, and glitches start. Instead of swiveling behind 
 an enemy while dodging, the axe goes through you and deals no damage. The camera gets wonky, especially 
 if there is terrain nearby. The first thing I did was to go to the options and manually move back 
 the camera. This helped a lot. Also sometimes the enemy don't even have a light behind their attack, 
 so it pretty much always hits you, ruining your "Titan bonus". They have also used the camera angle 
 against me, seemingly on purpose. Put a caster on either side of me and you can only see and block 
 one at a time, while getting pummeled by the other. If your game lacks decent camera controls, 
 don't try to use that to make your game harder. It just makes people hate your game more.
  
  Other then those things, I've seen a decent amount of glitches with the shadows and even seen 
 the refresh rate mess up once, and I'm only 40 minutes into the game. A little lag here and there 
 as well.
  
  Now for the good things. For a hack and slash, It does what I bought it to do (hold my attention 
 until Rock band 2 and LBP) . It's solid enough to not get you ticked 
  at it and quit. You may get a little board at times, since it keeps the same pace, but it's not 
 too hard to pick back up. Being that I'm not too far into the game, I still have hopes for the 
 story not turning out totally lame, but not many video games these days fail miserably close to 
 the end. The graphics are good. And the characters are mostly likable. Overall it seems to work, 
 if only in short bursts.
  
  All and all I gave the game a 7.5 which represents to me a average game. Hardcore gamers will feel 
 a void from this game, lacking the energy of the high end and high budget game they are use too. 
 But I feel the typical Hack and slash lover will feel a bit of charm from reliving a past favorite 
 in 3d. Try renting this title first, and if you like it, give it a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Criggie
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  This as the worst piece of crap i have ever played im suprised my ps3 didnt spit it back out stay 
 clear of this title.. bad graphics bad game play all around garbage if you waste your money on this 
 dont say you werent warned rent it first thats even a waste of money!!! Its says it is made 720 
 1080i and 1080p and looks abysmal.. I normally dont take the time to write reviews but this one 
 has me so pissed off i felt the need to try and warn against it,, Pong is better!!! What a waste 
 of time.. The game play is ridiculous the enemies are as well the whole thing is a disaster. vampire 
 rain to this date was the worst i have seen and this makes it look like a classic. I cant even 
 figure out a review long enough to get this posted as i have no positive feedback on it at all 
 .. I can just keep telling you over and over do not waste your money your time or anything on this 
 .. if it was free it wouldnt be worth playing buy something else a double cheeseburger would give 
 you way more enjoyment.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, Golden Axe: The Beast Rider looks like it is 2nd coming of Heavenly Sword, but 
 unfortunately, there is nothing heavenly in this game.
  
  The good thing about Golden Axe: Beast Rider is that it plays kind of like the original Golden 
 Axe. The bad thing about Golden Axe: Beast Rider is that it plays kind of like original Golden 
 Axe.
  
  Golden Axe was great game back in 1990. It was beat-em-up game with unique beast riding element 
 added to it. It was great back THEN, but that's already 18 years ago. Almost 20 year old game-play 
 formula is NOT going to cut it in ANY industry. Unfortunately, Secret Level failed to realize this. 
 Also unfortunately, Secret level actually made sub par game compared to almost 20 year old game.
 
  
  Yes, this game is NOT good as original Golden Axe. Amazingly sad but true. Let's go over that one 
 by one. 
  
  
  Golden Axe graphic is not really that great. Sure it has high-def graphic and nice textures and 
 all, but except for cg movies, everything you see in Golden Axe screams "cheap". 
  
  Just everything about it feels like low budget game. The lack of physics, lack of fluid animation, 
 the very noticeable jagged edges, and unimpressive scenery doesn't seem to change as you progress, 
 just all screams it is budget game. 
  
  Well, I can't really blame this game being budget game because it probably is a budget game. Who 
 in the right mind would give Secret Level big budget to work with? I know Sega made plenty of dumb 
 mistakes, but I doubt they would've made that big of a mistake. Actually, I'm willing to bet that 
 Secret Level, out of desperation, went to Sega and begged them to allow them to make a game after 
 their popular franchise that's left untapped, and that they will cover the cost of production. 
 If you think that way, it would make sense why Sega is letting Secret Level make a remake of their 
 fondly remembered game, instead of doing something big with it like what Capcom is doing with Bionic 
 Commando. 
  
  The art direction is plain as you think as well. None of the designs is particularly imaginative. 
 Tyris looks like what an amazon woman would look like, Gilius looks like he was popped out of Lord 
 of the Rings, monsters look like monsters you probably saw it somewhere else, etc. 
  
  However, graphic is not that bad compared to horrible presentation.
  
  One of the most important 
 thing this game is missing is the sense of immersion. The transition between game-play sequence 
 and story sequence is separated as much as possible.
  
  In the beginning of the game, Gilius makes quick cameo appearance during the cut scene. His entrance 
 was really cliche, but grand and very well timed entrance. It really pumps you up and quickly gives 
 you hope that this game might not be bad after expectedly bland tutorial and disappointing start. 
 However, when that cut scene ends and moves on to game-play, Gilius is nowhere to be seen even 
 though HE WAS RIGHT NEXT TO YOU A SECOND AGO. 
  
  That was great example of what not to do when you make a game. Get player be assimilated to the 
 game world by providing the story and the moment, and completely break that by not following it 
 up in actual game. At least make an excuse like he went ahead, or went other places, or SOMETHING. 
 Don't just leave me hanging there thinking "hey, where did he go?"
  
  Another problem with the presentation is sound. The bland music, the unexciting sound, etc all 
 just takes away the excitement. In that sense, this game is worse than the original Golden Axe. 
 The original Golden Axe created many exciting moments with intense battles, music, and loud AHHHHHHHHH 
 (although that felt weird) whenever enemy died. Although original game lacked the grace of other 
 quality beat-em-up like Final Fight or TMNT, but even with lack of graphics and sounds, they did 
 their best to make it feel very intense. Not in Golden Axe: Beast Rider. Every moment of this game 
 is bland as it can possibly be. Even boss entrance is dull. Only exciting moment in this game is 
 during cg cut scenes.
  
  Moving on to game-play. 
  
  Now the biggest problem with game-play is the camera. The camera movements are rather sudden, and 
 if you try to adjust camera manually, you will realize it moves suddenly and stops suddenly. It 
 might not sound like big problem, but it becomes big problems when you start feeling motion sickness. 
 
  
  Also the combat system is pretty plain. there isn't much depth with combat system and just falls 
 to more of button masher. To pull off a combo, it doesn't require much timing or skills, although 
 the game tries you to trick you to believe it does by giving you evade and block into the mix. 
 
  
  That, also has been implemented terribly. The game has this color system like Heavenly Sword. Unlike 
 Heavenly Sword, you can tell that this game lacks any deep thoughts when they actually designed 
 the game because it works very poorly. In this game, if monster attacks you with "yellow" (it will 
 glow yellow-orange) attacks, then you have to evade. If it's blue, you need to block. If it's green, 
 it's up to you, and if it's red, you have to dodge it. The problem is that after you successfully 
 dodged or blocked, you automatically goes into this counter mode. For few frames of window, you 
 are stuck in this counter mode, and whenever you attack, you end up doing this fire sword like 
 attack as counter attack. Sounds good right? NO it's NOT.
  
  The problem is that the counter attacks are not that quick. when you are going against one enemy, 
 it works fairly well as enemy is in this dazed kind of state. However, if there are multiple enemies, 
 you leave yourself open enough for enemies to attack you. Considering how far apart health replenishments 
 are and how you can't store anything to use later, this becomes quite a hindrance. Worst of all, 
 you can dodge it all too easily if you just move while enemy swings at you, which makes evade and 
 block almost completely useless and feel quite gimmicky unlike Heavenly Sword, where it felt essential. 
 Heavenly Sword also carefully avoided such problem by giving more dramatic counter reaction by 
 making your counters be throw so you won't be left vulnerable. 
  
  Also thanks to this color system, it also shares similar problem as Heavenly Sword. When 2 enemies 
 attack you orange AND blue attacks at the same time, you are pretty much helpless unless you moved 
 away. 
  
  And then it has another problem. The evade and block buttons are quite unresponsive. It's not instantaneous. 
 You need to give yourself good half a second for you to block or evade before enemy strikes. Actually 
 evade is more responsive, so it really throws your timing off. different timing for counters is 
 not good even in fighting game, but in beat-em-up? it just kills the game.
  
  It won't take long for you to realize that strategy in this game is pretty much same as original 
 Golden Axe. Move out of the way, and combo. rinse and repeat. Ultimately, I found out that, that's 
 the best way to do away your enemies and ignoring evade and counter button for move cases. Only 
 problem is that camera doesn't work with you. It's quick way to feel motion sickness.
  
  Overall, this game ended up being disappointing in so many ways. First, it went away from being 
 free roaming action RPG to very linear beat-em-up. Second, they did poor job making it linear beat-em-up. 
 Third, this game is actually WORSE than original Golden Axe, which is 18 years old.
  
  Golden Axe: Beast Rider is one example that shows nostalgia is not always a good thing 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
