-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gran Turismo 5 Prologue
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/granturismo5prologue/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A technical work of art.
 Varied lineup of vehicles.
 Brings 16-player online racing to Gran Turismo.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not nearly enough tracks.
 Only a prologue to the real thing.
 Online suffers lag at times.
 No option to upgrade vehicle parts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 66 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 2,852 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Polyphony Digital
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Apr 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gran Turismo 5 Prologue may be only a practice lap for the real thing, but it's a beautiful joyride 
 while it lasts. 

  If Gran Turismo 5 is going to be the real driving simulator, then Prologue could be described as 
 the warm-up lap. Although the game is an astounding technical achievement that looks and sounds 
 nothing short of amazing, it's ultimately only a brief taste of the smorgasbord to come.  

  Prologue is available to download via PlayStation Network or on a Blu-ray disc from stores. As 
 with previous iterations of Gran Turismo, the structure of GT5 Prologue is based on competing in 
 a series of races, unlocking new event classes, and earning enough credits to purchase better cars, 
 though you won't be required to complete any license tests before you're allowed to compete. With 
 more than 30 events to unlock, the single-player game isn't overly lengthy, but it features a challenging 
 difficulty curve as you progress from beginner to professional level. There are several different 
 formats for events, from standard races and time trials to varied challenges, such as overtaking 
 the entire grid in a single lap.  

  You start the game with 35,000 credits, which is enough to buy a basic car, such as the Mini Cooper-S 
 '06, Citroen C4 Coupe '05, Ford Focus ST '06, Honda Integra Type R '04, or our favourite, the Mazda 
 RX-8 Type S '07. A few race victories should give you enough credits to buy something better, but 
 the option is always there to save your money and complete a 10-race series to win an exclusive 
 new ride. Unlike in earlier iterations, Prologue doesn't give you the option to upgrade car parts, 
 although you do gain access to the quick-tune option later in the game.  

           GT5 Prologue looks gorgeous and, at times, almost photorealistic.      

  Prologue 
 is hands-down one of the best-looking games on the PlayStation 3. Environments are packed with 
 a stunning amount of detail and really make the most of a high-definition display. An incredible 
 amount of attention has been paid to the cars, which look absolutely beautiful as they fly around 
 the tracks. Environments are similarly impressive, though the High Speed Ring's expanses of water 
 look flat and motionless, and the mountains of Eiger Nordwand look less convincing than the vistas 
 on other tracks. Occasional motion judder and noticeable aliasing also tarnish the impressive visuals 
 somewhat. That said, these issues are rather minor, and the game holds up well in two-player split-screen, 
 which lets you race head-to-head without any AI drivers.  

  Unlike arcade racers, Gran Turismo games reward technical proficiency and have no margin for error 
 when it comes to sloppy driving. Thankfully, the controls are accurate without being oversensitive, 
 with support for racing wheels and plenty of adjustable options for the driving model. These include 
 transmission choice, driver-assisted steering, traction control, tire selection, and a driving 
 line, which has been included in a GT game for the first time here. The button layout is logical 
 and can be tweaked to suit your personal taste. Unfortunately, damage modelling is still a notable 
 omission, so hitting a wall at 180mph and bouncing off unscathed pretty much shatters the otherwise 
 convincing illusion of reality.  

  There are four views available during races: normal (bumper height) , bonnet, above-car chase view, 
 and a new in-car driver's-eye view. The last of these makes the visibility of the track somewhat 
 restricted, given that part of the screen is taken up with a detailed view of your car's frame, 
 dashboard, steering wheel (complete with manufacturer logos) , rear-view mirrors, and even working 
 gauges. Resting on the wheel are your driver's hands, clad in Sparco racing gloves that move realistically 
 at your whim. It's a nice addition to be able to appreciate your new ride from the inside (you 
 can also look out of the back window when you press the rear-view button) , but it's not very practical. 
 Though the inclusion of this feature is in keeping with the authentic replication of the vehicles, 
 you'll likely end up opting for a less-restricted view of the racetrack once the novelty wears 
 off.  

  Although the vehicle lineup is respectable at 70-plus cars, it's still only one-tenth of the 700-plus 
 cars seen in GT4. Annoyingly, there are no Lamborghinis, Porsches, or race-bred touring cars, and 
 the 1995 Toyota Celica rally car from the GT HD demo has disappeared completely. Much has been 
 made of Ferrari's debut in the game, especially because there are several models, including the 
 599, 430, and F40, as well as its 2007 Formula 1 racer. Nevertheless, the popular Enzo is nowhere 
 to be found. Other brands synonymous with racing, such as Mercedes Benz, Audi, and Honda, boast 
 only one or two cars in their showrooms. These misgivings aside, the lineup is broad and even has 
 space for such curiosities as the Suzuki Cappuccino.  

  Each model's characteristics are reflected in its price tag, with the cheapest cars being rather 
 sluggish and unresponsive compared to the exotic supercars on offer. Despite this, high-powered 
 cars won't necessarily have the best handling available. With so much juice on tap at the press 
 of a pedal, you'll need to give just as much attention to braking and steering if you want to beat 
 the rest of the pack.  

           There are great tracks in Prologue, just not many of them.      

  The game's AI is 
 quite competitive, and working your way through the game's events will be a challenge for all but 
 the most dedicated racing fans. AI competitors race with seemingly effortless skill and very rarely 
 deviate from the optimal driving line, but they're not bulletproof; on occasion they'll slip up, 
 as evidenced by clouds of dust emerging from gravel beds alongside the track. They'll use your 
 slipstream to their advantage, just like you can with theirs, but they will generally drive defensively. 
 Taking advantage of this by nudging your competitors off of the track can be satisfying, but it's 
 hardly in keeping with the game's sense of realism. On occasion, AI drivers will force you off 
 of the track as well, though this feels more like the act of a driver unaware of your existence 
 than of a fiercely competitive rival. True to the series' past form, your opponents in GT5 Prologue 
 exhibit no personality or distinct behaviour, and as a result you'll never get the feeling that 
 you're racing real drivers.  

  It will take a reasonable amount of time to unlock all of the cars in the game, but the same can't 
 be said for the tracks, given that there are only six and they're all available from the start. 
 Each track does feature an alternate version, but most of them are simply the primary track in 
 reverse. Thankfully, there's some variation to the racing styles, with four race circuits (High 
 Speed Ring, Daytona Speedway, Fuji Speedway, and Suzuka) , one rally course (Eiger Nordwand) , and 
 a street course in the city of London that takes in such landmarks as Trafalgar Square and Piccadilly 
 Circus.  

  Prologue's menu system is logical and well-presented, offering all of the various game modes along 
 the bottom of the home screen. These include news, GTTV, online, online rankings, arcade, split-screen, 
 single-player events, your garage, dealerships, replay options, general options, and a decent digital 
 manual for those of you opting for the downloadable version of the game rather than the Blu-ray 
 Disc. The My Page feature dominates the screen's real estate, showing your current car in a range 
 of stunning locations, including Ahrweiler and Nurburg in Germany, as well as several locales in 
 Japan.  

  The series has earned a strong reputation for its soundtracks, and Prologue's selection of music 
 doesn't disappoint, with rock numbers during races and relaxed chillout, electro, and jazz music 
 when you're navigating the menus. The in-game sound effects are also as realistic as you'd expect 
 from a game that prides itself on being a simulator. Those of you who are using a decent speaker 
 system will be able to rely on the soundtrack for audio clues of screeching tires, asphalt surfaces, 
 rumble strips, or nearby competitors. The sound effects are spot-on, and really help to enforce 
 the game's realism.  

  You'll need to download an update to access Prologue's online features, which can be a lengthy 
 and occasionally unreliable process. Once you have it up and running, the online mode is quite 
 disappointing. Intermittent lag causes cars to jump around the track, which makes it hard to predict 
 where they'll land. It's still fun to battle it out online against real opponents, but the faceless 
 nature of the matchmaking system means that the experience lacks the social nature of some other 
 online racers out there. However, racing online isn't completely without its merits as the prize 
 money you win carries over to your Career mode. As Prologue focuses more on simulation than on 
 gameplay there's no auto catch-up for those of you bringing up the rear. Your skill behind the 
 wheel won't always make a difference if the driver in front has a significantly more powerful car, 
 either.  

           Don't expect a plethora of vehicle models, but there should be something that appeals 
 to every performance-car enthusiast.      

  Although the online mode feels rather tacked on, the GTTV feature has plenty of potential to grow 
 in the future. Only four videos are accessible at launch, one of which is the game's opening cutscene. 
 The three other videos are short documentaries on the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X and the 2007 
 Nissan GT-R, featuring Polyphony's Kazunori Yamauchi, as well as members of the cars' development 
 teams. The videos are a nice addition to the package and should become more numerous as updates 
 are released over time. Worthy of a mention if you're a big fan of the Gran Turismo series is the 
 20-minute-long  Beyond the Apex  documentary, which is presented in full HD, though available only 
 with North American Blu-ray versions of Prologue.  

  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is a good simulation for PlayStation 3 driving enthusiasts who have a penchant 
 for exotic cars. It doesn't veer from the course set by its predecessors and still features top-notch 
 driving, accurately recreated vehicles and tracks, and a good learning curve that forces you to 
 step up your game as you progress. However, the lack of vehicle damage, the relatively small number 
 of vehicles and tracks on offer, and the shallow online mode conspire to make this a tough sell 
 when pitted against some of the competition.  

  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue's price tag goes some way toward addressing the fact that this isn't nearly 
 as comprehensive an offering as a full Gran Turismo release, but paying 25 pounds (or US$40) for 
 what is essentially an extended demo of an upcoming game still doesn't represent good value for 
 the money. If you're willing to overlook the dearth of content, the lack of damage modelling, and 
 the problems with online play then by all means get behind the wheel. Otherwise, you're probably 
 better off waiting for Gran Turismo 5 proper.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (156 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BLKGZUS04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  Awesome looking first of all. Some minor texturing issues but nothing major. All things that I 
 assume will be fixed once the finished version of the game is released. From what I've read from 
 gamespot writers are things like too short, & not enough content. I think it is totally the opposite.
 
  The game itself is fairly massive for what it actually is. Which are license test. The old license 
 test were fairly quick & pretty easy to get golds through out. The way these were set up was a 
 lot more competitive & fun for that matter. Plus 15 computers racers to race against was unheard 
 of for Gran Turismo. Completely & utterly unheard of. 
  Now on to the game play. Exactly as well put together & beautiful as you would expect the GT franchise. 
 The felling of the individual differences w/ the cars varied to a satisfactory method. The various 
 color options were quite extensive as well. Since it was just the license test a lot of things 
 aren't or weren't available that I wish would've been. Like the various upgrades you can add to 
 the vehicles or even rims for that matter. I wish that rally courses might have been added as well 
 since that has been a standard for GT racing over the years & a very fun portion to boot. Not really 
 a big fan of the drifting mode but w/ all the movies, shows, & games that have put such an emphasis 
 on drifting I can understand it easily. Just not one of those things that I get into that often. 
 I did like the "quick tune" options, but it wasn't really the same w/o being able to get the multitude 
 of upgrades that would normally be case. The only other thing I didn't really like about the game 
 that has never been on one was the different driver preferences "standard & professional". I have 
 been a GT racer & only a GT racer since Gran Turismo 2 on the original playstaion. Through all 
 of those I have never seen or noticed this particular option. I think on the professional setting 
 it is far from realistic or no where near as realistic as standard. Unfortunately to race for the 
 big $$$ online you most know this racing format. 
  All in all not much that I didn't like about the game. Like I stated very minor things I would 
 change but not important enough for what the game was designed to be. That is what people have 
 to keep in mind for this beautiful precursor to the real game. "It's just license test people" 
 & there are plenty of games which have come out before & after this w/ less content & less cars. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MtB777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  Physics accuracy, vehicle handling, the beautiful modelling of the vehicles and much improved AI 
 of the computer racers contribute to an excellent racing experience.
  
  This is pure racing, there's no career mode or other side features as its a Prologue release, just 
 beautiful cars and a set of tracks to race them on.
  
  The online mode works very well once you're connected, and racing against real people can be very 
 exciting when they're not trying to grief the track.
  
  An ability to block and report habitual griefers would be much appreciated.
  
  Controls are 
 very good, and customizable. Support for steering wheels is mostly focused on official Logitech 
 supported devices. Force feedback is well-implemented as well.
  
  Vehicle physics can be switched between pro and standard levels, where in standard the car won't 
 let go as easily into a spin and behaves more as one would expect from a typical arcade racing 
 game. In professional physics mode, the cars are extremely accurate and good racing ability is 
 required to handle the more powerful cars without losing control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markpizzy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I can't wait for Gran Turismo 5. It's the game i've really have been anticipating the most in my 
 life because I'm a big fan of the GT franchise. Gt has always focused on being the best driving 
 simulator and all of the ps2 games were all great. Gran Turismo 5 which will be the first complete 
 GT name for ps3 will be out real soon but they give us GT5 Prologue to give us a preview of what 
 to expect. So far so good, the game is one of the most beautiful ps3 games on the market, they've 
 added an interior view in the cars and the steering physics and force feedback are better then 
 ever if you have the Logitech g25. The g25 and this game is the perfect combination because the 
 clutch and shifter work great in this game. The clutch does need a few tweaks though especially 
 when balancing it in 1st gear. The racing in the game is much more imroved from the previous GT4 
 because the AI is not as dumb and there is more cars grid which makes it more challanging. There 
 is also an online mode which runs smooth too. The selection of cars are enough to satisfy but there 
 could have been at least 2 more tracks. It's good they came out with the Prologue because it makes 
 waiting for the real thing easier. It gives us a GT game to play with until the real one comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffejufo
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:37 am PT
Review:  first off this game should be a free download its clearly a demo and a bad one there is no sense 
 off speed or acceleration this is really noticeable on the London track with it's tight streets 
 and buildings everywhere, look like there barely moving pass even at 100miles a hour only six easy 
 tracks and not one is a challenge, force feed back is weak you feel nothing when you ride over 
 the edge of the track only hear the sound the a. i just cheats by hitting you off the track with 
 no penalty's for cars that hit you or you hit no car damage and this game is supposed to be a sim 
 not very realistic handling to they think this is for ps2 that's use that cell processor drive 
 off or over grass does nothing to the cars handling your car will start to side out in a turn forcing 
 you to slow down but not the a. i and not even going that fast with the gtr which is four wheel 
 drive game play is not balanced you lose because you can't catch up or you win by a mile pluses 
 are works with g25 wheel but no clutch cockpit view is good graphics are ok menus suck if you have 
 the car you need in your garage for the race the game should let you choose it when you start the 
 race and when you win the race I don't want to have exit it should just go back to race selection 
 menu with very strong competition there going to have to work very to make this game good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSB93
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought it because I was WOWED by the graphics, the Gran Turismo series has always pushed its 
 consoles to their limits, with the PS2 version of GT3 looking something very similar to a PS3 game. 
 After purchasing it, I immediately looked on the back to see the new cars that were added... then 
 my eyes bulged and my heart sank as I read "featuring over 60 ultra-realistic cars" DOUBLE YOU 
 TEE EFF!?!?!??! I was hoping they kept the good cars, like the Aston Martin DB7, the Mazda Miata, 
 but I was once again disappointed by the lack of selection of cars. Sure, they were true to their 
 real life counterparts, but the selection sucked. I was also looking for tracks from the previous 
 games such as Laguna Seca, but yet again I was disappointed. All their were were short and (apart 
 from the Suzuka Circuit and the London track) boring tracks. I think this game has not lived up 
 to its expectations, although the inside the cockpit view is really cool. anyway, This is a game 
 that let me down because I was hoping for at least 100 cars and the fun tracks from the previous 
 games. 10 for the graphics, 9.5 for the handling realism, but 4 for the car and track selections. 
 Anyway, this is just MY opinion. You might love it, but I think it was okay, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_4_Fun
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  In the world of automobile simulation, only few can match the realism and quality of Gran Turismo 
 series. Recent titles like Forza managed to make huge strides in automobile simulation, but still 
 Gran Turismo is your best bet if you want a true simulation experience. Today I will be reviewing 
 the Prologue version of Gran Turismo 5, by 'Prologue' it means it contains much less content and 
 customization than the full version, but the core gameplay remains the same.
  
  GT 5 Prologue contains around 70 cars with 6 tracks, far cry from the over 600 cars people come 
 to experience from a GT title, but it's called Prologue for a reason. Regardless of the lack of 
 content, you will get the awesome simulation experience in the next-gen (or current gen as now 
 the case) flavor.
  
  The gameplay is as solid and realistic as ever, with full 1080P support and 60 frames per second 
 to enhance the experience. The devs used satellite information to record even the slightest of 
 bumps on the roads, which you can get the feedback when you are rumble enabled. The difficulty 
 can be adjusted for new comers, and for those graduating from arcade racing, even though to fully 
 experience GT 5, you would want to play with maximum realism option. As any racing games goes, 
 you will be doing yourself a favor when you get the Logitech racing wheel.
  The lack of game modes and customization is disappointing. The game allows splitscreen race, but 
 only among you, no AI drivers, which is disappointing again, maybe it has something to do with 
 performance issues, judging from how good the game looks. Only about 6 tracks is included, again 
 the prologue nature of the game.
  
  That's right; sometimesthe game looks absolutely photo realistic. The car models are fantastic 
 with every attention to detail as possible. The tracks don't look not too shabby compared to the 
 cars themselves. 
  
  The sound is absolutely authentic, sounds and feels real whether you are playing from behind or 
 inside the dashboard (new feature in GT series) .
  
  The online is ok, but the problem is there are people online who just ruin everyone's game by ramming 
 onto the other cars. Unfortunately there is no such solution to the problem. Hopefully when damage 
 is implemented in the game, this should go along way in remedying the problem.
  
  A great simulator, but the 40$ retail tag is too much for the amount of content in the game, where 
 25$ seams more appropriate. Never the less, if you are looking for the most realistic car simulator 
 in the market, there is no game better than Gran Turismo 5 Prologue.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eugen-male
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  This prologue version is quite astonish in terms of graphics, physics and fun.
  
  
  Graphics & Sounds:
  We have to face it: the graphics are astonish in this game, infact, i havent 
 seen better, the screenshots in some spots are trully hard to distinguish from real life, the car 
 modeling, the tracks and the sounds have been done very well, they mimic real life perfectly!
 
  
  Gameplay and Physics:
  The cars physics are very well done and accurate as in real life, if you test for example the formula 
 1 in gt5 vs the formula 1 in real life in the same tracks and same weather conditions you will 
 see that the diference is less than half second at the end.
  You can race vs up to 17 other opponents in the same track online vs players or offline mode vs 
 bots.
  When it comes to simulation this is the best deal you can get for a ps3.
  Unfortunatelly there are only 6 tracks and around 75 vehicles but we all expected this since the 
 game is Prologue and not the full version.
  
  Online Experience:
  The online system is quite good but not perfect, there are some players that go throw shortcuts 
 where they dont get a balanced penalty for it, leaving them to still get a very good advantage, 
 this might be fixed in later patches, but for now you have to get used to it or just dont play 
 those exploitable tracks (so far ive only seen 1) .
  You can still get hours of fun, great competitions and even tournaments with real life awards!
 
  
  For a gran turismo and car simulation fan this game is worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgordonfan24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5: Prologue is easy to diss. It's a small portion of the full Gran Tursimo 5, which 
 is scheduled for next year release. A bit before releasing a game, GT makes a expanded demo, a 
 game with more stuff than a demo but way smaller then the full game (plus it's not cheap) . 
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, giving you a good reason to upgrade to HDTV if you haven't already. 
 With details ranging from spectators to far off mountains, GT5P graphics make your PS3 proud to 
 be a PS3. Cars are also incredible. With details like sun reflection and great interior design 
 (in-cockpit view) , the cars are also a work of art. Plus they handle like a Ferrari and have great 
 reaction to the commands you put in. It would have been more enjoyable if they dumbed down the 
 AI on the harder difficluties for a few races while the player adjusts to a new difficulty level. 
 They have a good selection of racetracks and cars to try out, many if which are new or updated 
 to look even cooler. Online isn't something you'll find someone raving about. I didn't try it much 
 during my time with the game, so I can't judge it.
  
  Overall, GT5P is a great game (if you can call it that) , with remarkable graphics and kick @$$ 
 cars, this DEMO is good bt not quite worth the $40 price tag. My Rating: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob70001
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The competition with the AI is fantastic and it made it some good racing and its awesome that the 
 races had more than a lousy 8 positions, but my problem with the game is that there are not enough 
 cars to choose from, there are not enough tracks to race on, and the graphics did not seem much 
 different from Gran Turismo 4. I became bored of Gran Turismo 5 due to the lack of challenges to 
 do and the lack of differant cars to drive and ended up going back to playing GT 4 on PS2. Getting 
 Ferrari in the game for once is great though, I've been looking forward to that manufacturer in 
 Gran Turismo since GT 2. Maybe if we're lucky they will stay in it for the next Gran Turismo that 
 comes out on a more enjoyable format. I think Gran Turismo 5 is more of a demo to Gran Turismo 
 6 for the PS3 system like GT 3 was to GT 4 for PS2 and GT 1 was to GT 2 for PS1. If you played 
 the whole GT series like I have you would see the patern too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this quick. If Prologue is any indication of things to come, Gran Turismo's glory days 
 are over. Yeah, this is probably the most realistic looking game I have ever played (however, as 
 an artist, I believe beauty is subjective and I don't believe that realistic graphics are necessarily 
 equivalent to good graphics) . Aside from that, this game does very few things right and a lot of 
 things wrong.
  
  The main problem with GT5P is that it is so boring to play. Maybe I'm biased against this kind 
 of game, but on numerous occasions, I found myself falling asleep during races. It seems to me 
 one either wins by a huge margin, making the game a bore, or can't catch up because of an underpowered 
 car, which makes the game a bore. The developers do nothing to try to inject excitement into the 
 game... everything is so streamlined, genteel and rigid from the font to the calming music you hear 
 between races. The in-race tunes aren't that great either. When you play a game like MotorStorm, 
 which has excitment overloading the presentation, it's hard to enjoy a game so calmly presented. 
 I could swear it wasn't like this the last time I played a GT game (A-spec) .
  
  Combine that with the fact that cars don't take damage (the whole "real cars can't get damaged 
 in a game" excuse doesn't fly anymore) and not only was I bored, but my mind was tussling over 
 the fact that I was playing a hyper-realistic looking game that doesn't have realism in the game.
 
  
  The menu system is also flawed. First of all, in order to get anywhere in the game, from the beginning 
 you have to play the earliest races over... and over... and over... in order to build up enough cash 
 to buy a better car so you actually stand a chance against the cars in higher-ranked races. Not 
 to mention, certain races require certain kinds of cars. This is not a problem in itself, however, 
 it does make for a tedious exercise having to go back and forth to your garage so you can dig up 
 or buy the car you need for a race. You're forced to go to the dealership trying to remember exactly 
 what kind of car you need, then finding one with the HP you want, and then making sure you have 
 enough money for it. I would loved the option to jump directly between the race menu and the dealerships 
 so I could just go buy the car I needed for a race if I didn't have it.
  
  I played a little online too, and I really didn't like it. I don't have the best connection, so 
 this should be taken with a grain of salt. I've seen cars warp all over the track, move about wildly, 
 jump ahead of me when I thought I was ahead of them and other weird things. It was making my head 
 hurt to the point where I gave up on it after a few tries.
  
  Even the customization system -- the system that normally sets the GT series apart -- is oversimplified 
 to the point of ... pointlessness. The game gives no real explanation as to what your choices do 
 when you change the simplistic menu options for tires and the like, so I guess that's just for 
 the truly GT faithful to understand.
  
  I guess in the end GT5P isn't for the casual racing game enthusiast. But without realistic damage 
 modeling and the overly simplified customization, I can't say this game is for hardcore GT players 
 either. Prologue is a decent effort, but it is just that, a preview of what may be a decent game 
 to come. Right now, it's a boring, tedious waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I've said this in other racing reviews, but whoever decided that the less responsive and the more 
 clunky and "loose" a racing game is, the more realistic it is, will be the first up against a wall 
 when the revolution comes. My own real life (run down) Seat Ibiza has better driving capabilities 
 than my ingame Nissan GT-R. How stupid is that? I can take corners and chickanes faster in a 15 
 year old matchbox than in a brand new, state of the art, racing spec'ed technological marvel. I 
 used to own an Alfa Romeo GTV V6 Turbo which, measured against the ingame Ferrari F430, had MUCH 
 higher cornering speeds. The Alfa took chickanes at 60mph which the F430 has to go below 40 to 
 make.
  
  That being said, I used to LOVE Gran Turismo 2 and 3, but that was before I'd driven real racing 
 cars and found out how they REALLY handle. Polyphony seems to think that to make a game more realistic, 
 you have to make the cars almost undrivable, and as far away from realistic as possible... Wait. 
 Isn't that... a paradox? I believe it is! Driving a racing spec'ed car in Gran Turismo is NOTHING 
 LIKE driving a racing spec'ed car in reality. Avoid this game AT ALL COSTS. If you want a closer 
 representation of real racing, go buy GRID, which is not a simulation, but at least it doesn't 
 do false advertising, claiming they do the ultimate driving sim. What GRID is, however, is much 
 much more of a realistic driving-experience than GT.
  
  To give another example of how bad the GT physics engine is: My old Pug 205GTi had LESS suspension 
 travel than the ingame Ferrari F40, which is widely famous (or infamous) for it's stiff ride! How 
 does that make sense? I believe that Polyphony thinks realism only means pretty graphics, because 
 that's the only strong point of Gran Turismo, because it does indeed look amazing. But there are 
 so many other driving games that looks GREAT, but has much more "realistic" driving physics than 
 GT.
  
  To conclude this review, I have to say: Stay away from Gran Turismo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBz1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  With the latest update in October this racing game just keeps getting better. When the updated 
 FULL version is released I am sure we all will have our goals set off and online for this racing 
 game. The graphics always seem to improve and a long with the physics of the game every time they 
 update Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. I really love the 3 new cars that were added to this update. I 
 am sure when the next Gran Turismo is released it will really unleash the powers of the PS 3. I 
 am even thinking of getting the steering wheel controller for this game let alone the next one. I 
 hope to run into some good competitors online, no pun intended" to make this game even more interesting 
 then it already is. I really love all the tracks, and the cars and large selection of modles is 
 fantastic. My favorite as of now is the CITROEN, I really love this car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo was the game that got me into racing. The first one I played was Gran Turismo 2 and 
 it was excellent. I have loved every GT since then. There was however a new competitor that has 
 greatly raised the bar for me personally on what I demand from a racing game. Sadly, GT5 fails 
 to meet even half of them.
  
  Forza Motorsports allowed for so much more realism than the GT games. Only in GT can you drive 
 through grass and it not affect the way your car drives, slam into cars and barriers and do no 
 damage and essentially win the game by not driving better but just slamming into other cars to 
 win. There are still no damage models, something way past due at this point.
  
  No modifications are allowed in GT5 either, a huge letdown to me. After beating the story mode 
 (Took me only 5 hours and I take forever to play every game) you can tweak cars but it's nothing 
 like modifying them. You can even use a chinsey slider to add more horespower - something that 
 greatly detracts from the realism. None of this tweaking costs money either.
  
  Some of the car sounds are pretty good, others however are horribly lacking (Notably the Subaru 
 Imprezas, the Ferraris and the BMW M3) . Cars handle fairly realistically, however the emergency 
 brake functions nothing like a real one allowing for almost no sliding around corners - it merely 
 brings the car to a stop.
  
  As has been noted, the game feels like it's missing so much due to being a simple prologue. The 
 graphics are stunning and ultra realistic. The dashes are excellently done and all beautiful, but 
 being able to look around them would be nice as opposed to using the right stick as an additional 
 throttle and brake control.
  
  The multiplayer is also a great letdown. Due to having no damage and no way to turn collisions 
 off, you aren't so much racing as you're trying to avoid getting hit by other drivers who're just 
 trying to hit anyone that passes them. The only penalty they suffer is a few seconds of their car 
 slowing down. While you're careening off the track, they only have to slow down and get to continue 
 on while you're now in last place.
  
  Another favorite of other drivers is to slam you into a barrier. This causes your car to severly 
 slow down for about 5 seconds letting any nearby cars to pass you. There is nothing to punish or 
 kick the players who drive like this so they can continue on to do the same thing in every race.
 
  
  Combined with the unrealistic damage (Non-existant) , poor online play, short single player, limited 
 car selection, weak sound emulation from several unique cars, GT5 is the biggest let down for me. 
 I'm glad they released this though, it is a good gauge to see if you should be anticipating the 
 new full game or look elsewhere. For me, I'm going with Forza Motorsports from now on - they offer 
 what a game like this should. GT5 also has far too much bias towards Japanese cars and too little 
 knowledge of American and European cars. This has been a series flaw as long as I've played them.
 
  
  They may change some things in GT5 - and I hope they do. Otherwise, I'm looking forward to Forza 
 3 and will be passing the GT series up from now on. Definately rent this game and don't waste your 
 money on it, it's far too short of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Over the years the GT series has been the benchmark in racing simulations. GT 5 prologue is meant 
 to wet your taste buds until the full version comes out.
  It does everything that you would expect if you have played any of the previous installments. The 
 one thing that is missing is the in-ability to buy new parts. But if I had to guess will be in the 
 full blown game when it comes out. Also the car selection is very, very small for the GT series, only 
 about 70. But the ones that are on there are rendered incredibly good. It's hard to tell the difference 
 between the real thing and the game. Also Ferrari makes it's GT debut here. Ranging from Magnum PI's 
 car to the F1 car.
  This game is good enough to get you by until the real deal comes out. It's beautiful courses, highly 
 detailed cars make this a great fit for the racing fan. Too bad it's too short and does not have 
 alot of cars. GT5 Prologue is a fun game that will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo is a great racing franchise and it maintains a decent slection of cars. Gran Turismo 
 5 keeps it that way. Cars are look nice. However the handling is horrible. Expect to crash more than 
 once. Turning in certain situations is frustrating and does not even benefit. The graphics are actually 
 pretty good in this game as the cras look highly realistic, however the grass could look a bit moe 
 realistic. Sound is pretty good as well, you will hear the tires screeching, crowds yelling and a 
 nice victoory sound if you win. Buying crs is actually a lot more easier than most racing games 
 ,you will win a decent amount of money for every victory. Gran Turismo 5 does in fact feature some 
 exellent featues such as G-TV giving you the oppurtunity to watch races. If there is one thing that 
 Gran Turismo 5 does best, is that it has the most realistic drivers seat in any racing game. Interiors 
 are very well made and works great when watching your opponents through the window. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue, or GT5P, is by far the best racing game out there right now. This game 
 is the precursor to the highly anticipated Gran Turismo 5. While this game doesn't offer up a wide 
 variety of tracks and vehicles, you'll still be pleased with the game, as well as the price. ($40) 
 In case you've never played a GT game and you've been occupied with Need 4 Speed or GRID, among 
 others, let me just say that you won't be getting an arcade-like experience in GT5P, like you do 
 in other racing series'. This game is the closest possible simulation to driving a real car, so 
 you can expect to be in for a real learning curve if you're new to the GT series. Now I'll tell 
 what to expect if you do indeed get this game.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10 Every vehicle handles with such realism, you'll swear you're actually driving the 
 car. Each car handles differently, so you constantly have to adjust to each individual car you 
 drive. The game runs seamlessly at 60 fps. There are no noticeable glitches in the framerate and 
 you can expect a thrilling, fast-paced experience each time you play. 
  
  Graphics-10/10 Let me just say that you will be thoroughly amazed with the graphics in this game. 
 I say this with 100% honesty: The cars look REAL! Each car in the game looks flawless. All are 
 highly detailed and look great! You will swear that you're seeing pictures of the actual cars, 
 rather than something in a videogame.
  
  Controls-10/10 Nothing fancy about them. But they're perfect and very easy to learn.
  
  AI-9/10 
 I won't say the AI is perfect - because it's not. In fact, at times, it's quite easy to win against 
 the AI. Most of the time though, you'll be in for a real challenge. There are no difficulty levels 
 to choose from (easy, normal etc) so you're going to have to make sure your driving skills are 
 polished up real nice for the high class races. Even in some of the easier levels, you will still 
 need to be perfect, because one small mistake could cost you a race.
  
  Sound-10/10 Each engine sounds different. Every tire squeal sounds like the real thing. The sound 
 of gears shifting are tremendously amazing. The bottomline is you will be thrilled each time you 
 race. The sound of your engine as well as all the others will make it sound like your watching 
 a real race on TV. Trust me, the sound is top-notch, and it cannot be beat!
  
  Overall-10/10 This game is absolutely stunning! Everything about it is perfect. The gameplay, the 
 sounds, the visuals. All of it is top-notch. If you're looking for the most realistic racing experience 
 available, this is a game you don't want to miss out on! Even though it is just a little piece 
 of the things to come in GT5, you can be assured that you will not be disappointed with this $40 
 purchase. Buy this game, and enjoy racing the way it was meant to be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me say the Graphics are the best i have ever seen in a game. The car models are 
 amazing and the amount of cars is more than "Grid" and this isn't even the full game. For a prologue 
 (massive demo) it does a pretty good job of making the gameplay realistic but still so fun to play. 
 Yeah, there aren't many tracks or customization but i guess when a game comes out for $39.99, what 
 do you expect?
  The amount of cars is what really surprised me, with over 70, theres more than enough to choose 
 from. With the added features such as online play with up to 16 players, and an all-new cockpit 
 view make this game better than almost any racing game out on the market. You'll be happy to know 
 that the full Gran Turismo 5 is scheduled for release in 2008, and with almost 1,000 cars.............. well 
 you just can't possibly go wrong.
  
  Overall: Astonishing Graphics, Great Physics, Lots of Cars but not many tracks or races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly something worth having if you own a PS3, yes it's only a prologue for the 
 final game which is at least another year away (its bound to be longer remember how long a wait 
 GT4 was?) but it is a fantastic achievement in its own right, there is almost enough content to 
 be a small game. There is a fairly decent choice of cars and they have finally introduced some 
 more exotic cars like Ferrari's (including the F40 and the Ferrari F1 car) you can also get other 
 cars like a DB9, GTR R35 and a Corvette and other fast cars, plus you also get smaller city cars 
 like the Focus ST, Suzuki Swift and many others so you do get a decent choice of cars to own and 
 they are all fantastically detailed.
  
  The detailing in this game is finally doing the PS3 justice; the cars look almost photorealistic 
 and the environments you race in look very authentic, it does have some very fine details like 
 the crowd flinching if you drive too close to the barrier or the grass fluttering from the air 
 rushing over it from the cars. Every single car has its own interior that matches the real version 
 of the car, and the lighting is also very good as you drive along you can see the light and shadows 
 creep over the dash and steering wheel very realistically. Some of the shadows do still need some 
 work, mainly the interior shadows they can look a little jagged but the good thing is that the 
 game is installed on your PS3's HDD so it can be updated and expanded. This also means that there 
 is an open possibility for car damage to be added in the future along with other needed effects 
 like weather and maybe real-time day cycles in the game.
  
  The sounds in this game are also just as great as the graphics, there are many decent pieces of 
 music which you can listen to as you race although annoyingly only one song plays per race meaning 
 that in a long race the same song will repeat itself, other sounds like the engines and tyre screeches 
 are very good but sound very similar to GT4, again this is only the prologue the final version 
 may most likely have different sounds.
  
  The gameplay is very fun as each car behaves differently and thanks to the in car camera you really 
 feel like you are driving because the physics are very well done you can literally feel that car 
 understating or the back end slipping out around a corner, it would be even better if using the 
 Logitech G25 wheel as you can fully use the clutch and the force feedback would add to the experience. 
 The game does have a better AI but its far from perfect when you race it does feel more natural 
 as cars would swerve in and out of each other to try and prevent crashing they also do notice that 
 you are on the road but on occasion if the AI cannot find a way around an obstacle it would still 
 act like it did in previous GT games though this is rare, the AI has been improved noticeably since 
 GT4. The online mode of the game is not bad but I have seen better, if you play against people 
 with a slow connection things will look strange as cars would move very erratically and if you 
 join a race with no penalties you will get players that cheat like cutting corners or ramming you 
 off the road but it is funny to watch lots of drivers having bouts of road rage on a long strait 
 or players that don't know a track very well crashing a lot.
  
  Overall it's a great game to enjoy even tough you could finish it in under 20 hours when GT4 took 
 me many months (getting gold's in licences and the driving missions) but its great fun and you 
 are bound to be able to transfer money and/or cars from this game to the final version when it 
 is made to help you get started in the career mode. So it is worth playing if you want a good driving 
 experiance
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmurfer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  And i'll tell you why it deserves my score. See unlike other racing games such as the NFS series 
 or GRID. GT5 has the background quality that would describe it as the perfect simulation racing 
 game. If you are playing GT5, just know that you are driving an actual car (not in reality, though.) 
 Especially, when you have the steering wheel controls and you are playing the game from the driver's 
 view. That is what a real racing game should be, allowing you to be deeply engrossed in the stunning 
 visuals and graphics (did i mention that, what, the graphics are top-notch) , the realistic physics 
 in all aspects, and the length of the game. 
  It may have been given the score of 7.5 because of because of the damage reality. THIS IS A DRIVING 
 SIMULATOR GAME NOT SOME CRASH N BURN GAME LIKE BURNOUT OR MOTORSTORM. If you were in a real life (and 
 don't say it's a game not real, it is pretty much or less real, only you are not moving) would 
 you be crashing like in GTA 4 while having 4 stars. The game was not designed for chasing, instead 
 for fast and steady, pure, straight and organized racing.
  In my opinion, this superb game was badly underrated. At least if they did not want to rate any 
 game high on that 
  month of release they should have given it a minus .l making it a score of 8.9. Capisce? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  We are eagerly waiting for Gran Turismo 5. It will be a complete new experience for the series. 
 But while we wait. SCEA and Polyphony Digital wanted to give us a big demo of whats to be expected. 
 And the result is Gran Turismo 5 Prologue.
  
  Gameplay: It's just like any other Gran Turismo we've come upon, except that it has a brand new 
 Dashboard camera, and up to 16 drivers on the track!!! (10 more than 1,2,3, and 4) The cars feel 
 great to drive and the tracks are good aswell. It falls short due to the fact that it has less 
 than 10 tracks and only around 70 cars. But then again, this isnt the gull game
  
  7/10
  
  Graphics: What else can i say? This is a gorgeous gorgeous game. The cars are fantastically 
 done, along with the tracks and menus. It's just.... Amazing
  
  10/10
  
  Audio: It's pretty good for this game. The music is a good choice, the cars sound like they do 
 in real life, the menu noises are interesting. Overall, its a great SOUNDING experience.
  
  8/10
  
  Multiplayer: This is not the first actually to have Online for it's series. It is the 
 2nd. It was first used for the Japanese using Gran Turismo 4 and had an online feature. Thus being 
 called, Gran Turismo 4 Online. I am tickeds off they never released it in North America, but now 
 we can play Gran Turismo online with this! YAY!
  
  9/10
  
  Overall: It's not the full experience, But it offers a fun experience noneoftheless.
  
  Final 
 Score: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vs7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  GT5 prologue is about racing and that does not mean that if you buy the most expensive car then 
 you will win for sure. In order to win your race will have to be flawless, that means the right 
 car for the track, right acceleration at right places, good corner cutting, good braking etc. It 
 is the closest racing simulation I have ever seen.
  
  The game is divided into four Classes each with different level of competition. You will have around 
 70 cars to race with and six tracks to race on. The difficulty of the game increases as the class 
 progresses. Stunning graphics makes the race feel even more real. There are so many parameters 
 in the game you can play with that will make each race unique. You will have to find the right 
 combination in order to win.
  
  My only complain with the game is lack of tracks. Even for a realistic racing simulator like GT5 
 prologue, six tracks are too less. But on the whole this is an excellent game if you are into racing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game about an hour ago. I liked it. This game is pretty challenging, but it's 
 alot of fun. The graphics in this game are awesome! It feels like the races are live on TV, even 
 though this is a video game. The music in this game is great. I liked the music in the menu screen. 
 The in-game music is excellent for focus on the track. The reason why I gave this game an 8 is 
 because this is a prequel to the real thing, and some of the races are really hard. In the S class 
 events, half of those races are impossible to win. I finished 2nd, or 3rd in those races, and cleared 
 them. I was able to win some of those one-make races. I won the Ford GT race, and the Ferrari Festival 
 race. Normally, the key to winning in this game is having the strongest car. To get the Ferrari 
 F2007 formula one car, you have to have 2,000,000 Cr. I had to get these credits the hard way. 
 I had to keep racing intense competition to get the Cr. It wasn't easy. I was able to get the car 
 :) . There are not many tracks in this game. I somewhat hope that the real GT 5 will have more tracks. 
 Overall, great GT prequel, challenging events, lots of cars to choose from, not many tracks, awesome 
 graphics, and addicting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is an absolute corker! Just what i wanted. You can't bring up Gran Turismo without hearing 
 complaints about the lack of car damage and how "unrealistic" the physics are in comparison to 
 something such as Konami's Enthusia Professional Racing. Gran Turismo 5 attempts to fix all of 
 these complaints, and with GT5: Prologue we have a chance to preview one of these issues.
  
  The developer of Gran Turismo, Polyphony Digital, has traditionally cited lack of car manufacturer 
 support for car damage. With the success of Gran Turismo reaching stratospheric heights, it's the 
 manufacturers who are now approaching PD for inclusion into the game. At the recent Tokyo Motor 
 Show, Gran Turismo was used to showcase the new Nissan GT-R, Lexus IS-F, Mitsubishi Evolution X, 
 and Subaru WRX STI. Even Ferrari has joined the Gran Turismo bandwagon. With the car manufacturers 
 seemingly on board, Polyphony Digital has changed their tune. While they are working on incorporating 
 "car damage," into the game, they insist that they will only release that feature when it is ready. 
 Their caution leads me to speculate that we'll be looking at updated tire wear, brake fade, and 
 engine oil overheating rather than the traditional "the headlights are no longer working" or "your 
 windshield is cracked" simulation. That is, if you were really going to talk about "realistic damage 
 modeling" you'd have to talk about the 90% mortality rate that occurs when a 3300 lb motor vehicle 
 T-bones your car at 30 mph (assuming you were in a car with no side-airbags) .
  
  The paradox of all of this is that Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is a technology demo. It isn't even 
 the full version of the game. You don't have hundreds of cars, or dozens of tracks, or even performance 
 modifications. Even so, this is the best 25 I have spent in a long time.
  
  I just can't wait for the upcoming: Gran Turismo 5
  If you are planning to buy this, i would 
 just like to say that you should wait and get the new updated version. It has said to be more improved 
 and as they said that on this game, i would stick with them!
  
  Now that Gran Turismo 5 Prologue has made its way to into our den, only two words are needed to 
 describe the game: absolutely magnificent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakuhray
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I spent hours perfecting every turn, tuning every vehicle perfectly, getting enough credits to 
 get the Ferrari F2007, all to run into a fu*#ing brick wall! You have to complete S-class to get 
 the Ferrari F2007. S- Class is way too hard i tried the Ferrari takeover challenge a million times 
 and could not get third place, i got fourth place six times. Then i realized that i had been bested 
 and quit the game for good, or until i got bored of my other games. Anyways its a really fun game 
 the online experience is superb. but when in the hell is the real deal gonna come out? after all 
 this is just a prologue... but this is prolly the best prologue i have ever seen. very impressive 
 great graphics! sometimes i thought i was looking at a real car only to be let down by a videogame 
 setting. I really enoyed the time i spent playing this game, but alas i am retired from racing. 
 it grew old after atemping the S-class for four days straight... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is the first Gran Turismo on the PS3 and it is so awesome. the best thing 
 about this game is that it looks AMAZING and it looks even better on a HD TV, I would say this 
 game is the best looking game of all time. The audio is just the same as visuals, it is AMAZING. 
 The game play in this game is better than any other Gran Turismo game for two reasons, online play 
 and a 16 player races. I did have problems with this game though, the AI is way better i this game 
 than Gran Turismo 3 but i was a little to hard and the game is short for 40 dollars, I would have 
 liked it if it was only 30 dollars. Overall if you are a racing fan, this game you should get, 
 and Gran Turismo 5 is going to be awesome too. ( iI would have given this game a 8.0 if it wasn't 
 for the visuals and the audio) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goosey67
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Very fun! its not too easy and not too hard. The only problem I see is that you have to wait a 
 whole year and buy an eighty dollar game (epilogue) to beat it. Other than that it is a fantastic 
 racing game truly awesome graphics and controls on my part. I am not a huge fan of the playstation 
 three though... I had terribly slow loading times, but it was worth the wait. You should definitely 
 get this game even if you are new to racing games. Although its got long loading times and is expensive 
 I think I had fun and got my moneys worth! If someone talks bad about this game they obviously 
 do not know what they are talking about. Its worthy of an eight in my opinion... nothing less and 
 nothing more. Definitely try this game its a very good one to play... now if only ps3 could get 
 they're online right... errr -.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I've had a chance to play this game a lot and I like what I see. This is an extremely promising 
 game. 
  Note I am talking about Gran Turismo 5. This prologue is by no means a finished game.
  It lacks 
 a variety of courses to negotiate, although there is an extensive collection of cars which only 
 augments the disappointment that there isn't a variety of tracks to put each of the cars through 
 their paces.
  The difficulty at times can be extreme and lead to getting into the habit of saying, "bronze is 
 enough, as long as I've got that there is no need to go back"
  On the plus side controls and vehicle physics are good, although there is no damage. Graphics are 
 outstanding and multiplayer is a great, welcome addition, although you must pass some of those 
 insanely hard missions to unlock some of the events which is frustrating.
  While this is a great teaser for what is to come it is a demo, and one that doesn't really justify 
 it's price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo is seriously the most realistic racing game out there in every sense. Although the 
 game has the most technical and detailed graphics and sound, it is just a prologue of the real 
 Gran Turismo 5.
  
  You can download the game through Playstation Network or you just buy it from the nearest store. 
 My friend obviously downloaded it then I came over to play, you should do that too. In Gran Turismo 
 5 Prologue you race in a series of tracks and you get credit points to buy new cars. You are probably 
 wondering what type of cars are there, well there not many but there all what you need to win. 
 
  
  You start off with 35,000 points, from which you can buy a premium car. As you move up, you will 
 get to the more sporty and fast cars. One sad part of the cars is that you cannot upgrade them.
 
  
  You can invite over your friend like my friend did, and play split-screen and have a blast in 6 
 fun racetracks. (Remember its just a demo) The A. I is very intelligent and competetive. And the 
 controls are very professional, one more thing you need to know about Gran Turismo is that it is 
 a realistic racer, and your car will move like how a real car will move. It is not all that hard, 
 as the controls are very accurate which is an advantage to the lurning curve. 
  
  The Gran Turismo series is famous for its realistic graphics and brilliant soundtracks, you find 
 them all here in Prologue. 
  
  The game tells us more about the upcoming Gran Turismo 5, and the online might be sloppy of Prologue, 
 but by now they must have made it better for the real game. 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who is a big fan of Gran Turismo, if yoour low on cash and still 
 need to save up, then just wait for the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 is the best car racing game ever made! The car graphics are amazing. The cars are 
 extermely realistic, and look like there own, with no misatakes, except the odd badge looks fuzzy, 
 but do you look at badges?
  
  There is 3 classes, A B and C. You start at A, and work your way up, simple. You go through loads 
 of races and challenges, and the tracks are superb. You can buy your own cars (when you get money) 
 and customize them to fit your liking. This game has alot of amazing graphics, and even the people 
 have become looking like real people! The only big letdown, and the reason why it's only a 8/10, 
 is the damage to cars. When you hit other cars and barriers, walls etc, your car doesn't soak up 
 any damage, and is still as shiny as ever! 
  
  This a a super game, and all you want to be racers, this game is for you!
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: First of all, cars drive really well in this game. Every car (that i've unlocked) has 
 a different feel to it and drives according to its weight and engine. Unbelievable mechanics, along 
 with a great road line marker top this game off in the controlls department. Unfortunately, the 
 game aint perfect. There are many cars to unlock, but problems may find you unlocking them. This 
 game is haaaarrrrd. Im an experienced gran turismo fan, and let me tell you - you can't jump into 
 a ferarri after playing the game a few hours. Frustration is added because there is no quickplay 
 where you can try some of the faster vehicles. I spent four hours driving a volkswagen and that 
 can definately get to you. Nonetheless so many aspects of this game rock. 
  8/10
  
  Graphics/Sound: Holy smokes. You folks at Polyphony can animate. I thought i was watching these 
 cars race on TV. This is probably the most graphically impressive game (in its photo realism) on 
 the market right now. Can't wait until the actual title comes out in '09. 
  11/10
  
  AI: Alot of problems arose with the artificial intelligence of the past GT titles. Cars used to 
 follow exact paths, and even if you bumped them off they did seem to care all that much. This also 
 added to the already enormous difficulty of the driving mechanics. Now, they fixed these issues 
 and cars fight back and swirve around the track to pass opponents
  9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Some_One_Plays
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Purpose
  
  It all started with Gran Turismo 4 with several delays Polyphony Digital decided to release the 
 Gran Turismo 4 Online (PAPX-90523) as a collector's item. It was only released in Japan / South 
 Korea selected from the GranTurismo. com sites that totalled 5,000 testers. It wasn't intended for 
 a full fledge game for Gran Turismo 4 but was a testing ground for the PlayStation 3's online. 
 Even though it's not the full game they're treating the game as if it was a beta version and will 
 test new features with GT5P before the final version. With that said GT5P is a piece of the real 
 game and everything you earn in this version will be ported to the final.
  
  Campaign (Events)
  
  The campaign will consist of three classes, Class A, Class B, and Class 
 C. Class C is a beginners' class, using lower powered cars, Class B is for intermediate drivers 
 looking to polish their skills, and Class A is an advanced class including higher-level racers 
 for more experienced drivers. With each class there will be a total of ten events for each making 
 the grand total thirty events all together. As you go through each event some will require you 
 to start from the beginning and finish in at least the top three within one lap all being done 
 by a starting qualify. A qualifying start is when system where drivers driver around the track 
 to determine the order at the beginning of the race, of course you're at the back every time. 
 
  
  The A. I. (Artificial Intelligence) has improved significantly now that the A. I. knows your presence 
 on the track and makes mistakes instead of driving in a synchronized fashion. There are six tracks 
 with two different layouts that come to 12 possible ways to race in the events. With each race 
 there will be a certain amount of prize money you can earn depending on what place you finish in. 
 Only the top three will get prize money and only placing in the top three will let you progress 
 further in the game. They have your usual regulations permitted car type, physics restrictions, 
 and tire restrictions that you have to meet in order to qualify for a race. If you don't meet the 
 criteria then you'll have to get a car that does or enter in a race that you do qualify in.
  
  Before each race you can tweak driving options like the transmission, active steering (will 
 automatically correct steering when the car oversteers and the rear lips out) , driving physics, 
 to traction control (prevents the drive wheels from spinning when accelerating) . A new option 
 is having an ideal driving line on the track while playing instead of having examples showing you 
 how to drive. This is a feature that's seen in many other simulators and is a good thing for beginners 
 with Gran Turismo 5 Prologue spec II.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Off-line
  
  2-Player Battle
  
  With two players versus you both select your cars from the garages and your 
 driving options before racing. Once in a race you won't have the in-car view and will only have 
 the normal first person views and third person views only.
  
  Online 
  
  Events
  
  The online mode is broken down to time trials / circuits with Beginner, Intermediate, and Expert 
 levels. To race in any intermediate / expert races you need to finish all of the events in Class 
 A first otherwise you're considered a beginner. Once you enter in a section you'll have the option 
 to upload ghost replay, free run (just you) , or start match making. The match making process varies 
 from each try but for the most part it doesn't take too long. The match making races only allows 
 you to race nothing more nothing less (no voice chat) . On the bright side of things you can earn 
 money from online races to buy cars from the dealer ship for online / off-line use. The experience 
 online isn't bad the game never really seems to lag at all. Sometimes the collisions will take 
 a second or two for your car to react besides that online is smooth.
  
  Rankings
  
  There are ranking that are categorized by track, car, driving physics, time trial, and drift trial. 
 You're able to see what their driving options were so you can see how hard or easy they made it 
 for themselves.
  
  Features
  
  The main menu is called "My Page" and will tell you a great deal of information like a calendar, 
 your car's name, or even the weather. There is a news section from Polyphony Digital and GT-TV 
 (Gran Turismo Television) . The GT-TV just has videos of cars, events, peripherals, just pretty 
 much anything to do with cars. The downloads for the most part will take a while to download so 
 don't expect fast speeds; others not as much time.
  
  Game Play
  
  The game-play is pretty straight forward requiring you're to simply use the break and gas buttons 
 for racers. The game-play can also change to how powerful your vehicle is to adapt to the type 
 of track you're racing on. You can also tweak the Driving Options to change how your car handles 
 and with each car comes with advantages / disadvantages. The faster the car the harder it is to 
 keep in control especially the Ferrari F1 that will drive you crazy if you don't know how to handle 
 it. There isn't really much to talk about game-play considering the fact that it isn't a complete 
 game.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing whether you download it from the PlayStation Network to the 
 Blu-ray disc version. The lighting, textures, interiors, roads, or even environment will just blow 
 you away of how real it looks. The car models have the most polygons and as you get further out 
 there will be less detailed. Generally speaking you'll notice where they cut corners especially 
 with some of the audiences that are watching you race. With all that said the game never really 
 seems to put the cars out of place from the environments. That is key to making the illusion that 
 everything is running at the same polygon count. 
  
  Audio
  
  The sounds in the game are great everything sounds authentic to its counterpart in real life, which 
 is a plus. The music in the game I don't mind from went you're racing to the main menu that have 
 piano music / elevator music. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  In the end if you're not into simulators or not as much of a fanatic of the series / Polyphony 
 Digital this game isn't for you. If you're the type of person that is, and wants to help make the 
 final version of Gran Turismo 5 better by all means get this game. The main reason why this game 
 didn't get a perfect was the fact that it wasn't complete. Overall the time spent here won't be 
 wasted because all of your content can be ported over to the full version. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  It may be somewhat short on tracks and cars but this Prologue is mind blowing. First, the graphics 
 are the BEST I have seen to date on the PS3. Such amazing graphics. Second, the sounds of the cars 
 are perfect. The engines are on point and sound excellent. Third, the handling physics of the cars 
 is perfect. Like the name says it is a driving simulator. I have played every title in the Gran 
 Turismo series and this one surpasses them all. Now it does lack content because it is not a full 
 complete game it is a prologue but what is there is excellent in every way. This is just a small 
 taste of what is going to be Gran Turismo 5 and I for one can not wait for it to be released. The 
 only reason I did not give this game a perfect 10 is because of the small amount of tracks but 
 I am sure when the full game is released it will get my perfect 10 !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlzDieNow
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  "Gran Turismo 5 Prologue" is a very good looking game, with unbelievable graphics that comes pretty 
 close to photo-realistic. The game is a classic racer and portraits that really good, however, 
 the realism isn't just in graphics but also in gameplay. The cars behave just like in reality, 
 which even though it contributes to the game's realism also makes it harder than usual racers. 
 Many of the cars will spin out of control merely by making contact with sand and driving is generally 
 hard until you purchase some of the more expensive veichles. 
  
  The single-player layout is pretty simple, you race on different tracks and events until you unlock 
 a new difficulty where you'll earn more money per successful race and can buy better cars and so 
 on. The letdown is that because driving the cheaper cars is so hard - you'll probably end up doing 
 the easier events over and over again just to raise money in order to buy the expensive ones. This 
 will take time, but once you've got your hands on a high-performance car - everything will become 
 much more fun, especially since now you might actually stand a chance in the multiplayer mode as 
 well.
  
  So, basically, "Gran Turismo 5 Prologue" is a stunning and entertaining game but in order to get 
 to the good stuff you'll need to put out with lots of repetitive and hard gameplay. You decide 
 if it's worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, and its only a snibit of what is to come, people moan about that it to 
 short and has no content its only 20. and its only a demo, so lets hope GT5 will be very good.
 
  
  So review this game as a demo not a full complete game, there are enough events to keep you busy 
 for a while, there is also good online play upto 12 or 16 players, not really sure, but it ids 
 very good, some lagg here and there but not to much really to worry about. There are still a lot 
 of cars to pick from. They relese shows for the gtv, and theres a new update coming to add more 
 extra stuff but no damage yet.
  
  Sun reflecting off the track, amazing visual backgrounds, you can even see the individual stitches 
 on the driver's gloves, people cheering and taking pictures from beside the tracks; amazing. 
 
  
  There was hardly any loading times, just the bit where you install it on. the game runs seamlessy 
 quick. HDD.
  
  I think the only annoying thing is the update it always fails first couple of times, but will work 
 in the end it adds online play, which is good but has things missing from it like community features, 
 you can't make your own game, you can't kick people, you can't put a password lock. when new updates 
 come they will make it alot better.
  
  before xmas 2008 there is another new update coming which will add damage to cars, but the damage 
 won't be as exstensive as grid, they toned it down so you can still have enjoyment crashing without 
 your wheels flying off or your car getting wrecked. 
  
  the only thing with prolouge is the a. i, they seem to do the same things over and over again, don't 
 get me wrong this is a good game, but if your getting gt5 the proper one, then just wait for that, 
 as that will be alot better more cars and tracks e. t. c. 
  
  also when you complete class a, b, c you get a new class called s and that is very good, prepare 
 to get challenged.
  
  if you want pick this game up if not wait for the real thing.
  
  it shows just how good ps3 exclusives can be, and how much potential they have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  GT5 is likely to be released at the start of the next year. So 1 week before that we get GT5 Prolouge 
 which is just an appetizer of the full game.
  
  The question is... was it neccessery?
  
  No. And it's also not neccessery to buy it. It's easy enough to find out all of the content. 
 But if you're a GT fan, or, just a fan of semi realistic racing games, this game is definitely 
 worth the money.
  
  As for the game tiself: The graphics are great, the best looking racing game for sure. I can't 
 believe that it is actually going tob e improved for the final product.
  
  The physics are also going to be improved, however, they, too, are great already. The only thing 
 is, the collision with other cars is still very basic, but, that, along with the addition of damage 
 will change hopefully.
  
  The 2 biggest new features are the dashboard camera view which is just so good it blows away PGR's 
 dashboard view. 
  
  The other is multiplayer. It's still buggy, and there's no real server browser, but at least it 
 works and it's kinda fun with the right people.
  
  Overall, this game is good. But no way it stands on it's own. The only way to enjoy this game is 
 to acknowledge that it is just a prologue. Because otherwise, it's just way too short on content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevCubsOr21
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I split on this game with my cousins over PSN, and thats a very very good thing, because if I would 
 have spent the full $40 I would have been ripped off! I have been a huge fan of the series since 
 Gran Turismo 3, the first GT game for the PS2! As soon as I heard about the fifth edition of the 
 series I wanted to get it. This game is great! Its has, in my opinion, the best graphics for a 
 next-gen game!!! The cars look totally real and the enviroments do as well. This game offers about 
 100 cars and like 5 tracks, all of which you can race backwards and some have variations, but its 
 still missing sooo much! You are NOT allowed to put anything into your cars! Why cant I super charge 
 any of my cars??? No car washes, oil changes, or paint job changes???? No used car dealership?? 
 I cant take pictures of my car in different background?? Why is none of this in the game, all of 
 it was in Gran Turismo 4! I know this is only a "Prologue", but dont charge us $40 is your not 
 going to offer anything even close to whats in the game! The actual game of Gran Turismo 5 is suppose 
 to have 10,000 cars... if this game is coming out anytime then we should have more than 100 of 
 those cars! Licenses are also NOT included in the game! Aside from all this that is missing the 
 game still offers some good features! This is the first Gran Turismo game to offer online play, 
 and that is inside the Prologue! In this game you are give $35,000 to pick your first car, so thats 
 a nice upgrade from the $25,000 that you usally get! As mentioned eariler, the graphics in this 
 game are amazing! There are 3 classes: C, B, and A! After you beat a class you recieve a car, but 
 there are only 10 races per class! Since I split on this game, it only cost me about 10 bucks, 
 so its not that big of a deal, but if I would have spent the full $40 for what is essentially just 
 a demo, I would be much more dissapointed! I expeect to see lots more from the actual game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pupu_07
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Suxs I took it back to the shop because there arnt enough cars or tracks was to be expected, but 
 i thought game play would make up for it, i cannot help but but Feel im playing a forza rip off 
 but with cockpits, i mean if they think im going to buy this over forza just because of cock pits 
 they have another thing coming, couldn't even get into any races online with out lagging out, the 
 ai was stupid the just slam into you no damage model so it doesn't matter. Onto graphics the tracks 
 look dull in my opinion, The cockpits are well detailed and something you can appreciate, Anyway 
 i finished it after a good weekend. I'm stuck back on forza. Its hard to review half a game that 
 you have to pay for, It will be interesting to pit GT5 against Forza 3, i think GT5 will have its 
 work cut ot for it. Please prove me wrong by all means, i think there will always be GT fans but 
 im not a huge one at this stage. And i had the Thurstmaster ferrari force on ps2 and Gt3, All the 
 gran turismos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Well how often do you get a demo that costs 40 bucks? i got GT5: P and for the first hour or so, 
 it loked and felt like a real game, i thought i was playing the full version. Only to remember 
 that its a 40 dollar demo but its worth every penny, if you are a fan or not. 
  
  Let me start with the graphics, which are nothing less than realistic, extremely polish and very 
 shiny. You dont need a super HD Tv to see this game shows the true potential of the PS3 RSX. 
 
  
  Game play, this is the thing that keeps me playing, the very well designed realism on the cars, 
 the sound of every engine the feel of the breaks and the cars features. 
  
  Over all this game is a must buy for fans like me, if you are not a fan of GT but a fan of racing 
 BUY it. if you are new rent it first.
  
  I love this game, i can only say the full version will blow mids away, GT is the kings of racing 
 games, one of the best PS franchises along with MGS.
  
  A must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merdox87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you are a long time fan of the GT series like I am. This is the game for you. If you are new 
 to the series and wonder if this game is right for you, well it might be. This game is all about 
 realism, when you drive you need to break when turning and you need to learn real driving techniques. 
 This game is not easy to pick up. If your a fan of the Midnight club series or NFS, you will probably 
 not like this. This is a game of skill, the better driver will win because one mistake could potentially 
 cost you the race.
  Graphically, this game is a masterpiece, nothing else like it, if you can enjoy it on a 1080p, 
 kudos to you. The controls feel familiar which is a good thing, the responsiveness feels just right 
 and the sounds all coordinate with what you are doing. The online can sometimes be a pain in the 
 butt, not because of lag or because it is hard to find races, because that is untrue, but because 
 of the bumper-cars thinking drivers that invade the races. Fortunately if your awesome like me, 
 then you can just forget about them and leave them behind in the first lap, but if your still learning 
 then this may be a bit frustrating. My advice is, if your amongst drivers like that, expect to 
 be tapped on corners, that way you can conpensate for the understeer and go on. I reccommend this 
 game to every person out there because simply, this game is digital platinum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack652
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game wasnt that great I mean yeah some of the videos senquences look almost comlpletely realistic, 
 but you cant customize your cars you cant decide to change the paint and in the 2nd game I thought 
 it was cool that you had to get a certain license to race in certain events. I will say that you 
 have very many cars that you can choose from and I like that, but that doesnt make up for the lack 
 of tracks. To wrap it up the game is fun until you either buy the highest dollar car or just get 
 bored at least you still have the online play. Another cool feature of the online play is when 
 you win a race you get 12,000 dollars no matter how mwny cars are in the race. This game isnt a 
 must have but it is a very simole and decent game I would recomend it for a racing game fanatic.
 
  
  Now im just going to type random things just so I can post this review.
  jfjfjfjfjfjfjf jfjfjfjfjfj jfjfjfjfjfj jfjfjfjfjf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Let me just say I reviewed this title for what it is -- which is essentially a demo. A lot of people 
 are saying the game feels incomplete or such and such -- well that is because it isn't really a 
 full game!
  
  With that in mind, GT5P is completely awsome. Even if it is just a sneak peek at what's to come 
 it provides hours and hours of great racing. The cars handle superbly -- they feel like the real 
 thing. With so much attention paid to detail and to real-life physics as well as to how each respective 
 car handles in the real world, it's a sheer joy just collecting all the vehicles just to see how 
 they ride.
  
  The game itself progresses well too. The racing is devided into 2 broad categories -- arcade and 
 event. Racing in arcade lets you launch single races, play time trials, etc. However, the racing 
 events are where the meats and potatoes -- or oil and rubber? -- are found. GT5P like all other 
 GT games revolves around various racing events in which you steadily win more and more money to 
 buy better and better cars. The events are devided into 3 classes from C to A with a hidden S class 
 you unlock after playing one time through. C is tremendously easy and offers virtually no cash 
 reward (which doesn't matter because you're buying crap at that level any ways) but works well 
 to ease the player into GT5P. B is still mostly layed back but offers a good run here and there. 
 A steps but the challenge considerably and the player will have to get drifting techniques down 
 to get anywhere near the lead. I personally consider S to be the true GT experience -- once the 
 player has got all the techniques down, breaking, cornering, drifting, the S class events is where 
 the fun really begins and where the races become truly ferocious. Ultimately the player will have 
 the most fun in A and S class races, but C and B races are invaluable training tools.
  
  Furthermore, the game simply looks amazingly gorgeous. At times I had trouble distinguishing between 
 it and real life pictures -- and the rest of the time it looks incredible. Everything from car 
 modelling, relfective surfaces, to lighting effects are spectacular. What's more, the environments 
 like the asphalt or the grass etc look fantastic. When you switch the camera to the bumper view, 
 where all you see is the racetrack, you can actually make out the grains in the road before they 
 blur as they zoom by. 
  
  GT5P also features a new in-cockpit camera setting where you see yourself inside the car. All interrior 
 models look great and really succeed at at drawing the player into the experience. That coupled 
 with the meteculous physics means that if you've ever wanted to ride a ferrari, but find yourself 
 just a few dollars short of the price tag, you can load up GT5P and experience something as close 
 as it's ever been to the real thing.
  
  However, there are a few things I hope get tweeked for the full GT5. Thankfully, or maybe impressively, 
 they have nothing to do with the actually game engine. What I dislike only has to do with the game 
 menu. Namely, the main menu or loby features fully 3D scenes of your chosen car parked at various 
 locations around the world. However, hit the dealer button and select a manufacturer, ie ferrari, 
 and you're presented with a cheap little menu where you cycle through whatever cars they have for 
 sale like flipping through a deck of cards. To maintain a truely next gen experience, polyphony 
 should have fully 3D models sitting in the company loby and have you push right and left to pan 
 the camera between available cars -- something akin to the main menu. That would be totally awsome.
 
  
  It would also be nice to have a quick link button to the dealership menu right from the race event 
 information. For example, while looking at such and such a race before actually participating in 
 it, you can load your garage from there to chose the appropriate car, but you can't load the dealership 
 menu if it so happens you don't own the required car. Instead, you have to cancel all the way out 
 of the race. Having the option to access the dealership menu from the race would be a tremendously 
 useful tool.
  
  Other than all that, it would also be nice to see lamborghinis in the final cut... but that's not 
 a big deal. GT5P, let alone the full GT5, has so many cars, including ferraris for the first ever 
 time, it'll keep you busy for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lantus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5: Prologue is generally what you would come to expect from the series, with it's 
 outstanding driving mechanics, mind-blowing visuals, and a good soundtrack to boot. All with the 
 exception of the huge amount of content, that each new iteration in the series brings. That's why 
 it's hard to give this game a true score, because it's really not a true game, it's a preview of 
 what's to come.
  
  From the outset, you start off with all six tracks in the game. Besides being able to run the tracks 
 in reverse, a couple of them have variations, which you could say brings the grand total of tracks 
 to ten. It only makes you wish there was more, because they're all so beautifully crafted and great 
 representations of their real-life counterparts.
  
  One thing Prologue does have more of, though, is cars. There are more than 60 cars in the game, 
 sure it's shy of Gran Turismo 4's 400 cars, but this isn't a full game, expect much much more in 
 next years real series iteration. One thing you will come to appreciate more, though, through playing 
 this game is an automobile's beauty , the vehicles in this game are so stunningly represented, 
 at times they look photo realistic. The visuals are unparalleled and undoubtedly set the technical 
 benchmark for not only racing games, but games in general.
  
  Don't count this game out just yet, though, with all the talk of this game having nothing new, 
 there's one big exception, online play. This is the first ever in Gran Turismo history to include 
 online play for up to 16 players. So if you're interested in buying this game, the online is a 
 great selling point.
  
  With all this game's technical prowess, it's equally notable that the game doesn't sacrifice game 
 play either. The controls are tight, and responsive with a emphasis on realistic driving rather 
 than arcade drivers. You won't find a better racing simulator out there, I guarantee it.
  
  In the end, Gran Turismo 5: Prologue is a great appetizer to next year's full sequel iteration. 
 Upon playing this game you will begin to realize, the line between reality and game worlds are 
 diminishing, the tracks and cars bode so well together photo realism is something you can actually 
 start to believe can happen, instead of it being some pie in the sky fantasy from ten years ago. 
 So if you're a fan of Gran Turismo, I'd say go ahead and test drive what is going to be one of 
 gaming's finest achievements. If you're not familiar with the series, I'd say either go back and 
 play previous installments in the series of wait till next year's true Gran Turismo 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpman_Z
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo players know exactly what to expect from the franchise: great physics, incredible 
 graphics, a thorough car selection, and detailed racetracks.
  
  All of those are present in this title, albeit, everything is here in scant quantities. Although, 
 it's kind of a welcome change to NOT see 99 different EVOs and Skylines. You get the best vehicles 
 from each manufacturer, nothing more. The tuning feature has to be unlocked, and it's been tweaked 
 to a more "on the fly" user friendly tuning menu. Purists and gearheads might find it lacking.
 
  
  My biggest gripes are as follows:
  
  1. There probably ought to be a qualifying procedure. Starting dead last isn't my idea of a challenge 
 in some of the events. It's more like a plague or punishment. I don't see a reason why you can't 
 earn a starting spot.
  
  2. The time penalty for bumping or taking shortcuts needs ALOT of work. These features seem to 
 only affect the player and never the AI.
  
  3. The point system in the higher classes can be inconsistent. I've noticed a number of occasions 
 where the game changes my assigned number for no apparent reason, especially when going online.
 
  
  4. You can't tune in Arcade mode! WHY? HUH? Why not? Idiotic!
  
  5. The online is terrible. There is no way to boot or punish someone for driving like a moron. 
 There are no rooms. The game automatically matches you. It's light years behind Forza in that regard.
 
  
  Still, all things said, it's a fun game for a while. The physics engine is the best it's ever been. 
 The engine sounds are much improved over GT4. Now hurry up Polyphony and get me the real GT5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lgmagic
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who gives this a 10 is smoking something.... the game isn't even complete.. who would waste 
 $40 on an incomplete game?! I got to play the game only because by friend suckered himself to buying 
 it.. but jeez!! It's a complete waste.... Why would they release this garbage? Because they needed 
 help funding the final product..? By suckers who would give it 10's? The game looks promising HOWEVER 
 it is just a demo.... you people just bought a DEMO! Think about that.... a DEMO! A demo should 
 be free..... Once the real game comes out you would have ended up spending $100 on a $60 game!!!! 
 $40 (demo) + $60 (final product) = $100 (suckers) If they had let the price of the demo go towards 
 the price of the full game it would have been worth it. But as it stands now, this is a major rip-off! 
 Big thumbs down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: team-mazda3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  if you like racing game i got a news for you . this game going to be one of the best or maybe the 
 best , as soon as you begin racing or even just driving a car you will feel that this game is perfect 
 , but don't get fooled , because again as soon as you go to the main menu you will notise that 
 you can't upgrade cars the cars are not enough and the tracks as well , so you will get the feeling 
 that the game essence is missing , which is knowing that there is a lot to do like testing cars 
 and trying to make it as fast as it can be,
  and about the tracks there are a lack of choice as well .. (they even didn't put the test track) 
 . the online is the worst because you can't choose who you whant to play with , and it is just 
 messy even if you are racing you will notice that the cars around you are flashing even if the 
 driver didn't do any sudden move , so if you thinking about the online forget it , but when i said 
 the best thing is the time you are in the car i meant it , because the graphics are astonishing 
 , and the handling is incredible , and even when the game feels like a demo i give it 7.5 and this 
 is more than what need for speed got , so the point if you are going to buy it don't maybe rent 
 it or buy a used cheap one , but my advice is to wait for the full game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The Gran Turismo series is heralded as being the top of litter for racing simulators, and based 
 on Prologue, it looks like GT5 will uphold such claims. Although it's not the final game, Prologue 
 shows off new elements that are being implemented for the series debut on the PS3. While it's obvious 
 there has been great care put into the game, Prologue also shows that there are issues that need 
 to be addressed for the upcoming, complete experience. Priced at $39.99, whether you buy the disk 
 or download it, it will be hard for some to stomach the fact you're not buying a finished game. 
 Ultimately, Prologue is a die-hard's game, but it is also a great way for newcomers to see what 
 all of the accolades are for.
  
  
  Hell yeah:
  + Overall stunning sights and sounds
  + Online racing
  + New cockpit view with unique interiors
  
  Oh, hell no:
  - Limited number 
 of tracks
  - Clunky menu/garage system
  - No penalties for reckless drivers online
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vette68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently bought gran turismo 5 prologue and found it to be the best of the series. 
 The online was a bit confusing but when it came to sriving in the game it felt so real. My favorite 
 car in the game "Z06 corvette" looked so amazing from how hard the company did to make it look 
 so realistic. This was the most realistic car game i have played overall. The game had nice graphics 
 and really smooth courses. Though the only concern i had with the game is not being able to tune 
 up your car which was the only upsetting thing in the game. I do realize they were trying to make 
 it a lot more realistic, but if you were able to tune your cars performance and throw in a couple 
 more races it would be a masterpiece. And I seriously consider people who love cars to buy or rent 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is solid by all means . The Cars detail quality the sounds of the cars , Realistic driving 
 and all . 
  
  Maybe some reviews claim its boring in the ring races but still the game is all about reality and 
 of how much you take it seriously ; i mean if you thought you'll have this super-speed cars with 
 easy controling and drifting whenever and however you imagine it to be ... you'll be disapointed 
 or if you're one of those who condemn GTA 4 of its driving new method .
  
  Also I must say the Drifting Mode is what turned my point of view on this game , seriously the 
 drifting is just real , fun and challenging I couldn't get my hand off it you break score over 
 score with friends its truely challenging by all means i never had that experiance. 
  
  A must Have Game for sure , you wont regret it if you're into cars in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcaliber26
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Alright I am going to start off with the single player. It is pretty much everything you would 
 expect from a Gran Turismo game except there is no license tests which imo is a good thing. You 
 have all your class races like the other Gran Turismo games. The gameplay feels pretty much like 
 the other Gran Turismo games there is nothing that feels new. There is a new in-car camera view 
 which is pretty cool but I do not like to race in that view so it's kinda pointless for me. 
  
  There are quite a bit of cars to choose from considering it's a Prolouge but nothing compared 
 to a full Gran Turismo game. You do however get to buy a Ferrari for the first time in a GT game 
 and some of the newer vehicles. 
  
  Not very many tracks to choose from the best ones that I like is Daytona and the High Speed Ring. 
 I'm not really a big fan of the small road courses so I seek out the high speed circuit tracks. 
 
  
  Then there is the major downfall of the game and that's the online multiplayer. Talk about some 
 of the crappiest racing I have ever experienced. Instead of having the same gameplay as the single 
 player. They decide to put this hit detection crap in the game. Problem is the whole system does 
 not work at all. You hit someone you either wipeout really badly or just dont even hit them at 
 all. If someone comes flying up on you and slams into you there's a high chance your ass is going 
 off the track and losing control. Now however I have learned to be able to control my cars but 
 it can still be very fustrating at times. Also they have these stupid penalties and that system 
 is flawed as well. I have gotten a penalty for someone else hitting me! 
  
  Good things about getting this game is you can transfer your credits and cars to the full Gran 
 Turismo 5 game. Plus it is a decent game for the most part. Graphically this game does a very good 
 job on bringing photorealism to gaming. Cars including the interior look almost identical to the 
 ones in the real world. 
  
  Overall this game is fun but there are a few things that can be very dissapointing. I feel that 
 I got my $40 worth but if you are expecting a multiplayer experience that is very enjoyable you 
 might wanna look into GRID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guile_charlie
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I felt when GT5 Prologue was announced was sheer, immense joy and anticipation! 
 The mere realisation of finally getting a taste of how Polyphony Digital is using the most of the 
 PS3's power graphically and especially testing the completely reworked-from-scratch physics engine 
 really got me giddier than a 16 year old school girl at a Kanye West concert. That joy and anticipation 
 sadly waned when I found out of what the package really consisted for the price. In a nut shell, 
 you get probably 1/10 of what GT5 will be when it releases for 40+ dollars. Basically anyone who 
 doesn't have 100+ dollars to pay for Prologue and then for the full game when it releases should 
 just wait a few months and get the full game, which is only 20 clams more than Prologue.
  
  Now that I got that out of the way, this part of the review is for the people who are willing to 
 pay for Prologue if everything else is up to par. Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is available in 2 ways, 
 as a download and as physical media buy able or rent able in stores. If you end up buying the game 
 you get a little feature that isn't available otherwise which consists of basically a behind the 
 scenes of GT5 video. It's kind of cool, but you're really not missing much if you decide to download 
 the game, which takes up to about a half an hour (totally dependant on your connection) . The physics 
 engine has been reworked completely from scratch, again, and, again, shows the sheer genius of 
 Mr. Yamauchi, making GT5 Prologue the best racing sim on the market, no matter how good Forza 2 
 is. You have around 70 cars (the roster was originally supposed to be around 40) with Ferarri making 
 it's triumphant debut! Your garage has been given a cool makeover and you can now actually change 
 the color of any new car after purchase, which is about as far as visual customization will ever 
 come in Gran Turismo, save for the rims and wings! There were supposed to be over 10 tracks originally, 
 but only 6 tracks actually made it, which is a major disappointment, but you can at least race 
 each of them backwards, and it saves even more for Plyphony to reveal in GT5. The biggest addition 
 to the series is online racing with up to 16 cars, which makes for some very exiting racing action! 
 There is a bit of lag depending on your set up, but nothing game-breaking. As for the visuals, 
 GT4 used approximately 4,000 polygons per car, which made it the best looking PS2 game, hands-down. 
 Gran Turismo 5 Prologue uses approximately 200,000 plygons per car, making Prologue the best looking 
 game around, period! The cockpit view is simply a must see in action! The environs are also more 
 detailed than in any racing game before, and every single npc in every crowd is rendered in full 
 3D! Screen shots simply do not do this game justice and I can't wait to see how much better GT5 
 will look all around! Although there is no damage modeling already, they will be releasing a patch 
 that allows all cars real-time damage.
  
  There is a new feature in Gran Turismo called GT TV which is basically exactly like what it sounds. 
 If you don't have the Internet you can watch pre recorded races and such already on the disk, however, 
 if you do have a connection, you can watch live races, and even other players replays in a sort 
 of youtube-ish video upload service. There is now a "Your Page" which is pretty much the main menu. 
 Visually, it's compelling and slick with a "wallpaper" of the car in which you are currently driving 
 and the enviroment changes every few moments. You can chose to go to the options, your main career, 
 quick play modes, GT TV, etc., etc. There is also weather updates to major continents/countries 
 on earth if you are connected to the Internet. They're all really cool features and I'm glad Polyphony 
 is taking advantage of the technology available.
  
  GT5 Prologue is worth at least a couple rents, but for it being, basically, a demo of a much, much 
 grander racing adventure, 39.99 is very steep, especially when considering the full game will be 
 only 20 dollars more upon release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  The score I give this game takes into account that this is just the Prologue, if it was compared 
 to another "finished" game I probaly would lower it a bit. I also could give it a lower score if 
 I played it only as Single Player. Fortunately they constantly add new multiplayer events and content, 
 so I don't feel like it should be penalized there because there is a lot to go until the real game 
 gets to our PS3s.
  
  If you don't know, this Gran Turismo sports around 60 cars at the time of this writing (more get 
 added sometimes with free patches) , you can only start tuning after you clear the A serie (kind 
 of like how WoW starts at lvl 60) and after you beat A, you get into the S series.
  
  This is the most beautiful game i have ever seen. The lousiest car you buy looks like a million 
 bucks in this game. The replays are breath-taking, from the way you see the grass moved by the 
 cars on ground shots to the way the game actually download online replays to show while you are 
 letting it roll in demo mode. Graphics are unreal, I give them a full mark even if I can only predict 
 we will see even better looking cars in the final version.
  
  But just being able to look at the F1 Ferrari and any dashboard in a race for that matter convince 
 me they are as good as any racing game i saw ever got in 1080p.
  
  Onto gameplay mechanics & control, the way you feel the weight on the cars coming down on slopes 
 and in various angles is amazing, you really feel the physics working at all times, unlike NFS 
 where you feel like it's about as realistic as the sweet talk & breasts of a stripper. This is 
 all meat, any true rally, F1 and standard racing fan will attest to it. If anyone complains about 
 the lack of car damage, look at what the complains are...
  
  All the reviews I read are people complaining about the new penalty system.
  
  The penaties 
 only start with the S Serie.
  
  That means most sloppy drivers get through until after A where they actually have to learn the 
 tracks & physics and drive correctly.
  
  Now, we have a racing line helper, auto transmission with braking indications and those people 
 still can't drive right... Mind you the brake indicator works better if you brake in advance too, 
 something every real car driver knows but some seem to forget once they are in-game.
  
  Instead they complain about how they get a 3 or 4 second penalty for ramming a wall, another opponent 
 (the good ole "no need to brake" and use the opponents as a barrier to turn) or short-circuiting 
 chicanes and hairpins.
  
  Sorry kids, but this was the way you were always meant to play Gran Turismo.
  
  Just because 
 there wasn't any penalty before didn't meant you should drive that way.
  
  If you don't like it, stay off Gran Turismo and our online experience will only remain the better 
 for it.
  
  You try getting into a car race and ram someone. Then try to get out alive after complaining because 
 of the penalty they gave you. That's not a behavior any other racer or race official would tolerate.
 
  
  
  Now that this game can be played online, Gran Turismo has to enforce decent driver behavior or 
 the game will become unenjoyable.
  
  If this racing game is about realism, it will penalize unrealistic driving behavior. Don't worry, 
 other games are still there to let you drive your away into other cars, you just won't be able 
 to brag about owning people at Gran Turismo if you don't care to drive sensibly.
  
  Now that it's off my chest, i apologize, but hey you shouldn't ram opponnents or bounce off walls. 
 It's unfair and you'd die or get killed by angry oponents if you did that in real life. 
  
  What's the point of modeling real cars with real tracks and real physics if you ain't gonna play 
 it for real???
  
  Moving onto other aspects of the game, some engine sounds were dead on (Ferrari 430, S2000) while 
 other really felt off. I'm sure this is a time constraint and will be tweaked as the final game 
 progresses.
  
  The music I found was really ordinary, aside from the great 1st place tune (Steve Vai?? lol) and 
 the AWESOME ending song (you hear it as the credits roll after you complete A serie) , which you 
 could swear was played by DreamTheater (but is actually the sole creation of a single japanese 
 virtuoso) ,, I just tuned it out and play my own mp3s in the background, leaving just enough engine 
 noise to hear my gear shifts.
  
  This iteration of Gran Turismo really shines. The graphics are the best for a racing game ever, 
 the control is as always dead on without being all the same as last version. I really didn't like 
 GT4's "feel" about the way it controled, but I feel this one is a lot tighter. You feel the downforce 
 sticking some cars on the track at high speeds just like you feel them slipping away as soon as 
 you slow down to a point. The dizzying feeling you get breeching 320 km/h the first couple time 
 around reminded me of WipeOut on PS1 as far as sheer sense of speed is concerned. You almost feel 
 the gravity of angled turns and cannot help but to put your weight in like you would in a real 
 car going 160 km/h in a turn. Then you get out of the turn and look at the behind-view to hear 
 the cool swoosh of your Ford GT Concept slicing the air, looking better than any other racing game 
 with 15 opponents and going over 300 km/h. Satisfaction.
  
  In that sense GranTurismo 5 Prologue exceeds a lot of "finished" games already.
  
  It already 
 needs a driving skill to be succesfull at most other games can only dream of attaining.
  
  As far as I'm concerned, the gameplay mechanics and control are perfect. The graphics, aside from 
 very minor aliasing, are flawless. The crowd feel empty, but it's just the Prologue, people will 
 attend the big race only, in that sense it is realistic once again lol. The only thing that didn't 
 jump out at me was the sound dept. It is pretty much only because some of the engines felt off 
 and the music was bland for a game of this caliber.
  
  For 40$, this game already promise a lot more than most "full" racing games, even with admitedly 
 being just a Prologue.
  Free online competition, new cars and events being added all the time, awesome videos on GT-TV 
 on some of the game's showcase cars, it really offers a lot once you discover the joy of online 
 racing after you get through A series.
  
  Some minor complaints (no Toyotas??) , and the uncertainty of next patches content & frequency aside, it 
 totally deserves its price and I'm going to get a lot of miles in my GT Prologue cars with that 
 40$ until the real games comes out.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  GT 5 prologue is a game of flash, but no substance, this is mainly because of the photo-realistic 
 grahics (Which really are amazing) accompanied with okay gameplay also accompanied with poor substance. 
 The game could easily be completed within 3-4 hours because of the very linear style. Basically, 
 there are 3 levels of car challenges, ranging from simple races to time trials, these can tire 
 very easily and you are only enclined to complete the challenges in order to progress, which is 
 annoying because it can be genuinely difficult to complete some challenges from time to time. One 
 of the things that was promised in prologue was damage that has been eagily awaited by many gamers 
 as it would make the whole GT series that more realistic, but again we are left with no damage, 
 but instead left with slight unrealsitic bumps when hit by the barrier or by other cars. It isn't 
 all bad though, because of the amazing graphics that surprisingly make up for most of the flaws, 
 which is rare becasuse I usually do not judge the whole game by their graphics. As well as this, 
 for 25 ($43) it is still a good by and in some ways does preapare us more for the real thing coming 
 this christmas. Overall, although this game may not be the best GT in the series because of the 
 flaws in the game, it is still a solid racing game that can be enjoyed, and for the price, it might 
 be enjoyed a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 4
Date: May 20, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If your a Gran Turismo gearhead, you'll probably buy this game.
  
  What does it do right?
  Well, it looks great! Cars and environments both look absolutely gorgeous. 
 There is tremendous attention to detail from the car models, to race tracks, to interiors of the 
 cars with working guages and everything!
  
  Physics feel just as realistic and perfect as you remember from GT3 and GT4.
  
  There is online 
 multiplayer.
  
  What does it do wrong?
  The online multiplayer sucks! People just plain don't know how to drive. There is NO support for 
 setting up your own game or picking who you want to race against. No stat tracking, leaderboards, 
 leagues, tournaments, or anything like that. Just single, 2 to 5 lap events with randomly selected 
 people that usually just ends up in all the cars turning invisible and becoming ghosted to avoid 
 a pile up. Not very appealing at all.
  
  A several gig install that takes a good 15 to 20 minutes.
  
  Still no damage modeling! Although 
 Polyphony has stated that the game may be updated later on to include damage modeling. Which will 
 probably double the size of that install file. My hard disk is running out of room very quickly! 
 Nothing unsuspends my disbelief in a racing game quite like slamming into a wall at 120 mph and 
 bouncing off as if nothing happened. Get with the program Polyphony, Gran Turismo is the "Real 
 driving simulator," but it is the only game that I know of that does NOT have damage modeling! 
 WTF? You wann keep calling yourself "real," then you need to get real! I don't care if you don't 
 like how cars look when they get crashed. Crashing a car screws it up. That's just the way things 
 are! Maybe people would be less willing to slam into stuff in the game if the car would get damaged 
 and they had to take money out of their winnings to pay for the damage repair! Or if the damage 
 was so severe it totals the car and they have to forfeit the race! Then maybe people wouldn't drive 
 as if they were in bumper cars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, I hated Gran Turismo 3, it was too hard and the vehicle selection was lack luster. It had 
 the premise almost right and everything else completely wrong. I'm unaware of Gran Turismo 4, but 
 I can safely say that Gran Turismo 5 has fixed the series in my opinion.
  
  I have to come right out and say that this game is only for car enthusiasts. If you just want easy 
 high speed racing with crashes and such, then play Burnout. If you like realistic driving with 
 real cars then welcome home. I prefer the latter, which is why I love Gran Turismo 5.
  
  Of course, in 3 the controls were too hard and so were the races. The controls have been fixed, 
 but the races have not. I doubt I'll ever beat the C class races, but thats okay. The controls 
 have been fixed though You can set up some handicaps for yourself in terms of control and traction, 
 which I think everyone (including myself) maxed. Its okay though, everyones doing it.
  
  This time around they cut the crap; the menu is just a gorgeous scene with your current vehicle 
 and a PS menu selection style. This works best when you have your favourite car selected. Earning 
 money is easier now with higher amounts (and more expensive cars) and even higher amounts online.
 
  
  Basically, for get the events, just play online. I did for hours upon hours, not buying any other 
 cars and finally got the Ferrari 599. Okay so maybe not hours but it took a while and a lot of 
 self control. I could have purchased another Ferrari, a Jaguar and possibly a Viper. But I stuck 
 to my guns. When I got the 599 I went online and for the first time came in first in a race, then 
 I kept coming in 3 and 5th again...
  
  I can't fathom how to win really or why they get ahead, I'm going as fast as I can. Doesn't matter 
 5 place still gets like 8000 Cr. In terms of graphics, probably the best graphics in a video game 
 so far. Far better than Uncharted which was the previous holder of that title.
  
  In terms of music, the menu tunes are nice, but the actual sound track sucks.
  
  There are 
 only 6 courses, which are enough with the wide selection of vehicles your going to want to get. 
 Ferrari, Mercedes, BMW, Lexus... and some other cars. No Porsche though, which upsets me. Hopefully 
 the full version will have the Porsche 911 Carrera GT Turbo and maybe the Cayman and Boxter.
  
  In the end, you have a PS3, you like cars, then just get this game, max out the handicaps and 
 have fun online and collecting your favourites. One of the best games for PS3 now.
  
  Its better than Burnout Paradise, but its far from perfect. The events become virtually useless 
 which is a downer, and only 6 courses and no Porsche. Porsche makes roadsters! Forget the damn 
 Ford Focus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnskitt
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 19, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the sounds are great, it drives like a GT game. Polyphony did everything 
 right, so why did they feel the need to TOTALLY RUIN the game with the RIDICULOUS new penalty system.
 
  
  If it actually worked as it should, i. e with a semblance of logic, then I would be writing such 
 words as BRILLIANT and ABOUT TIME. However the penalty system seems as arbitrary as the US legal 
 system.
  
  The Guantanamo factor hits you as you hit another car (either AI or online) , the new system will 
 decide to penalise you a number of seconds up to a maximum of 5 in which time you cannot accelerate.
 
  
  Identical collisions result in ever different penalties, an innocuous tap can result in 5 seconds, 
 a full shunt can be escaped unpenalised, is the AI driver similarly punished? Is he f*ck.
  
  The element of annoyance brought about by this shower of sh*te will come as a shock to GT fans 
 who pride themselves in playing a FAIR GAME which rewarded skill and track knowledge built up through 
 hours of experience. 
  
  The penalty system introduces an unknown and quite frankly unknowable facet to the game which leaves 
 the question:
  
  Is GT headed the way of all other franchises? THE BIN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfidotta
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing GT5 Prologue, I can't wait for GT5 to come out, however, I wish I had rented this 
 game first instead of purchasing it.
  
  The graphics are absolutely stunning and the game play isn't that hard to pick up at all. The cars 
 look stunning, and the inclusion of Ferrari is great, but I find that the game got very repetitive, 
 very fast, and that was while I was still on the Class C races.
  
  An annoyance for me is that after you complete the race you can do the same track over, but if 
 you exit, you get sent all the way back to the main menu and then have to go back to Race Events, 
 select the class, and select the race. I would have like to see and option at the end of the race 
 where you can go directly back to selecting another one.
  
  I do understand that this is just Prologue, and it was pretty much just a way to wet the appetites 
 of GT fans, but like I said at the beginning, if this is a sign of things to come, then I can't 
 wait to get my hands on GT5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazeon
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Good thing this game was only $40, though $30 would have been better for less than half of a full 
 game. Not much has changed as far as gameplay goes, its not for the undetermined, though the new 
 racing-line feature makes it more accessible. The new drift feature in the arcade mode is a neat 
 new addition, though a tutorial would have been nice. The limited selection of cars is pretty pathetic, 
 most of the flagship cars for each manufacturing company make an appearance, but it leaves you 
 wanting for more variety (wow... who needs 6 different models of a Skyline, and where the hell is 
 Toyota?) . There's only a handful of tracks, though they are superbly well done; I just wish they 
 added the Nurburgring into the mix.
  
  The game looks and sounds great, especially on an HDTV with surround sound hooked up. Driving the 
 new GT-R made me swoon.
  
  Bottom Line: Pick it up only if you can't hold out for whenever the full game comes out. I only 
 bought it because I had to get my virtual hands on the GT-R, so unless you're a car enthusiast 
 or racing fanatic, just wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  The King of all driving sims returns with this taster for the upcoming Gran Turismo 5. It'll set 
 you back just under 20 for the disc or 25 to download, which to be honest should be the other 
 way around.
  
  Extras? In Europe? But of course!
  If you got over excited and imported a copy of the game from Japan, prepare to kick yourself. Hard.
 
  
  Against the rule of tradition, European gamers are to get the enhanced version. That's right the 
 European GT5 Prologue will have loads more features than the import. We're not talking a couple 
 of extra cars and new music tracks either.
  
  More like an extra 30 cars! Including the World Championship winning red Formula 1 Ferrari F2007. 
 Sony says it's like having a "God Mode." Get in!
  
  Want to push each car to its limit? Well now you can as the High Speed Ring returns, just for us! 
 Plus the drift mode from the concept demo makes a return, rewarding you points for sliding round 
 corners with precision.
  
  The Main Game
  You start off with very little credits (the game's currency) so you have to buy a dirt-cheap rotter. 
 Don't despair it's not too long before you can buy something half decent.
  
  There are four leagues with ten events each: S, A, B and C. Starting off in C, some races will 
 let you use any car, while others may ask you to use a specific model. And boy do they mean specific! 
 If you buy an 07 Lancer instead of a 05 Lancer by mistake you'll have to earn more money to buy 
 the other one too as you can't get a refund!
  
  Some races will start you off in the middle of the starting grid while some will start you right 
 at the back. There are Time Attack trials where you may have to do laps for ten minutes to try 
 and record the highest time. As long as you finish in the top three for each event in a league 
 you'll be allowed to take part in higher league events. 
  
  If you can't seem to win an event, see what car keeps winning it and save up for it. You'll probably 
 beat the whole field by quarter of a lap now. 
  
  Multiplayer
  Two player split-screen mode has returned, an option painfully absent from many great online PS3 
 titles. This IS included despite the box saying it's only one player, it's in the first update 
 you are offered the first time you play.
  
  Online
  Finally Gran Turismo has a proper online mode. Up to 16 players can race on any of the tracks. 
 When it works properly it's great fun. But it's having a few problems at the moment. Cars appear 
 to disappear and reappear all over the place. Sometimes one will reappear in the same space you're 
 in which ends badly for both of you.
  
  So for now, while it gets sorted you may be better off competing in the time trials. Every car 
 has its own league table for each track and your time is uploaded to the table almost instantly. 
 Knocking off a second or two off your best time could send you up hundreds of places!
  
  There's always something...
  So half price should net you half the full game yeah? No. You get 
 60 cars (not bad) and 6 tracks (shocking) . 
  
  It's all a bit slow and dull to start with while you have to ride around in a hatchback for the 
 first few races and the excitement is low. If playing Burnout is like eating too many sweets, this 
 part of the game feels like going to the dentists.
  
  There are a few other negative points that hopefully will be fixed by the time the full game rolls 
 out. There's still no car damage, so if you hit another car expect it to bounce off like a bumper 
 car at a fairground, it even sounds the same.
  
  The music isn't great, you can adjust the volume but not the tracklisting for during the races. 
 The biggest audio crime is the pretentious piano lounge music for the home menu. Utterly horrid.
 
  
  The menus are a little slow to navigate, especially when shopping for a new car and there isn't 
 any option to test-drive them before buying, so be careful with your credits.
  
  The tuning options are very limited (by Gran Turismo's own high standards) . You can adjust a few 
 driving aids but don't expect to be able to fiddle around with gear ratios and the like until you 
 unlock the S class league. Pre-release we were led to believe that you would be able to change 
 the driving aids mid-race, this hasn't happened as yet.
  
  As yet, because downloadable updates are a big part of the game, so this is something that could 
 be included at anytime.
  
  But hey. There's way more good than bad
  If you can get over the above points, then you're going to love it. The graphics are stunning, 
 especially if you have a 1080p TV. The cars look incredible outside and inside as all the interiors 
 are accurately modelled too.
  
  The in-car view works incredibly well and adds a real sense of speed to the series for the first 
 time. If you're using a left-hand drive car the map obscures the mirror a little, but it's quite 
 forgivable. It's a great feeling hearing your tyres squeal as you slide around a corner, your car 
 sideways, hoping you're going to straighten out in time. It's even better doing it on the last 
 corner in 2nd place and your momentum gives you the edge to nose ahead of the leader for the checkered 
 flag.
  
  Yes, we're still talking about a Gran Turismo game. While always technically impressive the series 
 has never been that exciting. Until now.
  
  Feel free to upload replays online of your best races with the replay system which really show 
 off the games graphics, it's a shame you can't fast-forward them though, especially if you want 
 to check out a final corner move.
  
  Become the Stig 
  A great new feature is the 'racing line' that shows the best line and braking points, which helps 
 you learn the track and makes the whole game a bit less intimidating for non-experts.
  
  Try and keep to the blue line and use your brakes when the line goes red. Some corners will also 
 indicate the recommended mph you should be at for that point. It works really well but you can 
 still discover a better line yourself sometimes that matches your driving style. And yes, the line 
 changes depended what car you're driving.
  
  The game is very short so this is for those of you that can't wait to play the full game; others 
 may feel a bit short-changed. 
  
  The developers must be getting close to their final vision now that they have the technology to 
 put it all together. So by the time the full game rolls out there should be more tuning options 
 and car damage. Don't be surprised if it misses its late September release date, but that might 
 be a good thing if it means only releasing it when the online mode is ready.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is half a game. Pure and simple. So instead of my usual review, where I 
 point out the good things, the bad things, and then review the game based on the present content, 
 I figure I'd only do a half review. 
  
  Hell, if a game developer can get away with it at $40 a pop, I should be able to get away with 
 it for free.
  
  Now, the game plays well, looks great, and is very impressive... untill you realise that there's 
 almost nothing here to justify the game's exsistence and that you've just payed $20 shy of a full 
 priced game for what is actually half a game... meaning you should have only payed $30. If it was 
 $30, I might actually suggest that hardcore (and only hardcore) fans pick up this game, but as 
 it stands, it's only a work in progress, and somehow, it made its way onto store shelves.
  
  I never truly appreciated the series as a "driving simulator," because there wasn't any damage 
 to your vehicle, not even cosmetic. You're basically playing Mario Kart, but without weapons or 
 funny themes, and it has real cars, but other than that, it's so much more of an arcade racer. 
 Why? Even with all the physics and replicated driving, how can I say it's an arcade racer? It's 
 bumper cars, except with real cars, and on a Sony console. Because of these few properties, it 
 is destined to be remembered as a game crapped from the butt of whatever you believe in.
  
  The cars handle the way they should, everything looks near-photorealistic, and when you hit a turn 
 the wrong way, you spiral out of control into a wall, causing severe.... no, wait, I'm thinking 
 Forza. You bounce off the wall and keep going, but hopfully you just shoved the car in front of 
 you out of the way... I mean, if you didn't, your just silly. You may think, "but that's the way 
 you're suppose to race," but if it's in the game, then I'm gonna do it. It's that simple. They 
 don't put tanks in Battlefield games for you to look at, they put them in to use. You can't damage 
 your car in Gran Turismo, so I'm gonna smash everything and everyone out of my way.
  
  Well, I hope you understand where I'm coming from and don't just think I'm spamming the game, wait, 
 scratch that, HALF GAME. This should have never been made. They should have simply waited for the 
 finished product. As such, it can only recieve the highest score of 5, as that is half of the actual 
 highest score... not saying it deserves a 10, just saying it's half a game. I hope you only enjoy 
 this if you're a hardcore fan, becuase otherwise you've been tricked.
  
  FINAL NOTE: Let's be clear, for those of you who will rise up in arms, and try to understand where 
 I'm coming from; It's HALF a game, and no matter what you call it, it's still HALF a game. No, 
 it's not a Demo, Demos are free, like something you get on a disc in a magazine, or something you 
 can now download off the Playstation Network. THAT is a Demo. This is a game that costs $40, and 
 for $20 less than full price you get HALF what you should be getting... meaning you're paying way 
 too much if you pay at all. 
  
  Does this game deserve more than a 5.0? No. The final game does, but not this. If Soul Calibur 
 came out tomarrow with 10 Characters to play as, 5 arenas, and that's it, for $40, the whole gaming 
 community would be in an outrage. Why? Because they understand. I don't know why there hasn't been 
 a bigger gripe about this. It's truly astounding to me. When I say, "Half a game is still half 
 a game, no matter what the name is," I mean that if you released half a game, it's half a game, 
 and if you released half a game, but slapped on Final Fantasy, or Gran Turismo, or Halo, or any 
 other major franchise, it's still half a game. It doesn't make it anything more.
  
  If you actually pay for this game, and then play it with searious intent as if you were playing 
 an actual game, you're not a true fan of the series, and your not a true fan of gaming. It's people 
 that will actually buy and play this as if it were a real game that make the quality of games drop, 
 and the prices go up. Developers might think they can actually get away with this stuff.
  
  Please understand what I'm saying. I'm not saying that this is necessarily a bad game, I'm saying 
 it's not really a game, and I'm saying that since it's not really a whole game, it doesn't deserve 
 to recieve a score befitting of a whole game. The actual Gran Turismo will recieve a better score. 
 Simple. But not right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: financeranger
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  First off a bit of background. This game is a RACING SIMULATOR. Not an urban street racing, drug 
 induced adrenaline fix. That being said it is the preview to the upcoming Gran Turismo 5 due in 
 2009.
  
  It is made by Polyphony Digital (check out previous GT titles and TT by them) . They have always 
 been car fanatics and pride themselves in the details of cars.
  
  The game can be downloaded or bought retail (Blue-ray) , both for the same price ($39.95 USD) . The 
 disc has some bonus content, but I opted for the D/L version.
  You start with 35,000 credits and must buy a car to start. I chose the Mazda RX-8. It has the best 
 power to weight ratio, so I was sold. No upgrades are available (hopefully in the final version) , 
 so time to hit the track.
  The menu is slick and easy to use. Various categories are displayed (not in order - news, GT-TV, 
 events, dealership, online, arcade mode, and options) . I will outline each category below
  News  just a place PD can provide you with updates to the game (on-line races updated, etc)
 
  GT-TV  area to D/L HD versions of segments (opening, making of GT5P, ending, GT-R on the Autobahn, 
 GT-R on the Nurburgring) . These take a bit of time (not sure if it is my connection or SONY, but 
 these are REALLY slow, I was able to D/L the whole game faster than one of these episodes.
  EVENTS  The meat of the game. Events start with C class (then B, A, and S) . Each class has ten 
 races of varying design. Most are races against a full grid of 16 cars and your objective is to 
 get first. You have to get first second or third to clear the event. You must clear all events 
 to go on to the next class. After finishing the events (clearing) you are awarded a car too. Once 
 A, B, and C are clear S class events are unlocked as well. These are the uber fun events of the 
 game (using tuned cars) . Also the quick tune option is now available in most events (change gear 
 ratios, adjust suspension, etc)
  Dealership  where you buy cars, also manufacturer events are located here (make and model specific 
 races) . None are really hard here (cept the Ferrari race) to get gold, but a good starting point 
 for those that want to get some $$ and experience on other tracks.
  ONLINE  well it is finally here, online racing for GT. I can't complain, make sure you have a 
 good connection and whatever you do don't quit the race (you may be the host and if so when you 
 quit everyone else is bumped off) . Most people complain over the lack of ability to customize race 
 events and organize their own events, but this is just a prologue version so it is good enough 
 for me.
  Arcade mode  great for a quick pick up race, or to try a certain car on a track. 
  Options  
 not too much to change here, and if you are reading my review for this section you need help
  and stop comparing this to the full versions of other games (that cost more) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 is one of the most highly anticipated racing games of all timeThe most obvious thing 
 to talk about first is the graphics, which are simply incredible. There isn't really much I can 
 say in words that describes how jaw-droppingly gorgeous they are. Lets just say, these are the 
 Angelina Jolie of graphics.
  
  There are only a few tracks in the game, 4 to be exact. Sure, that's not really enough for a full-pledge 
 racing game right? Right, but remember this is just a demonstration of whats to come in the full 
 version of Gran Turismo 5. The cars themselves range from Volkswagens to Aston Martins, all amazingly 
 detailed. 
  
  The game is just as its always been. Race though the classes, starting at C working up to A. Once 
 you#ve completed all the A-class races, you unlock the S-class (or Special class) which also incorporates 
 drift cars.
  
  Online is just as you'd expect it to be. Race with up to 16 players from all over the world and 
 put the pedal to the metal. It's good fun, but can get boring after a while, and the occasional 
 glitch and frame-rate issue can be irritating. With 70+ cars and 4 tracks, its not on as grand a 
 scale as previous installments, but this being a "glorified-demo" of sorts, and at a budget price, 
 its more than enough to keep you entertained until the full game arrives.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siefier25
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Well as you know, this is just a HUGE demo of whats really to come... hence "Prologue" in the title (for 
 those that really think this is the finish product, which there are alot of idiots that do) . 
 
  
  Now this massive demo focuses on the basics of the game. Buying cool cars, and racing them. Sure 
 in the beginning, you can only buy the crappy cars, but once you have earned enough green you can 
 go buy the super cars and whoop on some noobs that have the inferior vehicles. 
  
  One of things I found interesting about the game, is the AI is fairly aggressive. I had a few opponents 
 that kept slamming into as I tried to pass them on the harder tracks, or ramming me in the back 
 side as they caught up to me. Of course I'd return the favor by speeding up to them and slamming 
 them into a wall, or hit their back end just right from an angle sending them off the track or 
 into a wall. Good times indeed!
  
  There are three different race classes for you to choose from. Obviously since the car you start 
 out in sucks, you have to race in Class C. You don't have to complete all of the tracks, but it 
 would be a good idea to do so, so you can get a better car to race in the more difficult classes. 
 Plus races require you to have a certain car to race in. 
  
  You get all kinds of cool trophies like gold, silver, bronze, and some lame glass award if you 
 don't finish in the top three. To beat the race, you have to be in the top 3. Otherwise, it stays 
 incomplete and you get the crappy glass trophy and look like a complete douche bag.
  
  Most of the time I found myself watching the replays tho. The game is soooooooo beautiful! At times 
 it looked so real, and the animation of the driver of your car is just so well done you'd think 
 you were actually in the car yourself (which you aren't, because its a game you're playing on your 
 tv. If you really thought you were in the car, then I'd seek some psychiatric treatment asap) .
 
  
  Anyways, thats it for my review. I'm giving it an 8.0 simply because its an unfinished product 
 with many of the GT series elements missing. 
  
  I'm SOOOO looking forward to the final product!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  I was start of with saying that I only payed 17.99 for this game, therefore I am very happy with 
 my purchase, this game owns.
  
  As you can see this is the Prologue to the Gran Turismo game that will be released later this year, 
 I think it included 5 tracks (forwards and reverse) and around 60 cars ranging from Audi, BMW's 
 Ferraris, Hondas, Mazdas, TVR's, etc...
  
  The graphics in this game are probably I the best I have seen so far on PS3, the cars look so life 
 like giving of so much detail as the driver moves inside. The basically looks photo realistic and 
 I love it.
  
  The in car view is heaven, its a fps view where you can see the hands move on the wheel and even 
 as he changes gears, I can only imagine how good this game would be with the Logitech Steering 
 wheel, still great fun with a sixaxis though. You can even see in the rear and wing mirrors to 
 see whos coming up behind you. 
  
  Event mode is cool, classic for a Gran Turismo game. This is another thing I would like to touch 
 on is the sound effects. When you click on something, or go back, or win a race its all the same 
 sounds from the old Gran Turismo's which is really nice and nostalgic if you were obbsessed with 
 them back in the day like me.
  
  So story mode is a set of CBA and S class races not letting you advance to the next rank till you 
 come win all the previous ones. Alot of the races require a certain car or a certain type of car, 
 country on manufacture for example. Some of them arent races at all, some can be lap times.
  
  2 Player mode is great fun, pick your car and track and get racing, the only downfall is that 
 you cant do the FPS veiw but not to worry. The replays are great fun to watch.
  
  Overall I find it hard to give this game anything but a 9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmoe82
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must for anyone that is into car racing games. I may be a little bias in my judging 
 of this game because I have been a fan of Gran Turismo since GT 2. 
  This new Gran Turismo, even though it isn't finished is by far better than the last. There are 
 so many items in the game that are just amazing to see or experience. I do have my dislike about 
 the game but there is so much to enjoy that they seem petty.
  Firstly, the driving in this game is by far better than other games I have played for the PS3; 
 Need for Speed (Carbon and , Ridge Racer, Dirt, etc. Sometime though, while playing I get completely 
 enthralled in the background or the scenery that I forgetting that I should be driving and plow 
 into a wall with the F430 or another expensive car. That brings me to another aspect of this game, 
 damage. In games like Need for speed, you need damage in the game because it brings excitement 
 when being chased by the cops or whatever, but in Gran Turismo, there is no reason to destroy these 
 cars so damage was not added to the Prologue. 
  A few things I have found that are bad about the game. It gives out penalties for shortcuts and 
 bumping far too much. The game is short but thats because its just a preview. Not a lot of cars 
 to choose from. And, its a little expensive for a preview game.
  Other than the few bad aspects to the game it is worth buying if you are a Gran Turismo fan or 
 just a fan of cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  First things first I must mention I bought this game in the shop so I didn't download it from PSN. 
 On the back of the box it says it needs a 256kb install. However upon powering on it says it needs 
 a 4gb install. Normally I wouldn't complain about this but it took almost 2 hours to install. I'm 
 starting to feel slightly alarmed at the amount of times I am having to install onto my hard-drive 
 while having the disc. I'm sure this is a worrying trend because 4-5gb a game will use up by 40gb 
 hard drive in no time. 
  
  After an update the game was ready to play finally. 
  My first impressions were simply wow! The graphics and car detail is just simply stunning. I am 
 a fan of Forza 2 but this blows those away and then some. The audio sound of the v8 engines mixed 
 with the skidding sounds while braking is just a joy to behold!
  There are 30 events to get your teeth into with 6 tracks to race on. In true GT fashion those tracks 
 are also playable in reverse! So technically you have 12 tracks to unleash your inner maniac driver 
 on to!
  
  This sadly is where the niceties end for me. 
  The thing which stands out to me being a die hard racing fan and also an amateur racer in real 
 life is the serious lack of dynamics with the cars and the environment. Example driving at 180mph 
 seems no different to driving at 60mph. Going off a track and onto grass at 100mph+ plus feels 
 really tacky. 
  
  i really hope there would BE a REAL thing, not a prolouge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Grand Turismo 5 you find yourself playing thru a career mode in which you earn cars, sell cars, 
 and buy cars. at the same time you are trying to become the best and win as many races as possible. 
 you will fnd out that the game is very realistic with the driving mechanics. each car will handle 
 different and different personalities of its own. yo must learn to drive each car. not only does 
 that make it feel realistic but the graphics do also. they are wonderful! such great details are 
 put into the cars and the whole aspact of the game play. the game is lots of fun to play once you 
 get the hang of it. there are tons of cool cars to choose from. all are real, which means that 
 you can drive your dream car without paying for it or gas. other than that it also supports online 
 up to 16 players. 
  bad things;
  the game is actually short. and your will get very frustrated at it, but you just have to keep 
 trying, its not impossible, altho you will think so at times. 
  overall;
  for $40 bucks the game is a great deal. especailly if you like racing and great graphics. for the 
 PS3 it is a very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  GT 5 Prologue is the thing before the "big thing". The game has a quite nice feel and even-though 
 it is just a small preview of GT 5 it is worth checking out. This is one of the games you should 
 never rent. Well you could. But if you rent it you will like it and you will eventually buy it and 
 after that you will be disappointed that you will just have a couple of races left to do. The game 
 is very short. And by short i mean really short. There are about 70 licensed cars in the game which 
 look very good but the bad thing is that there are only 6 circuits in the game and in the about 
 30 races in the game you will do the 6 circuits. Which kind of means that every 5 races you will 
 use the same circuit, which kind of sucks. The great thing about the game are it's graphics and game-play. The 
 game is full High Definition and the graphics are amazing and look very real. The main addition 
 to the last GT series is the cockpit view which let's you see the interior of some of the most 
 incredible cars in the world. As a conclusion I would say it's worth it's money, considering it's 
 half-priced.
  
  7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Right, so I take this game and my PS3 to a buddy's place; he has a 1080i TV (not the best but still) . 
 Plug everything in, hook everything up and, after a few minutes of letting the game save to the 
 HDD I was in. 
  You start with 35K credits to buy your first car, not a lot but enough to at least get you a mini 
 cooper or something else with a sporty look to it. I had heard mixed reactions concerning this 
 game, mostly negative saying it was an expensive demo with the 6 tracks and 60-some cars. I played 
 through the first few races and fell in love. Not only were the visuals simply gorgeous but the 
 car handled extremely well. Taking the training wheels off I switched to manual transmission. This 
 added a new level of depth, giving me more incentive to work past the fact that I kept skidding 
 into walls. I tried the London course with my buddy, both of us in a mini cooper. I half expected 
 some changes to the visuals and, while they were there, they were minuscule and hardly changed 
 the overall look of the game itself. The London track was very well done, Daytona was a rush; it 
 was all the subtle little things that made GT: P worth the play.
  Sun reflecting off the track, stunning visual backgrounds, the individual stitches on the driver's 
 gloves, fully rendered people cheering and taking pictures from beside the tracks; awesome.
  Thats the end of my rant, heres the real review.
  
  Graphics: Stunning and VERY well done. 
 No screen tearing or frame rate slow at any point. Realistic lighting effects and almost photo 
 realistic cars.
  
  Gameplay: While the learning curve can be steep at points the reward for persistence is an enhanced 
 feeling of speed and satisfaction as you leave what opponents you are racing in the dust. Not for 
 those looking for instant gratification. Old fans of the series will be pleased. 
  
  Other: Load times were insignificant; loading to the HDD was time consuming but hey, you only do 
 it once.
  
  If you have the excess $40 to spend and like very realistic driving sims or the best eye candy 
 out there; do yourself a favor and pick this one up. Keep in mind that the real GT5 is roughly 
 a year away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics, fun, and... lots of other stuff. This game is extremely fun (even though it's only a 
 sample of what Grand Turismo 5 will be like) . And only $40, whatta steal, you can buy it at the 
 store (EB games, Gamestop, etc.) and on the Playstation store, still for $40. You defiantly get 
 more then you paid for it. I love it, love it, love it.
  
  In this game you purchase new cars and compete in special events. Like time trials, or races. The 
 online is fun too. Up to 12 players. There are 3 classes: C, B, and A. C being the easiest and 
 A the hardest. You get cars once you win the class by passing all of the events. Most of them are 
 fun, very few aren't.
  
  Overall I would say I love this game, it's fun. And addicting, very addicting. My favorite thing 
 about this game is probably how real everything is, and the GT - TV. Were you can watch various 
 things, like beyond the Apex, what the producer of the game says. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  If this is a prologue, I can't imagine what the final version will be like. Sure, it's missing 
 crash physics, but otherwise, this is a true driving simulator. Nothing - and I mean nothing - 
 compares. Graphics, sound, gameplay - it's all top-notch. But be warned, if you want to succeed, 
 you need to know this is NOT a game in the sense that PGR 4 or Burnout are games. This takes precision, 
 patience, and accuracy to excel that is on par with nothing you've played before. These cars perform 
 with astonishing realism, and are utterly dependent on your flawless control. And for that, it's 
 perhaps the most rewarding racer available. I love Burnout Paradise and wrote that it's the best 
 racer on the market, and it probably is. But it's impossible to compare these two games. It's like 
 a Bugs Bunny cartoon next to Citizen Cane. Both have excellent qualities and stand on their own, 
 but neither can be judged against the other. 
  For a $40 game, I feel my money was well spent. Yes, it's disappoint to have so few tracks, but 
 I have yet to grow weary of racing them. There are plenty of options here and Gran Turismo looks 
 to change a lot of what we expect in a racing game. I applaud the developers for releasing what 
 is obviously a labor of love. It says a lot about their confidence in the final product. 
  Now go have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodseeker23
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I love the game but, it's missing something. It lacks freedom where you can just roam around or 
 practice your driving skills. I know it's not something like Fast and Furious game but. They should 
 have that in the final version of this game. Why? Imagine driving around in streets of London and 
 with it's current Graphics. That would be the best experience in my sole opinion. But overall the 
 game is  Only will bother you is the Online play.. people there is 
 crazy. But if you want an almost perfect driving simulation game. Also in you're first time of 
 playing. Be sure to check out a muscle car, coz it's easier to win in that way. Just get your way 
 through till you get better and faster cars. And you can also repeat event races to get more cash. 
 Like if you find a specific race event to be easier for you. You can race and race till you get 
 the right amount of money to get a new car. Also this game is kinda hard at first because your 
 getting used to it. But that's just normal. So if you want a semi-perfect Driving simulation with 
 an almost realistic Graphics you gotta get this game! I SWEAR.
  
  P. S. GRAPHICS IS ALMOST REAL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 is one of the most highly anticipated racing games of all time, so with that in 
 mind the masters at Polyphony Digital release Gran Turismo 5 : Prologue. A little taster to wet 
 your appetite before the main course.
  
  The most obvious thing to talk about first is the graphics, which are simply incredible. There 
 isn't really much I can say in words that describes how jaw-droppingly gorgeous they are. Lets 
 just say, these are the Angelina Jolie of graphics.
  
  There are only a few tracks in the game, 4 to be exact. Sure, that's not really enough for a full-pledge 
 racing game right? Right, but remember this is just a demonstration of whats to come in the full 
 version of Gran Turismo 5. The tracks are all varied, and all will take some time to master, even 
 the simplest of them all, Daytona.
  
  The cars themselves range from Volkswagens to Aston Martins, all amazingly detailed. So detailed 
 you can even see the stitching inside the dashboard using the new in-car view (which is fantastic 
 by the way) .
  
  The game is just as its always been. Race though the classes, starting at C working up to A. Once 
 you#ve completed all the A-class races, you unlock the S-class (or Special class) which also incorporates 
 drift cars.
  
  Online is just as you'd expect it to be. Race with up to 16 players from all over the world and 
 put the pedal to the metal. It's good fun, but can get boring after a while, and the occasional 
 glitch and frame-rate issue can be irritating. Hopefully these issues will be resolved by the time 
 the full game is released, and with more online options also. 
  
  With 70+ cars and 4 tracks, its not on as grand a scale as previous installments, but this being 
 a "glorified-demo" of sorts, and at a budget price, its more than enough to keep you entertained 
 until the full game arrives.
  
  --Dave --
  
  P. S. Remember, only Cr. 2,000,000 to get the Ferrari F1 racer!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragel0rd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  looks great on 1080p set and great 7.1 Lpcm soundtrack. although it should have more content for 
 the price. i thought the career mode was cut alittle short for my money. and another few tracks 
 couldnt hurt. other than that it has a solid controls and the cars handle nicely. also has abit 
 of replay value online. hopefully sony will decide to do the right thing and give us a ps3 update 
 for bitstream 7.1 output . and maybe patch the game or add some dowladable content with a few cars 
 or tracks to hold us over, seeing as the career was too short and the tracks are so limited to 
 only a handfull, its very addictive and alot of fun to play with all that being said hopefully 
 we will see those updates and system updates sometime soon. will be nice to see what it can really 
 
  enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillyAngst
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Is Prologue good? Yes. Is it a game?.... hmmm....... For myself, with the right wheel, yeah, awesome 
 good times, but it's not the full game (which is nowehere near in launch date timeness) .... the 
 non-damage thing doesn't bother me (wasn't that the reason they didn't add on-line to GT4, cause 
 people played it burnout style (like me) ) . it's hardcore and that's the base it's appealing too. 
 on the flip, the 40 dollar cost (canadian) seems excessive for what is offered. i hope that as 
 they continue working on gt5 they offer free stuff for the prologue people, but that's fingers 
 crossed. For myself, i'll still fool with gran turismo 2 sim mode (check out those graphics! photorealistic!) !!!) , 
 Toca 2 and Forza 2 until the real Gran Turismo 5 hits stores. And when i lose consistently.... 
 just gotta corner a litlle bit better next time............. and get a good wheel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cravinmild
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  If this game was released as a free demo or free add-on to GT HD it would be awsome but as they 
 decided to add a 40$ pricetag to it..... well not really so good. I would have to say that it should 
 be clumped into the over priced and very short game list (yes i did shell out 40 bones for it also 
 so i have the right to beek off) . I have played and played and played and still have buyers remorse 
 so this is a key indicator. This game has been picked apart enuff from others allrighty so l will 
 only say im short 40 bone for GTA4 and GT will collect a lot of dust. Just too much else out there 
 to spend money on as far as games go. To sum it up.... I knew this was just a demo but it still 
 falls short of my expectaions for a 40$ demo. IMO 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ArchAngeL-777-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 prologue is no more "prologue" than many racers out today. With over 70 unique cars, 
 I keep coming back for more! There are only 6 tracks but what hooks you are trying each car and 
 experiencing the variety. The best is racing from the interior view. They did a fantastic job on 
 each interior, and you get a great sense of speed. Dont let the 6 tracks part fool you, Gran Turismo 
 5 prologue has plenty to occupy your time just as much as the next racer.
  
  There are 4 10-race circuits. Finish one circuit, and you unlock the next. After completing the 
 3rd circuit (class A) , you get the opportunity to tune your cars. You will need to because class 
 S cant be won without tuning. Finish class S and you get the chance to buy the Ferrari F2007 formula 
 one car for a mere $2,000,000. Sounds like a lot but you get the money fast.
  
  Once the single player runs out, you can go online and race to your hearts content! I can say, 
 the races are some of the most intense I have had in an online racer. I can easily see myself playing 
 this game until the full version comes out next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Being a long time veteran of the franchise I've seen, played, and purchased every iteration of 
 the game without fail and without prejudice; for the most part and on hindsight I haven't been 
 too (entirely) disappointed with the series.
  
  To be honest, I've hate arcade (y) racers after the release of Gran Turismo 2... that in turn led 
 me to purchase Gran Turismo (ONE) and then from there everything is history. To get things off 
 the bat, I will MAKE many references to other racing games I've played/ come across... and the main 
 contender here is going to be from competing polar console: Xbox360's 'Forza Motorsports 2' amongst 
 many other titles.
  
  Right off the bat: the game is stupendously gorgeous. I was completely floored and taken aback 
 by the finer details in the game: nevermind the interior details it was the treads on the tires, 
 honestly... the attention to detail is ridiculous. The cars that is... everything else- not so much.
 
  
  Now call me a stickler but everything NOT a car is mediocre in comparison to the level of attention 
 given to the cars. For example: everything NOT in the track is extremely flat and linear. The best 
 description I can give you is imagine a four-story rectangular block with a realistic photograph 
 pasted onto it; nothing more and nothing less. You'll occasional see a door ornament but those 
 are far and few in-between and lets NOT forget to mention the bystanders in the game. You can't 
 review a Gran Turismo game without picking on the bystanders!... and so I am... and what can I say? 
 "BOO!" But then again I guess it is my fault for not vicariously speeding down London's streets 
 and stopping (er... slowing down enough) to pay attention to the details. Then again... maybe I'm 
 not supposed to... but hey, its been something that's bugged me since GT3 and I can't help and pick 
 on it. It is something worth considering since its something that's obviously been reoccurring... to 
 my attention at least.
  
  Then again... the game is known for it redundancy and with that everything just seems to blend into 
 the background and you race (as you're supposed to) each track. This brings me to another problem: 
 the game for the most part is extremely easy to cheat on, the best example is Suzuka's last S-curve 
 where you can simply cut across the middle and slam the other opponent into the gravel, easily 
 and effectively cutting them off from every returning to the pole position. Granted there ARE SOME 
 races that will penalize your "Shortcutting" but once again those are far and few in-between to 
 really matter. There's also the matter of counter-penalties which are gained with your collision 
 into someone else who had collided before you... who had collided with the person before them... and 
 so for and so forth; basically: you're penalized for SOMEBODY else's BAD driving and this is NOTORIOUS 
 to the 10th online. 
  
  It sort of defeats the purpose of being able to correctly navigate an S-curve or a sharp chicane 
 with practiced braking and moderated acceleration EVEN WITH THE SUGGESTED LINE OF TRAVEL TURN ON 
 when racing online and I've mentioned before the counter-penalties. If the online feature is representative 
 of what Polyphony hopes to showcase as their attempt at online racing then I'm going to be sorely 
 disappointed. My first gripe about the online racing is the position or lineup you start off in 
 right off the bat. Of course it makes sense to put the fastest or super-powered cars in the back 
 but it quickly turns into a frustrating experience when every racer (... idiot) in front CAN NOT 
 understand the concept of TURNING LEFT on the Daytona Race Track. But I cannot blame them for their 
 lack of understanding of directions it brings into question how the game chooses to treat these 
 bad drivers. 
  
  What the game employs is that any "moderate" collisions (and I emphasize 'moderate' because for 
 the most part its quite ridiculous) will cause the vehicle to PHASE in which any vehicle behind 
 them can pass freely through them. Sounds like good idea I thought until the vehicle in front of 
 me UN-PHASED and I was 3/4 of a way through them. What occurred was I was in second place contending 
 for first when the car in front of me came into the turn to fast, skidding slightly into the wall 
 but still had the lead on me however I was the key position of drafting behind him. The car phased 
 to where I could safely pass from the side and into the front however this is where things turned 
 bad. As I took the inside line he had un-phased behind me WHILE being stuck INSIDE my vehicle which 
 caused my vehicle to LITERALLY LIFT off the ground (where I'm staring down the hood of my vehicle 
 at nothing but the tarmac and all its glorious cracks and gravel, no horizon and not course markers) 
 and dropped back and spun into the outside wall. OKAY... at least the physics of the game worked 
 but to my loss... I careened into the wall on my right, flat spun at least five times, and then 
 finally came to a rest after slamming into the innermost left wall in the grass. 
  
  ... and then there are times when other people just don't know how to take a left turn and expect 
 to be sling-shot out of the turn which in turn causes EVERYONE ELSE behind them to crash. ONE TOO 
 MANY times have I been PENALIZE for hitting somebody else's out of control flat-spinning vehicle 
 and it throughly frustrates me.
  
  Forza Motorsports EFFECTIVE gets rid of this nuisance with its ability to either race with damage 
 effects turned off or on and FORCES other races to behave/ race correctly... and not only that the 
 reprimands of other racers are enough to keep you on your toes, nobody likes a bad driver in a 
 race and the ability to give them a boot is always a welcomed feature in ANY ONLINE MULTIPLAYER. 
 This also brings up the issue of collision and damaging models.
  
  In the age of high-definition gaming visual fidelity ISN'T ALWAYS going to win you the race. I'm 
 ENTIRELY disappointed that a feature such as damage modeling is NOT replicated/ implemented in 
 a racing simulator so grand as this! Even the FIRST FORZA MOTORSPORTS included this! Lets not forget 
 games such as Burnout Paradise.... where the instance of crashing was actually... beneficial AND 
 FUN! (Not that crashing for crashing's sake isn't fun either!) And this is actually on a growing 
 list of grievances as the title begins to grow... and hopefully mature. The damage modeling is a 
 panacea to BAD DRIVING! Who would have thought!?! Down shift when you're not supposed to- *buzz! 
 You brake the clutch/ transmission. Come off a corner slope to fast- *buzz! You smash your front 
 lip. Suspension too low on a specific track- *buzz! The game will let you know when you bottom 
 out and brake your rear-axle. 
  
  The simplest solution of all racing simulators is to let you KNOW how bad you're driving so you 
 can fix it! For all its glory Gran Turismo is only letting you drive bad but not really letting 
 you learn from it, you'll continue to drive bad and continually drive bad with racing modifications 
 you would've never needed! (But it never hurts...)
  
  Granted GT5 Prologue is ONLY a portion of what we're to expect but one thing I'd really hope they'd 
 show off would be something along the lines of a WEATHER SYSTEM. GT3 sort of had something like 
 that... sort of and GT4 all but downplayed it, tucking them into a corner of the game. Games such 
 as PGR4 has had a promising implementation of it and previous Burnout titles have featured a simple 
 weather system.
  
  For the most part the game is entirely TOO CLEAN! To be honest... I'm not really sure if that's 
 a good thing or a bad thing. With FM2 collisions, tire tracks, pieces from vehicles were there! 
 Fishtailed in the previous lap? Your tire skids indicate where you faltered, brake off your front 
 lip/ bumper? Your remnant piece is nicely thrown into the corner from the cars behind you, and 
 lastly which I definitely have to give GREAT BIG KUDOS to Studio Turn 10: YOUR CAR GETS DIRTY WHILE 
 YOU RACE!!! What a concept!
  
  Now it seems that I've been almost entirely negative about the game.
  
  well... for the most 
 part I've seen it done better in other games what GT5 Prologue has to offer. Its NO LONGER about 
 HOW MANY CARS YOU HAVE or HOW MANY MANUFACTURERS you can present its about the QUALITY OF THE RACING. 
 Honestly, when you get good enough in the game there is ONLY REALLY 7-12 cars you'll EVER use... once 
 you dump that beginning POS. Even in GT5 Prologue am I REALLY ONLY USING 4 cars out of the... who 
 knows how many they're touting...*looks on back of cover, 60 cars! It was ONLY when I HAD to use 
 a specific car did I spend the money other then that it was change in the bank.
  
  Now I do have to complement them on their painstakingly attention to detail in the INTERIORS of 
 the car... but honestly... I think its cool but the novelty WORE OFF after lap 2. Sounds of the game? 
 Check. Sounds the same to me honestly. No different from FM2's sound scheme. Physics of the game? 
 Check. No different from FM2's physics. Race tracks? Check. More or less an addition of a new track 
 but DITTO. Car Manufacturers? Check... well, the EXCLUSION of TOYOTA had me scratching my head, 
 but more or less (at the moment) DITTO. 
  
  The real feature I was looking forward to was the tuning system but its all but no-show in Prologue 
 so that'll be a speculative "No-no" until I see how it really goes. One thing I did however find 
 refreshing is the neat little treasure I discovered and that is the 'Course Guide' which is a nice 
 tidbit of information regarding the tracks you're going to race on in the 'Arcade Mode.' I also 
 found Gran Turismo TV pretty interesting too and I'm anticipating the next video to download regarding 
 the development of the GTR. GT TV has a lot of potential and I'd love to see where that goes.
 
  
  All in all the DEMO is great for awhile and if you've played the other iterations of Gran Turismo 
 you know what to expect when coming into this. Just take away all the great things about it, such 
 as tuning, car selection, after market modifications, etc etc and well... you're left wondering 
 who will the full game be pulled off. For the most part I'm not satisfied with the small package 
 and with other great racing games out there GT5 looks to be likes its only going to be all beauty 
 on the outside (and interior) . I do, however, remain hopeful and perhaps when the game DOES get 
 released A LOT of things that others are ALREADY DOING AND DOING GREAT get addressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, I don't know where to start off with this game. I just got it a couple of days ago and it 
 is certainly a blast to play. I am normally the person that goes out to buy racing games. I would 
 much rather have a game that I can blow someones head off.
  
  But side the fact, it's only 40$ so I could not resist. I took it home and put it in my PS3 and 
 installed the game. I must say I am very impressed by the game. The graphics are crisp and very 
 clean. The cars are amazing, and highly detailed. There are about 60 cars. The first thing that 
 made me go, "WOW" was when I was racing and saw the inside of the car! Can you say high detailed? 
 If you like racing games I would suggest that you buy this game. But, if you want to wait for the 
 full game that is fine to. But it may be a while until this game is released, and I am surely going 
 to buy it when it is.
  
  You will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exprez1022
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  GT1 was innovative. After that they were GT1 with a little better graphics each time. It's just 
 beyond me whjy people would buy the same crap game with relatively nothing new over and over. You 
 really dont see damage, you're confined to a little track area. With all the power of these machines 
 (XBOX 360, PS3) you mean to tell me that's the best they can do? Let me ask you why ccan there 
 not be a fairly detailed crash modeling system? Why can there not be a free roam of sorts? Realistic 
 physics? When is the last time you crashed head-on into a wall at 120mph and not had a scratch 
 on your car or just a dented bumper? Come on people are you really willing to accept just this? 
 How can such a boring game sell so much time and time again after the innovative 1st one? People, 
 wise-up and realize they will continue to sell you the same crap if you keep buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macgyver12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  When i first purchased this game I was completely surprised since it was only 40$. I thought that 
 considering I am paying a lower price, then I would expect a prologue without full game capabilities.
 
  
  Now that I have stated that, I was pleasantly surprised with the game. Gran Turismo is notorious 
 for it's full customization, but it is also notable for it's next-step graphics and feel. I felt 
 that this game was economically more efficient then a 7.5 rating. It didn't have the customization 
 that I love from the Turismo series, but the graphics were mostly on par, and the online play was 
 competitive (in terms that there aren't nerds with some game genie'd car that ruin the entire online 
 game play lol) . Everyone is on par online, so it is competitive and can make the player waste hours 
 playing. I was disappointed slightly with this game, because there aren't many tracks (I'm guessing 
 that may be why there's a price drop cause they'll be downloadable) , and that the single player 
 wasn't very promising, but I think that the evolutionary step that this prologue needed to make 
 was mostly crossed. 
  
  In conclusion, I understand why the reviewers gave this game a 7.5, but I think that this game 
 had aspects which should make any prospectors at least try the game. 7.5 games I usually don't 
 rent. This is at least a rent. 8.2 from me hahaha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicalva
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Having played GT since its early days on PS One, I've always been a fan. I've owned every single 
 GT and this GT5 Prologue is better than its predecessors, including GT4. 
  
  Cars physics are a lot more realistic this time and to me that makes the challenge a lot more appealing. 
 For example, if you break heavily while turning, the car will not follow a clean line and will 
 understeer, and if you accelerate while it's struggling to maintain grip, the traction control 
 will cut off the gas. If you disconnect the traction control, youll be able to drift easier. Car 
 drifting feels quite easily achievable compared to GT4, which adds a new dimension to the experience. 
 Yes, there are still a few things that keep it from being the perfect simulator, like the lack 
 of car damage, so let's hope Poliphony will implement it in GT5 next year.
  
  I didn't have high expectations because some of the reviews I read were a bit negative. Some people 
 complain about the fact that it has 6 tracks only, that you can't customize cars, that the game 
 hasn't evolve much, that the AI is stupid etc. However, after playing with it for five hours straight, 
 I can say I'm hooked. Getting gold is challenging and fun. Some of the cars are beautiful and I 
 can't wait to get cash to buy them and enjoy them. 
  
  On the negative side, despite getting the game on blu-ray, I still had to wait almost two hours 
 (on broadband) for an "update" to be downloaded from Sony's. I don't understand why, having bought 
 the disc, I'm being forced to download a 6GB file on the hard drive to be able to play . 
 
  
  All in all, I find GT5 Prologue a great game to keep me waiting until the full GT5. I find cars 
 really fun to drive, even the regular ones. That's just how good the physics engine is. Playing 
 GT4 after this is a significant step backwards as far as the physics model and the car details 
 are concerned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamyvabam123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game may be the demo of the real gran turismo 5, but there is enough content in this game 
 that will keep you busy for hours and days and weeks. The cars are very realistic, with their sound, 
 performance, and you can obviously tell which car is a 4WD, RWD, or FWD. The engine sound is fantastic, 
 it is a very big improvement from the last GT series and with the help of its amazing visuals, 
 it makes this game more realistic than ever. There are about 70 highly detailed cars and 6 different 
 tracks including Suzuka. There are two major additions to this game from the previous, first there 
 is an all new online mode, where you can get a big challenge and the other thing is the in-car 
 view. The online mode is great but if the host's connection is messed up, then the whole sever 
 will suffer from the lag, but if connection is good, then you will play without a worry. The in-car 
 view makes it feel very realistic whereas you are the driver. Overall this game is the big demo 
 that will satisfy you and get you hyped for untill the real GT5 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehran_kimi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  ntroduction:
  
  We all know how GT series has been set up for over 10 years: stunning graphics, sound, tracks, 
 and etc. But, what matters after all is that this is not a Ridge-Racer type of game. So, if you 
 expect to handle the turns by just easing off the gas and drifting, you'd better not buy this game.
 
  
  Purpose:
  
  This game is designed for people, who love cars and care about the beauty and details of them for 
 real life experience. The producer's passion is to bring the cars to our lives as like we are really 
 driving them. When you go to GTTV and see what those people do to make things as nicely as possible, 
 you will realize that something like Forza will be no match for such a huge franchise with this 
 amount of effort put into it.
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  
  Nothing to say. Certainly, show the capability of PS3 to its maximum limits. The cars and environment, 
 literally, are photo-realistic, meaning you are there and you feel it. Same goes with sound. And, 
 by sound, I mean engine sounds and soundtracks. No match has ever come any close to achieve what 
 GT has in this category.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is a GRAN TURISMO! That means, you cannot beat the game in 2 hours like you do in NFS or Ridge 
 Racer. As a professional race driver, you need to suffer to get to where you want to be. So, do 
 not complain about the fact that you need money to purchase the cars. This is why GT is called 
 a "real driving simulator". Have patience and enjoy the ride along!
  
  AI:
  
  These critics say why the AI drivers always drive on the racing line? That question simply proves 
 that they are not into racing at all because if you watch a Touring Race Championship or F1 Championship 
 on TV, you will see that all drivers will always drive on the racing line to optimize their cornering, 
 unless there is traffic or accident on the line should they not drive on it. That is the same case 
 in GT5 P. The AI will always drive on the racing line to optimize its cornering, like in reality, 
 unless there is some sort of block ; in that case it will not drive on the racing line. The real 
 racing games must carry the real racing actuality and skills. So, if you think the AI drivers are 
 driving unusually, you do not know racing. You'd better, first, watch some F1 or other races on 
 TV.
  
  Online:
  
  It is true that those people that do not know racing assume that GT5 P is demolition-race type 
 of racing game and run into you and grant you a very painful experience in guardrails, but this 
 is just a prologue version. They may make the races in GT5, where you will do qualification laps, 
 ghost racing, and grid position starting. These improvements can, however, be made to Prologue 
 now.
  
  GTTV:
  
  This is an amazing feature. How come nobody ever notes that? They show you how the cars are tested 
 and put in the game. What kind of racing game has such a feature?
  
  Damage Modeling:
  
  What the heck is the point of damage modeling about which every single person complains? Why 
 would you want to see a beautifully crafted car be smashed and totaled? Are you a car fan or a 
 demolition racer? Do you prefer to see how a GT-R gets smashed and totaled by going to back of 
 a Ferrari F40, or do you rather want to see how the car handles in the real life? I mean, there 
 is a trade-off. A professional racer would want to see how a GT-R drives in the real life than 
 to want it to be totaled and see the debris of crash on the track.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game, certainly, is worth the buck! But, if you are looking into arcade type of racing with 
 crazy things happen like Twisted Metal, you are better off playing other racing games... anything, 
 but GT5 P.
  
  GT5 will be always a top seller, as usual, dominating the market! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is indeed a bit low on content but it has many elements that full games 
 fail to deliver on. One of the biggest surprises I have had with GT5: P is that the cars have never 
 felt so good to drive. They feel like they would in real life, each car has its own personality 
 more than ever before. A Corvette feels the way it should and is much different than a Ford GT 
 but in a good way. It is one of those things that makes you really appreciate the time and work 
 that someone put into the game to make it feel like you are really driving it, minus the sense 
 of speed of course.
  
  The graphics are also amazing, something that you will most likely want to show off to your friends 
 to show them what the PS3 can do. However, graphics and car physics aside there is still a lot 
 here that is worth noting. First off, there is an arcade mode that not only features awesome videos 
 on certain tracks but it also has a drift mode and time trial mode that is coupled with an online 
 ranking system. This means if you don't want to race someone directly, you can do some drifting 
 and constantly go for the top spot. 
  
  This brings me to the online modes. Online racing does have some features that are sorely missed. 
 Some things that are missing are personalized race settings, the ability to invite friends to certain 
 races, and the ability to turn off collisions. Unfortunately there are a lot of people online that 
 will beat and bang on you and totally ruin your race. Others will ride on the walls and get a huge 
 speed advantage. In other words, it's very easy to cheat and be a dirty driver to win which is 
 something that is pathetic and needs to be addressed soon. That being said, I never had a moment 
 of lag against 15 other drivers and connecting to a race usually takes less than 30-45 seconds. 
 The best part is you earn money by racing online that you can use in the single player portion 
 of the game. 
  
  I also enjoy the layout of the menus. Everything is integrated so the navigation is very slick, 
 clean, and load times are quite fast for the most part. The videos that come with the Blu Ray version 
 of the game are also fun to watch and easy to connect to. 
  
  Overall this is a huge improvement over anything I have seen in the Gran Turismo franchise. We 
 still need to see damage and greater consequences for wrecking otherwise it will be hard to argue 
 this is the best racing simulator ever. That being said, GT5: P has been a blast to play, the online 
 modes will keep you going for awhile, and even though there's only 71 cars you will be playing 
 for quite awhile to get the money to earn some of them. For $40 GT5: Prologue is definitely worth 
 it, in fact it may be the best racing title on the PS3 so far. This is how racing games are supposed 
 to be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The Gran Turismo series has always intimidated me. Between the realistic handling, obnoxiously 
 difficult mandatory license tests and extreme depth of content they ended up feeling like work 
 after a relatively short time. Even so, I have played them all because they look incredible and 
 you get to go fast in un-dent-able cars that no normal human being could ever own, much less throw 
 around corners at the very edge of losing control without going to jail afterward. The first 10 
 hours of each game was a blast before frustration edged out the manly glee of 200+ MPH. It was 
 because of this that I hoped Gran Turismo 5: Prologue, being a glorified and slightly over priced 
 demo (and unsubtle way for Sony to push the DualShock 3) , might just leave off the end game and 
 give a taste of the beginning. Instead it compresses the entire experience, bringing on the tedium 
 of grinding races for cash much too soon.
  
  There have been a few changes, concessions from previous iterations almost, that make the actual 
 racing more enjoyable. The handling, when set to normal, is much more forgiving then in previous 
 games. It lands somewhere neatly between Forza and Project Gotham, not quite simulation but definitely 
 not arcade. Memorizing a track is still a requirement to have any success, but heart crushing last 
 lap mistakes are no longer as common. To help out novices (or people who suck, like me) further 
 Prologue has blatantly stolen the racing line assist from Forza. It is an absolute godsend in the 
 beginning, keeping a new racer from careening into walls by miss judging corners, but it is also 
 a very conservative line. Following it exactly will not win many races, only keep a new player 
 from embarrassing himself too much.
  
  Apart from these tweaks there is no mistaking this for a Gran Turismo, which is not really a compliment; 
 parts of the game have not aged well. There is still no car damage. When compared to any other 
 modern racing game this is inexcusable. I understand not doing damage because car manufactures 
 do not allow it or because Polyphony Digital simply doesn't want their amazingly rendered car models 
 dented up, but other racing games have done it, worked it convincingly into the game play, and 
 made it look good all at the same time. DiRT is a perfect example of this, as are Forza 2 and PGR 
 4. Playing car billiards around corners is still quite possible, in spite of supposed AI upgrades 
 and a penalty system, and is about an unrealistic as can be in a game dubbed 'The Real Driving 
 Simulator.' Computer drivers behave less like slot cars then before, even making an occasional 
 unforced error, but there is still no personality. If I cut a guy off or trade a little paint with 
 him on a straight I expect him to return the favor, and that just doesn't happen here.
  
  Prologue also marks the debut of online racing for Gran Turismo, though it may have been better 
 to let it cook a little longer before showing it off. Races fill up quickly but there is no way 
 to invite friends and they are an absolute laggy mess. Seeing cars slide along the track sideways 
 leaving behind a trail a smoke is amusing at first, but it does not make for good racing. It is 
 very obvious that it is their first attempt, it feels very last gen. Unfortunately for Gran Turismo 
 there is a lot more competition in the genre then there was 5 years ago. This kind of performance 
 is simply unacceptable in a retail product.
  
  Most other missing pieces can be chalked up to this not really be a full game: 60 cars, 6 tracks, 
 no photo mode, no car customization; it's anemic. It took a fair amount of hubris to release Prologue 
 and charge $40 for it, and it may not have been a good idea. Gran Turismo has shown its hand before 
 the game is finished, and what it had to show does not compare favorably with the games already 
 available. My only hope is that it turns into something like an episodic game; car and track releases 
 on a semi regular basis for free would be a good first step. As it is now I will be hard pressed 
 to throw more money at a title that turned from racing to repetition in the space of a few hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  The game is highly addictive, you don't want to stop playing once you pick it up. You start of 
 with 35,000 credits at your disposal pick up a good Honda and you will be on your way. You start 
 off at C class races and can't move on to B or A until you have atleast bronze trophy in all the 
 races. After those are complete you move on to S class. There is 10 events in each class, so a 
 total of 40 events for "event" mode. Most of them are cup races but there are some time trials 
 in there and challenges to complete. Some of them are pretty difficult, so it will take time. There 
 is also car specific races at the dealership which are pretty difficult.
  
  Theres a penalty system online, in S class, and in the dealer races to discourage bumping and hitting 
 the wall which will slow you down for a few seconds. Gameplay is amazing, very realistic, every 
 car drives how it does in real life, you can really feel the difference in drive trains and performance. 
 Graphics are also amazing, ever car is detailed beautifully, the game is just beautiful all around 
 and the London course is STUNNING.
  
  Once you unlock "S" class you gain access to "quick tune" which lets you tune your cars, increasing/decreasing 
 power and weight to change performance. You can do this for all races but "S" class races, and 
 some online races are limited so you have to limit your cars power. Online racing is pretty difficult 
 but you get credits for racing online which get added to your total
  
  A total of 70+ cars (I believe?) , a GOOD wide variety of autos, and 7 tracks on 6 raceways, theres 
 2 versions of Daytona speedway. 
  
  AMAZING deal for $40 it doesn't get much better at this price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is definitely the best racing game for the PS3. Even though it's just a 
 demo, it has the same amount, if not more, cars than your normal racing game.
  
  Gameplay: Racing game, so you know you'll be driving cars. The game is based off a more realistic 
 take in the Racing genre, there's no turbo option, instead you'll just be racing normally. There 
 are a total 6 courses (though that will change, thanks to future updates) , with more than 12 layouts. 
 With more than 71 cars to buy (3 which are unlockable) you'll always want to continue racing it 
 down to get all cars. GT5 Prologue also includes an Online mode, a new feature in the GT series. 
 A lot of people have had problems downloading the new update (including myself) it shows an error 
 while downloading. To get past it, everytime it shows the error, try again, and eventually, you'll 
 be able to download. Online mode has a good variety of races and events, each with it's specific 
 requirement. Some users have criticized lags while playing online, saying it's a server problem. 
 It really isn't a problem with the GT servers, every game depends on a randomly selected host, 
 if the host has connection problems, so will you. The game also includes 2player modes, and a replay 
 save option.
  
  Visuals: Beautiful. Probably one of the best graphics in a racing game, if not the best. As you 
 race you'll be able to choose from different views, including Your normal "outside the car view", 
 third person view, and now new, "in-car view". They all looks excellent, the cars are really detailed, 
 especially in Replay Mode, you'd think that it's actually a movie playing, instead of a game.
 
  
  Sound: Not the best out there, though they're not horrible either. The only thing I'd like it to 
 have, would be a music volume option, since the bg music is really low.
  
  Controls: It's a racing game. You know the drill, there's Automatic, and Manual options. You can 
 play with your Sixaxis or DualShock 3, or with a racing wheel.
  
  Overral: If you like racing games, you can't miss this demo. It has the same amount, if not more 
 cars than your normal racing game, and it's real pretty. It has 6 tracks and 71 cars (with future 
 updates, the amount will increase) There's Single Player Mode, 2 player mode, and Online mode.
 
  
  GT5P is a demo you can't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSchmo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Best Big Demo ever.
  
  It really hurts that this is only the begining. I really would like a full version of this game. 
 But thats still a year out and Sony gave us GT5: P to tie us over, and now I see why. I missed real 
 racing. (Forza's cool, not my cup of tea) I'm a huge GT fan, played everyone till the very end. 
 
  
  Concept
  It feels like the Arcade part of GT but with a simple career mixed with. Start with 35k, buy a 
 cheap car, make more money, buy cooler cars. Race, Race, Race. Online money goes to your off line 
 career too.
  
  Graphics
  Best I've seen on the PS3 yet! If you got a 1080p TV then you are in for a treat. Ultra smooth 
 graphics, photo realistic backgrounds, and unbelievable car models. cockpits are sweet looking, 
 looks as real as it gets with out sitting in the car. The only downside to this is that all the 
 cars are setup with the wheel on the right so it feels kind of weird for us Americans (You'd think 
 they flop it for the US release, but no, hope they do it in the final release) . When you start 
 this game up for the first time watch the opening cutscene, my women thought it was real video 
 of cars and landscape but it was all computer models powered by the PS3. Full 60 frames, never 
 dropping, even online.
  
  Sound
  What you'd expect from a GT game. Every car engine, tire screech, bumps, etc. is fully authentic. 
 Make your 5.1 sound roar like your really in the car. 7.1 in available, but I dont have 2 extra 
 speakers set up to my 7.1 reciever yet, I just may have to now.
  
  Online
  I always knew I was good at GT games but never could compare myself with others. Now I can. And 
 I'm still good! Always coming in the top 3. Has a matchmaking type setup, choose your race and 
 it matches you up with (up to) 11 other racers. Seems to be regin specific cause I only played 
 Candians and US racers. Really lag free for me, never saw a drop ever. Unfortunitly has the "COD 
 host quits, race over" setup, but that only happened once or twice. The other issues I have are 
 ignorant races, you drive correctly in the turn, other guy behind you barrels into you and you 
 go flying, he makes the turn. Also doesnt seem to be a way to race with friends, correct me if 
 I'm wrong if you you find how.
  
  All in all, this is a great 1/2 GT game. Just makes you want more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeman79
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  First off all GT5-Pro is the BEST LOOKING GAME to date on any platform. It has super awesome graphics 
 both on the car models and the only 6 tracks. But a game with the name Gran Turismo can't survive 
 with just it's "looks". It needs to have a good game play. Witch this game really don't have at 
 all. When I played it I was expecting it to be like GT1-4 but with better graphics. I got to se 
 only the graphics. The game-play Polyphony Digital ripped out, pissed on and then whipped their 
 asses with it. IT IS AWFUL. Then we have the on-line part. I have never seen a game with that much 
 lag. And damage? Hello? It has taking about 6-7 games and still no damage on the cars?
  
  But as a fan of GT series since the original GT I gave GT5-Pro a shoot. And it let me down. And 
 on top of all that they wanted you to pay money for it? WTF MAN? I have been telling my friends, 
 2 of them owns a PS3 I own a 360, that when GT5 comes out I will buy a PS3 just for that game. 
 But If it is like the GT5-Pro forget about it. Then there is much better driving simulations for 
 the 360. Forza 2 comes in ti mind. With I own and play to date.
  
  So in other word: DON'T BUY THIS GAME. Rent it if you can, no don't rent it at all. It is an AWFUL 
 game. Forget about it completely. Buy your self a 360 and Forza 2. At least on Forza 2 you won't 
 be disappointed. I was going to give it 5.0 but lowered it to 4.5. I got to be fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  There's absolutely no doubt that Gran Turismo 5: Prologue offers the best graphics ever seen on 
 the PS3 - at least when it comes to the car models and the amazing effects, the detailed surroundings 
 and the incredibly sharp clear views. The sound is of course top notch too. The awesome sound of 
 an engine is enough reason to buy a 300.000cr-vehicle!
  
  Unfortunately the game play is kinda repeating. Although it's certainly addicting due to the simple 
 and catchy controls it becomes annoying that you have to drive the same races with the same cars 
 a dozen times to earn enough credits for the car which is required in one the next events. Because 
 of this it seems as if the play time is artificially protracted.
  
  Luckily you can also race online which is a great variation even though the AI in the single player 
 acts realistic (f. e. the other drivers make comprehensible faults when you set them under pressure) . 
 By mischance the AI becomes a nearly unbeatable enemy in the last events and the game's balance 
 of difficulty is kinda disrupted here. Moreover the extremely annoying punishments which aren't 
 really reasonable and moreover do not apply to your opponents are a pain in the ass in these last 
 races.
  
  All in all Gran Turismo 5: Prologue is worth a buy for those who are besotted with exotic cars 
 because each one of them feels (and of course looks) simply great when you driving it down one 
 of the 6 tracks. For all the other racing sim-fans out there: wait for the full version of the 
 game and hope it won't be as repeating as Prologue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronokilla2004
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  There has been many reviews which gave this game a low score. Most of those were wrong, many users 
 complaining about there being not enough tracks or enough cars, no damage, and such. Once again, 
 to make a game perfect it takes time, this is just a TEASER aka DEMO of the REAL GAME which is 
 set to come out next year hopefully. It will include car damage, skid marks, 600 cars, over 75 
 tracks. 
  Now this game has the most advanced graphics available today. The gameplay feels real especially 
 because I have the G25 Racing wheel. The multiplayer NEEDS WORK. BUT They are releasing updates 
 quickly and they are working on fixing multiplayer, adding private rooms and adding voice. The 
 fun never ends. This is a GREAT buy and its well worth 40USD. The racing wheel and this game go 
 hand in hand. 10/10 For my experience. Dont listen to the people who blame the demo for not having 
 600 cars and 75 tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backwardsman000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Please note: I am rating this as a Demo/Prologue. SO, it is obvious that the features in this game 
 doenot even compare to what the other GT's have in them compared to this one. There is no Liscence, 
 Rally, or Endurance Events or Picture Taking or cutomizing feature. But, what it has to offer is 
 AMAZING! The game is very visually pleasing, with the cell processors doing their jobs. The physics 
 can be tweaked a little, but they work. The inside car view is great and adds that extra sense 
 of realism. The online is on the right track, (No pun intended) and I like how you can earn money 
 off of the online to use to buy cars, so you are not stuck doing single player races the whole 
 time to earn money. Another thing they should add is the ability to let friends join your race. 
 But, Overall, this "preview" is awsome, for what it has. Deffinitly worth checking out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The game has gorgeous graphics, however I was very disappointed with the gameplay. I was so frustrated 
 that I almost threw my controller across the room. I found it very difficult even on the beginner 
 stages to get anything better than a 3rd place showing. Okay so I got a couple 1st place finishes, 
 but some events I couldn't even finish better than 6th place. The AI seems to have a edge on everything. 
 Don't CPU drivers ever crash or misjudge the speed going into a corner? Why couldnt they make options 
 such as easy, med, and hard?? Shouldn't beginner events be easy??!? I want to enjoy the game, not 
 get pissed at it. They start you out at 6 place and your car can't even catch up to the 5th place 
 car. How is it possible that the same car your driving can be driven by the CPU and finish 30 seconds 
 faster?? I say throw a patch out there before its too late. This game is suppossed to be a system 
 seller. Why did it take so long to bring out a sucky game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EugenioK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  You can only play this game on your own playstation 3 using the log on name which you used to purchase 
 it with. The game can then only be played after login to the playstation network.
  
  To those who wish to play there game at friends or don't have there own Internet connection (or 
 if you just don't find it necessary to be log in all the time)
  I recommend buying the game in the store and not from the playstationstore.
  
  Truly they did 
 not think about people who don't use there playstation only at home. For people like me for which 
 the playstation is my travel buddy who keeps me happy when in some hotel room.
  
  The Gran Turismo 5 Prologue itself is indeed a good practice run for things to come and I can't 
 wait for the real thing. I especially like the in car view though a wider view angle would have 
 been nice. Though I love the online racing the single player mode just doesn't feel complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Couth_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Not every game that has came out this generation has held it's weight in price with a $60 price 
 tag. Now along comes the prologue to Gran Turismo 5 priced at $40, and the reception it gets is 
 mixed from being an amazing deal for $40, to an overpriced "demo". I will start by stating the 
 obvious, that this is no demo, not in the least. It comes loaded with plenty of cars ranging in 
 style, make, and drive train. So there is a wide selection to choose from. There is six raceways 
 to choose from, with 2 variations of the Daytona speedway, so a total of 7 tracks.
  
  With all of the cars and tracks to choose from, there is no lack of content. There is arcade mode, 
 where you can either race, time trial, or drift trial. 2 player battle mode, and online racing 
 which features anywhere from 6-16 cars on a track, to test your racing skills against the worlds 
 best. as well as the event mode. The online play is what tips prologue to being worth $40 as it 
 offer plenty of replay value. You even earn money in these races, which you can use to purchase 
 your cars.
  
  There is no lack of content in the game, however there seems to be a lack of off-line races in 
 the simulation "campaign" if you will, called event mode. There is 4 classes, C B A and S, which 
 you have to complete in order, winning at least bronze in each race, to move onto the next. Each 
 class features a total of 10 events, 7 cup races, a car specific time trial, a car specific race, 
 and a car specific challenge where you begin in 16th place and have 1 lap to pass everyone before 
 the finish. The event mode will last you plenty long, and it has plenty of replay value if you 
 want to perfect it and get gold in each race. There is plenty of incentive to race for money which 
 you use to buy cars, that are supposed to be transferable to the full game when released. However 
 I feel like, with all of the cars available, they could have made a few more car specific cups 
 and events in each class. But there is car specific races that you access through the dealer, so 
 overall I think the game features enough content to be worth the $40 price tag.
  
  As for the game play it is amazing. Each car performs and handles differently, like their real 
 life counterparts. You can't cut corners in GT5 prologue (metaphorically) . You need to drive the 
 way you are supposed to, or you will have serious trouble beating the A. I. The driving physics 
 in the game are amazingly real, as are the graphics. GT5: Prologue is the most photo realistic 
 game I have ever seen. The cars are amazingly detailed. The lighting is superb. It is simply stunning. 
 While scenery in most of the tracks is a bit plain, the London speedway puts them all completely 
 to shame, with it's finely detailed buildings, you might find yourself staring at the scenery more 
 than the track. GT5 Prologue is one of the best, if not the best looking game on consoles to date.
 
  
  The word from Polyphony also is that there should be down loadable content for prologue leading 
 up to the full version, which should be exciting, as well as a patch to add car damage, which would 
 just be icing on the cake for this otherwise prime racer.
  
  If you are a fan of Gran Turismo, or a fan of racing at all, I suggest you pick up prologue, it 
 will satisfy your craving for the series, and I would expect it to last you until the full game 
 launches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  GT5P is a bit of an exercise in frustration. On the one hand, I love this game. The production 
 values are there. The graphics are noticeably better than any racing game I have played before 
 (including the GTHD Concept Demo from last year. The presentation is tightly packed, simply constructed, 
 and offers everything (superficially) that I have come to expect, and long for, over the past 5 
 years (yes, I was late the the Gran Turismo party) . 
  
  However, there is just not a lot of content here. To be fair, no one from Polyphony ever stated 
 that this was a full game. This was intended to be a sampler for the full game, with integration 
 in to the full game that will transfer your progress from GT5P to the full GT5 when it is released 
 next year (a great feature that needs to be capitalized on more, similar to the way Ratchet and 
 Clank did back in the PS2 era) . But, for $40, and with the Gran Turismo badge on it, I can't help 
 but want more. I played GT3 on PS2 for months, and still didn't unlock everything. Even the thought 
 of owning every car in the game seemed made me uneasy. So far, I have been playing GT5P for about 
 a week and I can tell that the end is near. 
  
  Now, to be fair, there is an online component that should extend the life of this "demo" beyond 
 unlocking all of the races and completing all of the class challenges. But still, I just want more. 
 I wanted this to be GT5, not Prologue, and for that reason, I am unfairly disappointed with it.
 
  
  Now, with all of the complaining aside, and getting back to where I began this review. This game 
 screams quality. I have played the PGR series, back to the second edition, and it certainly does 
 not compare (although it is very good) . Motorstorm, which like PGR, goes for a different type of 
 racing experience, is great, but just not in the same league. The Need for Speed series used to 
 rival GT in my mind, not in terms of realism, but in terms of is being an all around fun gaming 
 experience. However, the last few iterations (going back to NFS Underground 2) have fallen far 
 short. Forza, while adding more content and realism, and in my opinion, trying to clone the GT 
 series, just falls way way short. While graphically it is strong, it's not as good as GT and it 
 just doesn't have the same feel. The quality and attention to detail just isn't as strong as it 
 is in GT. 
  
  So, if quality is your thing. If you are hungry for the best possible racing experience, GT5P is 
 your game. Just don't expect to be unlocking new things for weeks or months on end (not yet anyway) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0UD
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  What started out as great series in the racing sport games has become rather dull by now. If it 
 wasnt for the good graphics (which nowadays should be a given in any game anyway) and the multiplayer 
 mode, this would have been an absolute letdown.
  The first thing thats noticeable is that the game seems incomplete. There is no career modus available 
 or at least nothing that could be characterized as such. Instead you get to do a few races on a 
 few tracks with mostly limited car selection for each track. Somehow reminds of the License races 
 you had to do at the first GT for the PS.
  Apart from that theres also no tuning, until you have completed the about 30 races which then 
 unlocks the tuning option. And also the terrible penalisation (not during the "career mode") where 
 if you bump someone you screwed and when someone bumps you, youre also screwed.
  To sum it up, basically you have a starting budget to buy a car, do some races at some point repeatedly 
 to keep the cash flow going, buy cars that you may not really want in the first place just to get 
 the races done to unlock the tuning mode.
  All in all not really worth the money unless you play almost exclusively in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warbmxjohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is just a taste of what Polyphony Digital is bringing to the table in Gran 
 Turismo 5 and I'm ready to eat! But seriously GT5P is in a league of its own when it comes to gameplay. 
 This is a game for those who like cars, not just body kit and aftermarket component companies.
 
  
  The amount of content may not be anywhere near Gran Turismo , but it still is more than some full 
 fledged racing games offer in my opinion. With only around 40 cars 5 tracks to offer most will 
 ignore this gem. But of those five tracks there are two layouts either reverse direction or some 
 with alternate routes, thats like 10 tracks. And considering just how unbelievably real the tracks 
 look AND feel thats still not bad.
  
  As for the cars although there are only 40 the selection is diversified with a great range of different 
 amazing cars. Not all of the cars available are immediately desirable but they help provide some 
 performance variance. The detail in each cars model is astounding not just graphical detail either 
 but some spot-on accuracy with the physics and handling dynamics as well. 
  
  Now to the racing, the bread and butter of the GT series. The team at Polyphony Digital has stepped 
 it up once again with the physics in GT5P. The In car view has exceeded my expectations, with the 
 signs of subtle body roll, the nose rising or dipping, and the sounds from the tires you can be 
 fairly close to having all the same tools you would while being there in the car. The cars all 
 seem to have the feeling of weight and speed and acceleration, which I'm not sure how they achieve 
 so well. Its quite engrossing to experience all the different cars, especially if you are into 
 cars. The differences in every aspect of handling dynamics can be noticed instantly when going 
 from one car to another. From drafting, to braking to cornering the physics are eerily real. The 
 variance is strong from suspension, to weight, to drivetrain differences, you can detect it all 
 in the car by how it handles its very impressive.
  
  The only thing thing that makes this title not a 10 is the lack of performance modifications and 
 damage. Although I understand the sacrifice of programming data that goes to damage modeling the 
 game will never be perfect or complete without it.
  
  To me this game is a few steps short of having 40 cars and access to 5 tracks in real life, thats 
 easily worth a measly 40$ to me. The only problem is now any other racing game will come up short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painpas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be brief. This game has got soul unlike Forza which feels like a copy of this game 
 with more features but lacking soul. To define soul I mean the love of the game does not come through 
 as it does in GT from the menus to the interface. Forza is great and I love the auction house, 
 car customization and stuff like that. However the users make that game special for me because 
 when I was going through the career mode I just was like so what. GT has this feel as if they care 
 about what they are doing not just trying to beat the competition. I hope that they add all the 
 features that Forza has so that they take the crown. Sonic and Mario were different there really 
 different games. Years later its like companies are just making the same game the opponent has 
 like Halo and Resistance or GT and Forza. I just hope that those who really care about their work 
 get recognized more than the copycats cause I watched APEX like everyone else and found myself 
 not wanting to like copycat imitators because the great minds who have there ideas ripped off suffer 
 from these people who say that they revere you then are ready to steal your love just for money 
 and fame. Sorry for the rant rather than a review. The game is not supposed to reflect the final 
 product its just to tide us over and its fun handles very well alittle easy in the beginning since 
 I've been playing Forza. But I can legitimately say that GT lacks some key features like damage, 
 customization visually and for vehicle performance enhancement. One thing that comes clear is that 
 the game is beautiful and from the music to the menus there is love behind this game. They can 
 still add in all the fan features and online components as a great playing car game this is the 
 best. I now know why I stopped playing Forza as good as it was it was still copying the originator 
 and the soul of the game the love of the game was just not there. GT prologue has shown me once 
 again as much as games are business the artists and masterminds behind these games have vision. 
 I for one will not be closed and say just because its a ripoff it will be inferior no that may 
 not be the case. In the case of Forza and GT it is. Forza is the better game right now not with 
 the driving but with the by the numbers features that it has. However if GT includes it bye bye 
 forza for sure this games got class and feels like a quality product something that I am noticing 
 alot of these days when comparing the first party offerings of Sony and MS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes the graphics are very nice yes it controls well but this game is so shallow it hurts. There 
 are a total of six tracks in this demo and a few cars yes, but no i repeat "NO' upgrading of parts 
 of any customization at all. You basically are supposed to forget all this and just look at the 
 pretty cars. I played for about 4 hours till i just got so bored and ended up playing pixel junk 
 monsters. I find nowadays everyone its putting so much focus on the way a game looks for the "next 
 gen systems" that many are forgetting the most important thing .... is it actually fun to play. 
 So by all means if you want to go throw forty bucks away go ahead but for anyone else, rent it at 
 blockbuster. This kills me to say it because i am a huge GranTurismo fan, But buying this will 
 just encourage other game makers to follow suit and i personally dont feel like paying 39.99 to 
 play the first three levels of Resident evil 5 six months before release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Every time there is a new Gran Turismo release, their is a huge amount of hype to go with it. Polyphony 
 Digital's brought their baby onto this generation, with Gran Turismo 5 Prologue, and it hasn't 
 been any different. Fans of the series, and even newcomers, expect top notch visuals and driving 
 gameplay. The question is if Polyphony was able to deliver. The absolute only answer to that is 
 yes, and in fact, Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is the best game on the Playstation 3.
  
  Now, you may be looking at my score and saying to yourself 'WHAAAAA????", but the score doesn't 
 match the words because this is just the prologue to a possibly better, and bigger, full GT experience 
 that spare any tragedies, will undoubtedly be worthy of that illusive 10 from me. It would be the 
 first to do so. So, you may be looking at the score I gave this, but if I gave this a 10, I'd have 
 to give Gran Turismo 5 a 17.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is the visuals. There are times where 
 the game looks like a screenshot from real life. The car models are all impressively detailed, 
 and the lighting effects are stellar. Your driver's eyesight adjusts to the sun when you enter 
 or exit dark areas, such as tunnels. It's this kind of detail that makes you appreciate just how 
 great a game looks. The tracks are also immensely detailed and realistic, the reflections in the 
 cars look superb, and simply put, Gran Turismo 5 Prologue is one of the best looking games around. 
 There are so many little things that constantly amaze you and will have you saying "Wow, I can't 
 believe they took the time to do that."
  
  If you've played any Gran Turismo games before, you know that they have great, realistic controls. 
 Let me get this out of the way first: GT 4 has nothing on this. It's hard to put into words just 
 how great that this game drives. Turning is much more smooth, as is braking, traction has been 
 "next-gen-ified", and the new first person view adds something special to the experience. Every 
 car drives differently, and every car is actually fun to drive. Now, the 63 HP Suzuki Cappuccino 
 actually feels like a car, instead of a tin can, like in previous games. Some people will say that 
 Forza has the most realistic feel, but you really need to play this game for more than 10 seconds 
 to realize that you've never seen anything like this before. Every car in the game feels unique. 
 Every last millimeter of the car reacts realistically to gravity and the actual track you happen 
 to be on. It really makes it feel like you are actually driving the car. Burnout is the only racing 
 game that's more fun than this, which is a huge increase from other titles in the series' past. 
 Now, this really is The Drive of Your Life.
  
  The new first person view is perfect. Every interior is done with superb accuracy and realism, 
 the driver animations are great, and everything reflects on the windshield. It's really well done, 
 and is only rivaled by the same view in DiRT. Also, borrowing an idea from Forza, and making it 
 better, there is a driving line available for use. It's deadly accurate, and if you follow it properly, 
 races can become a breeze. It's solid.
  
  There are just over 70 cars and 6 tracks in Prologue, which may not seem like a lot, but it does 
 have more cars than Need for Speed ProStreet, and more courses than the latest Hot Shots Golf. 
 So, if you think that the game is bare boned, think again. The 6 tracks are all very unique, ranging 
 from the Eiger Nordwand from HD Concept, to the Daytona Oval. London, Suzuka, Fuji, and the series 
 favorite High Speed Ring also make appearances. Each track feels great to drive.
  
  The 70 cars all range differently from the Suzuki Cappuccino, to Kiki Raikkonen's F1 Ferrari. You 
 can unlock a few cars by winning races, but most are attained by being bought. I was able to finish 
 all the challenges and races using just a handful of cars. It will take anybody a lengthy time 
 to obtain every car in the game.
  
  There are 3 classes full of races and challenges, but anybody can fly through all of them in about 
 10 hours. None of the races are particularly challenging, but there are a few that will test your 
 skill pretty well. In addition to that, there is a complete online mode, where you can race others 
 for credits. It's a little laggy in some parts, and some racers will try to make you crash, but 
 it does work well, and you'll play it a lot. Gran Turismo has always had great split screen, and 
 that's no different in Prologue. 2 player split screen is available, and it can get really competitive 
 if you can pick the right cars and tracks.
  
  There's also a pretty great soundtrack, and the engine sounds are top notch. There's no other racing 
 game that does this better, and Gran Turismo 5 Prologue really sounds great.
  
  That's about all there is to say about Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. It drives perfectly, looks perfect, 
 sounds perfect, and has some pretty good tracks and game modes, and has a better sense of speed 
 than any other GT before it. Even if you aren't a die hard GT fan, you need to pick it up. It's 
 worthy of a 10, but then what would I give the REAL GT 5? Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hovster
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is not so bad. However, it is still missing some details. The graphics are amazing 
 but the sound is not. You don't hear the tires screeching the way it is in real life, there are 
 no smoke from the tires, there is no body damage when you crash, the music is the same old boring 
 stuff, oh and one thing I really hate is that you can not customize the cars at all. Overall the 
 game mechanics are good, the controls are much improved, the cars feel more realistic but for an 
 ALL WHEEL DRIVE CAR to spin out like it was a rear wheel drive is just wrong. I'm also glad that 
 they used more race cars such as the Ferrari's and the Audi R8. I'm just honestly tired of every 
 series being the same thing again and again. Maybe they'll make the full version of the game better. 
 If they combined Need for Speed with Gran Turismo we would have an antonishing game. I get that 
 they're trying to make it a simulation but how real is it when your car doesnt get damaged and 
 you cant customize it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpig07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Lots of people give this game a lower rateing because they say its "imcomplete". Well NO CRUD its 
 incomplete it s a prolouge, its not supposed to be a full game. So I treated this game as a demo 
 rather then a game while i was reviewing this.
  
  Firstly I'd like to say this is one of the best looking video games ive seen, ever. There is just 
 so much detail in the car models, enviorments, lighting, and sounds. When you rev-up your cars 
 engine it sounds like a tiger rawring as its about to hunt down its prey. speaking of cars, proluge 
 has about 60. All of which are fun to drive, even if they are slow pieces of crud. Although there 
 are only about 60, the final version will probally have hundreds. (GT4 had about 400 cars) 
  
  The single player is nice, but really the only thing that keeps to moveing forward in it is 
 the fact that racing in this game is very fun, and you get money for raceing. But the problom is 
 that, while the single player mode is pretty smooth at first, it can be punishingly hard at some 
 times, and will get you very frustrated. For example in one event, you start out in 16th place 
 (which is last) and you have ONE lap to get into first place. Normally that wouldnt be to hard, 
 BUT you are only allowed to use ONE specific type of car, and the one car your allowed to use happens 
 to suck compared to all the other ones, makeing it s few steps from impossiable to pull off.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, its and online raceing game. Nothing revolutionary, just a plain old online 
 raceing game. That doesnt mean its not fun, its just not innocative.
  
  
  
  
  Overall i think that prolouge will keep most fans happy until GT5 is released and even some non-fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosoni
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I love GT games, because all of them are perfect and have outstanding graphic and driving physics 
 and first of all they have so many different events that you can play this games for years. 
  But GT5P is not perfect at all, they don't have perfect graphic, they have so little events that 
 you can finish this game in one day. I played GT4 for 2-3 years and I still have cars to get...
 
  On line playing is not working properly. For example, a few days ago I tried to play Suzuka on 
 line. I finally started to play after 15 disconnect massages. "You have been disconnect from the 
 server", and some similar massages are more often than playing the game. I can play London tracks, 
 even there is a lot disconnect massages, but if I try to play some events where there is a lot 
 of participants, than it is almost impossible and really frustrating. You get disconnect massages 
 on the beginning of the race and during the race. I have NAT type 2 (it is good internet connection) .
 
  Obviously Polyphony have seriously troubles with on line playing with so much participants, and 
 they didn't prepare for on line properly.
  Except that, it is almost impossible to play events with more participants, when you play, you 
 see that on line made by GT is unfair. I can say it is fun, but it is unfair. For example, I'm 
 in front of player, he kick me behind and I finish at wall or in sand, and he doesn't get penalty 
 and he continue to drive like nothing happened. So, I lost the race because someone un-properly 
 kicked me? Or, I drive, someone kicked me from the side with no reason at all, I finished on grass 
 of Daytona, he didn't get penalty, and I got shortcut penalty!!! There are so many situations like 
 that, and I must say that only rare players try to passed cars properly, they all try to past through 
 the car?
  In events of the game penalty politic is even more frustrating than in on line. AI drive on one 
 ideal line, and there is no chance that they will move from it. If you reach the corner before 
 AI and they kick you, it is penalty for you, because you find yourself on his way! So, AI doesn't 
 need to use breaks they just drive and they can't get penalty. We have one way rule on tracks, 
 it is not driving it is war against crazy AI cars.
  I think physical damage would fix this problem, and penalty is unfair and it is not a god idea. 
 I know it's much more easy for GT to solve car cheating problems with penalties, but for now it's 
 not a good and fair solution. 
  To play without any penalties (only maybe shortcuts penalties) and without physical damages, it 
 would be much more fair to play than playing with this unfair penalties.
  Events: You have 57 events - 40 (C, B, A, S class) and 17 in dealership. A lot of people describe 
 those events, so I don't repeat. One advice, in dealership events you can use quick tune options 
 to improve your car and then it would be much more easy for you to play with AI (Quick tune unlocks 
 after the finish C, B and A class) . Most of events are easy, but some of them are so hard that 
 it's almost impossible to passed them. There is no awards for all silvers and golds, so don't waist 
 your time on it, because you will lose your mind for nothing. If you have all the cars, you could 
 finish all events for a few hours, and I say it again, it is like this demo doesn't made by the 
 same GT developers who made the GT4. I expected I will need at least 2 or 3 months to finish all 
 events and maybe 6 months to get all cars. That is the less I can get from GT, but this is just 
 a very small demo. GT5P is for now so faraway from the end, that we can expect GT5 for 5-10 years 
 if they want to be on GT4 level. I really hope I am wrong, because I love GT games.
  HD graphic doesn't impress me at all. It's to shining or it's to dark so you may have seriously 
 troubles with your eyes when you playing it. You can see cockpit view only in some parts of tracks, 
 for example in London, I see only the steering wheel and light on instruments, and everything else 
 is black. I must park my car on some specific parts on the tracks to see a cockpit view. I have 
 very quality HDMI cable, LCD Sony TV (his commercial - the best of) and I don't believe the problem 
 is in my equipments. Also on some other game (like GROW2...) the graphic is on some parts of the 
 game so dark it is almost unplayable. Why we don't have some options in game to move those black 
 shadows and enjoy in beautiful cockpit view. Yes, cockpit view is awesome, but hard to view on 
 95% parts of the tracks. I drive the car in real life, and I can confirm that those shadows are 
 not real at all, on day light I can see the cockpit view all the time, not just on some brighter 
 places. 
  Second thing I don't like in HD graphic is that it is too flashing, so you can have serious trouble 
 withe your eyes when you look in it. I think GT must try make graphic more natural, considered 
 the fact we don't play the game with sun glasses. 
  Without those small troubles (but for me big) the graphic is awesome, the car details are amazing, 
 beautiful, wooooow... I think that other game developers will not get this level of graphic perfections 
 and car details for a million years.
  The tracks are beautiful.
  Car physics is awesome. You have cars for everybody and you can adjust the cars on many different 
 ways (for advanced and for less advanced players) .
  I must say that new internet patch of GT is very good, because they allowed you to compete and 
 win with more different cars, not only with Lotus Elise and Nissan GTR '07.
  My respect to all players who made high scores on arcade and on-line time trials. You are awesome.
 
  I'm very pleasantly surprised with two players battle. You can play off line against your friends. 
 In a lot of new racing games you can't. Only that's missing in 2 players battle is a cockpit view, 
 but I'm sure we will get it in some of updates.
  Garage missed some information, on line ID of the players, information of the game progress, internet 
 and other player's statistics... You only have shown cars in orders obtained, or you can sort them 
 according to manufacture, performance points or power. Something like garage in GT4 would be great, 
 but improved with on line statistics and other interesting details, like most used cars, and such 
 things.
  News options and GT-TV is a great and rare idea, other game developers could do the same.
  
 
  Please: give us more events, more cars, constantly cockpit view (fix those black shadows) , a little 
 less flashing graphic and the most important FIX INTERNET so we can enjoy in on line playing without 
 being unfairly penalised and disconnected. Every day I look in news department and hope I will 
 find some info about that.
  
  Best regards from Croatia to all GT players in the world. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlor6
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Looks like this game is not going to sell as well as it might have if they had started out with 
 the full version of the game. I can't believe that people have to pay $40 to play a demo! This 
 will affect the way people will see GT/PD (P0lyph0ny Digital) ! I thought S0ny desparately needed 
 to get the full version of the game out this season. With PS3 sales just starting to see daylight (after 
 a really long and gruelling nightmare) , this woulda been a great way for Sony to get PS3 sales 
 up ( I know several people who would buy the PS3 just to play GT 5) . But it looks like yet another 
 bad marketing strategy fron S0ny! Costing people $40 for a demo will drive away even those few 
 people who woulda bought the PS3! It's also going to affect the way people look at PD!
  
  
  I think both S0ny and PD need to get their act together! Majority of the people ain't gonna 
 buy this game when there are games that are just as good on some rival consoles that are available 
 at quarter the price and pack 4 times the action!
  
  For all die hard Playstation fans like me, this has been yet another "let down" from S0ny :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkrogue87
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  There's only a couple things I don't like about this game. One thing is that I'd rather have square 
 and circle or R1 and L2 to be shifting, and for R2 to accelerate and L2 for braking. Another reason 
 is that the cars in there are right over the money you have and it teases me : (. Most Beginning 
 cars are FF drive. They also miss many common driving companies like, Chrysler, Toyota, Scion, 
 and Inifiniti. They should've put tuning and modification options like in Forza but it's okay to 
 play for now.
  
  They also should've put in the The good things are, Great amazing graphics, pretty good gameplay 
 and the sound effects. It also has driver view, bumper view, hood view and 3rd person which gives 
 many camera possibilities. This game is fairly easy to master. I've only player for a couple hours 
 and I've already mastered the drift technique. I got this game 3 days ago and yesterday I learned 
 to power slide. The only cars I've got now are Honda Integra-Type R and Mitsubish Lancer Evolution 
 X. This is a game most racing game fans should play.
  
  I haven't played many Gran Turismo games in the series. The ony one's I've played were Gran Turismo 
 3 and 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggamuffin
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I got gran turismo 5 and I have to say I do feel dissapointed. As obvious as it may seem 
 to others, I actually expected it to be fun. The core gameplay is boring, and it has been since 
 the first gran turismo. Sure It's somewhat realistic in that you have to use the correct path and 
 break for just the right amount of time but it ends up simply being: follow this blue line thing, 
 if it turns red brake. I realize now that that's what gran turismo has always been except before 
 they didn't tell you anything and you had to just guess. A couple good things however are that 
 the cars anyway look reasonably good, and I know many people will say they look amazing but if 
 you actually own the game you realize that in game the cars look awkward when they move and the 
 overall effect feels unnatural as well as unappealing. I suppose that wasn't exactly a good thing 
 but I can say that it has some pretty cars and it has simplified a few things, but with the lack 
 of content (I got to the class "A" cars in 5 hours, there are only 6 tracks to) I would suggest 
 that you not get this, EVEN IF YOU LIKE GRAN TURISMO! It looks awkward, it plays bad, and it's 
 way low on content. Buy the full game; don't let sony push out demos of average games and then 
 charge 40$ for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3ck
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  reasons i think GT5 is Rubbish
  - Install game, if i wanted to install i'd get a PC (4GIG SPACE NEEDED)
  - NO Anti Alising 1080p 
 looks horrible with jaggies, 720p is better.
  -AI drivers have no awareness, they drive like your not there
  - No damage Physics on cars or 
 parts
  -Cant mod cars so fastest car is fastest end of.
  - Slowdown (unforgivable in a racing game that relies on realism) 
  -Updates crash HALF WAY THROUGH????
 
  - NOOBS CRASH INTO YOU TO OVERTAKE ON CORNERS WITHOUT BRAKING , RUINS THE RACES. THERE IS NO DAMAGE 
 IN ANY WAY???
  -When a cpu driver hits you your car shuts off for 3-4 secs, this is rubbish and ruins the game
 
  - No friends options, playing with strangers only. Online is very laggy and jumpy, GT5 box says 
 16 players, game only lets you race 12 (with huge lagg)
  -Drifting isn't realistic, cars seem no different at 60mph or at 150mph, its just so fake and plastic, 
 almost Ridge Racer realism
  - Prologue means DEMO, why charge for a demo when every other game demo is free. When you buy the 
 full game will there be any discount? i don't think so.
  - various Bugs, A i drivers, cars jumping online, screen tearing
  -Game difficulty is stupid, 
 some races can't be won with TC on.
  - Doesn't have a race feeling where you have to be cautious, find space, all the things that make 
 racing INTENSE are missing from GT5.
  - Its Boring, nothing happens, you just drive round a track, wheres the AI drivers making mistakes, 
 or cars crashing and seeing wings and bumpers flying off at high speed, or being ahead with a smoking 
 car and watching the others catch up, GT5 has no racing tension!
  - Physics and car dynamics are wrong, good for arcade racer, but nothing on a real driving sim 
 like Forza2.
  -Expect to pay for more demos/ unfinished games if this sells well.
  -You'll hate the fanboys that hyped you into getting this trash demo.
  
  + GT5 has very good 
 car Models, +Refections look fantastic,
  +Fanboys will love you for buying into their hyped out demo.
  +Replays can look much better than 
 Forza
  +In car camera, nice
  + Ferrari are in it FINALLY!
  + Game is not finished so it can be improved, but a year is not long when 1 car takes a month to 
 draw only.
  
  Conclusion- Nice grafix, shame about the actual game, Online is pointless (Can't play friends) , 
 rent it from blockbusters and Wait till next year for the complete version as this is just a rubbish 
 tech demo with a lack in gameplay and realism and CPU AI is terrible. Get ur PS2 out and enjoy 
 GT4 which is better than this crap, Or get Forza 2 on 360, its far better than this rubbish. fanboys 
 love to hate Forza2? why its a great game and a damn real simulator, I hate fanboys so much, how 
 can they give this game 10 ROFL , all they seem to care about is justifying their purchase to others 
 to make themselves feel better. This is a waste of money and sets a bad trend which other game 
 developers might follow. We dont want to pay for half finished games etc. Imagine they do this 
 with MGS4? I hope this never happens again with any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  GT suffers from nothing less than bad game play. Perhaps I will state that more politely and say 
 that IMHO the gameplay is substandard. Whether it is the ability to bounce off other cars, the 
 lack of damage, the ability to mysteriously go from 16th to first in one lap or whatever, I can't 
 buy into the GT game play. Also, I respectfully suggest that the graphics while good are over-rated. 
 I was especially looking forward to the presentation of London. Rather than the jaw dropping replicas 
 of landmarks I was expecting from the reviews, I find a generic representation of London-style 
 buildings. Of course the cars look good, but I have been driving the BMW and can't say it looks 
 more realistic than in the PS 2 version. I realize that a bad review of this game may seem deliberately 
 contrarian, but I think I am being fair. Had they put in license tests, I would have graded this 
 one a zero. I can't imagine playing it for more than another week at most, while other driving 
 games I keep going back to months later. If there is magic here, I can't find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkusse
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Having browsed through Gamespots review, I felt compelled to set the record straight. I agree with 
 their comments regarding the graphics and occasional glitch (rare and doesnt disturb the gameplay) . 
 They are surely the most impressive visuals on any platform for any car racing game. Totally mind 
 blowing. The level of detail in the cars is a joy to watch!
  
  A rather large selection of cars, although low by the usual GT standards one has to remember this 
 is only the prologue version. Priced at 20 (most places) I would consider this a bargin. The online 
 modes alone will keep me playing this for many many months. Plus you can relax in the knowledge 
 they fully intend to release "more" updates along the way until the GT 5 full release is out. For 
 those who have their heart set on car damage this has been mentioned as a future update!
  
  The handle is perfect and makes for a very enjoyable experience. Enough options for beginners and 
 pros alike.
  
  My advice - BUY THIS NOW! (even if you havent enjoyed racing games in the past!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashingX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  ... this is honestly a full sized entity. 
  
  This has to be the most detailed racing game i've ever played, in most aspects of course not all. 
 The framerate seems fine to me, the cars are very detailed and look especially impressive on a 
 720p display, so i'd love to have a 1080p, the racing is challenging, the class races are a very 
 worthy challenge, the AI is impressive, and the 60+ cars provide a decent variety of choices. 
 
  
  Note: It lacks car damage apparantly, but I don't care, that'd really be a minus for me. Just imagine 
 how frustrating it would be if you came across a turn that you just couldn't swing without crashing 
 a bit and having your ride totalled frequently.
  
  Note: I have noticed alot of people have gotten quite violent with their gripes for this game. 
 Prologue. It says right in the title that this is before 
  Gran Turismo 5. And if you bought this knowing that it wasn't the full finished GT5 package, complain 
 if you want about what it lacks but us true GT fans, hell we gamers in general don't wanna see 
 a great product in it's own right demerited over lacking something that cannot be expected to exist 
 within the Prologue. This may not be the full game, but it's no demo, HD Concept was a demo, that 
 is what a concept is, a demo, a prototype. etc. I'll admit the six tracks provided to race on do 
 fall short of what i'd have wanted, but I didn't expect many. But with 40 very challenging class 
 events to complete, 60+ cars to race, and 16-Player online, I believe GT5: Prologue can be considered 
 a great full-sized seperate entity well worth 40 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is really really good i loved it alot. Just now got done with it and was alot of fun im 
 not gonna return it yet still gotta beat my brother and play few online matches. Lots of cars to 
 chose from. These are the best graphics i have ever seen so far on p s 3. I did want it to have 
 a clutch in the game but there isn't 1 but its not a biggie. The controls are fine everything runs 
 smooth. The game is way beyond any other consols thats why only we get to have it !!!! The cars 
 are built ok some of them are not strong as they are in real life some of them are too fast like 
 today i passed a firarri with my nissan gta '07 with in few seconds i was already about 8 sec infront 
 of it but these types of things makes it fun for me. By beating some one with not as well built 
 car as theirs. I did not go to the GT5 TV yet so ama go and check it out so see whats its all about 
 any way the game is awesome and you gotta get it. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterstatus
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying this is my first experience with a GT game, and for the most part, I'm more 
 of a fan of arcade style racers than driving simulations. But since so many people seem to go ga-ga 
 whenever the name "Gran Turismo" is mentioned, I decided to give GT5 Prologue a try.
  
  After spending roughly 8 hours with the game, I can honestly say that I will be standing in line 
 next year when the full version is released. However, I can also honestly say that I doubt I'll 
 be playing much more of Prologue at this point. GT5 Prologue is visually stunning, the cars all 
 handle great, there's 70 of them to unlock, and the overall presentation of the game is second 
 to none. GT5 Prologue is as shiny and classy as the cars it features.
  
  However, there's just no way of getting around the fact that you only get six tracks, and five 
 of them look very similar to each other. Plus, one of them is the same track I've already played 
 to death in HD Concept. Of the six tracks, five of them look fairly similar to each other and only 
 one, the London track, has any real eye candy to look at. Yes, the game runs at a crystal clear 
 1080p, but most of the tracks here feature nothing more than a few trees, an occasional bridge 
 or tunnel, and clear blue sky. I realize the game is all about realism and Polyphony Digital has 
 done an outstanding job of recreating the exact look of these tracks. It's just that with so few 
 tracks offered here, I would have liked to have seen more variety, something a little more interesting 
 than Daytona Speedway.
  
  While the game does run at 60fps for the most part, there were noticeable dips in the frame rate 
 whenever several cars were on screen at the same time, especially if some of them were kicking 
 up dust and dirt.
  
  One thing I found kind of funny is that everyone complained that the AI in Sega Rally Revo, one 
 of my favorite racing games, was practically non-existent. The cars all seemed to follow a pre-determined 
 path and you either drove around them or they bumped you off the road. For all the praise and glory 
 that's given to the GT series, I didn't see much of a leap in intelligence with the cars in Prologue. 
 At no point while playing Prologue did I get the feeling I was racing against opponents with anything 
 going on upstairs. The cars all moved very predictably, and I just had to laugh at the thought 
 that if these AI drivers were in Sega Rally, everyone would be pointing out how lame they are, 
 but because they're in a GT game, well, we'll just ignore it and focus on how amazing the cars 
 look (not that they don't look good in Sega Rally Revo, too) .
  
  
  Unfortunately, the online play in Prologue also isn't the greatest. Connecting to games was easy 
 enough, but every game I played suffered from lag, with opponents' cars blinking and stuttering 
 all over the track. Online play definitely still needs work. before the full version is released.
 
  
  After playing GT5 Prologue, I have no doubt that the full version of GT5 will be a masterpiece. 
 Even for someone like me who prefers arcade style racers, I was glued to Prologue for about 8 hours 
 straight. Anyone who wants a glimpse of what the full version of GT will offer should definitely 
 rent Prologue for a weekend. 
  
  As stylish and beautiful as it is though, with only six tracks, no customization options, a very 
 limited single player mode and online play that stills needs work, I can't recommend this as a 
 purchase, even with its discount price. Prologue would be the perfect weekend rental for any GT 
 or racing fan, but it doesn't need to be a permanent part of your game collection. I'm quite happy 
 with what I've seen, but II'll be going back to playing PGR4 on my 360 while I wait for the full 
 version of GT5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Chozo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  It has finally arrived, though not in the form most of us would have liked (by that I mean a full 
 Gran Turismo game) . Gran Turismo 5 Prologue has received a lot of bad talk because it is not a 
 traditional "full" Gran Turismo title, but if you ask me, I think it is a great way to get people 
 excited for Gran Turismo 5 especially since it won't be released for about a year. Anyway, I'll 
 start by listing the cars and tracks in the game since there are so few and many people don't know 
 the lists.
  
  
  
  
  Cars: 
  Acura- '91 NSX
  Alfa Romeo- '06 147 TI, '06 Brera 3.2 JTS Q4
  Aston Martin- '06 DB9 Coupe
  Audi- '07 R8 4.2 
 FSI, '07 TT Coupe 3.2
  BMW- '03 Z4, '07 135i Coupe, '07 M3 Coupe, '07 Concept 1 Series tii
  Chevrolet- '06 Corvette Z06
  Citroen- '05 C4 Coupe
  Daihatsu- '02 Copen, '07 OFC-1
  Dodge- 
 '02 Viper GTS, '06 SRT-10 Coupe
  Ferrari- '06 599 GTB, '06 F430, '92 F40, '76 512BB, '07 F2007 (F1 car)
  Ford- '07 Mustang GT, 
 '06 GT, '06 Focus ST
  Honda- '04 Integra Type R, '02 NSX Type R
  Jaguar- '06 XK Coupe
  Lancia- '91 Delta HF integrale Evoluzione
  Lexus- '07 IS-F
  Lotus- '04 Elise 111R, '96 Elise
 
  Mazda- '07 Atenza Sport 25Z, '02 RX-7 Spirit R Type A, '07 RX-8 Type S
  Mercedes Benz- '02 SL 55 AMG
  Mini- '06 Cooper S
  Mitsubishi- '05 Lancer Evolution IX GSR, 
 '07 Lancer Evolution X GSR
  Nissan- '02 Skyline R34 GT-R V-spec II, '07 Fairlady Z Version S, '06 Skyline Sedan 350GT, '07 
 Skyline Coupe Concept, '07 Skyline Coupe 370GT, '05 GT-R Prototype, '07 R35 GT-R
  Renault- '00 Clio Sport
  Subaru- '07 Impreza WRX STi, '05 Impreza WRX STi Type RA
  Suzuki- 
 '95 Cappuccino, '07 Swift Sport, '07 Cervo SR
  TVR- '00 Tuscan Speed Six, '02 Tamora
  Volkswagon- '01 Golf IV GTI, '05 Golf V GTI
  That is it for the cars... sort of. You see, for 
 some reason, the folks over at Polyphony Digital decided to not add the modification of cars into 
 the game (there is an option unlockable when you complete all of the events in C, B and A called 
 Quick tune which will allow for moderate tuning but nothing as extensive as the full game will 
 have) , which if you ask me, takes a lot away from the game. BUT, they somewhat made up for it by 
 placing modified cars into the game.
  
  Modified Cars:
  Amuse- S2000 GT1 Turbo
  Blitz- Dunlop ER34
  Concept by Gran Turismo- 350Z RS, Corvette Z06 Tuned, Viper SRT10 Coupe Tuned, 
 Ford GT LM Spec II Test Car, Elise 111R Tuned, Elise Tuned, Lancer Evolution IX Tuned, Lancer Evolution 
 X Tuned, Skyline Coupe Tuned, Clio Sport V6 Tuned, Cappuccino HP Tuned, Swift Sport Tuned
  (Art) Morrison- '60 Corvette
  Mine's- '06 BNR34 Skyline GT-R
  That is all of the cars in the 
 game. As for tracks, there are only 6, but they have different versions to make for a true total 
 of 12.
  
  Tracks:
  High Speed Ring (Forward and Reverse)
  Daytona International Speedway (Superspeedway and Road Course)
  Fuji Speedway (F1 and GT)
  
 Eiger Nordwand (Forward and Reverse) [This is the track from GT HD Concept]
  Suzuka Circuit (Full Circuit and East Circuit)
  London (Forward and Reverse)
  
  
  
  
 
  The game is laid out all in one easy to use menu screen which background shows gorgeous scenery 
 and the car that you are currently using. The menu includes News (shows when there is an update 
 and what it entails) GT TV (for videos which will be updated regularly. If you have the blu-ray 
 disc version of the game, this is where you will find the Beyond the Apex video) , Online (obviously 
 for playing online) , Rankings, Arcade mode, 2p Battle, Events (the 1p mode of the game) , Garage, 
 Dealerships, Replay, Options, Manual (views the instruction manual for those who downloaded the 
 game off of the PSN) , and Save. When you first start the game, you will be forced to install it 
 onto your hard drive. This takes about 30 minutes... You start the game with 35,000 credits, which 
 can get you a decent starting vehicle though there isn't too much to choose from.
  
  
  
  Now to the important stuff, gameplay. I was thrilled to see and feel the improvements that 
 they have made to the physics. Compared to Gran Turismo 4 and GT HD Concept, this game feels so 
 good. In fact, the game feels so much better than prior installments that it almost makes you forget 
 about the shortcomings of this not being a "complete" Gran Turismo title. The graphics are absolutely 
 gorgeous. The new in-car view is just about as good as it gets, and environments put Forza 2 to 
 shame. The races vary in difficulty though the A. I. needs imporvement though after the last interview 
 with the developers of GT5, I think this is only because it isn't the full GT5. They spoke of having 
 various difficulty levels for the full game including some where the A. I. will not only try to 
 proevent you from passing, but will even try to force you into walls, etc. Though the thing that 
 I am most impressed with is the framerate. I have done all of the C class races so far and a few 
 of them include a 16 car lineup and the framerate has never dropped a bit. It's wonderful! 
  
  
  If this is just the small tiny taste of what is to come in Gran Turismo 5... It will be 
 a force to be reckoned with. With talk of including car damage for the full game, I'm more excited 
 for Gran Turismo 5 now than ever! The game is only $40 as opposed to $60 so you can't knock it 
 too much for not being a "complete" Gran Turismo. The only true shortcoming I see with the game 
 is the sound effects. Though they have somewhat dealt with the ridiculous tire screech noise, the 
 car sounds aren't quite as authentic as you would hope espcially after seeing the great lengths 
 that they went through to get the car's visuals to be as authentic as possible. If any of my opinions 
 change as I further progress through the game, I will be sure to update this, but as for right 
 now (after a few hours of play) I'm giving Gran Turismo 5 Prologue an 8 out of 10. (If it were 
 $60 I would have scored it a little lower)
  
  
  8/10
  
  
  -CA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SP3AR101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  it may have been a long time coming but my god was this game worth the wait and the small fee of 
 20. it looks and feels great. plus with a 75 official driving force gt wheel the experience is 
 1 of the best driving games around.
  you start of with just enough money for an OK car but eventually you can afford better and better 
 cars. one concern is how long it can take to save up for the best cars (the f1 car is 2million 
 and you can win 32,000 credits a race tops) .
  the only way to get the best cars is hardcore playing in game or online were you can win very small 
 amounts of money.
  the on-line was good when i played it with only a small amount of lag.
  
  this game is a must buy for any gt enthusiast or car enthusiast for that matter. to really 
 complete the experience you must get the driving force gt wheel from amazon. com
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The game though not chock full of vehicles but has more than some full games on the market is very 
 very good. It handles well, looks astounding (much better than Forza which is also a good sim) . 
 Sony is definitely on its way with the full version from the looks of things. I love the game and 
 this is a great addition to the Turismo family of games. Go get it! You have paid more for crap 
 games before where as if you like racing you will enjoy this game. Folks, gamers know games and 
 I try to look at the gamers review on some games before I purchase because it is usually many many 
 gamers and not just a handful of review persons. Now, with Grand Turismo, it has always been very 
 good so you know what to expect. No, its not a hard sell with a long line of highly rated games 
 before this. The graphics are the best I have seen in a racing game to date. Especially running 
 at 1080i on my 32" sylvania LCD TV with an HDMI connection. Its just astounding to look at and 
 plays extremely well. I always thought gameplay was really counted the most in games and then maybe 
 content and graphics. This game has it all but falls a little short on content but we all knew 
 that before it came out. If you are looking for fun and beautiful graphics and total sim physics? 
 Look no further, you are home with Prolouge.
  
  Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegan_Carnivore
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Before you buy this game, take note: LOGITECH CORDLESS PRECISION CONTROLLERS DO NOT WORK WITH THE 
 GAME!!!!! 
  
  It works fine in the menus but when the race starts it does not function at all. This is insanity 
 because the second thing you see when you boot up the game is a Logitech logo. 
  
  Both my sixaxis controllers work fine and both my Logitechs don't work at all. I HATE THE SIXAXIS, 
 IT IS A PIECE OF JUNK. Maybe I have abnormally strong hands or something but the sixaxis is a lightweight, 
 flimsy piece of garbage, and I managed to break the left sticks on two of them playing CoD4 before 
 switching to the Logitech in disgust. I love the Logitech, it has the weight I need and the left 
 stick puts up with all the abuse I give it. 
  
  I've checked all the settings and there is nothing to fix this.
  
  Some Google research shows 
 that this problem is nationwide, anyone with a Logitech CP controller is unable to use it for this 
 game. The problem seems to be that the game recognizes the Logitech but assumes its a steering 
 wheel, which is why the buttons and sticks don't function during a race. 
  
  This is unbelievable incompetence on the part of the programmers, especially when they have a direct 
 relationship with Logitech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazKurupt
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I have not seen, nor heard of a racer this beautifull. The cars are pretty much flawless the interface 
 is smooth and sleek ... sexy design. I hear it has online issues. Ive yet play online though I know 
 any issues can be ironed out in patches. No car damage yet. Theres going to be later in an update 
 I hear. The game runs great so far no frame rate issues smooth like half-melted golden butter a 
 top some fluffy pancakes. Mmmmm Breakfast in only 4 hrs. I digress , seriously the game is great 
 and will get better. It is the Most expensive demo Ive ever played. Also would rank this up there 
 as one of the best games Ive ever played and its just the demo. 
  
  I can't describe the smoothness in this game from the textures on the roads, to the animations 
 of the arms, Driving physics (professional driving physics what I use.) 2 options though if you 
 like less strict physics. The game handles perfectly its the best racing demo\game ever created. 
 
  
  You got online ranks etc. Not much customization or tuning though it is just a demo so I can't 
 really complain. Its the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  This is by all means the greatest gran turismo i have ever played. and ive played almost all of 
 them. Lets start with the biggest deal, graphics. Simply astonishing. thats all that can describe 
 it. It really shows off the proccesing power of the ps3. And man, the physics this year are pushing 
 the previous limits of realism and are completely amazing. its actualy like driving a car. the 
 steering, the weight transfer, the torque out of corners, simply perfect. another big deal is the 
 car lineup, which really is just right for the amount contained in the game. Currently i own in 
 the game the 07 WRX, and its really cool to drive. I personaly love subarus, and i gotta tell you 
 this is the next best thing to whopping out 35grand to buy a wrx lol. What else can i tell you... 
 This game is just so amazing! well i could spend all day describing the amazingness of the game, 
 but id rather play it. like now.... =D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sseals23
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  I didn't mind paying 40 bucks for a preview of a good game. I understood that there were not that 
 many cars, and even fewer tracks. But to put out a racing sim with absolutely no upgrades available? 
 The only thing to do is race and buy cars. Its a shame because the game looks great, drives great, 
 but a racing sim that does not make. This should be a demo, a disc that they should give out when 
 someone pre-orders the real game (when ever that comes out) . If anything this shows us why it is 
 taking so long for this game to come out, they are nowhere near ready. Putting out this (prologue) 
 is a bad, bad idea, i hope this detours any other company's from trying the same thing to make 
 an extra buck. They should be punished for putting this game out and taking peoples money for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NSXboy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is by all means the greatest gran turismo i have ever played. and ive played almost all of 
 them. Lets start with the biggest deal, graphics. Simply astonishing. thats all that can describe 
 it. It really shows off the proccesing power of the ps3. And man, the physics this year are pushing 
 the previous limits of realism and are completely amazing. its actualy like driving a car. the 
 steering, the weight transfer, the torque out of corners, simply perfect. another big deal is the 
 car lineup, which really is just right for the amount contained in the game. Currently i own in 
 the game the 07 WRX, and its really cool to drive. I personaly love subarus, and i gotta tell you 
 this is the next best thing to whopping out 35grand to buy a wrx lol. What else can i tell you... 
 This game is just so amazing! well i could spend all day describing the amazingness of the game, 
 but id rather play it. like now.... =D
  
  NSXboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedhades
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Bang For Buck= 40 events, online multiplayer as well as console multi-player, and 10 track layouts? 
 Absolute perfection. The car models are EXACTLY DEAD ON. The physics of the cars are realistic as 
 ever, and the AI has been greatly improved since GT4. The AI actually makes attempts to pass you 
 and other opponents, but there is an issue that most AI opponents are "grouped together" and you 
 can overtake them all in one go, this is especially evident on the Daytona Speedway track. The game 
 feels well structured, very easy at the beginning, although very very hard at the end, almost impossible 
 even: e. g there is once race where The actual gameplay itself feels very solid, with realistic 
 qualities unseen in GT4 or even HD. The detail is rendered to a very high standard, including the 
 interiors. Speaking of which, you can now choose a view from in the car to make it ultra-realistic, 
 and everything works. The speedometers on the dash work, and the driver changes gears and everything, 
 mind you this is regardless of whether you are in automatic or not. It's just an amazing racing 
 simulator will the best ai and powerhouse graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggymaconline
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I've rented or purchased every racing game out on the PS3. This game brings JOY!
  
  The game works SUPERB with my PS3 Racing Wheel. I can rotate the wheel 900 degrees and the response 
 is just AWESOME! I can't begin to describe how awesome this game really is!
  
  Other games don't compete with this one. The ONLY flaw is no damage on vehicles when hit. But the 
 company announced a free update this year to fix that problem.
  
  The game also plays well with the regular controller and the rumble shock controller! I would have 
 to admit that this game is really fly!
  
  If you're looking for a casual racing game or something to take online. This is it! The tracks 
 are perfect, lined with details. The handling is almost exactly like real life. I own an STi, and 
 it handles exactly on this game like it does in real life- agile and light. I
  
  You can get 100+ hours playing this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorserider2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  God-like. Graphics=insanely perfect. Gameplay=real life perfection. Bang For Buck= 40 events, online 
 multiplayer as well as console multi-player, and 10 track layouts? Absolute perfection. The car 
 models are EXACTLY DEAD ON. Forza looks like a PS1 game compared to this. The tracks are perfect, 
 lined with details. The handling is almost exactly like real life. I own an STi, and it handles 
 exactly on this game like it does in real life- agile and light. I'm at a loss of words for the 
 perfection of this title. You can easily get 100+ hours out of it. The lighting is INSANE. They 
 have gotten to the real-life level of lighting. It plays extremely smoothly. The only thing is, 
 is that it takes just a bit of time to earn credits to buy cars. You have to start off with a beater, 
 then work your way up. Each car though, is insanely unique as well. THE BEST RACING SIMULATOR EVER 
 CREATED.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfrog123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Well were do I start? This game has changed the way I have looked about racing games for the PS3. 
 After being disappointed with Need For Speed Pro Street I was kind of hesitant to see what Gran 
 Turismo 5 Prologue would turn out. But I have to say it is excellent, the first thing I noticed 
 was the amazing and incredibly detailed graphics, and you can actually feel the difference between 
 cars, say a Honda Integra and a Subaru Impreza. 
  
  The graphics really do take full advantage of the PS3's processors, and you can really notice how 
 much thought and detail went into creating and designing this game. The physics of the cars are 
 realistic as ever, and the AI has been greatly improved since GT4. The AI actually makes attempts 
 to pass you and other opponents, but there is an issue that most AI opponents are "grouped together" 
 and you can overtake them all in one go, this is especially evident on the Daytona Speedway track. 
 
  The inclusion of the in car view is excellent, it really gives a new spin on an excellent game, 
 and the sense of speed is great. Also when the driver changes gear he does it in sync with the 
 car, not like in other racing games when the car changes gear and the driver does the changing 
 gear animation a second later. (Colin Mcrae Dirt main culprit!!) 
  
  The sound in GTP5 is great, just like in the last games, the lounge music in the menus still suits 
 it and it is quite catchy, the music during racing is slightly disappointing, one thing I have 
 noticed, and especially around long tracks is that the game plays the same track over and over 
 again, and that can get annoying. Being a fan of heavy metal I did like some of the generic racing 
 rock music but it can get very repetitive. None of the music really suits the racing, even the 
 techno tracks just get old fast, lets hope that is sorted by the release of the full version. The 
 sounds of the cars are really up to scratch, especially when you have a sound system you can really 
 hear the grunt of a powerful sports car, and really adds to the sense of speed in the game, also 
 the sound of the wind is really impressive, especially when you are bombing around at over 200 
 MPH the wind drowns out the car engine and music. 
  
  There is an issue that really disappointed me, a Ferrari is not as fast as Corvette, and it can 
 grate at you when you have to save up so many credits by doing loads of races on the same 6 tracks, 
 and when you have to do the Ferrari specific challenge you don't really feel a sense of achievement, 
 you would expect a Ferrari to be one of the fastest cars in the game but it wasn't to be. 
  
  I have yet to try out the multiplayer mode, mainly because I don't like the idea of being shunted 
 off the road every 5 seconds but I will give it a go.
  
  I would rate this game 9/10, it has stunning graphics and gameplay, but the only thing that stops 
 me from giving it a perfect score is the music. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandmanV3
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  After I tried out the Gran Turismo HD Concept demo, i decided to get this game and tried it out.
 
  
  Let's start with the basics. About 70 decent cars including tuned and stock cars, 6 playable racing 
 tracks and a limited number of soundtracks. Not bad for a prologue game which is a demo!
  
  The graphics is the thing i'm astonished about 1080p on a 50 inch flat screen. The cars are nicely 
 detailed and well laid and finally they have the "in car" view. The physics is very good compared 
 to Gran Turismo 4. Going on high speeds in the GT-R with the in car view was quite breathtaking. 
 Also they have fairly new and the classic cars that i loved. From Ferraris to the new GT-R. 
  
  The AI was the only thing i was concerned about but it has improved on this game. The AI doesn't 
 seem to follow each other going in the same path everytime. Also the penalty system is some thing 
 that was quite annoying for me but it can be easily managed.
  
  Finally this game is at a fairly reasonable price of $40 CDN. I didn't get the fuss about this 
 game. You pay what you get. From the childish reviews I've seen here comparing Forza 2 to this 
 game is quite arrogant seeing that Forza 2 has more "features" to this game. This is a demo version 
 of this game. This is more to offer from Sony. So thumbs up to Sony for reviving this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rastia
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the latter, because even though this game contains much less than we are used to 
 in a Gran Turismo game, it still offers quite a lot to appease abstinence until the release of 
 the full version. Actually, you get many more hours of playtime out of this game than many of the 
 full priced titles on the market today. 
  
  First of, the graphics are marvellous, and the presentation is great. The in-car view behind the 
 steering wheel offers a driving experience unlike any other. It seems Polyphony has taken some 
 of the criticism to heart and changed the driving physics just enough to make it more exciting 
 without sacrificing any realism. When playing with the in-car view the sense of speed is extremely 
 exhilarating, but once again GT has fallen short on the feeling of high speeds when playing from 
 the out of car point of view. Although it is no excuse, who would want to play like this when the 
 other view is so close to perfection? 
  
  The selection of cars is actually not all that bad with something around 60 cars to collect, and 
 the models vary all the way from the tiny Suzuki Cappuccino to the Ferrari F1. The 60 cars that 
 are offered is enough in a prologue like this, but the weak number of tracks (six) is soon noticed. 
 Although you can play them in the opposite direction, a few more would have been very good. 
  
  One great improvement that puts this years Gran Turismo above all others is the major change 
 in the AI. The opposing cars are no longer stupid drones driving mindlessly in their preset track, 
 hellbent on not moving out of it. This time around they challenge you, they make mistakes and they 
 make it so much harder for you to take advantage of them. 
  
  Although I love this game, there is a small thing I would like changed that bothers me quite a 
 bit. This is the insanely annoying menus. It takes forever to browse through the cars at the dealers, 
 and far too much time to go through your car collection, showing it off to your friends. A garage 
 you can walk around in with your cars parked (preferably in places you choose) would be great. 
 I have seen similar features in older games which leads me to believe that it is very feasible 
 and quite elegant. 
  
  I haven't played it online enough to give it a fair review., so I won't. The one thing I will say 
 though is that even with 16 players at once on highly detailed tracks, I am yet to see frame rate 
 drops and screen tears. Kudos on that!
  
  To sum up, GT5P is a great teaser and a must have if you simply can't bear waiting another year 
 for the real thing. The game is beautiful, plays well and the content is enough to make it worth 
 the money. I have seen great differences in price range so look around before you pick it up (It 
 is actually cheaper at stores than in the Playstation Store) . If I give it a score based on the 
 graphics, the gameplay, and the content provided instead of comparing it to the full title, this 
 easily scores a nine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooperman50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo has and always will be the pinnacle of racing games. GT5P doesnt fail to deliver in 
 this aspect. The game -- breathtaking. Racing physics, phenominal, unless you want to cheat and smash 
 into a barrier. (so dont do it!) they are relasing a patch to combat this soon with damage, so 
 hang in there. With a selection of over 70 cars, and six tracks its not bad for being a PROLOGUE 
 edition. (this will be a common theme throughout the review)
  
  Now i have played both forza and gt (all the installments for both) and i can honestly say that 
 driving wise GT has the hold. Graphics GT has the hold. Content. GT has the hold. Damage, for now 
 forza has that one (but not for long) . Visual customabiliy; forza wins that. But i dont care about 
 putting stickers on my car, or care about if i want to race like a complete child and smash into 
 all other cars and walls just to win. I want a realistic driving simulator that makes me feel as 
 if i am that masked driver in the seat of my brand new z06 corvette doing 120 down the laguna seca 
 raceway straight. Thats where GT delivers, and blows away EVERYTHING ELSE. GT5P is a PROLOGUE which 
 means its NOT FINISHED YET. So stop reviewing the game saying things like "it better make vast 
 improvements to match forza" its bologna. Its for fans of the series that want a taste of what 
 the finsihed product will be like; its not meant to be a fully polished completed game because 
 its not. And thats the amazing thing; its still ages ahead of any racing game out there driving 
 wise and visually speaking. here's a tip for all the forza fanboys that keep posting bogus reviews 
 (actually two) -- STOP WASTING OUR TIME WITH YOUR BIASED REVIEWS. I dont care what forza is like, 
 i want to read on what GT5P is like. Second, dont complain about sony charging for a demo. If you 
 dont want to pay for it, then here's a stretch; DONT BUY IT! jeez, its not rocket science. 
  
  Now that ive vented a little i want the people that have stuck with me this long. Overall i 
 think for the price and what you get, everyone could find at least something here that they like. 
 ten thumbs up. CANT WAIT FOR THE FINSHED PRODUCT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phreezuk
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  i've now spent a fair few hours playing GT5 Prologue on my new PS3. The initial wow factor is still 
 there, the graphics always impress anybody who watches me play (from in-car, obviously) but there 
 is something missing for me and it's not something I've noticed in any decent racing game since 
 GT4. Soul. 
  
  There appears to be a robotic sheen over the entire racing experience (and I point this out because 
 the menu screen is beautiful) , and this is down to a number of reasons. The main culprit is the 
 AI. Whilst it is an improvement on previous incarnations of the series, there is still an impression 
 that your competitors are driving on rails. Sure, they make mistakes but they always seem to be 
 in the same place. At least this time round they attempt to defend their lines going into corner, 
 not that it really matters - I'll just hit them and suffer no consequence, and this is really where 
 'The Real Driving Simulator' falls apart. 
  
  Without consequences to such actions, there is no incentive to race 'correctly' especially on some 
 of the more challenging events. The distance you can make up on a competitor by 'forgetting' to 
 brake into that tight hairpin at the end of the straight and using them to 'guide' you round the 
 corner is ridiculous. 
  
  The other thing that sligtly grates on me are the graphics. The quality, sharpness and smoothness 
 cannot be called into question - from in-car view it is nothing short of stunning, but there is 
 one thing that bothers me. Everything is too clean. Now, I know this sounds like an odd thing to 
 complain about but for me it winds the realism down a notch. Polyphony wax lyrical about the licenses 
 preventing lack of visible damage on the cars but I'm not talking about enormous dents or smashed 
 windows. What's wrong with a little build-up of grime after you've taken a trip across the gravel, 
 a scratch down the side of the paintwork when you graze the wall (not sure if this consitutes damage) 
 or a build up of dirt/marbles offline - just something tangible that would enhance the illusion 
 or reality?
  
  Perhaps this autonomous feel can be avoided by playing against real opponents rather than AI? Unforuntately 
 my first foray into the online world was also rather disappointing. Is it acceptable that you can 
 be overtaken on at 70mph left-hander by somebody grinding round the outside barrier at 90mph? Not 
 for a driving simulator it isn't, perhaps for Ridge Racer. 
  
  Sadly all racers seem to result in demolition derbys. There seems to be little racing etiquette 
 in evidence. For the 'Real' online racing, I'll stick to Forza Motorsport 2. If I were to drive 
 like this on Xbox Live, my car would be trashed and I'd likely get some negative feedback from 
 the folks I'd rammed in the process, and quite rightly so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazerluke
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Obviously this is a stunning looking game. It is a shame they did not spend the same amount of 
 time on the gameplay. The fact that a patch came out so close to the release is never a good sign. 
 Even the patch does not work properley.
  Tracks - now ok you only get six but they could have picked more fun tracks to drive around. Poor 
 selection imo.
  Physics - They realised you could drive around some corners and deliberately crash into the barrier 
 and let it take you around the corner faster than if you took the racing line! You can also take 
 short cuts. Unfortunately the fix is worse. Now you get a 4 second penalty for hitting the barrier 
 or taking a shortcut. So i f you are online you could get bumped into the barrier and receive a 
 4 second penalty (you can't accelerate) without it being your fault! When you mix this with laggy 
 online games (16 players promised on the box but capped at 12) and cars going into ghost mode when 
 they swerve and then going solid again just as you try to drive through them it is really frustating.
 
  When you compare this game to Forza Motorsport 2 (I have now gone back to this great game for 
 my motorsport fix) you realise how far the series has fallen behind. I will probalbly not get GT5 
 if this is the standard and just wait a little longer for FM3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carn__helving
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Considering it's only the prologue and not the full version of the game, GT5 Prologue looks extremely 
 promising, and makes you wonder how good the full version will actually be. GT5 is set to be released 
 in around a years time, and it is unknown yet how different it will be to prologue, but it certainly 
 does give the player a taste of what to expect. 
  
  The first thing that will hit you when playing the game is the extremely detailed and very realistic 
 graphics. The developers of the game have obviously gone into a lot of detail to design every car 
 and to produce the most realistic copies of every car. It goes without saying that GT5 Prologue 
 has the best graphics in the series to date, with spectators of the race looking detailed and 3D, 
 rather than flat looking and very 2DD, like in previous titles. The cars in the game also reflect 
 the surrounding scenery, producing a realistic effect of how a shiny car would look speeding round 
 the tracks in the game. Prologue also uses the lighting to enhance the realism of the game, such 
 as sun glares when exiting tunnels and areas of the track which are covered in shadows from surrounding 
 scenery. Because of the high amounts of detail, cars don't get damaged due to the sheer amount 
 of time it would take to keep up the high standards of details throughout the game. 
  
  After player the game for a few minutes the player will realize the new driving system used in 
 prologue, which creates a more realistic driving experience. GT5 Pro tries to achieve a driving 
 system that is the closest a game has come to driving a real car, and this has been achieved. GT 
 lives up to its name as a 'driving simulator'. GT has received some criticisms due to its realistic 
 approach to racing. Although the game is more enjoyable for 'Petrol Heads' and those who are heavily 
 interested in cars and racing, it is still highly enjoyable for any casual gamer. Although the 
 new driving system makes the game a little more difficult, which causes the learning curve of the 
 game to increase, it becomes far more satisfying when you finally do get the hang of it. GT5 Pro 
 provides the player with a 'Driving line' which advices the player where to brake and slowdown 
 on the track, helping them to get used to the new driving system on new tracks. 
  
  
  As GT5 Prologue isn't the full version of the game, it has less events to compete in and less cars 
 than would be expected in a GT game. There are 30 events to compete in (40 including the unlockable 
 S **** plus a special event for every car bought. However, these 40 races will last the player 
 around 10 hours and the game is full of replay value, whether it be to unlock the Formula 1 car, 
 gain money or to buy new cars. New cars are worth buying as it increase the amount of cars which 
 can be used in the arcade mode (multiplayer racing) or online racing. If you are able to transfer 
 your cars and money over from Prologue to the full version of the game, it is well worth getting 
 a head start by gaining a lot of money and buying lots of great cars. The online features make 
 the game addictive, also giving it replay value, and will make the player continue to pick up the 
 game and to keep player, making the game great value for money.
  
  The biggest disappointment in the game is the arcade mode. This is used for multiplayer racing 
 with friends. However, unlike previous titles in the series, cars can only be used if bought. This 
 reduces the amount of choice and will probably result in all players having to use the same car 
 to keep the race fair. The same is for the whole game, including the online mode. Cars can only 
 be used if bought. This prevents any 'pick-up-and-play' feel to the game in arcade mode, and isn't 
 a great game to play with friends. 
  
  For those with a real interest in cars, the new GT-TV feature will add to the value of the game. 
 GT-TV allows you to download car shows such as Top Gear on your PS3. 
  
  
  I feel the game is worth the money as it's the most realistic racing game I've ever played. Casual 
 gamers shouldn't be scared away, as this game isn't just for those with knowledge of cars. This 
 may not be the full version, but it's well worth buying it still as it probably the best racing 
 game out there, and will most likely differ from the full game quite a lot. If you are able to 
 transfer data from Prologue to the full version, it's worth getting ahead in the game. If your 
 looking for the best racing game. This is the one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigboy
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  1. Even though the graphics are great, they's far from perfect. There's LOTs of jaggies. Did they 
 use any AA at all? Sure it is 1080p, but I'd preffered 720p and at least a little AA. And the jaggies 
 become more visible the higher resolution and larger screen you have.
  Also, the dust cars kick up when driving off road looks horrible, and the famous replay glitches...
 
  
  2. Let me start last. Every single race (in the harder cla$ses) . How do they explain that, am I 
 punished for something in every race, so they place me in the back? How about a qualification lap 
 before every race, and give me a placement based on how I perform compared to the others? That 
 is how they do IRL, and after all, this is "the real driving simulator".
  This gets extra annoying online, when I start close to the end, and know that no matter how well 
 I drive, I have a pretty small chance of winning if the guys in front of me are decent. Stupid. 
 Just add a qualification lap, let the opponents appear as ghosts.
  
  3. The stupid "missions". What does having to overtake 15 oponents have to do with "real racing"?
 
  
  4. Horrible penalty system, mostly because the AI-driven cars don't get punished. They bump into 
 me and drive off, while I lose grip, hit the barrier, and get punished.
  Also, a lot of the people with the fastest times bump into the barriers without getting punished..
 
  And what is this penalty really? Once again, this is "the real driving simulator", do cars IRL 
 suddenly become unable to accelerate for 5 secs if bumping into something or take a shortcut?
 
  
  5. Stupid AI.
  
  6. Probably the most basic multiplayer so far. Is it in any way possible to race a friend online?
 
  In Motorstorm you could easily see which lobby your friends are in, and join them. In R6: V you 
 could send invites. What do you do in GT5P? Keep joining games blindly and hope you bump into your 
 friend?
  
  I really hope they fix these issues in the final product, and if they do I'll buy it without a 
 doubt. But if they don't.. We'll see.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  I say good and bad points because there are both. 
  Sadly, this game doesn't have that many cars - 73ish, and also there are only 6 tracks, although 
 it is classed as 12 because each circuit can be raced clockwise or anti-clockwise. 
  This limited selection would be a problem if the game was a 39.99 rrp, but it is a mere 25 rrp, 
 and i myself got it from Amazon. co. uk for just 17.99. So, because of its budget price you can 
 look over the lack of cars and tracks, and start looking at the frankly unbelieveabley good graphics. 
 I cannot quite describe the graphics to be honest, there are just amazing, and the intro movie 
 is frankly incredible. Yes, i know that theycan make intro movie's as good as they like, but still. 
 
  The game is still full of good and clever features, which make it stand out from the crowd of racing 
 games with the awesome idea of GT TV. This allows you to enter a Playstation store esq area where 
 you can download such goodies as episodes of Top Gear and races from around the world, along with 
 up to date highlights of this seasons F1. 
  The soundtrack is good and has a variety of song from differeing genre's, and nearly all of the 
 songs make driving a more fun experience. 
  Also, for the first time in a Gran Turismo game there are Ferrari's, which will be big news for 
 any die hard Playstation fan wishing to get their hands on a Ferrari in Gran Turismo. 
  The races are plentiful and which each step up in rank (Gamespot have removed the word C (A55 for 
 some reason, but it is C (A55 C, then B, then A) you unlock more differing and harder races. One 
 annoying feature of this ranking is that there are some races that require you to have a certain 
 car (in "rank" A you have to buy a 243,500 credits Ferrari F430, which sounds great, but when the 
 biggest win possible in any of the races is a mere 20,000 credits, this get irritating) which means 
 saving up. A lot. You car collection might still be quite small by the time you have finished all 
 of the races unless, like me, you like cars and just save up for nice ones. This causes another 
 problem. 
  Arcade mode. It's frankly rubbish, as you race against the computer only in a car that you have 
 bought on the single player mode, which goes the sma for 2 player battles. To be honest though 
 this is the only thing that bothers me about the game. I just hope that the full fat GT5 will allow 
 you to race in any of it's 1500+ cars to try before you buy in arcade modes. 
  The online modes are, obvoiusly, limited, as it's a racing game, but the actual experience of online 
 Gran Turismo for the first time ever is great fun, and you can be beaten (or beat in my case ;) ) 
 by up to 15 other people from around the globe in a single race. 
  Overall, it is a very enjoyable game and one that will last you about 9 hours to complete if you 
 take the game lesiurely, which, for 18, isn't bad at all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedFragg
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Right lets get one thing clear, since the days of Gran Turismo 4 Polyphony studios have felt the 
 need to release the GT demo as "Prologue".
  
  Does exactly what it says on the tin, it's a Prologue to the full retail game.
  
  With this 
 in mind we'll treat this as a Preview or a "Hands on" if you will.
  Right then... Lets look under the hood.
  
  First thing you'll notice is the graphics they are... Wow 
 to put a finer word to it. They are the best graphics on a racing game to date, reflections come 
 off cars more or less perfect to the point where you'll see the curb reflected off your opponents 
 cars. The textures are eye pleasing and the cars are the most detailed I've ever seen. That said 
 there have been a few issues at 1080p with framerate mainly when entering corners and there are 
 a few screen tearing issues.
  This issue is mostly resolved by playing at 720p... But that wasn't what we were promised now was 
 it... But alas this is a preview of the full game they have time to sort it.
  
  Next stop, Cars!
  The cars are modelled realistically as I said earlier and they handle quite 
 well, I wouldn't know how a Dodge Viper hands in reality but it does the job of convincing me.
 
  Another addition to the cars is the new cockpit view which is a welcome entry into the series 
 with each car having its own dash and little buttons which you can't press but feels like you almost 
 could.
  Although the cars you start with feel like an electric wheelchair or moped speed wise thats to 
 be expected, the later cars feel fast!
  
  Next, AI
  This is where the game is let down seriously, the AI has not been improved in my honest opinion 
 it's very very much a let down. Doing an overtaking move on a car and theres a wall to a tunnel 
 infront, you can't quite get past the car far enough to cut in front to avoid hitting the wall 
 - in reality it would be the opponents car that should slow down to avoid accident or open up the 
 raceline a bit... In GT5P's case the car will follow the racing line and push you into the oncoming 
 wall.
  This is the sort of thing that makes you realise this game/demo whatever you want to call it needs 
 work before retail release.
  
  Now for Online features... Prepare yourselves if you actually like this feature
  I'll start by 
 listing online features.
  
  - Race with strangers.
  
  Thats it, no voice comms no friend inviting no private matches only race against strangers which 
 most of which do NOT follow the game ethics of racing simulation.
  They'll ram you and they - for the most part - get away with it because they turn into a ghost 
 meaning any retaliation is null. This is something that frustrated me somewhat as others tend to 
 ram you from behind you turn into a ghost and they just drive through you... Blocking is impossible 
 so excitement is not really present.
  Hopefully this feature will be refined before the game hits gold.
  
  Now an additional feature 
 of this title was GT-TV... Which had on release the intro movie in and nothing else.
  There are a few videos to watch but nothing that really interested me so I can't really comment 
 on this.
  
  Also I feel I should mention there was a patch on release day, now normally I'd say thats lazy 
 development but this again is a preview...
  
  Also another thing I should mention and this is a very important factor to me.
  
  On the box 
 it said this game took up a mear 250kb of your PS3's HDD memory.
  THIS IS INCORRECT... ITS 6GB....
  THATS roughly 6291456kb.
  I mean I don't quite know who did 
 the math at the studio but it must of been the person that programmed the AI as its roughly 6291206kb 
 out...
  
  A 25 minute installation is unacceptable and 6gb install is out of line.
  If the final product has an install time/size this large and a release day patch that will be unpleasing 
 to say the least.
  
  Overall I'd say as a preview this game requires work, alot of work.
  If you buy this demo remember that the online isn't fuctional so don't buy it for that.
  Buy 
 it for a teaser on what to expect if anything.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wopenka_11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  GT5p is a pretty awesome game. The physics are great, The graphics are amazing and the replay features 
 are pretty awesome. Playing this game online is very competitive so naturally have the better car 
 and better skills will win. The absence of Sixaxis controlability is not missed, a racing game 
 shouldnt have that sort of gameplay control in it. This game is surprisingly good because its the 
 prologue version of Gran Turismo 5. So expect to see more in the real deal. But for now Prologue 
 seems to really have it over Forza2, especialy now that the car damage patch has been announced 
 and comming real soon!.
  
  
 
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Thank god I didn't have to pay for this, and thank god I can give it back and never have it darken 
 my door again.
  
  Lets be blunt this is a demo.
  
  A big demo I grant you but a demo nonetheless.
  
  They may be calling it a "Prologue" but you 
 can call a fork a cabbage its still a fork this is a still a demo, or if you prefer a "tax" on 
 game development, they can't afford the funds to keep this development for another year so they've 
 decided to charge you to play the demo.
  
  It's a demo because of the simple fact that everything we have here will be included in the final 
 product, we are being charged for a chance to play part of the main game if buying this got you 
 a discount on the full game then that might be an excuse but we're not.
  
  When they finally get round to releasing the full game we'll be charged again for content we already 
 have, as you can download this as well, it makes all those Sony fanboys seem somewhat hypocritical 
 when they berate the charges for downloading content on Xbox Live, nothing on there ever weighed 
 in at such a steep price certainly not any demos.
  
  Onto the demo itself they still haven't seen fit to beef up the driver AI, the CPU controlled drivers 
 still pootle along the racing line at a steady speed, they still act as if they are there purely 
 to act as moving obstacles rather than any sort of competition.
  
  Nor have they decided to include any penalties for appalling driving, on time trials you can speed 
 around, bouncing of the barriers safe in the knowledge that you won't be penalised at all.
  
  Sort of makes the whole claim that Gran Turismo is a "Simulator" look shallow.
  
  Again 
 they've made sure that you can alter practically every setting on your car in fact its possible 
 to spend more time tinkering with the set up, gear ratio, spoiler angle and everything else, than 
 you do actually driving the race they've even made it so you can change some of these setting 
 mid race something else which makes a farce of the "Simulation" claim.
  
  Sure it looks good, and the fanboys will claim it's the best looking thing ever or at least since 
 the last PS3 game they claimed was the best looking thing ever, but gameplay wise they really haven't 
 moved on from the original PlayStation game and that's immensely disappointing, all the extra power 
 of the PS3 seems to have been directed in making the game look good rather than play better than 
 its PS2 predecessor.
  
  If you want a game that looks good, and you feel you've already waited long enough to play without 
 having to face up to another year of no Gran Turismo, then by all means buy this you'll effectively 
 be paying to fund the extra year of development that they intend to put into the game lets hope 
 that when the full game comes out its worth it though I doubt it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antrosg24
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, especially London . but after a couple of laps you forget all about it. 
 The gameplay is the real value. The gameplay is more or less the same as several years ago on GT4! 
 There have been some minor improvements but overall is the same. ! What they were doing all these 
 years!!! This feel very soul less and too generic. Also many tecnical flaws are in this game. The 
 online has it problems and for sure it need more expansion. OK ok this is a demo but Its a demo 
 that is for sale... And customers should be treated with more respect. The full version must be 
 a vast improvement if they want to compete with forza or other similar games. The sound is kinda 
 lame aswell. Many people buy this game just because of it HUGE name. Iam very dissapointed by this 
 game :)
  
  Graphics 10/10
  gameplay 5/10
  Sound 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5: Prologue is the official preview build for Polyphony Digital's racing uber-sim 
 Gran Turismo 5, which is due out in early 2009. Don't be turned off by thinking of Prologue as 
 a "demo." Instead think of it as a budget version of what's to come with GT5. At around 20 in 
 store or 25 on the PlayStation Network, it's hard to go wrong.
  
  Let's get the obvious out of the way then. GT5 Prologue looks STUNNING. There is no other game 
 on any system, past or present, which looks anything like as good as this. The cars are modelled 
 with incredible attention to detail and put games like Project Gotham and Forza in the shade. GT5 
 sets a new standard for graphics in racing games and indeed for every game across the industry. 
 Every car has a fully-functioning dashboard and a fully functioning driver character model which 
 is just as detailed as the cars, right down to the stitching on their gloves. Perhaps most impressive 
 of all though is that the lighting casts perfect shadows inside the cars as well as on the circuit. 
 This level of attention to detail has come to be expected from the GT series but it's taken the 
 power of the PlayStation 3 to see it fully realised.
  
  The driving is equally impressive. The handling model in this game is light years ahead of every 
 other driving game on the market. GT5 makes Forza 2 feel like Mario Kart in comparison. OK, that 
 sounds a bit extreme but it is completely on another level. The differences between each vehicle 
 are incredibly subtle but then they really should be. What really proves the genius of the driving 
 engine is that just by changing the traction control by one notch you can instantly see a difference 
 in the handling of your chosen car. It's truly incredible.
  
  Onto the cars themselves and there are around 70 in total. There's enough variation in here in 
 terms of power and style that you won't get bored with them, but this is a very small selection 
 of what will finally appear in GT5. The likely car-count in the final game will be somewhere around 
 500. In keeping with this theme there are also far fewer circuits than will be in the final game. 
 Prologue includes; High Speed Ring, Daytona Speedway, Fuji, Suzuka, Eiger Nordwand and the new 
 London circuit. Each of the circuits also has either a reverse setting or some kind of alternate 
 layout, such as Daytona's infield track. The lack of tracks does limit the game's playability to 
 some extent but that should be expected purely because of the "Prologue" tagline.
  
  More of Prologue's long-term appeal will come from it's online component. At it's most basic level 
 this consists of leaderboards for time-trial events. To begin with it was great fun to work hard 
 at lap-times, bringing them down tenth by tenth to improve rankings but it's become obvious that 
 the top players are already cheating to get to the top of the leaderboards, which more or less 
 voids their importance. In addition to this there's a great new addition for the series in 12 player 
 online racing. Again though, this has it's problems. Players are all too quick to cut corners and 
 ram other drivers off the circuit and this won't change until stricter Forza style time penalties 
 for this kind of behaviour are introduced. Finally, there's GT-TV which allows players to download 
 motorsport themed TV shows, such as the BBC's Top Gear. However, as of the time of writing, there 
 is no such content available through this service, though Polyphony has promised to begin regular 
 updates soon.
  
  Overall, GT5 Prologue is one of the best value for money games on the market. The amount of content 
 you get for your 20 is quite remarkable and the quality of the single-player game is undeniable. 
 On the other hand, the online racing needs to be made much stricter in order to make competition 
 fairer. The most important thing though is that Prologue has laid down the groundwork for GT5 to 
 be the greatest racing game of all time when it is finally released. Also, with updates such as 
 car damage being suggested by the developers for download later in the year, they'll be extra content 
 for Prologue to keep you going right through until GT5 is finally released in 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fw190a8
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo games have always featured quality graphics, and Prologue does not disappoint. The 
 scenery and the cars are stunning and every last detail has been attended to, such as the temporary 
 blindness when emerging from a tunnel into bright sunlight. The menus are a visual experience themselves, 
 placing your cars against picturesque backdrops and remaining very functional. The menu system 
 is now similar to the one used in the PS3 system menu instead of the confusing map-style menu from 
 Gran Turismo 4.
  
  The driving feels solid enough without being quite as visceral as one might anticipate. The car 
 certainly feels connected to the road, and is certainly a far more realistic experience than arcade-style 
 games like Need for Speed, but somehow lacks the finesse found in more hardcore simulations like 
 SimBin's GTR2 or RACE.
  
  So far so good, but the game suffers from some woeful design decisions that will almost certainly 
 carry forward into the full Gran Turismo 5 and which bode particularly poorly as a show of things 
 to come. There is still absolutely no damage whatsoever on the cars. Some would say this is fair 
 enough and that Gran Turismo is a driving simulator, not a crashing simulator. Most racing game 
 designers realised a long time ago that having invincible cars removed much of the risk from the 
 game. Crashing becomes a temporary setback rather than a race-ending experience, so it becomes 
 trivial. Polyphony still refuse to add damage to the game, and, combined with some seriously inadequate 
 track design, this means that quite often, it is quicker to forego braking and simply crash the 
 car around a corner, using the barriers as brakes, rather than drive a proper racing line. Combine 
 this with some seriously unyielding AI drivers (you might as well collide with a nuclear bunker) 
 and you're left with a jarringly unrealistic driving experience. Compare this with SimBim's RACE 
 '07. RACE's WTCC cars are fairly robust and will stand up to a collision or two, but try to crash 
 your way around a corner and you'll find yourself at the helm of a crumpled piece of metal shaped 
 like a car.
  
  The other serious criticism does not reveal itself until reaching online mode. Since there is no 
 damage and no punishment for extremely wild driving styles, the best tactic to win a race is quite 
 often to crash into the other cars to make sure they can't overtake you. It even turns into an 
 artform after a while, due to there being a particular way in which you can hit another driver 
 online and come off much better. Compare this to RACE '07 (and indeed real life, the very thing 
 a simluator is trying to reproduce) where all but the slightest of contact results in both cars 
 spinning out of control, and Prologue's crashing is not a constant threat to be avoided at all 
 times, but a tool that can be used to get around corners quicker and to prevent people from overtaking.
 
  
  To their credit, Polyphony have added a system whereby cars making unpredictable movements in online 
 mode are made semi-transparent for a few seconds, so they cannot collide with other drivers. Unfortunately 
 this reeks of afterthought and quite often, a car spinning out ahead of you will turn solid again 
 just soon enough to create an unavoidable collision. The definition of "unpredictable movements" 
 is so dubious that it's possible to trick the game and perform some extremely dirty driving without 
 penalty.
  
  Online mode lacks any kind of selection or filtering, so once you choose the track and class of 
 car you want to race, your opponents are selected randomly. This means it's always a game of chance. 
 Will your next opponents be the respectful racing drivers who are only interested in having a clean, 
 fun race, or will they be the testosterone-fuelled teenies whose aim is to crash their way to victory? 
 There's no way to know for sure, but in all likelyhood, you'll be facing the teenies time and time 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I have always thought of Gran Turismo games being extremely dull, monotonous and a waste of time 
 and money. However, during the seemingly indefinate lull in new PS3 releases I decided to purchase 
 this off the PS Store and I am now very glad I did!
  The most obvious positive to mention (as with all GT games) is the absolutely breath-taking graphics 
 which are unbelievable when first viewed. Reflections off car bodywork are perfect and the lighting 
 of the environments is spot on. One of the best looking games out on PS3 at the moment - and this 
 is not even the finished version!
  The gameplay is also another plus, as the simulation level can be tweaked, so that even novice 
 players like me can become Michael Schumacher in no time at all. I found it very enjoyable to play 
 using my Logitech wheel as well so anyone who has one lying around I really would recommend wiping 
 the dust off and giving it a try with this title (force feedback inclusion is the main reason for 
 doing this - although at times it does go slightly hay-wire :-P ) 
  Finally the easy to navigate menu system and the uplifting music (which includes some well known 
 titles) are two more reasons to buy this game. However, as with most titles some negatives do occur 
 - the main being the fact that in order to obtain a certain car (which is necessary for many races) 
 repetition of some previous races to obtain "credits" is unavoidable which can get annoying - but 
 not if you have the time. A minor niggle also arises with the AI but on the whole this is fine 
 and should be much improved by the full release anyway.
  Overall, I would say a good title to buy if, like me, you are impatiently awaiting the release 
 of the illusive GTA IV/. It has a fair amount of life in it (1-2 months) and i may even return 
 to playing it once I have obtained my copy of GTA - although i'm not sure this will be the case! 
 :-) Definately worth the money as it is more than just a demo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mertron1
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  we're talking about a prologue... i can understand PS3 fans dying to play anything that looks remotely 
 good on their machine.. seeing as there aint much out there to cheer about after a year being out... but 
 for people to go out and spend 20 odd pounds on a game that is'nt even completed yet is a scandal... this 
 should be a free downloadable game not a retail hunt. does'nt matter how good it plays or how it 
 looks. its a half baked job to try and maintain interest in their product knowing there aint nothing 
 out there worth buying. until GTA4...... so lets ride this out till then... and to make it worse 
 people are falling for it. thats like bringing out metal gear solid with only 4 levels and saying 
 the full game aint until next year. which is exactly when GT 5 actual does come out. i'm outraged 
 by this attempt to coax buyers to pay for something like this knowing its not even finished.... if 
 its not finished its a demo... if its a demo it should be free.... simple as... sony stop messing 
 us about and bring out the games we've been waiting for for over a year now... its about time... and 
 this wont do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colston
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great little game, and definitely worth a little time, as your deity knows when the full 
 title will be of the super high standard deemed adequate for release! A glorified demo it may be, 
 but under a different name we would all sing its praise, the visuals are stunning beyond belief 
 and It look like they're setting things up to for the future release. The weather information definitely 
 cries out real time weather condition racing, and the calendar is crying out for date specific 
 race days at your favourite tracks, i. e. Ferrari race days, classic cups, ect... 
  
  But anyway onto this game...
  Over sixty cars, from a few top manufacturers, a good amount for 
 most normal games, but never the less I was greedy for more. The cars themselves look fantastic, 
 as we all know they would coming from the designers that have always pushed the limitations. And 
 I absolutely love the cock-pit view, which is so detailed and precise, you can even see the stitching 
 in the leathers, as like many others (mostly us looking for the genuine racing experience) this 
 became my view of choice, even though, in some cars, over half the screen is taken up by detail. 
 But when its all said and done, how much of the road do you actually need to see; car in front, 
 where the next corner is. it all just makes it the more realistic, I actually found myself leaning 
 with the corners. 
  
  As for the track, I felt it was a tad light, and would have happily give up some ten or so cars 
 to see another of my favourite tracks make it into this game. But with six in all, forward and 
 reverse in most cases, we cant complain too much. they look great, the crowd detail is fantastic 
 and I love the flash affect from road side photographers. Adds a nice touch. obvious thing to point 
 out is the lack of weather and light conditions, but we knew we weren't getting it this time anyway. 
 The only thing I've could fault here is the checkerboard pattern you sometimes get in the dust 
 kick up. Never the less, its a great effect and leaves you driving blind at times.
  
  I only have another couple of issue, its the penalties you get hit with at the harder levels of 
 the game. It really isn't fun getting penalised when an opponent hits you, then again after you 
 try to get back on track for taking some apparent short cut that actually would have lost you at 
 least eight places. It only takes one tiny little bump from an opponent and your forced to slow 
 down, with him speeding off into the sunset. This does make you step up your game, but sometimes 
 it just seems one-sided, unfair and most times, extremely frustrating. And the resulting disappearing 
 car trick is totally absurd, I thought the point here was to make a true to life driving simulator, 
 yes, then why does my car suddenly become a ghost passing through all others unnoticed. 
  
  I can see the point though. In previous GT games all you had to do was jump in a big car and crash 
 and smash your way through, and I agree this needed some attention, after all we cant have unskilled 
 drivers, playing the game and winning races all too easy, and probably having some degree of fun 
 while they're at it. Where's the challenge! But surely there's a better way to achieve this. They 
 are definitely on the right lines with the power points though. I just hope we see a couple of 
 new tracks on PSN and some more events. Laguna Seca please! You've got to love that corkscrew!
 
  
  If you read all this, you've achieved more than I could! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  yeah I know its a demo but no ordinary demo more of a expansion pack so to speak . Nevertheless 
 its a great way to start off Playstations three year not with haze and many others on the horizon 
 this is also a great to kick of the next gen graphics. The graphics are what you call stunning 
 especially if you have a HI-DEF TV and HDMI cable. The only thing I would say could be improved 
 is the fact that you can do up cars yourself and perhaps be able to damage the cars. Another cool 
 feature is the fact that it is now online meaning you can play up too sixteen players which also 
 increases the excitement of the game and keeps it fun for longer and with up to 60 of the worlds 
 best cars this game is much more than an ordinary demo. Also it only costs be/ween 20-25 maybe 
 cheaper on other websites. overall i would give it 8/10 being that it is still not the full package. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight before I review this game: anyone who says the game is boring or says 
 it's more of the same is no good at Gran Turismo games. I'm actually pretty average, but I still 
 managed to complete this game and the extras make the replay value very good so I am still playing 
 it.
  
  The first thing you will notice about the game is the new 'My Page', but this is just a way to 
 disguise the smaller layout and content of the game. As in all GT games, you have the garage, the 
 dealerships and the events. New icons include GT News, GT TV and, of course, online play.
  
  The garage does not even go to another screen anymore, you just choose which car you want to 
 drive in a small box and switch to it. One stupid loss is that there are no records of your progress 
 on a status or awards page, and if it wasn't for the online play, you would feel as if you are 
 doing everything for nothing. The car dealerships obviously have a lot less cars, but you will 
 find something new in the form of a Ferrari logo staring at you when you click on the icon. This 
 is a massive deal for GT (I hope they get Lamborghinis as well in time for GT5) , and Ferrari has 
 the biggest non-modified range of cars in the game (5 cars) . You can also buy modified cars by 
 GT, which are souped-up existing cars such as the Chevvy Corvette. There are three classes of events 
 to complete (or are there?) as well as events for a lot of specific cars. To 'complete the game' 
 and make it to intermediate online class, you must complete all three classes. This is medium difficulty 
 and it must have taken me about 5-6 hours to complete. It does get a bit frustrating when you have 
 to make the money to buy one specific car for one race, but it's all part of the game. The events 
 for the manufacturers are extremely hard, and only hardcore fans could probably complete them. 
 You have to be the same car as everyone else and, as if it's not hard enough overtaking the cars, 
 you have around 4 second penalties for either taking a short cut, bumping into the walls or colliding 
 with another car. This really takes the fun out of these races; who honestly can say that they 
 have completed every race without breaking one of these rules?
  
  GT news just updates you on various things happening to or around the world of Gran Turismo and 
 sometimes updates the game for you (which takes ages) . GT TV just gives you some videos of the 
 actual game, trailers and beginning movies. The online play is the thing that will keep you playing 
 for hours. This is what makes it the most addictive Gran Turismo game ever made. 16 players! But 
 before you can race those numbers, you have to complete the three classes to make it onto intermediate 
 and expert play. I think this is a good idea - you have to complete the game to get the best out 
 of it. Online, there are penalties and it does get annoying, but this makes sure that the best 
 player wins - player names are above their cars and are listed after the race in the positions 
 that they came in. People driving are usually well behaved, but you will get the ocassional shunt 
 that knocks you off the track. If you are penalised or spinning/skidding off the track, you will 
 turn transparent for a few seconds so that other cars can pass you. The online play is very good, 
 much better than Need For Speed: Prostreet, but I wish there was more of a way to interact with 
 other players.
  
  There is something like 55 cars that you can buy or win, which is not bad for a nowhere near full 
 game - that is almost as much as in the full game of NFS: Prostreet. The cars, though, are somewhat 
 unimpressive apart from a fair few - but you wouldn't really want to give too much away, even if 
 the full game will have near to 1000 cars available. The real sucky thing about the whole game 
 is the tracks and the amount of tracks. I think there are only seven, and the only challenging 
 one is Suzuka. The three new tracks are okay, nothing special and then all that's left is the High 
 Speed Ring, Fuji Speedway (which is alright) and the Superspeedway (too easy) .
  
  The graphics are even better than before - more flawless than perfect. This has always been a big 
 part of the Gran Turismo series. The gameplay is improved, still. Each car is meant to have their 
 own unique abilities, and you can really feel this in the handling of the car. After you complete 
 Class A, you have a quicktune option available to you, and a new performance points system which 
 determines whether you can enter a race, which adds to the experience, although I am a little annoyed 
 that you can't add parts such as turbo chargers to your cars (to get that massive advantage!) . 
 All the car sounds are unique and there is a new view from inside the car that will please a lot 
 of fans. There is no music when you are driving, which is a letdown, but there might be a setting 
 to change this.
  
  Overall, I think this is the best Gran Turismo game to date in terms of graphics and gameplay. 
 It does not bore me at all and it is well worth the price tag. I would have given this a higher 
 score if it had a little more content, but it is a very solid attempt.
  
  Add me as a friend on the PS3 if you liked this review! My PS3 ID is supersonikk, and I will kick 
 your ass =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 still doesn't have an exact release date anywhere, in many ways this delay as forced 
 Polyphony Digital to release a demo styled taste of the game and although it can feel like your 
 paying for a demo. Theres more then enough content and fun to warrant the 20 Sterling Pounds paid 
 for Gran Turismo 5 Prologue.
  
  If you've never heard of the Gran Turismo series you've probably been living under a very cold 
 rock. The series as been popular for a long time now with both gamers and racing fans alike. For 
 good reason, offering beautiful looking graphics, an impressive selection of todays and yesterdays 
 fastest cars plus generally ok racing, its easy to see why the series as done so well. But it easy 
 to say that GT5 is one of the most eager installments of the franchise and Prologue shows signs 
 that fans will get a treat in GT5. I've personally never been a huge fan of GT if I'm honest with 
 you, although I respect what Polyphony Digital have done with the series, its just that I'm more 
 of a racer then a car collector. Sadly in my own opinion, previous GT games have been pretty poor 
 when it comes to fun racing, and even though GT5: Prologue still as it's issues when it comes to 
 racing, its defiantly seen a great improvment and is a hell of a lot more fun then older versions.
 
  
  Lets get one thing out the way, GT5: Prologue is a stunning looking game, but you knew that already. 
 The term Photorealistic as been throwed about all to much, but with GT5: Prologue the term rings 
 very true. Though in certain situatons its clear your playing a virtual representation of a popular 
 sports car, in others though you could almost mistake it for a real photo of the car. It looks 
 stunning and runs well on the Playstation 3 system. I playe this game on a 37inch HDTV and it looked 
 stunning in every way. Compare it to Forza and you see a surprising different in car modelliing 
 and picture quality. The tracks also look great, with usually a lot of detail in the environment 
 your racing around, but to be honest you'd be to busy racing and looking at the bumper of that 
 Ferarri to take much notice. But it's a nice addition, and something that hurt Forza in my opinion. 
 Though there are only a few tracks, there all pretty fun. With the best being set in a Alps style 
 mountain track, which oesn't just look great to race around but also is a superb track with some 
 great twists and turns. GT5: Prologue is much more then a demo, most noticable is that there is 
 a good 70 cars and online play which actually more fun then expected. Although sadly most drivers 
 can't drive in the game and end up trying to crash you out of the race. But in my experience there 
 are some adult players who are willin to give you a good race. Online perform pretty well performance 
 wise although I did come across some lag from time to time. But nothing that DP can't fix before 
 official GT5 release. You have your usual events which can be raced both online and offline, A. I 
 in events is way to easy, but turn up A. I a little and you have a real race on your hands. 
  
  It's not all perfect though, for instance the interface (though accessible) is pretty boring 
 and the Jazz music used in the main central hub base is terrible. But past GT users will know this 
 is something that the series as been filled with for many years. Also there were issues with some 
 shadows, Shadows still seem to be a big issue with developers and it doesn't spoil the picture 
 at times, but its nothing greatly serious. I guess the best way to judge GT5: Prologue is to say 
 that I wasn't originally at all keen on the idea of picking up another GT game after GT4. But Prologue 
 shows great improvment in the series, and although there are still areas of issue, these things 
 should be sorted before GT5 official release whenever that is. You honestly won't get many games 
 that offer a good amount of content and beautiful graphics for 19.99 sterling pounds (or 25pounds 
 over PSN) , plus a good 70 cars to collect, there something here for any racing fan. 
  
  PROS:
  - Simply Stunning at times, Car Modelling is great. 
  - Race and physic improvment help 
 improve Race enjoyment.
  - Great Price for what you get,
  
  CONS:
  - Still not the full experience.
  - Some minor Graphical issues here and there. 
  - Jazz music........ 
 it'll get on anyones nerves.
  
  OVERALL:
  Gran Turismo 5; Prologue shows some great improvements, especially racing wise. Though still not 
 perfect I will check out the official games release whenever that maybe. Which can only mean Prologue 
 worked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opleema
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  If you are a car lover like me and can't afford the latest top of the range high performance super 
 car, this is the game for you. The programmers at polyphony digital have out done themselves on 
 GT5 prologue. The cars have been modelled beautifully and the detail to the scenery is outstanding, 
 such as the cracks in the painted lines, the reflections on the water and seeing the driver change 
 gear or move the steering wheel through the windscreen. In many respects you sometimes forget it 
 is a game especially when you watch the replays. 
  The choice of different camera angles during the race has increased to include an in car view which 
 totally adds to the realism and best of all is playable. If you are lucky enough to own a steering 
 wheel this is the view you want. 
  However I digress. The game starts off like all other GT games a small amount of money 35.000 credits 
 and a wide selection of cars, most of which you can't afford. I chose the VW GOLF GTI which started 
 me off well and I saved enough credits to buy my next car which was a Suzuki !. Why you might ask 
 ?. Well unlike other GT games there are no licences to take to progress to the next level and higher 
 prize money. In this game you progress up the levels by winning races and completing tasks, such 
 as overtaking all the other cars in one lap or by beating the a set lap time in 10 minuets, in 
 a set car that they choose that you have to buy. The other difference is that you cant upgrade 
 your car with a turbo or reduce its weight, or even change the gear box. You have to complete all 
 three levels before you can tinker with your car, and even then you can only tweak your car a little 
 such as alter the camber angle and down force as well as a few other things. 
  These are however are only small irritants in the larger picture but I hope the full GT5 keeps 
 to the old style with licences and full upgrades. I also wish they will bring back the complete 
 race outfit for the cars which they had in the first 2 GT games back on the PS1 which added some 
 finality to the game by allowing you to upgrade your favourite car to its ultimate conclusion.
 
  All in all this game is an absolute winner, and with Ferrari now in the game it's a car lovers 
 dream. If this prologue is anything to go by the full game is going to be spectacular and in my 
 opinion is a must buy. especially at just 20 quid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notquitesure
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  ok,
  playstation = GT
  its a well known fact, and a game that others have tried to copy over the years, but lets face 
 it... theres only 1 GT!
  
  ive always been a fan of racing games and ive enjoyed all the other GT's before hand.
  ive found 
 them punishing and time consuming, but worth it all in the end.
  
  but for some reason i was reluctant to go out and buy myself part of a game...
  
  who in their 
 right mind would part with their hard earned cash for a game that.. to be fair isnt even finished 
 yet!
  
  (hand up) i would be...
  
  and im really glad i did...
  in the previous GT games ive found handling... well lets just say difficult.
  me and the wall 
 were firm friends and it was hard work to keep anything on the track.. fortunately the AI was useless 
 and you could pass them all on the last corner...
  
  but with this GT it was different....
  
  the car stayed on the track!!!!
  in all fairness 
 the AI is still useless and at times amusing... seeing dirt fly all over the place as the cars 
 wizz off the track as i used to do.
  
  i went straight into the new cockpit view... and again i wasnt disappointed!
  every car looks 
 amazing from the inside and out.
  and is even more fun to drive when yr actually sitting behind the wheel.
  it gives it a realer 
 feel and isnt that what GT is all about.
  the addition of the driving line is welcomed, with breaking points and speed indicators :) which 
 can all be turned on and off.
  
  it obviously looks amazing...
  and when it drives really well too... you cant go wrong.
  
  but we all know that...
  what 
 you want to know is whats not quite right.
  and there are a few things ive noticed.
  to begin with, there no crash damage.. not the end of the world to be fair, but in this version 
 at least there isnt any kind of simulated damage.. so that if you did crash head on into a wall 
 your race would be over.
  im sure something like that will be in the full game.
  
  another thing... which to be honest is the most worrying so far...
  ONLINE!
  its extremely 
 stripped down, you basically pick a race and your thrown into one with random other people.
  no lobbies, no racing your friends, just random names above cars.
  dont get me wrong, it beats 
 the interesting AI, but its not what i was hoping for by any means.
  also there as far as im aware.. no voice chat. my headset didn't do anything.
  these are things 
 that i feel NEED to be in the full game.
  as well as cars flickering and odd patches of slowdown, but they aren't too noticeable.
  
  
 and finally, the update patch. the game has already been patched and its a nightmare to get it 
 installed!
  it WILL take you forever! but it will work eventually after about 10-15 tries.
  
  all that aside, its addictive, more fun to actually drive the cars and heading in the right 
 direction for when the full game is released next year!
  
  id recommend it and it will keep you going till GT5!
  
  
  
  PS.
  when you go through 
 a tunnel on one of the tracks...
  your lights dont come on!
  isnt that dangerous?!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewis_hague123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 prologue combines amazing, crisp graphics, full HD and great car sound effects to 
 create the one of the best Ps3 exclusives so far. 
  The graphics are simply stunning, however they could be tuned up abit for the people who stand 
 around the tracks when you are racing. As a whole, 9.6/10 for graphics. 
  As for sound... Well, the soundtrack is good imo, but the songs become repetative quickly. The 
 car sounds are top notch, great work Polyphony! 9/10 for sound.
  The game runs in full HD (1080p) at 60fps, and 30fps in replay mode. This is the first console 
 game ever to do this, and they have made such an incredible job at doing this. 16 cars whizzing 
 round the Fuji Speeday at full HD and 60fps! Amazing!
  However. A few things have let me down- The online, and the number of events.
  Online, 50% of 
 the time is just like cars skating around on ice. The lagg of the other online cars is sometimes 
 immensly bad. I find myself crashing head on into another car that is swaying around like a wasp, 
 and i get penalised for it!? 10 second penalty! Dam right not fair. Another thing i hate about 
 the online is that you often get noobs who think the game is burnout; they try and ram you into 
 a wall or slam you from behind, causing you to hit a barrier, spin out of control and finish last.... 
 Despite them factors, the online is still fun.
  As for events, there are 30 in total, which range from overtaking 15 cars in one lap, or simply 
 a race. These events are fun a exciting, but can be completed over a weekend. BUT, for the price 
 of only 20, this game is a bargain imo.
  Incredible graphics, great sound, good gameplay, good but sometimes annoying online gameplay. I 
 would deffenetley reccomend this game to anyone who is a fan of the series, or just for people 
 who simply like racing. For the price, it's a bargain, get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floor3013
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  First Impressions - Although there is a long wait to install the 6GB data, its worth it. I am greeted 
 by a glossy menu with a picture of my car in a eye-wateringly real looking place: It looks like 
 a photograph! 
  
  Ups - The game feels well structured, very easy at the beginning, although very very hard at the 
 end, almost impossible even: e. g there is once race where The actual gameplay itself feels very 
 solid, with realistic qualities unseen in GT4 or even HD. The detail is rendered to a very high 
 standard, including the interiors. Speaking of which, you can now choose a view from in the car 
 to make it ultra-realistic, and everything works. The speedometers on the dash work, and the driver 
 changes gears and everything, mind you this is regardless of whether you are in automatic or not. 
 As well you have the content, including 5 ferraris and a track set in london! And to add to this 
 you have Arcade with a Drift Mode, GT-TV online which works a bit like a car-oriented paying youtube 
 and of course the online mode.
  
  Downs - The soundtrack is fairly boring and full of stuff we've' never heard of, apart from a song 
 by the Klaxons which has nothing to do with racing. The online is there but not as fufilling as 
 say, Burnout Paradise. Also it seems to be completed quite quickly, even for a stretched out demo. 
 Even if they kept the same amount of tracks in, they could have put more races in, but there you 
 go.
  
  Summary - Mainly this game is amazing, although it does have some flaws which im sure PD can sort 
 out when the full version comes out in 'Mid-2009'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mglola
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  I got my copy for 18, for that money its really a good game, good selection of cars and tracks 
 even though there is only 6 but can be reversed so making the total amount of tracks 12. And it 
 has superb grafics and much improved AI which dont seem to be stupid and slugish anymore, also 
 there is now 16 cars on track instead of 6 making much more exciting racing. The game has about 
 70 cars, but now the game includes ferrari a manufactura missing from the game for a long time, 
 also the game includes its first official F1 car the 2007 championship winning ferrari which can 
 have World champion KImi Raikkonen or Felipe Massas name and number. Sadly as ever NO DAMAGE and 
 a lack of racing cars as most the cars in the game are road cars or moddified. I would advise people 
 to get this game, 1. Because its a cheap and a lasting game, 2. Its a proper racing game, 3. its alot 
 of fun, 4. good online and 5. It`s much more improved that GT4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  First things first the AI once again sucks! Sadly they have done nothing to the AI in this prolouge 
 version of GT5, though my best guess is that it will be taken care of in the final version of the 
 game.
  Also the tires sound? come one when will you guys change the poorly tire crap sound you have been 
 using since Gran Turismo 1?
  
  oh well time for the fun parts...
  
  Graphics looks everything from neat to stunning, 60fps, 16 cars modelled like godesses competeing 
 on the very same track.
  The car physics is nothing else than exellent, I have always liked the car physics in the GT games 
 but in GT5p they really takes car driving in a game to the next level.
  Sure the lack of car damage is not fun, and the fact they still use the same "bounce physics" system 
 when you smack someone of the road is tiresome, but the actual driving is nothing else but amasing 
 in this game. I was always bragging to my friends about the car handling in Forsa on 360, but this 
 game makes forsa feel old.
  
  The new in-car camera angle works perfect to realyl make you feel like you are driving a real car. 
 Gone are the poorly in-car cameras where you just gets annoyed since you can't see where the heck 
 you are driving.
  
  
  Is this prolouge worht the money? hel yes it is, since the whole version of the game doesn't comeo 
 ut 'til 2009 this is a must have for all racing fans.
  BE sure to check out the online part aswel, tons of fun though some bugs needs to be ixed.
  
 
  GT5P shows us all that they are now taking this series to new heights, with a new AI comming out 
 in the final version (They said so at least) this can be a 10/10 racing game.. time will tell.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaatsu
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is the good old Gran Turismo 5 Prologue!! A taster for the full title which is about 
 a year away apparently! 
  
  First things first I must mention I bought this game in the shop so I didn't download it from PSN. 
 On the back of the box it says it needs a 256kb install. However upon powering on it says it needs 
 a 4gb install. Normally I wouldn't complain about this but it took almost 2 hours to install. I'm 
 starting to feel slightly alarmed at the amount of times I am having to install onto my hard-drive 
 while having the disc. I'm sure this is a worrying trend because 4-5gb a game will use up by 40gb 
 hard drive in no time. 
  
  After an update the game was ready to play finally. 
  My first impressions were simply wow! The graphics and car detail is just simply stunning. I am 
 a fan of Forza 2 but this blows those away and then some. The audio sound of the v8 engines mixed 
 with the skidding sounds while braking is just a joy to behold!
  There are 30 events to get your teeth into with 6 tracks to race on. In true GT fashion those tracks 
 are also playable in reverse! So technically you have 12 tracks to unleash your inner maniac driver 
 on to!
  
  This sadly is where the niceties end for me. 
  The thing which stands out to me being a die hard racing fan and also an amateur racer in real 
 life is the serious lack of dynamics with the cars and the environment. Example driving at 180mph 
 seems no different to driving at 60mph. Going off a track and onto grass at 100mph+ plus feels 
 really tacky. In real life this would be a nightmare as you can't put on the breaks hard due to 
 fear of your rear sliding out putting you into an un-controllable spin. There are many instances 
 of these things that just take away the illusion of actually racing. In the past Gran Turismo has 
 always got these things down to a tee for their time and made them feel at least this generation. 
 Sadly these dynamics feel really old like playing in history. This for me was one of the biggest 
 let downs.
  Then you have the tracks. 12 tracks might seem a lot but after you have been round them a few times 
 they get boring and boring fast. The problem with GT is we already know most of the courses from 
 previous GT's and while they have been graphically changed they feel slightly poor in comparison 
 to other racing games such as Forza 2 and Sega Rally.
  
  I am a huge GT fan just like most Europeans. You can keep your Metal Gears and your Final Fantasies 
 give me a racing simulator any day and I'll be interested!
  But I come away from playing Prologue slightly annoyed. Annoyed that online it isn't what it's 
 cracked out to be but it is actually where the true game can be found. Single player is easy. Way 
 to easy. The AI is really poor and the mechanics of the cars just don't feel real. Your opponents 
 will hit into you at 150mph and just bounce off and regain there obvious pre-programmed racing 
 line. It get's to the point where you know what the other computer players are likely to do and 
 that simply isn't racing. In comparison to Forza 2 the AI would adapt to your style of racing because 
 it knew if either of you messed up chances are you would fly off the track and total your car which 
 would cost you money to fix etc. The problem with Prologue is it doesn't have these systems that 
 penalise aggressiveness or reward cautiousness depending on the situation. It just feels like you're 
 a tank on rails and if someone hits into you it won't matter and you can hit into your opponents 
 and conveniently they will slide out of the way. Being a racer I can tell you if you hit someone 
 at 100mph which braking for a corner you won't push them out of the racing line you will both lose 
 control and go skidding off into the barriers due to velocity and the weight of gravity. 
  Maybe I am being too critical of the game?
  
  But it's hard not to be. This is Gran Turismo! 
 The daddy of the racing game, the innovator of everything that has rubber for wheels! How can they 
 create this game and release it like it is? 
  Well here is the true reason.
  Sony needed to release something and release something fast. We are at the 4th month pretty much 
 of 2008 and Sony had not released one single exclusive game for the PS3. The PS3 has been having 
 a bit of a comeback of late but the question is why? Have new games come out? No. Have Sony done 
 anything great to change the worlds view? No. Have PS3's been selling off the shelves like hot 
 cakes? No. So what is it? Well it is down to media hype nothing else. All of the PS3 owners are 
 on places like gamespot preaching of how great the system is. They tell the stories of how great 
 the games will be once they are released. Haven't we been here before? That's right 2007. This 
 year is a carbon copy of last year in terms of consoles. You have the Wii releasing fun games left 
 right and centre and you have the 360 releasing good games for the hardcore gamers out there. In 
 fact both consoles have announced at least 5-10 new exclusive games for 2008 in the past month 
 and were not even at E3 yet!
  So why have Sony released this obvious demo then?
  Reason is simple. Momentum. Right now the PS3 is having it's second wind. It won the format war 
 and the Sony fanboys feels re-energised! Sony needed badly to get anything out there to keep this 
 going and to make people think that this year will be a great year. Plus it needed to get this 
 game out to Europe to combat the recent 360 price drop. But the main reason was to try and take 
 a slice of the GTA4 console sales which on paper look very much in Microsoft's favour due to exclusive 
 content. Us Europeans love GT, for us its defiantly worth buying a system for. But sadly Prologue 
 isn't worth buying a system for and isn't worth 20 regardless of what reviewers on here or in 
 the media say. There is nothing revolutionary about the game and it is very limited. It's a preview 
 for what is to come in a years time. You will be bored of it within a few days I assure you. This 
 should have been a free online multi-player game for the loyal PS3 supporters. Other games have 
 done this to great success such as Battlefield2/COD4 etc.
  
  But Sony chose to try and cash in on this game and I can't help but feel slightly ripped off by 
 it. 20 for a few hours play that becomes very tedious doesn't seem fair. Installing 4gb onto my 
 hd though im told Blu-Ray is superior to dvd doesn't seem right. There are so many negatives from 
 this I'm seriously wondering what the future has in store for the real game. We have a year to 
 go and that will be plenty of time to sort out the kinks. But if you are an un-biased racing fan 
 looking for your next fix I would wait until the real game comes out. Prologue is nothing more 
 then a game thrown out to fill a void of games. 
  2008 will be interesting to see what happens with the other AA games for the PS3. I for one will 
 no go into them with sky high expectations like I had before this that is for sure!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  GT5 is the main reason why i bought a PS3. I love racing games, however, i am seriously disappointed 
 by GT5 Prologue. The graphics are good but they are nothing special when compared to PGR3 or 4. 
 The AI is ok but again is not great. The car physics are good but they feel old and a bit arcady. 
 The difficulty level is either to easy or so difficult that it is almost impossible to get gold. 
 The career system is pretty boring. Racing old those slow Class C events makes me fall a sleep. 
 I like the London race track but when you compare it to PGR3 or PGR4 London race tracks , the GT5 
 one is not as good in design or graphics. When it comes to racing simulation ,Forza 2 has much 
 better car physics. I am sorry to compare this game to the others i have just mentioned. If i had 
 never played the other games, i would have been very impressed with GT5 Prologue but since i have 
 played Forza 2, PGR3 and 4 i feel very disappointed with GT5. Having said that, GT5 prologue is 
 so far ,in my opinion, the best racing game for the PS3. However, i hope to see big improvements 
 when the full version of GT5 is finally released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought the disc version. Like Warhawk, I wanted people to be able to SEE this game in my collection.
 
  
  This game is stunning. No other words for it, it looks incredible, feels incredble, and is the 
 most enjoyable racing experience I think I have ever had. You may say I'm overreacting, and you 
 may be right, but hey, it doesn't change the fact that this game is one of the PS3 elite.
  
  Let me explain. You start the game up, and (after installing LOTS of updates and the likes) 
 you are greeted with a main menu, that has some incredible resemblances to the XMB. You're told 
 to go to Dealerships, and buy a car, so you select it, and then screen fades to black, then fades 
 into a menu with all the car manufacturers listed. Fair enough, quite sleak, but nothing special.
 
  
  You select a manufacturer. I chose Aston Martin, as they're my favourites. And the screen fades 
 again, into darkness, with the manufacturer's badge floating in the centre of the screen. The lights 
 come back on, and here, right in front of your are two cars, rotating slowly on a polished floor. 
 These two cars are random, and have no significance at all, apart from the fact that they add glamour 
 to the game. If that isn't enough, smokey swirls, identical to those on the XMB, are in the background, 
 but in the companies colours, so Red for Ferarri, Yellow and Green for Lotus etc.
  
  
  See? I've managed to write two whole paragraphs on the menus! That explains how brilliant this 
 game is. I could write for hours about the smokey swirls, and the glistening paintwork, but firstly 
 I'd have wasted a day, secondly, it'd take you a long time to read, and thirdly, you'd think I 
 was a weirdo.
  
  So, let's move onto the actual gameplay. Here's my breakdown:
  
  
  Controls and Physics.
  
  The controls and physics are something which are so so important to 
 the GT series, as it's a simulator. Now, I have a confession. I was never happy with the physics 
 in GT4. It never felt right, and it really didn't feel like you were in a car, gripping to the 
 track, while in an intense race. It should have done, it didn't. But GT5 Prologue does. It feels 
 right, just in the way the car reacts. I don't know what they've changed, and I couldn't describe 
 it, but it now feels so much more realistic.
  
  
  Graphics and Visuals.
  
  WOAH. That should sum up the graphics and visuals with this game. Everything is so detailed. Focussing 
 on the London track (I live in England, so can relate to this track) , everything feels exactly 
 as it should, the details perfect, everything looks perfectly accurate, and you could easily mistake 
 it for London.
  The graphics are immense, and every car makes you feel warm inside, just as you watch it snake 
 around the tight corners and other cars.
  
  
  Sounds and Music.
  
  Sound effects are almost perfect, very accurate, and so detailed. Each car has a different sound, 
 and the way the game reacts soundwise to your input makes you smile.
  The music is so cleverly integrated into the game that you can find yourself enjoying the music, 
 without even realising it's on. That sounds strange, but experience it, I'm right.
  
  
  
  Overall, this is an amazing game, WELL WELL worth the money you pay for it, and even would 
 be worth the full price of a game. I'd have still bought it regardless! This DOES NOT feel like 
 a demo, this is a game in itself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali_g_84uk
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Hmm this is a difficult one and to be fair i've only played a few hours of it since i received 
 it last night but theres definitely some issues. 
  
  -First the online update has failed on me about 5 times, it tends to get to around 1/4 the way 
 through then i get an error message. 
  -Theres some pretty blad slow down in areas, you wont notice this at first in the slower cars but 
 once i got the lotus elise (the newer 111r? version) i noticed it was pretty severe when racing 
 on the London/Swiss alps tracks, particularly when taking corners close to other cars.
  -Screen tearing... not such a big issue at least not up to now
  -Some races appear to be impossible 
 with certain assist settings, for example c-8 challenge appear to be literally impossible if you 
 have traction control on/around the default setting of 5. This is a bit ridiculous as a lot of 
 players will play with the assists on and it means they will literally keep struggling trying to 
 figure out why they cant win the race.
  -Difficulty is all over the show, the main event races are really easy, the time trials are extremely 
 difficult to get gold (and again impossible with certain assists on) and the arcade mode appears 
 to be pretty difficult too.
  
  I wont cover the good stuff, you can read that elsewhere. Its certainly not awful but theres a 
 lot of flaws they need to iron out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Right well bought a copy of ebay. com and had it delivered from Japan this morning to my house (In 
 england) and i'm the only one i know who has a copy this early as i think most people are waiting 
 until it comes out (likely to be feb/march) anyway i simply can't wait that long so i now have 
 my very own copy of it.
  
  Anyway, i've played it for a good few hours now and lemme give you a brief overview of what i thought:
 
  
  Pro's
  
  - Yes, it does look as breathtaking as you think it does from the video's and trailers, the best 
 looking driving sim ever (no, not you forza sorry, in my opinion of course)
  
  - Rumble is included although only small amounts when bumping into cars/walls or going off the 
 road onto grass/sand
  
  - Yes it is in japanese however it's easily navigatable by someone who knows none of the language 
 (e. g me) , it's quite self explanatory what you need to do and a lot of the options and things are 
 in english which is good 
  
  - GT-TV is a nice feature, along with the news it makes GT constantly up to date and a useful tool 
 not just for playing and although the japanese version does only have japanese film (as far as 
 i can tell so far) , it's still nice to watch some of the programmes included in HD 
  
  - Music, although it does feature the typical GT style lounge or 'elevator'music for the options 
 and main menu's (it wouldn't be GT without it) , Prologue does feature some nice japanese style 
 light rock music in-game which compliments the game nicely, and although im unsure if the music 
 will change between versions (as in, if the US/EU will feature music in english) , i must say i 
 love the music when you win a race, very japanese and reminds me of the FF7 victory music (although 
 it's a electric guitar hehe)
  
  - Absolutely stunning replays, admittedly like all GT's you don't get the full sense of the games 
 graphical prowess when actually playing the game, although it looks awesome you can only experience 
 the full sheer graphical masterpiece that it is through watching a replay, some camera angles and 
 scenes are almost photo-realistic it's really really fantastic.
  
  - Multiplayer, honestly i haven't actually tried this yet but i'm expecting great things! 16 player 
 online races in 1080p and 60fps, i'll try it a bit later!
  
  - Game is Full 1080p and although some races limit the AI cars to a certain number, it can handle 
 up to 16 cars at 60fps in full HD, quite a feat, nice one polyphony!
  
  - Regular game updates 
  
  Cons:
  
  - The game isn't that long/big, i'm not sure waht the 
 retail price will be in US/EU but i bought it for around 32 ($64) and although thats cheaper than 
 a average game, i'm not sure if it's really a suitable amount for the content your given. I can't 
 remember exactly but i think it's around 40 cars and 10 tracks. This is nice and will keep you 
 occupied for a good few hours but i think it's up to each individual to decide whether it's really 
 worth this amount of money for this content. Obviously i think it is or else i wouldn't have bought 
 it, but i'm a huge GT fan and so i couldn't really wait!
  
  - Updates are annoying. There are several long and frequent updates that sometimes fail, i'm currently 
 updating it and it's failed 3 times on me so far so this minor annoyance is somewhat irritating.
 
  
  - There is no damage in this game. Although i hear that in the full version there might be, whether 
 it will be included in the EU/US releases of prologue i'm not sure, 'tho i highly doubt it, wait 
 for the full game for damage i reckon (if at all.
  
  - Noticable con of it being in Japanese, but since we don't have a choice that this time i can't 
 really complain, and it's not a big problem, if anything it's interesting trying to understand 
 what it's saying from knowledge of previous GT games and such, tho by and large it's easy and obvious 
 how to get around.
  
  All in all, i think it's a very good game and a nice glimpse at what we can expect in late '08 
 or early '09 with the full game. If you think you can wait and aren't hugely interested in getting 
 a preview of it, i think you can give this one a miss, but if you want to see absolutely stunningly 
 beautiful visuals and a nice driving sim (that isn't DiRT or Motorstorm) , then i highly recommend 
 this and that you import it. Unless of course you can wait a few months, but i simply can't!
  
  Judging by the fact that i think it's going to be a nearly full price game, i'd give it the 
 following:
  
  Graphics - 10
  
  Sound - 9
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  Value - 6
  
  Overall - 8.0 GREAT!
  
  
  and would i recommend you import it - YES, as long as you think 
 you can get it from a reliable source e. g Ebay or Play-asia!
  
  I hope this has been of some use to you!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
