-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/grandtheftauto4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb character-driven story.
 Liberty City really does feel alive.
 Multiplayer modes that let 16 players go wild across the entire city.
 Genuinely funny radio and TV shows, comedy acts, and character dialogue.
 Controls are much improved over previous games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional problems with friendly AI.
 Some minor visual quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 10
Critic Score: 9.7, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 17,968 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar North
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Apr 29, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A superb single-player story mode and online support for up to 16 players make this the best Grand 
 Theft Auto game yet. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        
 Grand Theft Auto IV Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review  
              

 Justin Calvert causes some serious mayhem in this video review for Grand Theft Auto IV.       Watch 
 It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Superb character-driven story  &nbsp;   
    Liberty City really does feel alive  &nbsp;      Multiplayer modes that let 16 players go wild 
 across the entire city  &nbsp;      Genuinely funny radio and TV shows, comedy acts, and character 
 dialogue  &nbsp;      Controls are much improved over previous games.                The Bad   
          Occasional problems with friendly AI  &nbsp;      Some minor visual quirks.           
            After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Trophy 
 Support    Posted: Dec 19, 2008 12:04 pm PT      Not to be outdone by the Xbox 360 games achievements 
 system, the PS3 version of GTAIV now features trophy support. There are no fewer than 51 trophies 
 to collect, including a platinum one that can only be earned by first getting the other 50. &nbsp; 
               

  Stepping off a boat in the shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic as he arrives in Liberty City 
 at the start of Grand Theft Auto IV, you can tell immediately that Rockstar North's latest offering 
 is something quite special. Yes, this is another GTA game in which you'll likely spend the bulk 
 of your time stealing cars and gunning down cops and criminals, but it's also much more than that. 
 GTAIV is a game with a compelling and nonlinear storyline, a game with a great protagonist who 
 you can't help but like, and a game that boasts a plethora of online multiplayer features in addition 
 to its lengthy story mode. It's not without some flaws, but GTAIV is undoubtedly the best Grand 
 Theft Auto yet.  

           Liberty City has changed a lot since 2001.      

  One of the many things that set GTAIV apart from its predecessors is Liberty City, which is more 
 convincing as a living, breathing urban environment than anything that you've seen in a game before, 
 and bears little resemblance to its namesake in 2001's GTAIII. Liberty's diverse population believably 
 attempts to go about its daily business, seemingly unaware that several criminal factions are at 
 war in the city. Niko has no such luck. He's compelled to start working for one of the factions 
 shortly after arriving, when he learns that his cousin Roman has some potentially fatal gambling 
 debts. Niko's military experience makes him a useful freelancer for employers in the business of 
 killing each other, and though his reluctance to carry out their orders is often apparent, he does 
 whatever is asked of him in the hope that completing missions for other people will ultimately 
 give him the means to complete his own.  

  Actually, Niko doesn't have to do everything that is asked of him. On several occasions as you 
 play through his story, you'll be presented with decisions that afford you the option of doing 
 what you think is right rather than blindly following instructions. You don't necessarily have 
 to kill a target if he or she promises to disappear, but you have to weigh the risk of your employer 
 finding out against the possibility that the person whose life you spare might prove useful later 
 in the game, or even have work for you in the form of bonus missions. To say anything more specific 
 on this subject would be to risk spoiling one of GTAIV's most interesting new features, but suffice 
 it to say that every decision you make has consequences, and you'll likely want to play through 
 the game at least twice to see how the alternatives unfold.  

  Grand Theft Auto IV's story mode can be beaten in less than 30 hours, and there are so many optional 
 activities and side missions to take part in along the way that you can comfortably double that 
 number if you're in no hurry. The majority of the story missions task you with making deliveries 
 and/or killing people, and play out in much the same way as those in previous games. With that 
 said, most of the missions are a lot easier this time around, partly because Niko is a more agile 
 and efficient killer than any of his predecessors, and partly because the LCPD seemingly has better 
 things to do than hunt down an illegal immigrant who's gunning down undesirables all over the city. 
 Some of the more imaginative missions sprinkled throughout the story include a kidnapping, a bank 
 heist, and a job interview. The cinematic cutscenes associated with story missions are superbly 
 presented and are the sequences in which the game's characters really shine. Without exception, 
 the characters you encounter benefit from great animation, great voice work, and superbly expressive 
 faces. They're not always so impressive when they join you on a mission and refuse to do what they're 
 supposed to (for example, not following you on an escort mission, or failing to negotiate a doorway) . 
 Nevertheless, these problems are few and far between, and they're made less painful by the new 
 "replay mission" option that you're presented with whenever you fail.  

           He's a gun for hire, but Niko Bellic is the most likeable GTA protagonist to date.    
   

  New abilities in Niko's arsenal include scaling fences and walls anywhere he can get a foothold, 
 shimmying along ledges, and, most importantly, taking cover behind objects. The ability to stick 
 close to walls, parked cars, and the like at the touch of a button makes GTAIV's gunplay a huge 
 improvement over that in previous games, and, in tandem with the new targeting system, it also 
 makes it a lot easier. Enemies are rarely smart enough to get to you while you're in cover, and 
 given that you can lock your targeting reticle on to them even when they're hidden, all you have 
 to do is wait for them to poke their heads out and then pick them off with a minimum of effort. 
 Locking on to enemies targets their torso by default, but you can use the right analog stick to 
 fine-tune your aim and kill them more quickly with a headshot or two. Playing without using the 
 lock-on feature make things more difficult, but youll need to master the technique so that you 
 can shoot blindly at enemies from positions of cover when you dare not poke your own head out to 
 line up the shot.  

  Given the amount of trouble that you get into as you play through the story mode, it's inevitable 
 that the police are going to get involved from time to time, even when their presence isn't a scripted 
 feature of your mission. Liberty City's boys in blue are quick to respond when you get flagged 
 with a wanted level of between one and six stars, but they're not nearly as tough to deal with 
 as their counterparts in previous GTA games. They don't drive as quickly when pursuing you, they 
 rarely bother to set up roadblocks, and you'll need to blow up practically an entire city block 
 before the FIB (that's not a typo) show up. Furthermore, you're given an unfair advantage in the 
 form of your GPS system; when you're not using it to plot a valid route to any waypoint of your 
 choosing, it doubles as a kind of police scanner. Any time you have a brush with the law, the GPS 
 shows you the exact locations of patrol cars and cops on foot in your area, and highlights the 
 circular area (centered on your last known whereabouts) where they're concentrating their search. 
 To escape, all you need to do is move outside the circle and then avoid being seen for 10 seconds 
 or so, which is often best achieved by finding a safe spot and just sitting there. It's not a bad 
 system in theory, but in practice it makes dodging the law a little too easy, especially when your 
 wanted level is low and the search area is small.  

           The new cover system makes gunplay much easier than in previous games.      

  When 
 you're not running missions for criminals, taking part in street races, stealing cars to order, 
 or randomly causing trouble, you'll find that there are plenty of opportunities to unwind in Liberty 
 City. Some of these optional activities offer tangible rewards that can prove useful in missions 
 later on, whereas others are just a fun way to kill time and take in more of GTAIV's superb humor. 
 For example, you can watch television, listen to numerous different radio stations, check out some 
 genuinely funny shows (including some big-name acts) at cabaret and comedy clubs, and use a computer 
 to surf the in-game Internet.  

  GTAIV's Internet is filled with spoofs of all the kinds of Web sites that you'd only ever look 
 at accidentally or when you know there's no danger of getting caught. Some of them can be found 
 only by clicking on links in spam e-mails, whereas others are advertised prominently on the search 
 page. There's plenty of amusing stuff to find if you spend some time in one of the "TW@" Internet 
 cafes, but the most interesting site by far is an online dating agency through which you can meet 
 women who, if they like your profile, will agree to go on dates with you. Dating and socializing 
 with friends is something you can spend as much or as little of your time doing as you like, and 
 though the people you meet can occasionally be demanding to the point that they become irritating, 
 keeping them happy invariably benefits you in some way.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Grand Theft Auto IV Review for PlayStation 3 - Page 2 - GameSpot                         
           function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  How to unfollow Ashton Kutcher    //               GAMES:     GameSpot 
     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV: 
     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search                               
 iPhone Gaming:  With over 8000 games on the iPhone, we decided...               Terminator Salvation 
 Q&amp; A:  Producer Per Juhlen explains...               Fallout 3: Broken Steel DLC Q&amp; A:  Designer 
 Al Nanes...               X-Men Origins: Wolverine Launch Center:  Hes the best...       
              home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community 
      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports      tech      news 
            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All PS3 
 Games     PlayStation Network     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In 
    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game 
       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg                              Grand 
 Theft Auto IV Review          

 A superb single-player story mode and online support for up to 16 players make this the best Grand 
 Theft Auto game yet.               The Good            Superb character-driven story  &nbsp;   
    Liberty City really does feel alive  &nbsp;      Multiplayer modes that let 16 players go wild 
 across the entire city  &nbsp;      Genuinely funny radio and TV shows, comedy acts, and character 
 dialogue  &nbsp;      Controls are much improved over previous games.                The Bad   
          Occasional problems with friendly AI  &nbsp;      Some minor visual quirks.           
            After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Trophy 
 Support    Posted: Dec 19, 2008 12:04 pm PT      Not to be outdone by the Xbox 360 games achievements 
 system, the PS3 version of GTAIV now features trophy support. There are no fewer than 51 trophies 
 to collect, including a platinum one that can only be earned by first getting the other 50. &nbsp; 
               

   

  Keeping friends and dates happy means spending time with them and doing things that they enjoy, 
 and all of them have different personalities. Some friends like to join you for minigames such 
 as tenpin bowling, pool, or darts, whereas others prefer to go out for a meal, get drunk, or take 
 in a show. Of course, dates are much fussier than regular friends, and their opinions of you are 
 influenced not only by whether you pick them up on time, where you take them, and whether you try 
 your luck when dropping them at home, but also by a number of much more subtle factors. Dates will 
 comment on stuff like the car you drive, how you drive it, and the clothes you wear. They'll even 
 notice if you wear the same outfit two dates in a row, though not all of them will be bothered 
 by it. The rewards that you get when another character likes you enough vary depending on who it 
 is. Without wishing to give away specifics, befriending a lawyer can prove useful if you're having 
 trouble with the cops, for example, and having a nurse on your friends list can literally be a 
 lifesaver.  

           GTAIV's friends invariably come with benefits.      

  You'll keep in touch with your dates, friends, and some of your enemies using another of GTAIV's 
 great new features: a cell phone. It's hard to believe that something as simple as a cell phone 
 could add so much to a game like this, but it's implemented so well that it's hard to imagine leaving 
 any of Niko's safe houses without it. If you've ever used a cell phone in real life, you'll have 
 no problem operating this one and, given that it's controlled using only the D pad and a single 
 button, it's easy to call up acquaintances and take calls even while driving. There's no unwieldy 
 conversation system to deal with; you simply choose which friend you want to call, what you want 
 to talk about (it could be work, a fun activity, or asking for a favor) and then, assuming that 
 he or she answers the phone, the conversation plays out. Incoming calls are even easier, though 
 they occasionally come at inopportune (or amusing) times; hearing your cell-phone's signal interfere 
 with your car radio is the least of your worries when you consider the possibility of a date calling 
 you while you're with a prostitute or embroiled in a gunfight with the Mafia. Incidentally, new 
 ringtones and visual themes for your phone can be purchased via the in-game Internet, which is 
 typical of the incredible attention to detail that you'll come to take for granted as you play. 

  To give you some idea of just how much thought has clearly gone into the crafting of GTAIV, even 
 the act of stealing a parked car, which is still achieved by pushing a single button, can now result 
 in any number of different things happening. If the door is locked, as is often the case, Niko 
 will smash a window with his elbow or his foot to get inside. Once inside the car, he may need 
 to hot-wire it to get it started; you can speed up the process slightly by using the shoulder buttons 
 on your controller. If the car has an alarm, it'll sound for several seconds and cause the headlights 
 to flash on and off as you drive away -- practically begging any nearby cops to come after you. Stealing 
 cars with drivers and/or passengers inside opens up lots more possibilities, the most amusing of 
 which is someone (possibly you) getting an arm caught in a door and dragged along as the vehicle 
 speeds away.  

  Most of the vehicles in GTAIV, like those in previous games, have very loose handling that makes 
 it easy for you to perform Hollywood-style U-turns, skids around corners, and the like. You can 
 play through most of the missions without ever violating a traffic law if you really want to, but 
 you can get away with (and will have a lot more fun) driving like a lunatic, provided that you 
 don't collide with any police vehicles or mow down too many pedestrians. A neat touch when driving 
 with the default camera view is that the camera, which is positioned a few feet behind the rear 
 bumper of the car, centers on you rather than on the vehicle, effectively offering the vehicular 
 equivalent of an over-the-shoulder view. When you take the control of something sporty, the camera 
 also positions itself much closer to the ground, which adds to the sensation of speed.  

           The police are rarely far away, but escaping from them is easy for the most part.     

  The vehicle handling is difficult to fault, regardless of whether you're in a sports car, a garbage 
 truck, a motorcycle, a speedboat, or a helicopter. However, while driving, you might notice one 
 odd quirk that has been a constant ever since GTAIII: When taking the controls of certain vehicles, 
 you'll suddenly notice a  lot  more of the same vehicle on the roads. It's not a big deal, and 
 it isn't detrimental to the gameplay, but it's a little jarring if you get into one of the more 
 unusual vehicles in the game -- for example, the equivalent of either a Ferrari or a pickup truck -- and 
 suddenly find that the city is filled with them. That particular quirk is pretty common in some 
 of the multiplayer modes as well, though you'll likely be too busy keeping an eye out for other 
 players to take any notice when you venture online.  

  Getting online in Grand Theft Auto IV couldn't be easier. You simply select the multiplayer option 
 on your cell phone, choose which type of game you want to host or join, and then enter a lobby 
 and wait for the game to start. You won't be getting bored staring at a list of names while you're 
 waiting, though, because when you enter a lobby you actually enter an online version of Liberty 
 City in which you and up to 15 other players are free to do anything. There are weapons scattered 
 all over the place to ensure that things don't stay too friendly for very long.  

  There are more than a dozen different multiplayer modes to choose from, and although some of them 
 are variations on similar themes, there's certainly no shortage of variety. As the host of a multiplayer 
 session, you also have the freedom to greatly customize all of the game types with variables such 
 as friendly fire, police presence, weapons sets, traffic levels, radar functionality, and many 
 more. You can choose where you'd like your game to take place as well, considering that many gameplay 
 modes can be played either on a specific Liberty City island or across the entire map.  

  Even conventional 16-player modes such as Deathmatch and Race feel quite different than anything 
 that you've played before. And in addition to those, there are objective-based games in which you're 
 tasked with completing missions similar to those in the single-player game: a team-based Cops 'n 
 Crooks mode, a Turf War mode in which teams compete for control of territories, a carjacking mode, 
 three cooperative missions that support up to four players, and more. With the right group of people, 
 there's no reason why you can't have a lot of fun with every single mode that's available. We experienced 
 a few frame-rate issues and lag that caused other players and their vehicles to jump around the 
 screen at times, but for the most part GTAIV's online play is a real treat. One especially neat 
 touch is that, as a passenger in a vehicle being driven by another player, you can mark waypoints 
 on the GPS system for your driver using a map that tracks the locations of other players and objectives. 

           Multiplayer games are an opportunity for up to 16 players to get together in Liberty City. 

  If you're wondering about differences between the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Grand 
 Theft Auto IV, the truth is that there aren't many. The PS3 version can only be played after a 
 mandatory install that takes around 10 minutes, and its load times are a little shorter and less 
 frequent as a result. The visuals, which don't always hold up to close scrutiny but are impressive 
 during typical gameplay, are comparable and feature the same quirks (shadows that flicker, for 
 example) on both consoles. Likewise, the audio, which can take a lot of the credit for why Liberty 
 City feels so alive, is exceptional regardless of which console you have and how many speakers 
 it's hooked up to. True to form, GTAIV's soundtrack has plenty of great licensed songs and, unlike 
 other games we could mention, it doesn't force the artist and track information down your throat 
 with pop-up windows that detract from gameplay. However, if you  want  that information, you can 
 simply dial up a song-recognition service on your cell phone and, after a few seconds, receive 
 it in a text message. Genius.  

  In case you haven't guessed already, Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that you simply have to play. 
 The single-player game, which you can still play long after you complete the story, is the series' 
 best by far, and the multiplayer features are good enough that you'll likely have no problem finding 
 people to play with for many months to come. The minor flaws that you'll experience are no more 
 difficult to overlook than those in previous GTA games, and they're greatly outnumbered by the 
 features that will impress and surprise you anytime you think you've already seen everything that 
 the game has to offer. There's lots to see in Liberty City, so you'd best get started.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (962 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gta_gamer10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV in my opinion is the best game on the playstation 3 to date and has plenty 
 of brilliant and new editions to keep users hooked.
  
  Grand Theft Auto has always been a great series of games with some better than others and Grand 
 Theft Auto IV tops the lot with its realistic and excellent gameplay.
  
  One of the best aspects of Grand Theft Auto IV is the graphics as they are unique to the game with 
 their slightly different style to other games mainly due to the game engine used. The visuals are 
 spectacular with brilliant graphics of the enivronment which call for some spectacualr views and 
 sightseeing opportunities.
  
  The gameplay in Grand Theft Auto IV has been greatly improved with the new ability to take cover 
 making gunplay easier. One of the best things about the game is the way you can run people over. 
 Just the way they react when getting hit makes the game look that bit more realistic and is very 
 fun.
  
  The story is interesting and you immediately get hooked to neko as the new protagonist as he is, 
 in my opinion, the best gta character so far. The story is interesting because you different missions 
 and goings make you eager to know what will happen next. 
  
  The online is, in my opinion, one of the best, because it is very enjoyable with the different 
 game modes you can play and the different battles and races you can create and be involved in.
 
  
  There is not much rong with the game apart from some rocket launcher faults like it disappearing 
 through walls and through the ground.
  
  Good Points: Great gameplay, Brilliant visuals, good story, terrific new gameplay editions, good 
 online.
  
  Bad Points: Some Rocket Launcher faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  So we have come to GTA IV. The most waited PS3 game in the history so far maybe. When I heard that 
 they are gonna release this game I was really excited. I really liked the previous games (GTA Vice 
 City and GTA San Andreas) . Then came the day.... 5+ hours of gameplay.... I got bored!! The voice 
 acting really was good and so was the story, but the gameplay is just so boring. The missions were 
 innovative though and the ambience too. The cars felt really real, and there were many new "mini 
 games", such as dating, bowling, drinking (alchohol) , the internet, chasing criminals and other 
 stuff. But something is just missing. One thing is true: This game really is overrated! The multiplayer 
 was a little fun in the beginning. There were many different modes such as Cops & Crooks and Team 
 Deathmatch, but one thing that spoils the multiplayer is...... THE AUTO-AIM MODE. It's really frustrating 
 to die so easily.
  
  Who would I recommend this game to?
  If you like to roam around the city and kill everyone this can be plain fun. If you are after a 
 interesting story, this game could be yours too. Otherwise, I would say "DONT BUY IT!".
  
  The rating really depends on what you like.
  + Story (the Russian style really was okay)
  + 
 Voice acting
  + Cops & Crooks (multiplayer mode)
  + "Mini games"
  + Cars
  + You are free to roam around the city (as usual of course)
  
  - Same old gameplay
  - Soulless 
 multiplayer
  - In the end... not that much new stuff
  - Friends can be annoying
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  grand theft auto is a game of shooting driving and basically shooting its nothing really new to 
 the gta series but its really realistic like a couple shoots with a shotgun your dead or if a car 
 hits you or rolls over you on half health your basically dead. And the other thing thats new is 
 thats good is that its hard to find one person at once itll take a while before you can find that 
 person with the same thing so basically no two people are alike. What i found disapointing about 
 the game is that there are no planes unlike in Saints Row 2 you just have two or three different 
 types of helicoptors that are really hard to drive at first but youll get use to it same thing 
 with cars and motorcycles with cars its hard to turn unless you brake slide or whatever thats called 
 with motorcycles it basically everything you have to be really careful while driving espically 
 on low health one false move while going fast and your dead. the greatest thing thats about the 
 game is the story cause there are so many paths to take like choose to kill him or him type stuff. 
 And when you stop talking to somebody you can either find them thoughout a city to do side missions 
 or call them to hangout on your cellphone which is another great part because your cellphone helps 
 you do alot like call him to take you here. The weapons in the game are sorta of a dissapointment 
 because when you kill a cop theres no police batton theres only a gun with like 17 bullets. Also 
 they limit some mele weapons like the chainsaw which was like the best weapon in San Adres mele 
 of course and like i said the police batton and there really only one heavy weapon the rpg that 
 comes with 8 missles. The last thing ill say is that they limit the cheats down form like a million 
 to somewhere around 15 and they got rid of never die and no stars never die would be awesome and 
 if you kill a cop its three stars.
  
  The Good
  :Great story
  :Amazing Multiplayer
  :Awsome graphics
  :the cover system and controlls are good
  
  The Bad
  :Poor weapon choice
 
  :Unfair Stars
  :Hardly no flying vehicles
  :Anoying Characters
  
  Overall grand theft auto is a game to checkout but i wouldnt really consider it a continder for 
 game of the year even though that was like 3 months ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesknoxpolk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  I want to just say right off the bat that this is the best game ever and it might be till they 
 come out with a new GTA that is not "The lost and the damned" the next GTA might be better but 
 that is it.
  
  GRAPHIICS: Best on any console these graphics are even better that MGS4 they are so sweet!!!!!
 
  
  PEOPLE: More interesting than any other game you will play you should never get board playing this 
 game new stuff just keeps comming at you!
  
  GUNS: Pretty good voriety But it's really nothing new you got a rocket luncher, two or three difforent 
 shotguns, mini uzi, A-K 47, and a few more!
  
  CARS: They are not very nice but thay are the most fun to drive! In this GTA you can take a cab/taxi 
 to were you wanna go but you will have to pay and sometimes it aint so cheep. If you get roman to 
 like you you can call him and get a lift for free, and of course you can always steal cars to, but 
 in GTA4 there is a twist. If a car is locked you can bust the window out unlock it and get in and 
 hot wire it an drive off!!!!!!
  
  
  LIBERTY CITY: It almost looks like a difforent city then in GTA3 and thats a good thing. People 
 will get out there umbrellas if it starts to rain, if you bump in to them thay get mad, the little 
 stuff is what counts!
  
  
  
  So if you don't have this game please go get it at your game store I know in my last review I said 
 saints row 2 was the best game but I had not played this game yet so get this game!!!!!!!!!
  
  THANK YOU!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glokwerk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Like all games in the Grand Theft Auto series, this game is addicting. What is better than having 
 free range of a city with powerful weapons? How about a story that is amazingly fun.
  
  The Characters are awesome, maybe its just me but I think they did an excellent job trying to make 
 the player emotionalize the characters. Take an early character Brucie for example, he is loud, 
 abnoxious and completely self absorbed and I just want to kill him, but can't. And then there is 
 Dwayne (another early character) , who is probably one of my favorite characters in the game (in 
 my opinion the most human) , he has been screwed over time and time again and you can't help but 
 feel for him a bit.
  
  The new control scheme is great, I find it easier to use than the old style (which can also be 
 used with a quick option change) , and the cover system is amazing. In the old games where it was 
 straight "run and gun" this one offers the ability to hide behind cover (walls, barrels, cars, 
 ect.) which makes missions where you have to gun down several people in a small room a little easier, 
 but not too easy. The driving controls have also been improved, but unfortunatley not the handling 
 of the cars which is easy enough to overcome anyway. The only downside with the vehicles i have 
 noticed so far is that there are no airplanes and no parachutes, which I loved about San Andreas.
 
  
  Libert City... wow, the city has changed a lot from GTA3. The city is a lot bigger and I mean A 
 LOT, drive times can be almost abnoxiously long which makes the plethera of cabs almost a neccessity. 
 When not playing the story or running on a murderous rampage through the city, there are also plenty 
 of other worth while things to do, and no i'm not talking about hookers (an essential in the GTA 
 world) . The comedy club is probably my favorite, not actually part of the game, thing in the game. 
 You get to see some of Katt Williams no good enought for tour or CD jokes and a British comedian, 
 whos name I cannot recall, who also spouts some awesomly B rated material. But on to what most 
 people find themselves playing the game for, the murderous rampage through the city. Way more fun 
 in this game, the police have stepped up their game, and are way harder to outrun and outgun once 
 you get to higher wanted levels (the first 2 or 3 stars are easy to get away from) .
  
  Overall GTA 4 is a don't miss title on the PS3, one of the few out there. Everything about this 
 game is outstanding; gameplay, controls, difficulty, and the amount of time you can spend playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Lengthy storyline bound to keep you busy for 30-45 hours -Non-liner gameplay giving great replay 
 value -A lot of side missions and fun activities to keep you busy -Bonus content worth of around 
 thirty hours of gameplay alone 
  -A huge city full of exploration -Realistic characters and emotions -Solid playable multiplayer 
 -Worth more than what you pay 
  
  The Bad:
  -Minor but many visual kinks -Very unstable shadowing -A couple of A. I. issues
  
  Grand Theft 
 Auto IV is one of those rare games that make for an unforgettable experience. Ranging from subtle 
 details that you will leave to the sheer colossal size of Liberty City, Grand Theft Auto IV is 
 bound to keep you busy for many many weeks.
  
  Yet, it isn't perfect 10 / 10 material. Certainly, it's A+ material, but there are a few disturbances 
 that ruin its near perfection. Starting off, there are many visual problems you wish weren't there. 
 Don't get me wrong, the game looks beyond fantastic. But many characters are badly rendered and 
 do not easily blend in with the gorgeous city.
  
  Another minor problem is the A. I. Often, the A. I will be stupid and will act in awkward way. Imagine 
 walking up the stairs with a friend and he/she suddenly starts walking back down. This isn't the 
 only type of A. I issue but others are there as well. And from experience, this can sometimes prove 
 to be just too aggravating.
  
  Moving away from the bad points, I will move onto one of the things that extremely impressed me. 
 That thing is the simply vast and beautiful city. It has three huge major islands and a few small 
 ones. But seriously, they add up to an extremely huge city. Furthermore, by gaining altitude while 
 piloting a chopper, you might just see how large it is and the excelling design. Carrying on with 
 the design, many monuments such as the "Statue of Happiness" and the other skyscrapers are all 
 extremely well designed and heavy polished from any possible mistakes.
  
  Another terrific detail about the city is how it breathes. There are these subtle details that 
 add up to a breathing credible city. Those minor details might include drivers who might get into 
 a fight because either one crashed into the other. Another one is the fact that there are workers 
 riding on the back of garbage trucks, just how it is in real life. Another detail is that you may 
 see workers sweeping the streets. 
  
  Furthermore, the reactions of the people are naturally random and simplynatural. Crash into someone, 
 they might step out of the car, pull you out, and start a fight with you. You may try sticking 
 someone up with your gun while they're in the car. Some will hide under the dashboard, others will 
 run away, and others may just step outside the car and give up.
  
  Now, moving onto the story, what is your impression about the plot of a Grand Theft Auto game? 
 Judging by the past, you start off as a character that loses his money or dignity and tries to 
 earn it back. That wasn't very interesting and very typical. Well, rejoice because you won't be 
 seeing that here.
  
  ..::MINOR SPOILERS FOLLOW::..
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, a European from an unnamed "Old Country" who travels to the so-called 
 "Land of Opportunity." He lands in Liberty City, which is known to those of you who played Grand 
 Theft Auto III. Why does Niko land there?
  
  Well, for one, his light-hearted cousin was tempting him with all sorts of lies. And second, Niko 
 wants to grow and become something important. There are other reasons but stating them would put 
 a lot of spoilers.
  
  But it doesn't go as smoothly as Bellic had imagined. He ends up getting involved with mobs, gang 
 members, drug dealers, and other corrupt groups he just doesn't want to join. 
  
  Now Niko is as hesitant as imaginable toward actually working for said groups. He wants to cleanse 
 himself of sin and start on a fresh new page. And it would be clearly noticeable that he really 
 doesn't want to do crime. But as a natural character, Bellic suffers from weakness. His need for 
 money is what drives him, what controls him. 
  
  And as you progress you will meet all kinds of people, all suffering. Some choose to hide the pain, 
 some let it loose, and some just talk about it. So the story basically sort of breathes as does 
 the city.
  
  ..::END OF SPOILER::..
  
  I will continue with the story but in a non-spoiler way. 
  
  The most noticeable thing is how 
 non-linear it is. Many a time you are given choices. You may have to kill one of two people who 
 want each other killed. Your choice will have its benefits and consequences. It just depends on 
 what you see is best. And just to make things clear, if you want to complete the game 100% and 
 get those valuable trophies you will have to go through the game at least twice, as it has two 
 possible endings. 
  
  Carrying onto the game-play, Grand Theft Auto IV certainly has a very expanse world full of exploration. 
 You can certainly rush through the story if necessary in just under 30 hours, twice as much as 
 any regular story-based game. 
  
  And of course we have the side missions, a lot of them. You can deliver drugs, stolen cars, pick 
 up people, and all other kinds of things.
  
  Some missions may not even be clearly shown. You may just see a tiny purple blip on your map. Its 
 subtlety requires that you pay attention to every detail. Approach that blip and you may find someone 
 who requires a service. They usually don't pay well, but it's a nice way to pass the time if you 
 want to relax from the story or just waste time.
  
  Furthermore, there are so many characters besides yourself that you can interact with in a number 
 of ways. There are first and foremost your bosses. There are also your friends and dates. For bosses 
 for example, the more work you do, the more respect they will have for you. Gain enough respect, 
 they would like to hang out with you. When not doing missions, take out your phone, call them and 
 arrange some activity you would like to do. It can be playing pool, darts, bowling, riding a helicopter, 
 taking a short cruise on a boat, or other things. The more activities you do with them, the more 
 they will like you. They like you enough; they will start doing you favors. Some may sell you cheap 
 guns, some may give you free taxi rides, and other things that would prove extremely helpful.
 
  
  That sums it up. In general, Grand Theft Auto IV is a greatly lengthy and unforgettable game which 
 had a few minor bumps along the way 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koi-Neon-X
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto (PS1) was something I've never experienced in a video game before. But, I know 
 after a couple of playing it I wanted MORE! even then I felt the freedom this series had to offer. 
 I spent alot of time playing this game.
  
  Fast forward to the release of Grand Theft Auto III (PS2) . To make a long story short I worked 
 for a retail store in Japan and so the trickle of American releases was watched like a hawk by 
 me. I must have driven the electronic department associates CRAZY. I'd ask every afternoon "is 
 it in yet? did we get it yet?" it must have been sweet revenge because when it did come out they 
 didn't tell me THE SECOND IT CAME IN they told me it was already on the store shelves. Needless 
 to say I took my 10 minute break and bought the game. After work I never drove home so fast in 
 my life! I was actually speeding home to play this game!
  
  It changed everything. Finally the game I have been waiting for where I can do anything, anytime, 
 anywhere. I was hooked. Again.
  
  
  Then Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2) came out and again I was waiting inside the Circuit City 
 (RIP) pestering the associates there as well. "is it in yet? did you get it yet?" when the first 
 box opened I grabbed my reserved copy and paid my fee. That game had the best soundtrack ever. 
 The amount of talent on it was amazing. I also loved being able to own my own businesses and listening 
 to the characters jockey for power in Miami.
  
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was an EPIC! I happened to have worked for EB games so I had no worries 
 as I knew when it came in and whether we got it or not! highly anticipated? you have no idea! I 
 wanted this game with feverish passion and it stood as my favorite GTA game ever. I mean we're 
 talking California, the place of my birth and you get Las Vegas as a level! not to mention the 
 first time I walked up to the lear jet and was actually able to fly it! do you know how long I've 
 waited for THAT moment? plus, the game was so deep as far as things you can do (parachute, rocketpack, 
 work out in the gym! get muscled or fat!) the gear you were able to rock. 
  
  
  So here I am waiting outside a Gamestop for the midnight launch for Grand Theft Auto IV (PS3) . 
 I'm there with a few other souls as we discuss what we're going to do the minute we get the game. 
 We also trade barbs with the XBOX 360 owners as far as the DLC will be concerned (which is now 
 known as the Lost & the Damned) I didn't care at this point I just wanted the game! at that point 
 is was like a fever. I never anticipated a game so much (since GTA III on the PS2) that I actually 
 went to my FIRST midnight launch. Well, the second I bought and paid for my game I walked cautiously 
 past those who were still waiting in line for their copy and the stragglers who were foolish enough 
 NOT to pre-order it.
  
  NOTE: the EB games I used to work for got ROBBED and MACED for copies of GTA IV. Good thing I quit! 
 hope my former co-workers are okay!
  
  Okay, so I get home and install the game. It took a LOOOOONG time to get up and running (going 
 on 1AM and I have to be up at 6AM) but, I didn't care. I waited months for this game and soon I'd 
 be playing it.
  
  The graphics are without a doubt what I expected from the PS3. But, just how much I'd discover 
 as I played the game. The city breathes and the people actually react to what you are doing. The 
 music (JNR: Jazz Nation Radio 108.5 is my favorite. Favorite Song: ALL OF THEM!) yet, I am really 
 fond of Chet Baker's "Let's Get Lost" it even has Kanye West's "Flashing Lights"
  
  The amount of detail in this game is simply staggering. The first time I boarded a helicopter and 
 was able to fly to the Statue Of Liberty I had to pick my jaw up off the floor. What's even better 
 is going to the tallest building, landing there, and just for the hell of it jumping off. It is 
 a long way down folks!
  
  The characters in this game are interesting too. I like Niko Bellic. I really wanted to help the 
 guy out! and the enemy characters I wanted to eliminate when the time presented itself. The game 
 also gives you choices that you have to make later in the game which I enjoyed which adds replay 
 value to an already addictive gem. The one thing I would have liked to see is an entrepreneur spirit 
 and be able to own business within the city! to own a bar or resturant would have added a great 
 dimension. But, that's a minor flaw and really not needed as this game is deep! this is just so 
 much mileage to cover and you'll do it in style. Many cars, trucks, and motorcycles to choose from 
 (my ride was the Cavalcade which I guess means Escalade) the driving mechanics are NOT THAT BAD 
 and take some getting used to. Things are also made easier by a GPS system that directs you where 
 you need to go (and in certain vehicles it even TELLS you: you have arrived at your destination)
 
  
  
  Of course there is the bowling which will help those of you who happen to use PS3 HOME. There are 
 comedy shows, TV shows, bars where you can actually get drunk (when you leave the bar your character 
 slurs and stumbles and when you get behind the wheel you see the blurring effects and increase 
 your chance to get busted for a DUI/DWI)
  
  
  The game is so realistic it is scary. I spent more time in Liberty City when this game came out 
 than I did in the real world. I was immersed in every detail of this game. 
  
  The game deserves its positive rating. I can't understand the complaints from people and was in 
 shock by the amount of used copies I saw in Gamestop! again another game I had to sell and another 
 game I bought and got back! the real good games you don't get rid of. This is one of those games. 
 Plus, the online multiplayer is a dream come true. You actually get to play as cops and robbers. 
 Or if that is not for you there is a free roam where you just drive around the city checking out 
 the sights or cause mayhem in other modes.
  
  
  The game is a perfect 10. I still play through it from time to time looking to get lost in the 
 allure of days filled with being up to no good and walking at night in the rain looking for the 
 next encounter or other things to get mixed up in. If you don't own this game go out and buy it! 
 for those of you playing the game for the first time: get ready for an experience of a lifetime. 
 If you love the gangster genre then look no further. No other game comes close. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto will always be the original gangster and each game in the series just gets better. 
 Now Rockstar please make the next one take place in Japan. Let me enjoy Tokyo, Yokohama, and all 
 the other places. Until then I look forward to the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GraffittiGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  This review is about all 3 versions of GTA IV.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is certainly a famous game that is known to every ear. It combines action, 
 adventure and plenty of shooting and driving to keep you holding your joystick for hours and hours 
 of enjoyable play. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV exists on the PlayStation 3, XBOX 360 and PC. The PC version was out a few 
 months after the game was released on the console versions. It requires very high specs and a proper 
 video card to work on your computer. It also has some issues with its frame rate. The console versions 
 being better in graphics, the PC edition excels in its exclusive in-game video editor. You can 
 use it to capture videos of your game play and add background music, video effects and view your 
 game play from different camera angles. Also, the PC version's multiplayer supports up to 32 players. 
 Imagine the fun you'd have trying to kill the other 31 players on land, water or in the air.
  
  The console versions are probably more pleasurable since you don't have to fiddle around with 
 the difficult controls. They have a very good frame rate, great graphics (best displayed on an 
 HD television) , and immense online play. I would recommend you buy 1 console version and 1 PC version 
 for enjoyment of GTA IV to the greatest extent.
  
  Now, when it comes to the setting and plot of Grand Theft Auto IV, Rockstar Games show us that 
 they have done a perfect job. "Liberty City is the real star of Grand Theft Auto IV", that's what 
 one of GameSpot's editors said in one of his reviews, and he's right. The game is set in Liberty 
 City, a modified version of New York. It is so vivid and realistic you'd mistake it for the real 
 NYC. Walking in the streets of Liberty City, you'll see people chatting, talking on their cell 
 phones, smoking, preaching (a few of Liberty City's civilians actually do that) , shooting or running 
 away from the police, and a few even car jack cars to beat up their drivers (you sometimes are 
 the unlucky driver, unless you fight back) . You won't find the same person in Liberty City twice 
 as every civilian looks different than the other. If they had an unpleasant experience with you 
 before, they'll do either three things: fight you, run away or even call the cops. The trees, cars, 
 water, buildings, roads and people all look exceedingly realistic. Liberty City is three quarters 
 the size of San Andreas, but it has no empty spaces like meadows as everything in Liberty City 
 is very detailed.
  
  LC includes:
  1) Restaurants: Cluckin' Bell, BugerShot and some diners. You will also find food stands on the 
 streets such as hot dog stands.
  2) Weapon Shops
  3) Comedy Clubs
  4) Strip Clubs
  5) A Museum 
  6) A Correctional Facility (another term for prison)
  7) Subways and Train Stations
 
  8) Clothes Shops
  9) Tw@ Internet Cafs
  And a lot of other locations..
  
  The game has in-game Internet which you can visit from the Tw@ Internet cafs around the city. 
 Dirt also builds up on cars over time and can be cleaned at one the many car washes in the game. 
 Is your car wrecked? Why don't you visit one of Liberty City's finest Pay 'n' Spray garages? Also, 
 you can watch television at any of your safehouses. There are also many other things to keep you 
 busy in Liberty City such as dating and hanging out with friends.
  
  The plot/story of the game starts with our protagonist, Niko Bellic, a 30 year old Serbian immigrant 
 newly-arriving to Liberty City. He was drawn to Liberty City by his cousin Roman who's been sending 
 him e-mails about all the condos, women and sport cars he has gained upon arriving at LC and that 
 he was living the "American Dream". Niko learns that all his cousin's e-mails were lies to draw 
 him to LC to help out his cousin who was over his head in debt. Gradually, Niko climbs up the criminal 
 world, meeting all sorts of crooks on his way to solving the mysteries of his past during the war. 
 The story itself is intriguing. 
  
  Finally, the console version of the game supports up to 16 players on either the PlayStation Network 
 or XBOX Live. There are about 15 modes in multiplayer of which the most common Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, and Turf War (GTA IV version of king of the hill) . There's also the clever and fun 
 GTA Race, in which you'll be racing the other players and trying to get to the finish line by any 
 means possible. Everything goes. There's also the mode Hangman's N. O. O. S. E., in which you'd be 
 trying to hold off the N. O. O. S. E. (GTA IV version of S. W. A. T.) while trying to help Kenny Petrovic, 
 a Russian Mob Boss, escape Francis International Airport. The multiplayer has a rank system. You 
 start off as a rank 0, then work up the ranks, gaining new clothing and characters with every new 
 rank you reach.
  
  To sum up, Grand Theft Auto IV is a must play for all of you out there willing to try something 
 fun and different. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeonfollower
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:12 am PT
Review:  Grand Teft Auto is The game of the year! Sorry if I just been reviewing this game this month, because 
 I haven't got the time to written this review deck people of Gamespot. I just write spontaneously 
 about this amazing game in my sister's room and of course my sister's computer... he.. he.. so bear 
 with me. So, on to the game. Niko Bellic is a hero of this stratuous game and protagonist man of 
 independent city of Liberty. When I saw this game by my friends house and just look at it, I am 
 amazed by it's sheer relativity it brings onto the screen as my friend play it. Like, driving a 
 car at a high speed and suddenly you go for the unfortunate wall waiting to be break by unfortunate 
 you and there he ( Niko Bellic) goes off the window shield and BAM! His body is slamming into the 
 wall in the street and bleeding to the death. And hen your car is passing a ditch grade, the wheel 
 or rather the car wheel has a slight rubber sound that resemble the reality sound effect of a car 
 wheel sliding through the grate. The awesome one is that, forgive me I'm not supposed to write 
 about this but I just can't hold back the river about this game: if you spending time to a local 
 whore and after you finished with that woman, if you point a gun to their head they will say things 
 like: "Hey man! I just suck your d***!" Excuse my language here my fellow Gamespot reviewer. When 
 a game is made that realistically, you can't help but laugh your soul out. I'm laughing until my 
 eyes hurt. Rockstar is succesfully bringing to you their unprecedented work of art in the gaming 
 world. The graphic is top notch and the voice acting seems real to me. I'm glad that I'm buying 
 this game for my unquench thirst of real life gaming and constant 3D gaming need. The bottom line 
 is, you can't have that feeling of playing GTA IV and just forget about it. This game will etched 
 in your memory forever like your first love. GTA IV have a many story ending depending what actions 
 you do when you choose while you doing the objective given by your friend in the game. That gives 
 the game more valuable replay value and it's really addictive. The multiplayer mode is not rewarding 
 I think. Just the racing multiplayer is kind of amusing to me. Well, that's all time I have for 
 reviewing this excellent game. Take care people and good gaming! Regards, zeonfollower 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fujiv1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of GTA for years now playing vice city, san andres on ps2 then pc with number 
 3 a very well made and exciting game.
  There was alot of hype about number 4 saying how it wont beat the old one's and all this but i 
 knew being a fan of the series i would make my own descision about it.
  Firstly i will start off with the graphics they are amazing so crisp and alot of attention to deatil 
 one time i could even read small print on a piece of newspaper flying around through my sniper 
 now thats what i call fantastic.
  Now lets get on with the story line your an ilegal imagrant and your cousin is a guy called roman 
 he promises you that hes going to make it big fast cars nice house's but when you get there your 
 introduced with a tatty appartment you have to live in and through out the story your saving his 
 arse and making it big on your own. You will meet some intresting characters through your long 
 single player mode ending up on the wrong side of the law nicking cars and doing a bank raid its 
 all part of the fun and the makers of this game Rockstar have come a very long way from which was 
 cartoon graphics as i call it to amazing and well thought out story i mean if your a fan of GTA 
 you know what i am getting at you wont find many games that you will play for 20hours and you know 
 you have still a long way to go.
  Its money well spent one of the best games i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasescott
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  GTA series have given us the games we all love to hate, love to play, love to spend hrs. on end 
 away from the real world. GTA IV is no exception. You are out of place in America & thrown into 
 the life you were trying so hard to leave behind. The thing that makes GTA IV different is you 
 can chose to kill or let them live. How your life will be better or worse. The decisions you make 
 will effect the out come one your character. Worth playing, worth buying, worth getting out of 
 the sun for & making those long boring days @ work seem worth coming home to finally play your 
 beloved GTA. That is the good. Now for the Down side:
  GTA IV does make some of the missions want to rip your hair out or someone close to you. It can 
 be very frustrating @ times & very why can't I do this. However that is the only bad side to GTA 
 IV. I do love this game, will play it more, more, more, & more. Beta it many more times & get my 
 fill till the next GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Well, you should be familiar with the GTA series. Its one of the most popular of all time. We have 
 had a number of GTA's. All great violant games. But now, GTA IV, has topped the mark. Hell, its 
 topped the mark on everything. GTA IV is one of the best games ever. There is a lot of critisicm 
 thrown at it. But why? GTA IV is truly amazing and highly addictive with limitless possibilities. 
 Now the story mode focuses you on Nico Bellic, who has moved to Liberty City by his cousin in letters 
 telling him what a mansion he owned with cars and hot woman and all that. So Nico comes over to 
 find that it is a lie and an utter tip. Liberty City, he finds out, is full of gangsters, mobsters, 
 riots and poachers. Its a violant underworld that he cant escape from. Nico is forced to stay on 
 the island due to his cousin, Roman, who has made money deals that he wont pay to people. He gets 
 beat up, assualted by a knife and more. So Nico is forced to stay and help his cousin from getting 
 killed. And through that, he meets Michelle, his girlfriend and friends. He quickly settles into 
 the island and finds that he gets caught up in a gangster life with loads of guns and armour. Before 
 he knows it, hes out doing missions for people, assassinating targets, killing people and chasing 
 people in cars. There is hundreds of missions, like literally 70 or 80. Seriously! Some missions 
 are extreme and envlove you braking into a safehouse and killing 25 guys with AK 47's. There are 
 a huge variety of guns and weapons to try out. And if you cant be assed to collect all the weapons 
 scattered through the island then use the 10,000 cheats you can get for the game. The guns are 
 all suited differently for different situations and are a load of fun to muck around with. There 
 are 3 islands in GTA IV. Well 4 if you count the small island at the right side. Theres a massive 
 amount of square miles to travel. You have to unlock the other islands. Well you knid of have to. 
 If you hav'nt you can still go over but you get a 6 star wanted level and theres S. W. A. T and cops 
 and choppers everywhere. You cant escape. Its impossible. There a great amount of trophies in the 
 game that are great fun to collect. Online is really good and has "free aim" so that it does'nt 
 lock on to the target to make it harder. There is nowhere you cant go in the city. Want to go on 
 a roof in a good sniper spot? Then easily just get a chopper and jump smoothly onto it. Simple. 
 You can get anywhere on the chopper and its interesting and fun to discover all the cool buildings, 
 cranes and stuff that is great camping spots for picking out civilians below or RPG'ing police 
 choppers. If you nick a car the you can switch radio stations. There are a few dozen radio stations, 
 each playing licensed songs for the game! Sometimes its just fun to park your car and listen to 
 the music. And on the radio station theres this thing where you can phone in and choose what song 
 you want played. You get a phone in GTA IV which lets you take photos, call friends, customize 
 wallpaper, activate cheats and go online. The phone is a great feature. Its a load of fun getting 
 drunk too at the pub. Nico's vision goes all blurry and dizzy and the screen moves and wobbles. 
 Its hard to drive and you usually end up crashing and getting the fuzz on you. Theres entertainment 
 places as well, you can play pool, darts, snooker, theatre or go to the strip club and more. Theres 
 too many things to do, in a good way. It will keep you entertained for ages. Im not bored of it 
 and never will be. Its so cool, you can swim, fly and everything. Theres stunts, loads of cool 
 hiding spots and glitches and trophies are easy and fun to collect. Each car had different handling, 
 speed and radio stations. You can even go undercover as a cop and take down most wanted people 
 which is fun. You can even go in the in-game websites at he internet cafe. You can go on the internet 
 from GTA IV in game shop! Its so cool. Theres dating websites where you can plan to meet people 
 and loads more. Yep, I know, too much to do, and yes, I know in a good way. This game is a bit 
 tooo good, in a good way and provides so much entertainment. One thing that could have improved 
 it is the multiplayer. If there was a split screen 2-4 players. That would have been awesome! But 
 it does'nt matter, cause its already too good anyway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LiL_E
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 is the most recent game in the series and lives up to all the hype and is easily 
 the best grand theft auto to came out since the first ever one long ago.
  
  Grand theft auto 4 sees you back in liberty city again niko bellic which is you has come to america 
 to find a better life with his cousin roman who has already been in america for some time. 
  
  Grand theft auto 4 has the same basic elements as the other games you do missions to earn money 
 and build your empire. You can jack cars, which include trucks, buses, sports cars, taxi, dumpsters, 
 motorbikes etc. You can change cloths, kill people, play with your weapons, ecape cops, go to the 
 strip club, comdey club, restartant, play pool, bowling, darts, have a drink and get drunk and 
 fall all over the place etc.
  
  In Grand theft auto 4 there are a major few differencs in previous grand theft autos everytime 
 you wanted to do a cheat you had to keep re-typing the buttons which became a bit annoying but 
 in this one you enter the cheat into ur mobile phone and thts it all u have to do is go to cheats 
 in ur phone and its there for you to use as many times as you want. Your phone can also be used 
 to call your contacts to go bowling and other stuff you can also call your contacts and do jobs 
 for them as well roman has a taxi services you can call when you get later through th game. On 
 your phone you can chose ur own background, ringtones which you can get from a website at an internet 
 cafe in the game your phone is a really helpful tool and a big improvement in Grand theft auto 
 4. 
  
  The other massive change in Grand theft auto 4 is the way you get around in past games you would 
 have to drive form island to island which was so boring and took up a lot of your time in the game 
 you can call a taxi and it will take you to nearly anywhere you want to go. 
  
  The weapons in Grand theft auto 4 are fun to shoot and work very well also in gta 4 there is a 
 cover system you can walk up to a wall or car and press R1 to cover then you can blind fire or 
 shoot then go back behind the wall.
  
  Grand theft auto 4 also has online mutiplayer which is very fun.
  
  GTA4 is one of the best 
 games you will play with its slick graphics, fun and exctitng gameply and no more hassel or getting 
 around its an experience you are sure not to forget anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV Review (3/24/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Great Story/Characters- An immersive, violent tale of revenge, betrayals, and broken dreams. Niko 
 Bellic and some of the supportive cast can be considered some of the best new characters book/movie/game 
 characters this year.
  
  Liberty City- Huge, immersive, detailed, and incredibly realistic depiction of New York City. The 
 city is the main star of the game, you may play as Niko but the citizens of LC continue on with 
 their own life.
  
  Combat- Heavily improved over the past Grand Theft Auto's, GTAIV's combat has been reworked as 
 an over-the-shoulder third person shooter. The cover system is a welcome addition, something the 
 series always needed. Best played with the auto aim turned off. 
  
  Great Value- The main quest will take you over 30 hours to complete. With that you also have side 
 quests such as assassination missions, races, and playing darts/pool/bowling.
  
  Great Presentation- The graphics, cutscenes, music, menus, and atmosphere are all blended into 
 one polished package. 
  
  Cons:
  
  Different Tone- Although not a bad thing, GTAIV has a much more serious tone, and therefore doesn't 
 include some of the crazier aspects of past GTA's such as flamethrowers, katanas, and jetpacks. 
 This also means just disregarding the main story and going on a killing rampage isn't as fun as 
 it used to be. If you want GTA San Andreas 2, you're better off with the Saints Row series.
  
  Some Repetitive Missions- Some of the missions are repetitive, don't make much sense in the 
 story, and are there for no reason. Should have been left out.
  
  No In-mission Checkpoints- If you die in a mission, you have to start from the beginning. Can get 
 annoying in some of the longer missions.
  
  Multiplayer- Although it sounds amazing on paper, multiplayer can be entertaining alone for awhile 
 but is only fun with some friends. 
  
  Overall: A (Another great entry in the series, although not for those who are looking for a San 
 Andreas 2)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  Well, Gta 4 is one of the best games for Ps3, not the best. I think is a bit overated game. It 
 doesn; t woth the total 10. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very improved since Gta San Anderas. However, I think the graphics aren'y enough 
 for PS3 standards. When you have a console with woths 400$ you demand something more, something 
 incredible, something amazing. But the graphics are not the game. 
  8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Gta IV is an very good game. The use of motion-controls in some cases (piloting, etc) make the the 
 gameplay of this game fabulous.
  10/10
  
  Controls:
  The controls haven't changed a lot from San Andreas. The controls are very easy to use. I have 
 got used to them for the 1st time i played it.
  10/10
  
  Overall:
  We can expect much more from this console with ''real-looking'' graphics. This game doesn't use 
 smartly the ability of Ps3 throught HDMI. Almost, but not enough. You can buy better games, in my 
 opinion.
  9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sartaj084
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  I hated the gta series until I played gta 4 at my bro's place and decided to buy it.
  
  Gta 4 is a total heads up for all gta fans. There is absolutely nothing bad about it.
  
  The 
 feature of having a mobile phone, and using it for making calls and other features of the mobile 
 is a lot of fun. The story is really entertaining. The multiplayer is one of the best features 
 of the game and is loved by all. 
  
  There are many ways of exploring the city. Finding the flying pigeons is one way to explore the 
 city, Steve's car theft is another way of exploring the city and is cool.
  
  Taking friends out is one of the main features and is very good as you can do stuff which can be 
 done in real life like pool, bowling, eating, drinking, going to gentlemen's club etc. 
  
  in the end, it deserves a 10/10. It is recommended by me (and many more) to buy the best game ever 
 and make the best of your ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Splosher
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  You know you have a great franchise when one of your games scores a 9/10 and is not as good as 
 other games in the series. The GTA franchise has clunked out many revolutionary games, many high-selling 
 spin-offs and has probably the highest overall ratings, maybe ever. Anyway, enough of bigging up 
 Rockstar lets cut to the review.
  
  Grand Theft Auto was a disappointment to me, and many people I know, this is not because it is 
 a bad game, in fact it's one of the best games I have ever played, I just expected... more. Liberty 
 City, the place where GTA IV is set, is not nearly as large or environmentally varied as San Andreas. 
 Where San Andreas had varied cities, rolling countryside, deserts and more, Liberty City consists 
 of 3 large islands that consist of a cityscape that is very samey and has very little variation 
 between the three of them.
  
  Also there is not a lot of variety in the missions, follow someone, clear a warehouse, escape the 
 cops. Not all the missions are like this but a good majority are, especially after half way through 
 the story. 
  
  But forget about those thing and you have a deeply immersing story mixed with a next gen gloss, 
 never thought imaginable for a GTA game. Also the animations and physics have been improved tenfold, 
 the cars feel weighty and when you make Nico walk, it actually looks and feels like a real human 
 is walking.
  
  Also Rockstar've added a few new things to brighten up the dull streets, Nico now has access to 
 a mobile phone, the internet and SatNav. These things may seem small but add an extra dimension 
 to the game. Once you use the SatNav you will never be able to go back. Surfing the net is also 
 a joy, you have access to a dating website, an Email account and access to many random sites, each 
 as hilarious as the last. Then theres the mobile phone, you use it to start some missions, to do 
 side missions or call the cops. The mobile also allows you to start "socialising" probably one 
 of the most boring yet essential things in the game. Basically as the story progresses you start 
 meeting more people and getting friendly with them, when you become friends you have a relationship 
 percentage, keeping it high will earn you rewards such as cheap guns or a taxi. But keeping it 
 high is the boring part, you have to phone your friend, ask them to go somewhere, pick them up, 
 drive them to the place, drive them back to their place. This can take up to 20 minutes and gets 
 boring when you get one or two calls every hour. 
  
  But some of these social events are quite fun once you're there, if you go drinking then when you 
 leave the bar it's hard to walk and the screen goes all wobbly. You can go to a cabaret or a comedy 
 club which are geniously created, the animation is spot on and some of the performances can actually 
 make you laugh out loud.
  
  There is also a new cover system that makes the shooting a whole lot more tactical, for example 
 you could be using a car as cover and be in a really good position to pick of a few people but 
 risk the car blowing up, you could also move towards a wall where you will be in a less defensive 
 position but not have to worry about the car blowing up. This adds a much needed element to the 
 shooting aspect of GTA and really makes the fighting more fun.
  
  There are also the old GTA quirks, there are things to find/kill/help as well as some completely 
 random easter eggs, such as the beating heart in the statue of happiness or the insane shouting 
 man outside your apartment.
  
  Yet with all these extra things and the next gen shine, GTA IV does not compare with San Andreas, 
 it looks better on the surface and has a few gimmicks, but the fun of exploring a massive world 
 has gone, the things that gave the game replay value have all but disapeared. GTA IV has become 
 a much more mature game while loosing some of its "off the wall" spirit. I gave it a 9/10 because 
 I compared it to San Andreas, if not then it probably would have scored higher, but with the massive 
 hype and the last game being so good I could not give a better score.
  
  There are many things I haven't even mentioned, such as the new police system, it would just take 
 too long to talk about everything and I don't want to bore you too much. Buy the game, it's worth 
 it, but you wont experience the same feeling of joy as you did while playing San Andreas, it's 
 not obvious why, it may just be too pristine to be GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada_konke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  There, I just said it!! Where the hell was the secret military base unlike in San Andreas? I wanted 
 to drive a MA12 Abrams Medium Tank in the city and terrorize the entire L. C. P. D. Where was the 
 freedom to grab one of them' minijets parked on the runway? Where was the veritcal bird aka Harrier 
 jet? The Annihilator or the longbow chopper had no rockets except for those panzy chain guns. I 
 wish San Andreas had graphics of GTA IV. Probably then it would have got 11/10. As far as the game 
 was concerned, the strip clubs just made me drool as they were detailed to extreme. My fav. vehicles 
 were the Patriot, Banshee, Super GT, Sultan RS, Comet, Cognoscentti and the Mint truck (blow up 
 to be rich) . The clothes, NPC's, music, building designs were so Macho! Perhaps GTA V will answer 
 everyone's prayers, but I wonder which city would be tagged for its creation? Probably D. C. or 
 LA!! Speaking of which, the PS3 version has been treated unfair for the matter of the fact that 
 the 360 version was given an extra content. Boo to RockStar for being biased to Gates!!! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Diamond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  First off I will say that the graphics and detail put into the game is amazing. Then to put the 
 icing on the cake, the storyline made up for the extremely unbelievable San Andreas storyline. 
 In fact the storyline was right up with Vice City. However, I really felt that there was not enough 
 new content. After awhile it felt like playing GTA 3 all over again due to the fact that the storyline 
 ended up being all there was to do in the game. Sure they added in activities, friends, and some 
 cool quirks such as the man playing the saxophone. These are all very entertaining for about the 
 first 5 days you play the game, then they become boring and tiresome. Especially when doing something 
 important and 5 friends decide to call in a row, asking to go see a lame show. Also after reading 
 many previews and watching trailers that showed many features that could have made the game much 
 more enjoyable, you feel empty when you come to find they are not in the final product. GTA IV 
 is certainly something all game developers want to produce, but I think it had too much make up 
 and not enough substance! I give this a 9.5 because I don't think it deserves a perfect, but it 
 is worthy of game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  You know when you get that fuzzy feeling the night before xmas day and your about 6 years old, 
 this is was i think the world had waiting for this to arrive!! It was the most highly anticipated 
 game ever, with record sales on the first day, queing at the doors and down the street. But is 
 it any good??
  
  The answer to this is "yes.... and no", i own both xbox 360 and ps3, and there's no difference. 
 Firstly the graphics have been, well i ll say tweaked, yes they're much better and there's LESS 
 ghosting of frame rate (where it looks blurry) but only slight!! The cities look great and man 
 they're big, youl be transversing across it with choppers, trucks, bikes, cars and of course foot!! 
 There are other vehicles but i ll be all day!! It shifts at a pretty good rate to, some of the 
 higher classed cars can be too quick, and if you get on a bike leave your arms, legs and head at 
 home because you wont stay on long, and its worth noting you can now fly through windscreens too 
 (highly amusing!!) . He actually hot wires cars now too, takes time (not much though!!) Overall 
 i was ok with the new look, but i felt it could have been better, it doesnt look bad and for all 
 the action going on neither system struggles.
  
  Gameplay is pretty common to all gta's with the exception of a new crouch mode, watch tv (believe 
 it) , various other homely attributes and some **** mini games in various pubs and clubs around 
 town, they're crap but add to the realism!! You can now take "hotties" on dates, pick them up and 
 dine them. The usual eat or die applies, killing pigeons around town replaces the secret packages 
 to find, killing spree's and nothing new here really. The "fuzz" are not much smarter, but i will 
 say the enemies seemed to be.
  
  Everything about this game oozes with class, good soundtrack (again!!) , classic gameplay, huuuggge 
 cities, hours of gameplay (bring your bed!!) and simple yet effective point, shoot and kill for 
 fun factor. Online play "cops and robbers" is awesome!! With a new downloadable extra now released 
 this has to be one of the best games....... IN THE WORLD!!
  
  The only disappointment i had with this game is it wasnt released early enough!!! if you dont buy 
 this your hands will fall off in protest!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: london0161
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:19 am PT
Review:  the game has you playing as neko a Russian who don't know the difference from right or wrong. the 
 game has tense decision making which changes the game. and you have to buy this game if you don't 
 have it! And superb single-player story mode and online support for up to 16 players make this 
 the best Grand Theft Auto game yet. Smooth gameplay with a stunning story to build up a awe-inspiring 
 Recreation which will service hours of entertainment.
  all gameing nerd will but this up thier with metal gear solid and call of duty. now u read my review. 
 GO AND BUY IT IF YOU DON'T HAVE IT. Story: Grand Theft Auto is known for its great stories that 
 are good enough to be a high end action flick and this installment does NOT disappoint. The basics 
 are, you play as Niko Belic, finally reaching America to live the American dream and realized that 
 your dirty cousin lied about his riches and fantasy. I'm not gonna get more into the story simply 
 because I want to let you experience this on your own because you just NEED to, simple as that. 
 I used to find cut scenes boring, but this one changed my mind drastically.
  
  Presentation (Video and Audio) : While it may not look as good as you hoped it would be, this game 
 still looks downright fantastic. The mere size of the game world and the interaction of innocent 
 pedestrians is something the behold. The detail in the cities and traffic is outstanding and the 
 car models look terrific. The audio is the real show here though. The voice acting is incredible 
 and actually seem human. I've never been more interested in the face of a character before as I 
 did in GTA4. My only gripe about the presentation is the noticeable pop-in. Not as bad as you'd 
 think it would be but its there and noticeable. Certainly nothing too serious though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InN3rChi011
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is fun of course but it lacks the greatness to past GTAs. It has potential 
 to BE a perfect game and i dont know y they gave it a perfect 10 but i know one thing for sure 
 it is a solid game for everyone. It lacks many things compared to past gta games like for example 
 san andreas has jets, different kinds of planes, THE cheetah yes the CHEETAH in past Gta games. 
 The positive things about this game is the way its plays and feels for people who wants to feel 
 the next gen type of grand theft auto. The graphics is the great compared to past grand theft auto 
 and the online is fun. There are many different modes to play in and never gets boring, you could 
 play free for all, racing, jacking certain cars to win in this one mode, free roam like u and 3 
 other people could hop in a car and kill pedestrians to get wanted level like in offline mode, 
 and has many more modes to play in but cant think of anymore. One flaw is the story its just plain, 
 its like the writers are in high school writing a essay BUT isnt that bad. What i liked about the 
 story is that u could kill certain people in the story mode like u are doing a job for someone 
 and u could decide to kill your target or not but only for certain missions. Overall i give it 
 a 8.5 due to these reasons and have many more reasons to y it got a 8.5 but is too lazy. Overall 
 it is a must get if u are a GTA fan and want a game that can have replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy-Sushi-Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried this game out, it didn't feel so great to me. The controls felt very odd and 
 different from the PS2 installments of Grand Theft Auto somehow, and all in all, it didn't feel 
 "right."
  
  Then after giving the game about 20 minutes, I was hooked. I never want to go back to San Andreas 
 or Vice City ever again. 
  
  Story: Grand Theft Auto is known for its great stories that are good enough to be a high end action 
 flick and this installment does NOT disappoint. The basics are, you play as Niko Belic, finally 
 reaching America to live the American dream and realized that your dirty cousin lied about his 
 riches and fantasy. I'm not gonna get more into the story simply because I want to let you experience 
 this on your own because you just NEED to, simple as that. I used to find cut scenes boring, but 
 this one changed my mind drastically. 
  
  Presentation (Video and Audio) : While it may not look as good as you hoped it would be, this game 
 still looks downright fantastic. The mere size of the game world and the interaction of innocent 
 pedestrians is something the behold. The detail in the cities and traffic is outstanding and the 
 car models look terrific. The audio is the real show here though. The voice acting is incredible 
 and actually seem human. I've never been more interested in the face of a character before as I 
 did in GTA4. My only gripe about the presentation is the noticeable pop-in. Not as bad as you'd 
 think it would be but its there and noticeable. Certainly nothing too serious though.
  
  Gameplay: Like previous installments, the game follows a very simple pattern. Watch a cutscene, 
 kill some dudes, watch another cutscene, drive here and there. Sounds boring right? WRONG. This 
 game has its own charm to not make the game repetitive. There are constant changes in gameplay 
 ensuring you never get bored. Shooting has been revamped to make gunfights alot easier and the 
 new cover system is a very smooth and simple. 
  
  Final Word: BUY IT. GTA4 has been overhauled enough to make it seem like a new experience that 
 you simply must enjoy for yourself. You won't regret it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  The game is set in a redesigned rendition of Liberty City, a fictional city based heavily on modern 
 day New York City. It follows Niko Bellic, a war veteran from an unspecified country in Eastern 
 Europe, who comes to the United States in search of the American Dream, but quickly becomes entangled 
 in a seedy underworld of gangs, crime, and corruption. Like other games in the series, GTA IV is 
 composed of elements from driving games and third-person shooters, and features "open-world" gameplay 
 that gives players more control over their playing experience. GTA IV is the first console game 
 in the series to feature an online multiplayer mode, which contains fifteen game types.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is structured similarly to previous games in the series. The core gameplay 
 consists of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, giving the player a large, open 
 environment in which to move around. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, 
 swimming, climbing and jumping, as well as using weapons and basic hand-to-hand combat. Players 
 can steal and drive a variety of vehicles, including automobiles, boats, helicopters, and motorcycles. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV takes advantage of Natural Motion's Euphoria engine, which combines artificial 
 intelligence, bio mechanics and physics to make NPC behaviour and movement adaptive and more realistic.
 
  
  The open, non-linear environment allows players to explore and choose how they wish to play the 
 game. Although storyline missions are necessary to progress through the game and unlock certain 
 parts of the map and content, they are not required, as players can complete them at their own 
 leisure. When not taking on a storyline mission, players can free-roam. However, creating havoc 
 can attract unwanted and potentially fatal attention from the authorities.
  
  It is possible to have multiple active missions, due to the fact that some missions will run over 
 the course of several days and will require the player to wait for further instructions, etc. The 
 player can also partake in a variety of optional side missions. For the first time in the series, 
 Grand Theft Auto IV features "morality choices" at several points throughout the game, in which 
 the player is forced to choose between killing a character or sparing their life or killing one 
 of two characters. The game has two different endings, which are determined by deciding which of 
 the two missions to complete. The player can choose between a revenge missions or a deal mission, 
 each leads to a different ending.
  
  Combat and police response
  The gunfight combat system has been reworked to a third-person scheme. The player can slide to 
 cover, blindfire, and free aim. When locked on, the target's health is indicated by eight segments 
 inside the target circle (which is white) , these segments can be green (if the target is a civilian/non-attacking 
 or non-aggressive target) or red (authorities/hostile targets or assassination targets) , additionally, 
 if the target's wearing body armour there will be an additional smaller, blue armour circle inside 
 the health circle, showing the target's armour status. Niko can also perform "cinematic executions", 
 only possible with a pistol to certain characters/situations when the target circle blinks red. 
 Players can target individual body parts using the revamped targeting system. Niko's health is 
 represented by a green semicircle on the left side of the mini-map, while a blue semicircle on 
 the right represents armour. There is now much more hand to hand combat moves as the player can 
 now punch, kick, alternative punch, dodge/block, disarm, counterattack and make combos with the 
 punch and kick buttons respectively. If Niko gets injured, he can recover health by using the services 
 of a prostitute, eating, drinking soda, sleeping, using medical kits or using his mobile phone 
 to call for paramedics; also, one girlfriend has the special ability of healing Niko by calling 
 her with the mobile phone. Health is generally reduced by physical injuries such as getting hit 
 by vehicles when walking, going through the windscreen of a vehicle when crashing, and gunfire 
 or explosions. Body armour is gradually damaged by gunshots, explosions and stab wounds. If Niko's 
 health level reaches zero he appears at the nearest hospital, but loses 10% of his total wealth 
 (up to $10,000) . Niko is able to retain his weapons after re-spawning at a hospital, an ability 
 that had to be unlocked in some earlier games. However, weapons are still confiscated if Niko is 
 arrested and taken to a police station.
  
  The Wanted level system operates differently from previous GTA games. The game retains the six 
 star levels of previous iterations of the series, with increasing resistance on each level. When 
 the police are in pursuit of Niko, a search radius appears on the map in which the police will 
 be looking for him. The size of this radius increases with the player's wanted level and re-centres 
 itself on Niko's location if he is spotted by the police. The player can evade the police by escaping 
 the search radius and temporarily keeping a low profile by not committing further offences. The 
 wanted levels can be lost by Niko either driving into a "Pay 'N' Spray" (unless seen entering by 
 police) as in previous games or by disguising himself by clandestinely changing vehicles in empty 
 areas such as parking garages. The player has the option to attempt escaping arrest before he is 
 handcuffed, at the cost of increasing his wanted level by one star. Additionally, pedestrians with 
 cellphones can report crimes they witness in the surrounding environment. 
  
  The type of police response also differs slightly from previous GTA games; however, creating more 
 chaos still leads to a stronger response. "Minor" crimes, such as assault, public firearm discharge, 
 grand theft auto and homicide, continue to be handled by police patrols. Higher wanted levels still 
 activate police helicopter and water craft support teams and FBI-like agents, known as FIB (Federal 
 Investigation Bureau) in GTA IV. Police SWAT and the military have been replaced by an elite counter-terrorism 
 team known as N. O. O. S. E. (National Office Of Security Enforcement) , an amalgamation of SWAT and 
 the Department of Homeland Security.
  
  Vehicles
  Stealing a parked car shows Niko smashing the glass (if it is locked) and then hotwiring it, as 
 opposed to previous games where the player simply entered the driver's seat or cannot enter if 
 it's locked. During car chases, the player can focus the camera on the target vehicle by holding 
 the cinematic camera button. Every vehicle in the game uses the in-game minimap as a GPS device, 
 and additional voice directions are provided in luxury cars. "Waypoints" can be placed on destinations 
 on the map, outlining the fastest legal route between Niko and the destination on the minimap. 
 The ability to hail a taxi cab allows the player to travel to destinations without having to drive, 
 and the entire journey may be skipped, allowing them to arrive at their destination instantly. 
 The player cannot pilot fixed-wing aircraft, as was possible in previous games, but can still pilot 
 helicopters, including the police "Annihilator", which has mounted machine guns. 
  
  The physics engine will turn Niko into a rag doll after a bike crash, instead of using a predefined 
 animation. Niko can lose health or die if he crashes or smashes through the windscreen of cars 
 during high speed collisions. Vehicles will not explode if they are flipped over, however they 
 may catch fire and eventually explode if the engine is repeatedly damaged via collisions, or if 
 the vehicle is damaged via firearms. Explosions can sometimes render nearby vehicles unusable, 
 or cause them to catch fire. Car engines can also break down, rendering them unable to start. When 
 driving or riding in a car, Niko is able to smash the window, free-aim, and fire out of the vehicle 
 with several different one-handed weapons. The player may also drop grenades or Molotov cocktails. 
 
  
  Communication
  The use of the mobile phone has been expanded to perform multiple actions. When selecting the mobile 
 phone, a zoomed-in version of the phone interface pops up in the bottom right-hand corner of the 
 screen. The phone allows the player to view text messages and appointments, as well as arrange 
 to meet friends for activities. Retrying a failed mission can be done by accessing the menu and 
 responding positively to a certain text message. The player can take photos with the mobile phone 
 and upload them to the police computer during certain missions. Niko can dial 911 to call emergency 
 services, who promptly arrive to his location and will respond to a situation, or lack thereof, 
 occurring there. The police will arrest felons, and paramedics are able to restore Niko's health. 
 The phone also allows access to the game's multiplayer mode, online in a free mode you can also 
 call other players to talk to them.
  The game also features several different in-game databases that Niko can make use of. An in-game 
 version of the Internet can be used by accessing the Internet caf chain, "TW@", located throughout 
 the city. There are over 100 accessible fictitious websites within the game, and Niko can also 
 send and receive email (including junk mail) and set up prospective dates. Although the Internet 
 caf was seen in Grand Theft Auto III, it did not give the player the option to browse. [36] In 
 a police vehicle, Niko can use an in-car computer to access Liberty City's criminal database, discover 
 information about various criminals in Liberty City and even track them down for a reward. The 
 game also features in-game television programming, with several viewable channels featuring programs 
 and advertisements. The television shows covers a wide variety of genres, including news, talk 
 shows, and sports.
  
  Multiplayer
  Grand Theft Auto IV includes online multiplayer, with 15 modes of play available. The multiplayer 
 supports up to 16 players (32 players in the PC version) and allows players to explore the entire 
 city. Players use a customizable character in a majority of the modes, and cash earned during play 
 translates to a level at which more clothing is available for their character, depending on the 
 level. Hosts of the games can control many variables, such as police presence, traffic, and weapons. 
 The online games are split into ranked and unranked matches. The reward for the ranked gameplay 
 is cash, which determines players' ranks. The game does not feature any split screen or LAN multiplayer 
 modes on console, but the PC version does have LAN support.
  
  There are several different game modes available. Team based game play modes include Team Death 
 match, where 2-8 teams compete to accumulate the most kills in a traditional death match; Team 
 Mafia Work, in which 28 teams compete to complete contract work for the "mafia", such as escorting/killing 
 targets or stealing cars; Team Car Jack City where 28 teams compete to steal cars and earn money 
 for keeping them undamaged; Cops n' Crooks, featuring a team of cops who must compete against a 
 team of crooks (which features the "All for One" variation - requiring the cops to kill the crooks' 
 "Boss" before he is escorted to the extraction point - and the "One for All" variation - requiring 
 the cops to kill all of the crooks before they reach the extraction point) ; and Turf War, involving 
 two teams who compete to take control of designated areas of the map and control them for as long 
 as possible.
  
  The game also includes a variety of racing and cooperative modes, which include Race, in which 
 players race through checkpoints in a traditional automobile race; a GTA Race variation, where 
 players race through checkpoints in an automobile race, with the ability to combat their opponents; 
 Hangman's N. O. O. S. E., a co-op mode that requires players to collect a person from the airport and 
 safely escort him to the extraction point before the cops kill him; Deal Breaker, a co-op mission 
 that requires players to assault a construction site captured by enemies, then chase a group of 
 enemies before they escape; and Bomb da Base II, a co-op mission that requires players to clear 
 out a ship, then destroy it with explosives, referencing the mission title Bomb Da Base: Part II 
 from Grand Theft Auto 3 which featured a similar objective of destroying a ship with explosives. 
 The game also features a Free Mode, in which players have the entire map open to explore, with 
 no end goal or mission to complete.
  
  There are, however, limitations when playing Free Mode. Certain features from the single player 
 story mode are disabled. The disabled features include the mini-games such as bowling, darts, and 
 pool. Also disabled is other content found in the game, including cheats, clubs and the internet 
 caf. These limitations also apply for all other game-types
  
  Awards
  Following the critical acclaim it received on its release, Grand Theft Auto IV has received awards 
 from various critics and publications, including several Game of the Year awards and nominations. 
 The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions are, respectively, ranked as the second- and fifth-best 
 games of all time on Game Rankings. The following are some of the game's awards (all of which are 
 2008 awards) .
  
  IGN has given the game its "Best Xbox 360 Action Game", "Best PC Action Game", "Best Graphics Technology 
 (Xbox 360) ", "Best Voice Acting (Xbox 360/PS3/PC) " and "Best Story (Xbox 360/PS3) " awards.
  
  GameTrailers has given the game "Game of the Year", "Best Action Adventure Game", "Best Story", 
 "Best Xbox 360 Game", "Best PlayStation 3 Game" and, for the game's trailer, "Trailer of The Year".
 
  
  Spike TV has given the game the awards of "Game of the Year" and "Best Action Adventure Game" in 
 its Video Game Awards. They also gave Michael Hollick "Best Performance by a Human Male" for the 
 voice acting of Niko 
  Bellic
  
  GameSpy has given the game the awards of "Best Story" and "Character of The Year" (for the character 
 Brucie Kibbutz) in its Video Game Awards.
  GameSpot has given the game its "Best UK-developed game" and "Best Xbox 360 Game" awards, and Bruce 
 "Brucie" Kibbutz won the award for the "Best new character".
  
  GiantBomb has given the game its "Game of the Year" and "Best Multi-Platform Game" awards.
  
 
  ActionTrip has given the game the "Game of The Year" and "Best Story" awards in its Game of The 
 Year 2008.
  
  Kotaku has given the game its "Game of the Year" and "Best Writing" awards.
  Game Informer has 
 given the game its "Game of the Year" award for 2008, and a perfect rating of 10 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  Overall, the game is fantastic. The graphics are rich, the animations are fluid, and the GTA series 
 is as fun as ever. If your multiplayer actually works the online experience is deep and very addicting. 
 That is a BIG if that it works. I've had my own problems with the online experience freezing up 
 once in a while, but now with the new patch out it seems to be getting better. But it's still problematic 
 to say the least.
  
  The single player is amazing, like always. The new combat system is better and more intuitive than 
 the old one, the environments are more interactive, and the cut-scenes are as entertaining and 
 hilarious as ever.
  The load times are minimal if any, as you install some components of the game to you're PS3 HDD 
 to help speed up the load times. Very useful and keeps the game moving fast and smooth.
  
  Online is worth the price of admission, if yours works right off the bat. Single player, of course 
 is the meat and potatoes of this franchise.
  Come for the story-mode, stay for the online and have a blast with one of the deepest and most 
 entertaining video games I've ever experienced. If Oscars were made for video games, this one would 
 win Best Picture, Sound, etc. It's that good and that much fun!
  
  Oh, and Amazon... QUIT TAKING OFF PEOPLE'S REVIEWS JUST BECAUSE THEY DON'T LIKE THE GAME LIKE EVERYONE 
 ELSE DOES. This is America and everyone is entitled to their own opinion. The game has made enough 
 money as it is, flaws intact and all. Let people experience both the positive AND negative reviews. 
 No game is perfect and people need to be aware of certain issues before warranting a $60 or $90 
 purchase.
  
  With that said, I highly recommend picking up this game. This is what GTA fans and gamers have 
 been waiting 3 1/2 years for and it far exceeds my expectaions. The city is just so huge it's hard 
 not to get lost in your surroundings.
  Whatever issues that continue to effect the online experience or even the single-player for that 
 matter, will be addressed soon. They've already launched one patch only a week after the games 
 release, so expect more as needed to be released as soon as available.
  
  Bottom line-if you are on the fence about purchasing this game and are wondering if it is worth 
 the price of admission, do yourself a favor and read into both the negative side of the story and 
 the positive side. I think you will find that the good will far outweight the bad in every sense. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markpizzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Pros - A much better shooting system, Cool cars and vehicles, Pretty hard missions, No more load 
 times going into buildings, Online play is amazing, addictive and has many modes to keep busy, 
 Graphics are beautiful and nice to look at for GTA standards
  
  Cons - No planes (not that they are needed) , GPS is cool but can get in the way sometimes, No freedom 
 in the airport runways, Lack of variety within the city
  
  The Verdict - Rockstar once again made an awesome GTA game for the 4th time in a row. The best 
 feature in the game is the shooting. It feels more of like a shooting game now that you can hide 
 behind walls and use blindfire; you can also aim manually (it's hard though) and duck, roll, run 
 and shoot and what not. Missions are acually pretty hard and most can take many attempts to beat 
 if you don't use cheats. There are no more load times in the buildings as Niko simply just pushes 
 a door and then your in the building. That means that there are no more load times within the game 
 (except for the cutscenes) The graphics are really stunning for GTA standards. The city buldings 
 and skylines are beautiful, water looks realistic at times, Times Square looks awesome and acually 
 has some places that are really there (diffrently named of course) and just the overall scenary 
 and surroundings are top notch which makes you feel like you're in a real city. The game lacks 
 variety though which means once you beat the game there are not many things you can do after to 
 make you keep playing the game but the online play does saves this. There are many online modes 
 to keep busy for awhile and most of the modes are really addictive which makes you come back for 
 more. Once you get tired of online though there's not much left to do in this game and thats really 
 the only major flaw. All in all a must buy for anybody who enjoys the GTA title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevaldefer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I know, the game been out for a while now but who care. Here I go, the graphic look good, the sound 
 is good, the gameplay is good, you cant realy go wrong with that game but as usual I will suggest 
 you rent it first, this way if you dont like it it will have made save you some money. GTA4 live 
 its expectation, The control are the same (well I think it is) anyway i did not get an issue with 
 the control, now lets jump to the story, it is well built, it take you right in the game, just 
 like a movie, well kind of, but its very easy to let it go and just rampage the city or cruising 
 around with muscle car, making donut while burning tires ect ect.. The game still got is arcade 
 touch in it like the previous GTA. However the game is wide (you can have multiple relationship, 
 hookers new animation lol!, internet, bowling, dart, getting drunk as hell so on and so on) you 
 can do so much **** around in it that I dont realy give a **** about the arcard thing, I think 
 GTA 4 is the best one in the serie and the only game with sequal which you cant go wrong with. 
 Pros- Good story, good graphic, good sound, the game play is fun, you can play may hours with this 
 game, Cons- Well the only thing that bug me about the game is phone call from your friends, you 
 actualy have to go do thing with them, eat at restaurant, drinking pub, play darts ect. ect.. Dont 
 get me wrong this is all part of the GTA4 story mode which is fun to do but the thing is they actualy 
 call you to often and it became anoying at some point that I completely stop answering the phone 
 so I end up losing bonus stuff that could get you out of trouble ( well help you when needing assistance 
 or losing star.. ) .
  
  I dont comment multiplayer because so far the best multiplayer game that I like is AA america's 
 army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSB93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, the storyline, Niko, Packie, the in-game internet, the Infernus, THE GAMEPLAY!!!!
 
  That's pretty much what I love best about GTAIV, but almost everything is perfect. There is so 
 much to do in this game. Even if you beat it, you still want to play it again and take the different 
 paths laid out in the game... My favorite additions, (apart from non-cartoon vehicle handling and 
 the amazing graphics) are the ability to hang out with friends, hide behind stuff, the ability 
 to switch targets (You supposedly could in San Andreas, but I can't seem to) , and the variety in 
 cars, pedestrians, and missions. 
  
  
  Rockstar has done it again, wowing us (or at least me) with a new masterpiece that push expectations 
 of what the perfect video game should be. So far, in my book, Grand Theft Auto IV has that title. 
 The characters are hilarious, and many times, have a story behind them. 
  
  If there were anything I could change about this game, It would be the monochromatic environment. 
 By that I mean, unlike San Andreas, there is, for the most part, only one terrain type, and that 
 is city. Not that I don't love Liberty City, or that I believe a console is capable of having graphics 
 as amazing as in GTA4 and at the same time having a massive environment, it's just that f you can't 
 find anything to do (which is pretty hard) the game can feel stale. If there could ever be a game 
 as graphically... amazing.... as GTA4, have the variety in vehicles, peds, and missions, and the 
 same increcible gameplay, yet have the same massive and varied environment as San Andreas, that 
 game would most likely win the best game of all time.
  
  So apart from the lack of terrain variety, and the strange appearances of vehicles of the same 
 kind you are driving parked on the side of the road, This game is PERFECT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimtri
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  So in GTA IV you take on the role of a Russian immigrant Niko Bellic. The game starts off with 
 him getting off the boat to America. When he arrives he sees that his cousin Roman who said he 
 was rich is in reality very poor and owes a lot of money. The whole game is just do jobs for people 
 who will pay you money.
  Let's start with the good things with gta iv. It looks and sounds fantastic. The visuals are really 
 great and every sound that you hear is just perfect. The visuals are great. The facial expressions 
 and all the details on the characters are really realistic. 
  The cool thing with gta iv is that the main menu is a cell phone.
  For the story mode you start 
 off doing jobs for people who Roman owes money. These are easy jobs like Make someone pay the money 
 he owes to this guy but as you progress the missions get harder like get some cocaine for someone 
 and escape lots of cops, chase a guy who is guarded by lots of guys or my favorite rob a bank and 
 use the subway to escape the cops!
  Most of the levels you have to shoot your way through guys so lets talk about weapons: There is 
 a large variety of weapons that goes from pistols all the way to rocket launchers. Each weapon 
 is very satisfying to use. You can also get armor and gernades.
  There is driving which is very fun
  It is very easy to kill guys in gta iv because the game has 
 a lock on target. If you press L1 you will automatically lock on to a guy. 
  In the game you can take cover which is very useful.
  Now of course let's talk about Liberty 
 City. Well Liberty City is a city which is big, very corrupt and has lots of things for you to 
 do. Examples: Bowl, Darts, Buy Guns, Street Races, Fast food, take tours of the city and lots more. 
 
  A good thing in the game is that you don't have to drive everywhere. You can call a cab and let 
 someone else do the driving for you. If you're in a hurry you can skip the ride.
  The great thing that GTA IV has is Multiplayer..... That's right Multiplayer. Multiplayer is one 
 of the most enjoyable things in this game because it is about 15-20 people with a whole hour to 
 play and all of liberty city to fool around in. Oh and you have to kill each other i forgot to 
 say that. This game offers a lot of freedom
  Now the bad things about GTA IV.
  There are graphic glitches in gta iv. it's not like there are many it's that the few are really 
 bad for example if you jump next to the refrigerator or a wall the WHOLE head will go in. 
  Like i said before there is a lock on system. But if an enemy goes behind you that you're probably 
 going to die because you have to get off the wall then turn around and then lock on and then kill.
 
  And lastly some of the missions you do with a another character and the AI is sometimes really 
 bad. They will get in the way sometime do no damage oh yeah they can die so if you're trying really 
 hard to finish a level and then your partner dies you have to do the whole thing all over again.
 
  So to rap things up gta iv is a great game which offers a lot of freedom, good story mode and 
 fun multiplayer but it definately does not deserve a 10/10
  Graphics:8.5/10
  Story:9.5/10
  Multiplayer:10/10
  AI:7.5/10
  Sound:10/10
  Coolest Part:10/10
  Coolest 
 Part: Nico is in a boat chasing a guy in a helicopter then your friend Jacob (who is in a helicopter) 
 goes under you and you jump off the boat to the helicopter. AWESOME
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to play GTA IV. I was looking forward to the most engrossing Grand Theft Auto game 
 so far. To my disappointment, Grand Theft Auto IV fails to deliver on almost every level.
  
  Certainly, GTA IV's strongest point is Liberty City. The graphical upgrade from the previous 
 games really helps make the city feel more real. There are plenty of unique areas, and the city 
 itself is large enough that it's unlikely a regular play through will allow you to see much of 
 it. The recreations of Times Square, the Empire State Building, the Statue of Liberty and others 
 are all quite well done. Still, Liberty City, despite being nice to look at, is really quite dull. 
 Very little in city can be interacted with. You can enter a few fast food restaurants, a handful 
 of clothing stores, a bowling alley, a few bars, a strip club, but really not much more. A few 
 missions take you inside some apartments and office buildings. The city really feels dead. Even 
 places where it seems you should be able to do something, the carnival or the comedy club, for 
 instance, you can't. It makes for a beautiful, yet completely boring city. Exploration doesn't 
 really get you anywhere unless you have an urge to hunt down the 200 pigeons scattered around the 
 city.
  
  Rockstar's attempts at realism hurt GTA IV more than they help it. Gone are some of the more fun 
 diversions from previous GTAs. Rampages, ambulance and firefighter missions, and many of the other 
 random things are gone. Stunt jumps remain, but no longer give a cash reward. Hidden packages are 
 replaced with pigeons, but no money is earned for finding them, and you will not get a collection 
 of weapons outside your safehouses every 10 you collect. Killing the pigeons means shooting them, 
 which often gets you a one star warrant level. Not too difficult to evade, but it is annoying. 
 If you need to get from Dukes (aka Queens) to Bohan (aka the Bronx) you have to make sure you stop 
 at the toll both and wait for the cars in front of you to go through so you can put in your own 
 toll. Fail to do so, and you'll earn a one star warrant level. This is just tedious and completely 
 "un-fun". A perfect example of realism taken too far.
  
  In place of many of the more unique types of side missions from previous games, you can now go 
 on drug delivery missions, assassination missions, "most wanted" missions and a few others. From 
 what I can tell, these end up playing just like many of the actual story missions. Of course, when 
 I quickly grew bored of them, I gave up. The only special abilities you can attain in the game 
 are activated by making and keeping friends. Looking through a list of these abilities online, 
 they seem mostly useless since I got through the game pretty well without them. But should you 
 want them, maintaining friendships involves tedious trips to play darts, pool, bowling or a few 
 non-interactive activities. Darts, pool, and bowling are fine at first, but grow tiresome quite 
 quickly. Early on in the game, I just started ignoring all my friends and my girlfriend every time 
 they called and let their like for me dwindle. I couldn't be bothered to micromanage all these 
 friendships by partaking in tedious activities for little ultimate gain.
  
  So now we come to GTA IV's "Oscar-worthy" story that hands down beats every other game ever produced. 
 I'll give GTA IV one thing. It clearly has the most coherent plot of any GTA game. Aside from that, 
 the story is inconsistent, uninteresting, and completely anti-climactic. There are a few moments 
 early on when it seems there is a good story to be told, but the game never delivers on it. Most 
 of the game, just like in games previous, has Niko doing missions for a bunch of people for little 
 apparent reason other than he's a hired gun. Occasionally, bits of the main plot (Niko's quest 
 for revenge) sneak in, but really quite rarely. The ending is really quite anti-climactic. Upon 
 finally finding the individual Niko seeks his revenge on you can choose to kill him or let him 
 live, but the choice felt inconsequential. The final few missions result in the killing of a few 
 nemeses Niko meets in Liberty City, but their deaths are quick and uninteresting. The game ends 
 quite abruptly as well.
  
  The characters in GTA IV are all just stereotypes. No character is particularly interesting, and 
 a few are offensive. Bernie, Niko's openly gay former war colleague, is unbelievably cliched, right 
 down to his stupid (and not even remotely funny) style of jogging. One "great" moment in GTA IV's 
 writing, is shortly after calling Bernie a f*g, and getting a disgusted look on his face at one 
 of Bernie's phone conversations, Niko starts talking about how much he champions gay rights. This 
 is wildly inconsistent, and completely laughable coming out of Niko's mouth. The rest of the cast 
 are completely uninteresting because they're all exactly what you expect them to be.
  
  Humour is weak at best, to completely derivative and immature at its worst. Some examples being 
 the name of the Internet cafe (Tw@t) , the entire character of Bernie (this is not an example of 
 good offensive humour. Rockstar may want to check out some of good stand-ups who know how to do 
 it) , not to mention Brucie.
  
  Occasionally, you will be given the choice of whether or not to kill a particular target. We're 
 told our actions will have consequences, but these are so minor as to not be important to the big 
 picture. If Rockstar wanted to give us choice, why not go all the way? Niko quickly delves into 
 a life of murder upon reaching Liberty City? Why? He seems like a decent enough guy at first. This 
 game could have been so much more interesting if we were able to actually make choices that affect 
 things of real significance to the game. Is Niko going to become a killer for hire? Will he only 
 kill in self defense? Would he kidnap innocents or go after the would-be kidnappers instead? There 
 is so much potential here for an engaging, interactive story. Rockstar squanders the idea of choice 
 on a few inconsequential events. Sure the last three missions are different depending on a choice 
 you make before starting the 3rd last mission, but that's it.
  
  After playing this game for almost 30 hours and never becoming engrossed in the plot at all, I 
 don't understand why people think this game has amazing writing. If GTA IV is amazing, then there 
 are tons of games with writing beyond amazing. A few games with superior characterization, plot 
 and/or humour are:
  
  Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic
  Mass Effect
  Jade Empire
  The Simpsons Game
  Half-Life 2 (and episodes)
  Portal
  No One Lives Forever
 
  System Shock 2 (never played 1)
  Bioshock
  Grim Fandango
  The Longest Journey and Dreamfall
  The Darkness
  Paper Mario and Paper Mario the Thousand Year 
 Door
  The Monkey Island Series
  The Tex Murphy Series
  
  And those are just ones I can think of off the top of my head.
  
  Finally, we come to the crux 
 of every game. The gameplay. GTA IV fails to improve or even change the gameplay from any of the 
 previous 3D GTA games. The best addition is the implementation of a cover system which removes 
 the need to run out into the open and become completely vulnerable to enemy gunfire. Everything 
 else is the same, and sometimes even worse than previous games. The missions haven't changed one 
 iota. There is literally nothing new or interesting to do on missions that you couldn't previously. 
 In fact, it feels like there is distinctly less mission variety than San Andreas. With over 90 
 missions in this game, I got bored of the repetitious nature of the missions early on. Suffice 
 it to say, I was getting so annoyed and bored with the game before I even reached the half way 
 mark that I rushed through the rest of the game. The benefit was I managed to get the Liberty City 
 Minute trophy.
  
  Vehicles in GTA IV control far worse than in any previous incarnation. Perhaps they are more realistic, 
 but in a game that at times requires high speed chases, the clunky controls only hurt. Being able 
 to shoot forwards out of a car is helpful, but a decent lock-on system is woefully needed. It can 
 be a real pain to line your reticule over a moving vehicle, making chase and kill missions more 
 frustrating than fun. Worse, is the fact that in many of these missions that appear to be chase 
 and kill, you frequently can't kill your target until a certain point during the chase sequence. 
 This is never made clear to the player, and since shooting and driving together is difficult, it 
 makes these segments harder than they should be, since all that is really needed is to chase.
 
  
  Rockstar also has this idea (and they're not alone) , that checkpoints make a game easier. That's 
 the only reason I can think not to put mid-mission checkpoints in this game. Of course, they don't 
 make challenging segments easier, just less frustrating. Having to redo all the parts you've already 
 passed just to get back to the one moment you messed up is annoying. Not to mention you frequently 
 need to go around collecting armor and weapons to prepare yourself. Not every mission has a place 
 to put checkpoints, but many do. In the final mission in the game, I progressed to a part where 
 I needed to fly a helicopter. This was practically at the end of the mission. The game instructed 
 me to fly low, so I did. I figured it was because my helicopter had guns and missiles and I needed 
 to take out my target (another instance of not being able to kill a target before the game allows 
 you to) . So, I tried flying low enough to get off some shots at my target. Unfortunately, I went 
 a little too low, nicked the water and my helicopter was destroyed. I had to redo the entire mission 
 from the beginning. Previous GTA games have put checkpoints in the final missions. Was Rockstar 
 just too lazy this time around?
  
  I suppose GTA IV is not completely awful. It is a failure, in my books, though. It is so much of 
 the same thing over and over again, with an uninteresting story, a boring world, and plenty of 
 tedium and frustration all made worse by the fact that the game just keeps going and going and 
 going. What's there is pretty well put together, but the game suffers so much from what's not there. 
 I will not be returning to the GTA franchise until Rockstar overhauls the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:22 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I wasn`t anticipating GTA IV much. Naturally, with giant `IV` ads all over the place 
 and every second gamer talking about it, it was difficult to escape the hype machine surrounding 
 the game. I was also busy studying for my exams anyway, but when GTA IV got 2 perfect tens from 
 my two most trusted sites - GameSpot and IGN - I was more than surprised. In my perception NO game 
 deserves a perfect score for that little, annoying reason - NOTHING is perfect. Especially his 
 game.
  
  With dark and violent past behind him, Niko Bellic, fresh off the boat immigrant from Eastern Europe, 
 hopes to start a new page in his life in America. Intrigued by his cousin Roman`s stories as well 
 as personal reasons, Niko arrives in Liberty City to find his cousin in huge debts from dangerous 
 criminal elements, the promised paradise - unwelcoming and gloomy city where money is worshipped, 
 human life is worth nothing and Niko just being a tool in hands of those with power and respect. 
 Unwittingly being hooked up with street lowlifes, cold-blooded murderers and psychopaths, Niko 
 must make the best out of it also confronting his past and trying to protect the ones who he cares 
 about.
  
  I`m actually over-exaggerating a bit here. The story really harsh and realistic, but don`t worry 
 - the series trademark humor is still there and it is as witty and sharp as ever. From the funny 
 talk shows to random conversations, everything mocks nowaday American lifestyle - form obsession 
 with illegal meds to insanely fast flow of life. Yeah, it`s pretty difficult to get all this if 
 you haven`t lived in the States yourself, but there should be enough taunts for those who aren`t 
 too aware of modern popculture.
  Even though I loved Vice City and San Andreas for their amusing and often absurd storylines, I 
 just have to admit that GTA IV has the best plot in series. It doesn`t make you question ideologies 
 or stuff like Metal Gear Solid, but instead attaches you to the characters, makes you feel for 
 them. How? By adding extensive backgrounds to most personages. An ex-con, `crack king of the 90`s` 
 Dwayne Forge is more than that. Maybe he never wanted to take such path of life? Maybe he regretted 
 turning his friends into addicts? Now, forgotten by his former partners and friends, he has turned 
 into depressive, broken man with an Eastern European gun-for-hire as his best - and only - friend. 
 Yes, characters now are more than Tommy "I'll find the ones that stole our cocaine... and then, 
 I'll kill 'em!" Vercetti.
  Unfortunately, mission briefings are as generic as ever. Let me explain. This guy, Manny, tells 
 you to eliminate guys that `have been talking sh`t about him` and all you have to do is to follow 
 a train and shoot some guys at the station. Wow... really? There are also other lame `twists` which 
 seem forced and sometimes illogical, for an example Niko is always emphasizing his creed `I`ll 
 do anything as long as it pays` but really does nothing with all the cash he receives, yes, even 
 though his cousin is in huge debts, Niko will never offer him money neither Roman will ask for 
 it. The thing is, those `twists` are all done because of the new feature called `decisions`. During 
 some missions you are given choice of executing certain characters or letting them live. If you 
 don`t blast their brains out, all you get is a chance to meet them later on the street as random 
 characters. But there is more - decision between assassinating two different characters. It`s mostly 
 between big money or a good friend, but one of the later decisions affect the ending. Yep, there 
 are two different endings this time, both of them being ironic and rather dark.
  
  There is a lot to praise and criticize about the story, but the gameplay is the thing that has 
 made Grand Theft Auto into one of the most popular gaming franchises in the world. I`m, of course, 
 talking about the opportunities to perform various antisocial acts of violence and vandalism. Rockstar 
 promised us a completely rewritten formula of the game with much higher focus to realism. In one 
 hand, differences do change the feel of the game, on the other - it`s nowhere close the level of 
 revolution Grand Theft Auto series brought by adding the third dimension to their games. In other 
 words, innovation here is just a little messing around the core mechanics.
  
  The first thing you`ll notice is how they have changed the car controls. At first they seem slow, 
 sluggish and unpleasant to use. By bringing in Euphoria physics engine cars now handle very differently. 
 First of all, overall car speed has been reduced, making car chases much slower paced. Secondly, 
 the turning radius (when you try drive a turning) is simply ridiculous, forcing you to use handbrake 
 which is even worse. It is just SO easy to lose control and do a 180 degree turn! ARGH! There are 
 also many physics faults, for example you can easily do two barrel rolls by simply touching the 
 edge of the sidewalk. It took me about half of the game while I learned to master the controls 
 - more or less - and only then I found driving oddly satisfying. OK, I can live with that. But 
 what angers me the most is what they have done with the bikes. It was always fun to drive around 
 in bikes because it was always a bit dangerous, but now... I don`t usually use the word `rape` 
 when it comes to video games, however there is no other way how to describe this abysmal piece 
 of sh`t controls. Trying to turn the bike = not simple, using a handbrake = very, very bad idea. 
 This is, no doubt, the biggest complaint I have about the controls. Boats now are more difficult 
 to turn and control overall since realistic water waves affect your movemant. In other words, driving 
 a boat is a little more difficult than previously. It`s a shame they removed bicycles and planes 
 but there still are helicopters. Finally Rockstar has ditched previous flying controls, who were 
 just SO bad, they were nearly unplayable with keyboard. In short, choppers are simple enough to 
 control and fun to mess around with.
  
  On-foot controls have been enhanced with `realistic` inertia type thingy- Niko can`t stop right 
 after sprinting, he needs to take some steps forward. This may lead to some dumb situations when 
 you run in front of a car and get hit and so on. Also there are times when you turn around fast 
 Niko will turn around AGAIN and keep running in the wrong direction. There are many occasions when 
 Niko won`t jack the car you`re standing next to but instead run up to another vehicle. It`s pretty 
 annoying but doesn`t happen that often.
  
  The combat has been reworked as well. Hand to hand combat now features various types of punches, 
 avoiding attacks etc. In other words, it`s more complex and fun than in previous games. Melee weaponry 
 has been reduced radically - there are only two melee weapons - a knife and a baseball bat. That`s 
 a real shame, but, hey, nobody brings knives to a firefight, right? Right. Now we have over-the-shoulder 
 aiming enhanced with auto-aim function which is pretty much broken. Switching between targets is 
 painfully inconvenient, often focusing more on civilians than enemies, sometimes aiming won`t work 
 at all! The arsenal is still pretty big but inferior to San Andreas. Niko can carry up to 7-8 different 
 weapons with him, from pistols to rocket launchers. They are all fun to shoot yet rendered pretty 
 poor. And of course the cover system. Kinda sucks. Sure, it`s pretty useful in indoor environments 
 and comes handy quite often, but Niko often sticks to surfaces you didn`t want him to stick at, 
 resulting in confusion and frustration. But hey, don`t sweat it - artificial intelligence is so 
 bad that... Wait, it`s horrible. Poor bastards aim weak, shoot rarely and don`t show much resistance. 
 However there are many annoying moments when an enemy has silently taken cover and just sat there 
 on his ass, doing nothing. And when you pass by him, he just releases that clip of Uzi in your 
 back. It`s not a tactic. It`s a bug. And a very frustrating one.
  
  I already mentioned that missions are not exactly a highlight. Well, yeah, they aren`t. As usual, 
 you go to by your `employers` place, watch a cutscene and do whatever the mission description 
 tells you to. The lack of innovation is shocking   of all gameplay is pure driving and 
 shooting. Or shooting while driving. Some of the missions are made wee bit more interesting by 
 adding some sequences, like holding on to a truck`s roof while it drives around like crazy etc. 
 There are some creative assassinations to be performed, like setting up an interview with the victim 
 and killing him in his own office, but there are not enough missions like this and all of them 
 are just too simple. Talk about a wasted potential - Liberty City is THE most detailed, sophisticated 
 virtual environment created right now. While it is much smaller than San Andreas, hundreds of back 
 alleys, backyards and secret shortcuts make up for it. Unfortunately you`ll be chasing bad guys 
 only on main streets - no claustrophobic, dark back alleys which would fit so much better. There 
 are 2-3 sequences which involve running through rooftops but that`s simply not enough.
  
  When you make the best of yourself by blowing up civilians, jacking cars or robbing cash registers, 
 cops turn their all-seeing eye on your poor Esatern European ass. When you gain a wanted level 
 (still the classical 1-6 stars) a circled area will appear on your map along with the positions 
 of the nearest cop cars. If you can escape the circled area and stay out of the cops sight for 
 a little bit, your wanted level will disappear. The higher the wanted level, the larger the circled 
 area and the more aggressive the cops will pursue you. The only mishap is that cops randomly pop 
 up, sometimes when you are just about to make it, a police car will show up and continue the case. 
 Even worse - on-foot cops give away your position more often than you`d like to. In fact, the cop 
 density tends to reach levels of absurd - you don`t have to dial 911 on your fancy cell phone, 
 just one misfired shot, and you`re in it.
  
  Between missions people will call you to chat, inform or ask you out. The new feature - `friends 
 activities` - is just a lame time filler. You can arrange dates with your male comrades (no pun 
 intended) and perform various `fun` acts like going bowling, watching striptease or get drunk (OK, 
 that`s fun) . If your friend likes you enough, he`ll let you use his special abilty - from guns 
 from Little Jackob or backup from Dwayne`s buddies. I didn`t find much use for them though. Yes, 
 you can go to dates with females also, met during story or hooked up from Internet but it`s basically 
 the same as with guys, except you can get laid if the gal likes you enough. No controversy here 
 - Hot Coffee still stays in San Andreas.
  
  Unfortunately, once you`re done with the story, that`s really it. Sure, you can collect trophies 
 or replay the story to see consequences of different decisions, but that`s really it, which is 
 a shame. The story is the shortest in series - it took me about 32 hours in my first run, the second 
 - only 14 hours. 
  
  Even though there is a fan-made mod which adds online play to San Andreas, Rockstar has finally 
 introduced us with online multiplayer. I have played very little of it and all I can say that connection 
 failures (like faulty hit detection or account information deletion) tend to ruin otherwise quite 
 fun online mayhem. 
  
  Liberty City looks as good as ever - sharp, detailed landscapes, amazing sunsets and millions of 
 small graphical details that immerse you into gaming world are really amazing. Car models are superb, 
 with every scratch visible on them. The completely reworked car damage system is amazing - every 
 crash affects your car`s look and sometimes even the way it handles. Sure, some character models 
 could have been better, many blurry textures, a lack antialaising can be seen when staring at city 
 landscape, there are some very notable pop-ins, especially from building shadows. The game could 
 have used more optimization too - frame rate sometimes is horrible. There are very few weather 
 effects, rain could have looked much better as well.
  Another important aspect is physics. GTA IV uses Euphoria physics engine which lets bodies fly 
 so beautifully you`ll cry from happiness. Now pieces of wall will drop off when you shoot them, 
 you can actually count every bullet you laid on a car - it looks just THAT good. Killing pedestrians 
 is now as fun as ever.
  
  Grand Theft Auto series have always tried to please most musical tastes by throwing in various 
 music stations. Sixteen different music stations and three talk radio station are great, but songs 
 and radio shows loop far too often. There is nothing bad to say about voice acting though. Character 
 voices fit their personalities perfectly, radio DJ`s and simple street people are voiced very professionally 
 and leave no room for complaint. But... Anyone who has ever talked to a real Eastern European will 
 agree that Niko just doesn`t sound like one. Seriously, he doesn`t. I have to praise the sound 
 design - everything form a bullet to hitting a mailbox has it`s own unique sound. Good job there, 
 Rockstar.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV... delivered. That`s all I can say. Nothing revolutionary, nothing groundbreaking, 
 nothing too new or unprecedented. GTA IV is a rehearsal of all the old ideas we`ve already seen 
 before. Good thing it`s still fun.
  
  Oh, and there are no tanks around this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rnmp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is simply one of the best games for the PS3 , you should totally buy it , it's 
 highly addictive , the graphics are excellent , the game play is awesome, you can be the biggest 
 hit man or thief or whatever you want in this game , the new cellphone is really nice , you can 
 call your friends to hang out with them , the police or the fire department to make time and laugh 
 in their face . You can also have a girlfriend and take her to all the places the game has to offer 
 like dinners , comedy shows , bowling and whatever. The storyline is really cool , it's not short 
 neither long, but just right , you can make important decisions in the game like letting guys live 
 or killing them nicely with a bullet in the head . So I totally recommend this game , I've played 
 many of the games of the series in the PSP and PS2 and I must say this is the best yet , and I 
 hope the following games are just as great . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to GTA games words kinda lose their meaning. You just have to let the game speak 
 of itself. GTA IV has so many different choices that you need at least 40 hours to take everything 
 out of it.
  
  First of all , with a total of 90-95 main-story missions you understand that it will never get 
 boring but that's only the beginning. There are so many random characters and side missions, so 
 many places to visit that you'll be wondering if it will ever end. Not to mention the time you'll 
 waste walking around and causing a total mess in the whole city.
  
  In the negatives, I could mention the fact that it is a bit easy for a GTA (even if it's huge) . 
 GTA San Andreas was way harder than this one. In fact I don't remember any mission that really pissed 
 me off because I had to try it over and over again. But that's not a reason to discourage you.
 
  
  Last but not least, there's the online mode with a bunch of different things to try with your friends 
 or even solo. Most of the games are pretty amusing. The only problem is that it's a bit glitchy. 
 
  
  Enough said. It's a game that's worth it's money anyway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  I played this game for 50 hrs and the most enjoyment you get out of it will come from its brilliant 
 open ended design, matched by its fluent gameplay and humorous cutscenes. 
  Niko Bellic is also by far the best and coolest protagonist in the GTA series.
  Also (I might 
 sound a bit sadistic) but there is nothing more fun than running innocent pedestrians to their, 
 often humorous deaths.
  One fault I might note is the rocket launcher, as it often disappears through numerous objects 
 when fired, which proves frustrating when assaulting a target you can't hit.
  
  Story- 4/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 3/5
 
  Length- 5/5
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: Beautiful visuals, exciting gameplay and gunplay, great sandbox design, detailed and 
 interesting characters and engageing story.
  
  Bad Points: Enemy AI can wander randomly at times, Fire service don't respond to fires, and sometimes 
 rocket launcher fault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corey_man_20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  ok now first things first the game should be alot longer then it is becaus its to quick and easy 
 aswell they should have beter handeling in the cars becaus it takes forever to turn a corner and 
 all the clothes look realy bad and could be improved and maybe they should put like a safe and 
 a gun rack in your house to store wepons and make more website in the game to shearch through for 
 eg a car dealers one were u buy cars in and a house sales one were u can buy a house at and maybe 
 even one were u can start a buisnes and that to make alot of money and have to hire inployeis that 
 work in the buisness and they should have more stores and a bigger veriaty of wepons for eg desert 
 eagle sniper rifle assault rifle combat shotgun auto shot gun smg 12 gauge shotgun rpg and much 
 much more so yer thats how grand theft auto 4 can be more fun and more enjoyable thanks for reading 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somgu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Although I haven't beaten the game it's extremely addicting to play. Great controls and great environments 
 and even an online play make it worth coming back and play. Politics think GTA is a game where 
 you kill things, jack cars, and pick up prostitute to get point. That is true but when the hell 
 did GTA have points? They should know what there complaining about and worry on other things then 
 video games. They're not not the cause of society. To me GTA is a game where you play as some guy 
 that is struggling is life and will do anything to live. Even if it involves killing people and 
 doing dirty jobs from gangs. Anyway this game is awesome but it not my favorite game. At least 
 it lets me do  
 MEANT FOR KIDS SO BUY IT FOR THEM!!!!! b (^o^) d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is plain out spectacular. A game that any fan of the series should get. It has a awesome 
 storyline and the goofing off is funner than any of the other ones in the series. Better graphics 
 and cooler things in the game. But the camera angle sometimes has a way of getting annoying the 
 driving isn't like the other ones where you press X and go speeding and you get in trouble for 
 fighting a guy which gets annoying when your just fighting for fun. However getting in trouble 
 is kinda fun that way you can jack a car and speed off. One more thing that's both good and bad 
 in this game THE HELICOPTER. I love how they made it hard due to the fact that's more realistic 
 then like i said earlier just speeding off. BUT this gets annoying espicially if you have to use 
 a helicopter to land something. I was stuck on one level for about a week due to the fact the helicopter 
 is almost impossible to land where your supposed to do it. A great multiplayer with awesome modes. 
 I recommend this game to anyone out there a fan of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dahra10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 12:21 am PT
Review:  Ok so this is GTA 4 (Grand Theft Auto IV (4) ) Witch is a very good game. The story line is very 
 good but if you play it again it does get boring. This game takes place of the main character Niko 
 who has came back from the war in eastern Eroupe. His cousin Roman is the man but thats what he 
 thinks. So you go to very crappy apartment in broker. As you go along the storyline you will meet 
 people like Bruce Little Jacob and so on. After you beat the game its gets very boring. Now lets 
 go in the multiplayer. If you bought the game only for its multiplayer go right back to the store 
 and sell it!!!! The online of this game is horrible you wont have as much as fun as you could of 
 with other grand theft autos like number 3. They could not have done worse. Well my score is 9.5 
 this is game is ok not the best ever buy yet good. Good day and good night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game back in April, I was thinking that I was going to be playing a game that's 
 the improved version of San Andreas with some totally different things. I was half wrong...
  The game is still great with better developed missions. The missions and story was well thought 
 out, but I thought that the extras was not exactly a concentration point. The story received the 
 most attention from Rockstar and I praise them for doing that, but what fun is GTA without the 
 free roaming? You are not able to buy houses in GTA IV. Buying properties in San Andreas was a 
 fun thing to do. You are also not able to customize your car. That's not any fun. You are also 
 limited to ordering one dish in a restaurant. That's a minor thing, but I was expecting it to be 
 a revolutionary Grand Theft Auto. The game should have been in the studio for a little longer and 
 if it had all those features and was released today... I would have been happy. The game is still 
 great, but it could have been developed a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcopp72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a great game, the game play is an improvement from previous GTA games, and thanks to the 
 new RAGE system that rockstar has put in the game the graphics are better than ever. The targeting 
 system has been tweeked in again for this game and you can now take cover behind a wall and stick 
 your gun out and shoot which is pretty cool. You get your own cell phone after the first few missions, 
 the phone is where all of your contacts are, add cheats, and also this is where you would go into 
 multi player mode if you so choose. The sound track is nice as usuall I always like the GTA sound 
 tracks. Unfortunately the game gets boring after only getting out of the 1st section of the map. 
 It is my opinion that Rockstar should not have taken the rural areas out of the game (like in San 
 Andreas) now your stuck in the city and after being able to go out into the country in the previous 
 game you find your self missing that element. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makiveli100
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  I liked the game graphically, but felt it was a step back from San Andres Playability wise. That 
 sums it up for me even though its not full review material. Like I stated The graphics were the 
 only big upgrade besides multiplayer, of course. I mean I knew we were going back to Liberty City 
 but I was aware that the gameing interface was going back to Grand Theft Auto 3. I mean they want 
 to set this in there own universe, but keep it real? I think they better get there act together 
 or it may lead sandbox players to lean towrad the next Saints Row. So, to conclude I personally 
 believe that the next Grand Theft Auto should relax a little bit more and make a more enjoyable 
 game rather than trying to make a realistic one. Before at some point people stop playing realistic 
 game and go out into the world. Now it may seem I was harsh to this game but hey, it's my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigStar
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This is Grand Theft Auto all over again. The only difference is new characters, new story, and 
 a few new features. But overall its everything that previous games in the GTA series have been. 
 
  
  The greatest part of this game is probably the graphics. Compaired to GTA IV's predecessors; it 
 blows them out of the water. 
  
  Some of the features such as the ablity to fly planes has been removed which, while not super valuable 
 to the game by not having such a feature shortens the game's replay value. Having small extra content 
 like this and then removing it from a newer version of a game does not seem like a great idea.
 
  
  Sadly replay value also comes very much from the cheats. Nothing wrong with cheating, but when 
 a fairly large portion of what you play requires that you cheat, it makes me question the games 
 value.
  
  Overall this is an amazing game, The GTA series is great for those bored days when feeling like 
 there is nothing better to do with your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retroworld3000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  After the prequels of GTA: VC, GTA: SA, GTA: LCS and GTA: VCS. Rockstar did a fantastic job on 
 creating GTAIV. The graphics in the game are beautiful and the controls are well done and the story 
 is so good! With no returning characters in the game. It is very nice to have different characters 
 in the game and the characters themselves are pretty good. You play as Niko who came from Europe 
 to kick some butt and the gameplay it's self is awesome. Way to awesome!! You can use your mobile, 
 play pool, go out with your friends and many more. Even surf the GTA internet and watch TV in GTA's 
 Liberty City too which actually based of New York. Plus, there are many Easter Eggs in this game 
 too. The controls in the game are pretty good I must say and the game it's self looks very realistic 
 compared to real life. Great story, great game. A MUST HAVE FOR ANY X360, PS3 AND PC OWNER. This 
 game is the best-selling game EVER! Do yourself a favour and get it. You will enjoy it! About online 
 play. To play online, you must have an account. When you play against others, you will killed alot 
 unless you're an GTA master and also survive enough to kill them. It can be furstrating but it 
 is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OcelotSnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a really great game. Really, really great. It's addictive, immersive and delivers a brilliantly 
 scripted, drawn out and action packed story. The graphics, while not the best on PS3, are decent 
 and the physics engine is good, so if you hit someone with your car, it actually looks real, unlike 
 the cartoony slapstick effects of Vice City and San Andreas. The sound is fantastic, with unreal 
 voice acting, good music and genuinely funny radio banter. This game has it all
  
  Firstly, the story. You play Niko Bellic, an immigrant drawn to America from some unnamed Eastern 
 European country by his cousin Roman, with promises of fast cars, easy women and money. Of course 
 these promises all prove to be false when Niko arrives at Roman's dank, roach-infested apartment. 
 Throughout the story, you'll meet a lot of different people, from a doped up rastafarian to a violent 
 Irishman, a crooked cop to a mob boss. All the characters are voiced terrificaly and all have interesting 
 stories and personalities. Niko himself is a great character, whose as likable as he is complicated. 
 He is a hired hitman, but he's also not a bad guy, and finds himself in trouble constantly even 
 if his intentions are good. All these great characters combine with an amazing storyline to create 
 a great experience.
  
  GTA IV also introduces a new cover system, so now you can duck behind walls, hide behind pillars 
 and use almost anything solid in your enviornment as cover. This is one of the best improvements 
 over earlier GTA's. When in the past GTA's you stood there shooting at your enemy, hoping he or 
 they died before you did, now you can protect yourself properly. It's a great new system that's 
 frustration free. The weapons this time around are more or less the same as in San Andreas or Vice 
 City. You have your assault rifles, handguns, SMG's, grenades, RPG's etc. But thanks to the graphics 
 overhaul and overall realism of GTA IV in comparison to the PS2 games, they feel better, and thanks 
 to the new cover system and a better aiming system, they're way more satisfying and realistic.
 
  Cars are both better and worse this time around also. While they are better looking and, mercifully, 
 need to take a serious beating before bursting into flames, and even though you fly through the 
 windscreen if you crash badly without a seatbelt, they take a long time to get going, so you could 
 be there for twenty seconds before you're near reaching top speed. But overall, they're still great.
 
  Missions this time around are also fantastic and varied, and a lot more forgiving and easier than 
 in past entries in the series. So say goodbye to rediculous difficulty spikes. Also fun are the 
 mini games and in game socialising. Not doing a mission? Why not call a friend and go play pool, 
 go bowling, go drinking, go eat, go see a comedian (with real comedians guest starring in the game 
 like Ricky Gerveas) . There's loads of things to do and most of them are great fun
  
  Graphically, GTA IV is decent. Not the best on the console, but not the worst either. But GTA was 
 never about the graphics, but more about the great storylines, witty dialogue and dark humour. 
 But considering the amount of content here, the graphics could've been a lot worse. 
  Sound, as always, is astounding. While the music on the radio isn't half as good as Vice City, 
 the radio talkshows are some of the best in the series with some downright hilarious talkshow hosts 
 like Christian nut-job Richard Bastion and corrupt and stupidly politically incorrect judge Judge 
 Grady (both on the station WKTT, the best station alongside Liberty Rock Radio and Integrity) . 
 The voice acting is a highlight and is flawless. Every line and conversation is perfectly voice 
 acted and all sound fantastic.
  
  GTA IV also has online play which is great fun and adds tonnes of dept and lifespan, but even without 
 it, GTA IV is so good you'll definately replay it.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV is a terrific game and is a close second to best in the series (Vice 
 City still being the top dog) . If you have a PS3, you really should buy this game. It's amazing 
 and definately worthy of your time and money 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: victormgs777
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is more of what we all love stealing cars and endless free roam with great missions. But 
 this time it brought it desperately needed great graphics which it now has. It also brought a great 
 new main character Niko Bellic. He comes in search of the American dream persuaded by his cousin 
 Roman. He's trying to escape his dark past so he comes to Liberty City where his supposedly rich 
 cousin lives. This game is more of what GTA fans know in love with improves graphics, shooting 
 and cars. The games does really good job with detail, it comes a long way from previous GTA games. 
 The only place where it falls short is you can customize cars, there are no planes except helicopters 
 and the clothing is very limited. Other than that this game is perfect plus it has online adding 
 to the replay value. This is definitely a game people should play if they have a PS3. After beating 
 it there is still a good amount of stuff to do. Free roam is very satisfying plus there is the 
 fun online multiplayer. It includes deathmatch, team deathmatch, turf war and many more. This game 
 brought a lot of detail that takes time to appreciate. Each pedestrian is having there own conversation 
 and doing something unique like getting a hot dog or calling a cab. People's cars could be breaking 
 down, you can even call the cops or an ambulance to help you in some way. There is so much detail 
 and accuracy in this game that it surprises the player. I highly recommend people to play this 
 game it's another classic like GTA Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tknuth55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  I was there at the beginning of the GTA series. I played the the first two and watched the game 
 step into its 3D shoes. From Liberty City to Vice City. From San Andreas to good old Liberty City 
 once again. It's like watching a good movie you saw when you were little again when your older. 
 You see and understand so much more. So yeah, it's like that.
  I'll base this review on 6 different key areas: graphics, sound, gameplay, multiplayer, the size, 
 and the story.
  First of all the graphics are top notch. A beautifully seductive city greets at night and a vivid 
 and visually proficient city greets you during the day. I encountered little to no graphic hiccups 
 along my trip through the crisp and solid city that is.
  Second is the sound. A massive number of great songs, well-done voice acting, and the real buzz 
 and rumble of city-life are all included. The sound helped to suck me in when I was playing. I 
 couldn't help but speak in funny accents afterwards.
  Third is the gameplay. As I controlled Niko Bellic through the city I saw a great work of art. 
 Compared to the awkward run of Tommy Vercetti and the basic shooting system of past games this 
 game seemed like the Cullinan Diamond to me. You actually steal cars, not just get in them, shoot 
 your enemies, not just point a gray object that spits yellow at them, and you actually live in 
 the city, not just walk around in it.
  Next is the multiplayer aspect. I live in the country and my internet isn't top notch, so I was 
 surprised when I was dropped into a city with 15 others and was able to run and play with the best 
 of them with no horrible lag jumping or disappearing acts. Several modes of online play and a system 
 that executes flawlessly puts the icing on the cake.
  Onto its size. I've played Fallout 3 and The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Game of the Year edition 
 and I have to say, the world is not as big as those environments, but it is much more alive and 
 heck, it does come closer than almost every other game. The real world is huge, why shouldn't the 
 virtual ones not be?
  The last and often most important is the story. No story ruined some games with a lot of potential 
 for me. Unreal Tournament III being among the top of the list. GTA IV makes me feel actual emotions 
 towards the characters I meet. I hate some, love others, and others reminded me of that second 
 cousin twice removed. You also get to make some choices in the story, you don't have to be gang 
 banger with no morals anymore. Finally you can let the guy live, or choose the girl over the idiot.
 
  So all in all don't believe the haters. If you aren't into the crime/vigilante game than don't 
 bother. But if you are looking for an experience that will leave you feeling awed and wanting more. 
 A must-have if you're lucky enough to possess an Xbox 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipuccio
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  Great game if you like robbing, shooting and running from the law. Graphics are good, controls 
 feel just right and the missions/story are incredible.
  
  So many things to do, this game will have you playing for a long time. I will be buying the next 
 installment for sure (this is the only GTA I have ever played) .
  
  Great game if you like robbing, shooting and running from the law. Graphics are good, controls 
 feel just right and the missions/story are incredible.
  
  So many things to do, this game will have you playing for a long time. I will be buying the next 
 installment for sure (this is the only GTA I have ever played) .
  
  Great game if you like robbing, shooting and running from the law. Graphics are good, controls 
 feel just right and the missions/story are incredible.
  
  So many things to do, this game will have you playing for a long time. I will be buying the next 
 installment for sure (this is the only GTA I have ever played) .
  
  Great game if you like robbing, shooting and running from the law. Graphics are good, controls 
 feel just right and the missions/story are incredible.
  
  So many things to do, this game will have you playing for a long time. I will be buying the next 
 installment for sure (this is the only GTA I have ever played) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltron3131
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 29, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  So i'm watching tv and online reviews and all i hear is this is one of the best games to come out. 
 wtf is the world on for real i want to know. i will break this game down into the gameplay elements 
 it tries to be.
  
  number one a shooter 
  
  so with the auto aim it makes it pretty easy to shoot but its not a very satisfying experience 
 you shoot they die woohoo 
  
  number 2 a driver
  
  i have never in my life been so frustrated driving a virtual car this is one of the toughest driving 
 experiences ive ever had between the touchy gas and break system to the magic camera which seems 
 to want to be placed looking down on your car for no reason it really makes it a tough experience 
 
  
  now i really tried to look hard for something that made this game worth while to justify the 60 
 dollars that i paid for it and beyond the random swearing and cheesy sex puns theres nothing the 
 controls are bad shootings bad drivings bad the mini games have no excitement to them and just 
 in all i feel its time things in the retail market change because i want my 60 dollars back and 
 since its opened about all i can do is bring it to a game store and get 15 bucks for it wheres 
 the justice!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV came to us promising near perfect realism; the end result proving far, far less exciting 
 or immersive. The graphics were of good quality and the sound design did not disappoint, but what 
 was lacking was the customization and the sheer epicisity of San Andreas. The story had some high 
 points, but overall proved hollow and easily forgotten.
  
  Our protagonist, East European immigrant Niko, reminded me too much of GTA 3 and old liberty city. 
 Even his clothes matched the main character from From GTA 3 to a tea, and the proper customization 
 features such as haircuts, weight gain, muscle and fitness were non existent in GTA 4. The main 
 feature that kept bringing me back for more hours was the vast variety of main and side missions, 
 which were still a far cry from both the fun and longevity of San andreas. 
  
  Perhaps if not the bastard child of San Andreas, GTA IV would have faired better, but the weak 
 repetitive cover and shoot system took the fun away from the great run n gun system of san andreas 
 and added unnecessary seriousness.
  
  Worth picking up, if only for the online features, but still a decent romp through the worl of 
 Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CageSpot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:21 am PT
Review:  Online was great! i mean doing airport stunts with your friends or family was really fun but what 
 got me down was the storymode and NikoBellic the storyline felt like grand theft auto 3 and ofcrouse 
 NikoBellic is just a gimp Compeared to CarlJohnson or Vince and this game was pretty fun on teh 
 stunt gameplay but really this game was useless on gameplay system unless your useing it online
 
  
  u cant do anything dat SanAndreas had u cant go on the airplane have parasuits or cant even customize 
 Carl Johnson this game sucked for alot of reasons its just not as good as i thought it would be 
 but yea there u have it u might get the game and love it but me it was a failure in the series 
 of grand theft auto Series dat Was Made Great by the Events of sanandreas ViceCity VicecityStories 
 Libetycity and libetycity stories 
  
  Its One of the worst in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colezatharvey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  This is the best Grand Theft Auto yet. It has a brilliant storyline with brilliant characters. 
 It has brand new features such as the cinematic button, so you can drive like in the movies. You 
 have your own cellphone where you can select multiplayer, contacts, messages, cheats, etc. You 
 can even call 911 for the emergency services. The map is used as a GPS that even talks!
  
  There are lots more different cars and people (unlike previous GTA's when they're all the same!) 
 and when you drive really fast and crash you fly out of the windscreen! You can travel around the 
 amazingly realistic NYC on the subway, or get a helitour of the city. Climb up the Empire State 
 Building or walk across the Brooklyn Bridge. Catch something to eat in many different restaurants. 
 Browse the Internet at any of the internet cafe. Or get a private dance at a strip club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xgear455
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Emocional, critical, fun. These are the main words to me to describe GTA 4. Explanition:
  
  You can feel the emotions of Niko Bellic (Emotional) , an emigrant founded him self in a American 
 crazy big city (fun) . A city which is corrupt, violent, feeded by its ilegal busnisses (critical) , 
 in the midle of this Vinewood/Hollywood city are people who are lost (fun and critical) , you can 
 learn things, lessons of life with this game (critical and emotional) , make right decisions, give 
 a second chance to a drug dealer, chose to kill your boss or your lost`` friend, help your cousin 
 to folow the American Dream, transform your self from a Balcan sailor to a hired good`` American 
 killer (emotional) . Drive your car and strunk 58 old ladys in 2:50mins, drive your car and listen 
 to rock, jazz, funk, afro beat, eletronic and crazy ads (FUN, FUN, FUN) .
  As you see these three words can say everything about GTA4. For only 70.00$ or 65.00Euros or even 
 in BUY BEST (GAMESOT) for only **59.99$** (rounded prices) .
  
  Buy it and come with me to war for GTA 4: Lost and Damned for PS3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mknauer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The only reason i still play the game is to get my money's worth. I bought the game hoping for 
 something different but its the same as all the others. The game isn't terrible but if you are 
 looking for a change i don't suggest you buy this game I suggest you just play GTA 3 over again. 
 The plus side of this game is that you do get a cell phone which will allow you to store the cheat 
 codes that you enter. Another thing that was improved in this GTA is that you get to set way points 
 to make getting to destinations easier. The Map in this game is much improved, so that you don't 
 have to memorize streets, its much easier to get around in this game. Blah blah blah, i cant think 
 of anymore to say about this game. Blah blah blah blah,
  123456789qwerty qwerty qwerty Im just filling out the minimum characters needed to finish this 
 review now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game, is about Niko Bellic, An eastern european immigrant, who comes to America to start a new 
 life. So, this game isn't just Violence, killing, shooting and hookers, it has a great story, this story 
 has a soul. And it teachs you that living life of a gangster has it's conseqences. All of this. Offers 
 a great game. And take your time with this game, play it for a while.
  Graphics 8/10
  Good, very good.
  Gameplay 10/10
  Classic  TO MAN LAND.
 
  Where you can crash cars, while strippers go up n down poles, and people will be spraying each other 
 with uzi's. WIN. Take your time with this.
  Story 10/10
  A exceptionally good story,.
  Acting 12/10
  Awesome voice acting.
  Worth the wait and weight.
  Never ever bad-mouth this 
 game.
  Enjoy.
  ======================================================= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is by far in my opinion the best installment in the series. After putting about 
 50+ hours in this i would have to say I am going to play through it again. Mainly for the trophies, and 
 because its a fantastic game. And the only reason it did not garner game of the year honors is because 
 of Hideo Kojima's masterpiece, MGS4.
  
  You start as a immigrant named Niko Bellic and find your cousin roman, who is chasing the american 
 dream. You start off in a really small apartment and then as time passes you can unlock new safehouses 
 on each island and buy newer and better clothes. I just wish they could have incorporated the food 
 and excercise from San Andreas. That would have made GTA4 even better, and maybe the ability to buy 
 more homes.
  
  The city of Liberty looks fantastic and the helicopter tours you can take, along with the cab rides, 
 and even walking really show off the immense city in all it's glory. But don't look too close, it 
 does have it's flaws, but then again what game doesnt.
  
  Now in this chapter of the gta series niko can take cover, climb walls, and even shimmy on ledges. And 
 he can also fall from a relative high distance without getting hurt. But the cover system makes 
 the game alot easier and more realistic. Calling in backup and calling for guns, and carbombs helps 
 too.
  
  All-in-all, Grand Theft Auto 4 delivers in ways that the older games never did. From the story, to 
 the graphics, and the sheer immensity of the city and all it's islands, GTA4 is a game that you 
 have to play, regardless of which system you own. Let's hope rockstar does this good or better with 
 GTA5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveydag
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:08 am PT
Review:  I have played GTA IV now quite awhile now, and after all is said and done i feel a little let down. 
 I was hoping for something amazing and when i first turned the game on i thought that this was 
 it, it looks good. after playing for around 3 hours or so i couldn't help get the feeling i had 
 done it all before. i have played GTA3, vice city and san andreas and thought there was a nice 
 progression between those in the series, however i felt that other than a graphics improvement 
 it was a backwards step and was disappointed. i stuck it out to see the story, (which isn't why 
 most people play these games) and i was let down to, what a surprise u get involved with some "bad 
 guys" u kill them, then u get with some others, u help them out a little then kill them. talk about 
 /yawn! all that said it is a good bit of fun if u like just killing everyone, and i spent many 
 hours trying to see how long i could live with various star ratings. for that reason i give this 
 game a 7/10. good fun bit limited "epicness". just not quite there guys sorry.
  
  daveydag aka daviina 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostfaceL94
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  I played all GTA games before and this game, in my opinion, San Andreas is better than this. The 
 gameplay is still good but the controlls are late and the missions are annoying as **** when it 
 doesnt do what you want them to do. The driving is good and the graphics is not a masterpiece its 
 just mediocre. But there are alot of glitches in this game. The sounds are pretty realistic. But 
 this game is just way overhyped and overrated. When you first play this game you'll definitely 
 have fun but as you progress it gets less entertaining and its very repetitive (go to this location, 
 kill the guy, go to this location, chase the guy, go to this location, get the dope etc.) Overall 
 this game doesnt even deserve a 10. Its a ok game but not great compare to other games that came 
 out this year. Closing words, just rent it, and buy another title.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  
  Ok GTA 4 is the fourth in the GTA series, or at least the fourth with a number on the end because 
 it seems as though games such as vice city and san andreas are to good for numbers. But anyway 
 the story is basically you playing an immigrant named niko bellic who travels to liberty city to 
 visit his oddly unattractive cousin who seems to be living a better life in his head than in his 
 shoes, and as always you have to make your way to the top by climbing up a dark tower of stolen 
 cars, crazy gang lords and pointless taxi missions. 
  
  For the fist couple of hours of playing the game i spent the majority of my time driving my cousin 
 and his friends around, taking them bowling and sitting in front of the in game tv watching some 
 retarded tv shows, then I realised 'hang on am i playing Grand theft auto 4 or grand theft live 
 your normal life in your ps3?'. So then Immediately murdered my neighbour slacker (student) , stole 
 his car, went on a rampage driving through anything that got in my way including 4 firehydrants, 
 3 mail boxes, 2 members of the kicthen staff from bakers oven and a lampost or two, which by the 
 way seem to snap if anything heavier than a babies toenail is put against them. The police then 
 gave chase as i sped around giggling to myself then my rampage came to an end when I happened to 
 crash into what appeared to be the worlds strongest baby birch tree. Thats when I flew through 
 my windscreen into the middle of the road where i got up and got hit by another car which managed 
 to stop in time for me to go flying through his windscreen taking about half of my health away 
 immediatley. But as fun it was to keep giggling, after all this i thought to myself the tree did 
 have one of those little fences around it which would make all this chaos make sense to anyone 
 with an IQ of 6 but funnily enough my IQ was higher than that so I managed to learn from that experience 
 to not drive into anything that mother nature had sprung up and to keep driving into lamposts and 
 hotdog stand attendents instead. Then all of a sudden i realised the police had stopped chasing 
 me. It seems in this game you just lose the police by just simply driving off quickly which you 
 would have thought the police would be more prepared for. Not fully realising this at the time, 
 with the lack of excitment and challenge I went back after them shouting at the screen 'hey i'm 
 over here, i've got free doughnuts, come and get me.' But that didn't work so i went back to my 
 cousin for more taxi missions so could progress the story.
  
  The tutorial at the start of the game seems to last forever. This is because Rockstar tried to 
 include that many feaures in the game to make it a realistic as possible that you have to learn 
 how to use them all. I mean you have to learn how to use everything; cars, trucks, boats, helicopters, 
 tvs, phones, internet, friends, pigeons, heroine, you name it. Well maybe not heroine which is 
 a surprise concidering the name GTA has gotten itself but i digress. As you can probably tell from 
 this the game is quite long, and i mean long, so if you happen to have yourself a day job you may 
 as well go in monday morning, go to the toilets, beat yourself up liar liar style, and claim a 
 few years off sick, and then maybe you'll get through the turorial in which you can book your entire 
 lifes holiday to play the rest of the game.
  
  One of the many features in this installment of the GTA series is the new friends system. Now you 
 can take most of your buddies out for a night on the town to make them like you enough to offer 
 you a special feature. The problem with this though is to keep everyone liking you, inbetween each 
 mission you have to call one of them, drive to their house to pick them up, drive to somewhere 
 like a burger bar, watch the screen fade out and fade back in for 4 seconds then drive them back. 
 This can be quite tiresome and makes the game exactly like stopping everytime you get dirt on your 
 new mercedes to clean it off as you drive through a rally course. Of course this doesn't come without 
 its perks. The special features include cheaper weapons and.... well thats all i found because 
 i got that bored with the buddies system that after making my first friend and keeping his friend 
 status topped up every in game day i got bored of it and didn't bother to make another friend.
 
  
  As far as the controls are concerned you can now hug walls and peep around them during gunfights 
 which is a new thing for GTA but an old thing for... well the rest of the population of the milkyway 
 really but a nice touch nontheless. As usual it appears to be tradition for the driving controls 
 to be completely ****. Everytime you do a handbreak turn you go spinning off and crash into one 
 of mother natures impressive contraptions like the super baby birch making racing missions and 
 driving really fast missions quite difficult. But if you've played the other GTA games you'd probably 
 be used to this fact already. They try to redeem this by including the 6 axis in the driving (which 
 you have another tutorial for) but to be quite frank i found it easier to play upside down, blindfolded, 
 with two cactuses up my nostrils, while playing the sugar babes in the background, so if you were 
 thinkin of having good times with the 6 axis then the only good times you'll be having with it 
 is when you through the controller at your little sisters' pet iguana to see if it'll make your 
 helicopter take off.
  
  After all this i still found it quite fun, because to be honest firing a gun in the air, making 
 civilians flee and panick and watching them tumble as you shoot them in their calf is highly enjoyable. 
 Or maybe i'm just too sadistic for my own good but i still recommend this game to anyone who is 
 saddistic as me just for the action factor of the game, but i'm just gonna go ahead and look forward 
 to Grand Theft Auto: Cardiff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boakiller
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is the latest Grand theft auto game in the series.
  Ever since GTA SA, people have been waiting for this game, and I am proud to say, it was well worth 
 the wait.
  
  
  Although it took some features out from GTA SA, it does retain that realistic look and added new 
 features and you won't even tell the difference.
  
  GTA has great visuals and a tremendous amount of visuals, from the clothes to the shadows, plus 
 the options are not useless, changing the brightness and contrast will effect your gameplay and 
 GTA IV will look great on any T. V. 
  
  GTA IV is not just useless free roam after you complete the game, there are extra side missions 
 that Rockstar added to enhance the replay value even more. The side missions can be talking, or 
 blowing stuff in the sky.
  
  
  
  Too sum it up, The multiplayer takes place in the city, no lag wonderful.
  
  
  For 60 bucks, 
 this is one hella of a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever to come out in a very long time and it's so bad ass it makes 
 Oprah cry wolf ! 
  
  Graphics:
  The city is magical and every thing around you seem to get to you. Especially the spoofs that are 
 hidden within the in game advertising.
  
  Game play:
  Wow like a hell load of fun!! Like any GTA game very similar. However, they added some extra features 
 like the behind the wall covering, breaking glass and high wiring a car, wearing a helmet when 
 driving a bike (safety first!) , but unfortunately the driving seems to get on your nerve at the 
 beginning because even at this point Rockstar pushed the reality meter too high. Dont worry about 
 you will get used to it in no time. 
  
  Story:
  Not your average gangster wannabe or I wanna take over the city scarface style. It's just about 
 an old man wanting to change his life by coming to land of opportunities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is the first iteration of the series to appear on the current generation of consoles, and 
 after a lengthy wait, I'm happy to say it was well worth it. Rockstar games have made one of the 
 best sandbox games, as well as the best GTA game ever.
  
  Playing Niko Bellic, an immigrant from a fictional soviet bloc country, you arrive in Liberty City 
 by boat looking for your cousin Roman. It seems Roman promised Niko great things in America, and 
 when he arrives he is in for quite a rude awakening. As Rockstar said, GTA IV is more of a "rags 
 to slightly better rags" than a rags to riches story.
  
  The Liberty City in this game is quite a departure from the past ones. This time the city is an 
 incredibly detailed and faithful recreation of New York City itself, complete with all the burroughs, 
 landmarks, subways and skyscrapers. The names have been changed of course. The statue of Liberty 
 is the Statue of Happiness. Brooklyn is Broker, Algonquin is Manhattan, etc. But the closeness 
 of each to its original counterpart is astonishing, and makes you feel like you are in a real city.
 
  
  The amazing simulations of city life help to immerse you even more. You'll see hot dog vendors, 
 police chases, boats riding in the harbor, people working and going about their business everywhere 
 you look. It's a joy just to observe and see what the NPC's do when you aren't playing. They react 
 realistically if you threaten them, and chime in with some funny quips that made me laugh on several 
 occasions. Even if you don't follow the storyline and want to goof around, it would take quite 
 a while to become bored. There is so much to see here.
  
  Graphically, the game looks fabulous, and the level of detail for such a huge open world game is 
 impeccable. The buildings and architecture in particular really stand out, with a mix of modern 
 skyscrapers and old world apartment buildings with rustic charm. The character models all look 
 great too - each and every one. The vehicles aren't far off visually from those in some of the 
 best driving games available today. If you rotate the camera while driving, you can zoom in and 
 see the actual flecks of paint on the cars. Again, this shows the pains of a lot of hard work on 
 Rockstar's part. Both the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions look beautiful. Owning both versions, I noticed 
 a slight edge on the 360 version in visual crispness, while the PS3 version seemed to have slightly 
 less pop in in a few areas, noticeable when driving fast around Liberty city. But other then that, 
 they're nearly identical and you can't go wrong with either. However, the 360 version will be getting 
 the downloadable content in the (very) near future, so that may sway you if you are a multi console 
 owner like myself who hasn't yet purchased the game.
  
  But the icing on the cake in GTA IV is it's newly added online multiplayer. With up to 16 players 
 online in the console versions, and a ton of game modes and online co-op, this is an amazing online 
 game. I don't know how they did it, but you can play the ENTIRE map in multiplayer mode. This is 
 something unheard of in such a huge game, until this came along. There are lots of weapons and 
 game types also. You have the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. But some of the other ones 
 are really creative and fun - like cops and crooks, where one team is the police trying to stop 
 the criminals from escaping with loot. You've got awesome racing games that are as fun as stand 
 alone driving games, including a GTA race mode, where you can pick up weapons and shoot your opponents 
 to prevent them from winning. All the co-op modes are terrific too, and the online in this game 
 never gets old for me. The cover mechanic is another thing that works well. All in all, the online 
 is awesome, and nothing here feels tacked on.
  
  The only slight knock on the game would be that they took away some of the wacky elements from 
 San Andreas that made that game so fun, like the character modification, ability to purchase property, 
 and flying planes, etc. Nonetheless, the more focused, serious story is a step in a new direction 
 that didn't fail to impress me. Niko is a charming and likeable character.
  
  Rockstar have set the bar very, very high for the sandbox genre, and I seriously wonder if any 
 other developer will come close to what they have done for quite a while. Beautiful visuals, great 
 single and multiplayer, and just being able to have fun goofing around in a huge, living city are 
 reason enough to pick this game up now, if you still haven't experienced the greatness that is 
 GTA IV. Niko will be waiting for you. --Chief
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_bored
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Yea I agree GTA IV is a great game... But it doesn't deserve all it's getting. Come on Game of 
 the Year. I don't believe that. Once you play this game for a while it starts getting boring. I 
 think Metal Gear Solid 4, LittleBigPlanet, or Fallout 3 should've won. This game is just not it. 
 Everyone got there own opinion. But just keep playing this game and maybe in about a month or 2, 
 you'll put that game down. (Not everyone just some people.) I recommend Saints Row 2 it's much 
 better. Here's Some Pros and Cons:
  
  Pros: Great Shooter
  Looks (Almost) Excactly Like New York City
  Long Story To Keep You Active (Mainly To People Who 
 Don't Have Online)
  Online Ain't That Bad
  Awsome Graphics
  
  Cons: No Offline Multiplayer Anymore
  Can't Customize Cars
  Gets Boring
  Sometimes Frustrating
 
  
  I'm basicly trying to say GTA IV is a very great game but not all it's hyped up to be. But it's 
 not my opinion that matters. It's what you think that matters.
  
  One more thing...
  These are games I recommend more:
  
  LittleBigPlanet
  Fallout 3
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns 
 of the Patriots
  Saints Row 2
  
  If you have an Xbox 360:
  
  Gears of War 1 or 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The first grand theft auto game that I played. I just tried one of the old game in the series one 
 or 2 missions, that's it. I wanted to get this one cause it looked good and had good reviews. Game 
 has a good start. The story is solid and nice. Gameplay is good, you drive lots of vehicles which 
 is fun. The guns are not bad. Shooting is ok. Driving is good. Graphics are good. It has a good 
 value because game is long enough and multiplayer is ok. I must say the everything in the city 
 looks real and nice. The people and the buildins atmosphere is nice. There are plenty of characters 
 in the game. Other than missions there are other extra stuff in the game you can do play pool, 
 race or helicopter ride. If you like a modern action adventure you gotta play this game. It is 
 good for all ages except little kids. Sometime during the progress you might feel bored, but it 
 all depends on the age group. Overall it is a great and must play game. 
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Value: 9
  
  Tilt (fun) : 9
  
  Story: 9
  
  OVERALL: 
 9.1
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Graphics are much improved over PS2 versions, with good detailing, lighting and environmental 
 effects.
  
  - Gameplay is immersive and ever changing with fun mission design and none of the tediousness of 
 previous GTA games. Voice-overs and cut scenes are really well done and the plot is pretty interesting. 
 Plenty of things to do outside of the missions.
  
  - Liberty City world design is simply incredible. The detail put into this game blows my mind. 
 The citizens of Liberty City are more realistic, walking around talking on their cell, loading 
 their trunk, or sipping a cup of coffee. The comments they say are hilarious too!
  
  - Great selection of weapons, cloths, cars, etc. It's always fun to try something new.
  
  - 
 Rockstar eliminated many of the tedious tasks from GTA San Andreas, such as having to exercise/lift 
 weights to stay in optimal shape. Or having to eat 4 burgers to regain health (just one will do 
 in GTA IV) .
  
  - Good surround sound effects. Great music/talk radio options, funny as usual. Laslo has returned!! 
 You can even watch TV and surf the web.
  
  - Online mode adds some more replay value, although I don't care for the point accumulation. It 
 takes forever to level up.
  
  The Bad:
  - Some slow gameplay at times. This is the first I've seen something like this on PS3.
  
  - 
 Online mode could be much better.
  
  - Graphics could still improve... hopefully they can figure a way to lose the blurry/glare appearance 
 and make it appear crisper (ref. Call of Duty) .
  
  The Verdict:
  The best GTA yet, but there is always room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a single Grand Theft Auto game before, Grand 
  Theft Auto 4 blew me away. This is a game you have to play. I didn't 
  find any flaws in this 
 game, other than the nuisance of the police 
  and FIB. Grand Theft Auto's story is quite long and extremely 
  interesting. The story will have 
 you coming back to venture on as Niko Bellic, a Russian immigrant. 
  
  Liberty City is extremely large. There are millions of things to do in Liberty City. It is to imitate 
 New York City. The best way to see Liberty City is to take a helicopter tour of the entire city. 
 You can go drinking, play bowling, go to a strip club, a cabaret club, watch a comedy act, play 
 darts, go boating, street racing, cop hunting etc. etc. 
  
  The Graphics of Grand Theft Auto 4 are rich at a glance, but poor under scrutiny. However, the 
 amount of action happening is easy to over look the graphics. 
  
  The Story of GTA 4 can be finished in about 25=35 hours. But with all the things to do, you can 
 easily double, maybe triple that time. GTA 4's story is compelling, interesting, and well played 
 by the motion capture cut scenes. The language is rich and well written, leaving the player wanting 
 more and more. However, the missions in GTA 4 are difficult and sometimes frustrating. It isn't 
 always killing targets and such, however, there are interesting ones, such as car races, and bank 
 heists. After the story ends, there are several side missions and random people you can run errands 
 for. 
  
  Multiplayer modes in GTA 4 are plentiful. There are some issues of severe lag between players, 
 but that shouldn't stop anyone from playing it. 
  
  The Sound of Grand Theft Auto 4 is terrific. Except for the car engines. Enough said on that.
 
  
  Overall, GTA 4 is a game you simply must play because of it's detail, story, and Liberty City itself. 
 
  
  My Score: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:31 am PT
Review:  Awesome game. I still don't get what's with the very low scores given by other users. Either they 
 don't know what a fun game is or they find donkey kong to be the better game. GTA IV deserves at 
 least a 9. It has to be in everybody's collections as one of the greatest game to own. The physics 
 + ragdoll is outstanding with addicting gameplay. Well worth the $60! 
  xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxvxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx
  xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx
  v
  xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaflygamer525
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is a fantastic game with a fantastic storyline. You hop off a boat from germany to the land 
 of oppoportunity, and to Neko Bellic, it's not all that it's cracked up to be. You roam the city 
 making new friends and enimies, becoming a lethalized criminal. My favorite version of this game 
 is the PS3 version. It was actually pretty tough getting the hang of the Xbox and PC versions. 
 This was my favorite of the series, and i am also hoping for The Lost and the Damned version to 
 be at least clost to the fun i had playing gta 4.
  One also good thing about this game was the online multiplayer. There were lots of modes and i 
 loved them all. So be sure to play online too.
  It's really no dought that this is one of the best games i've ever played, and no dought it's one 
 of the greatest games of all time. But this is not the only game to get, check out Metal Gear Solid 
 4, Resistance 2, Burnout Paridise, Uncharted, and Saints Row 2.
  Bottom Line is that you've Got To Get This Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikogtaIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game of good physics engine, great graphics , perfect game-play and intense 
 story. You play as Niko Bellic, a Yugoslavian who came to America searching for a better life. 
 Trough most of the game you'll be guided by your cousin Roman who lives in America for 15 years. 
 You'll be fighting Russian mobs , doing dirty business for drug dealers and ambitious 
  porn stars with a lot of money. Euphoria Physics is a great thing in the game. It will show itself 
 in killing people with cars, falling down from a helicopter and many other things. The textures 
 are amazing .
  The only bad thing in the game is that you don't have the opportunity to change your hair style, 
 have tattoos , fly a plane ,but you can get drunk, go to a show, go bowling, call your friends 
 and do some activities and ,of course ,have a girl friend . The terrain is smaller then GTA San 
 Andreas , but in GTA IV you have a copy of New York , Liberty City, which is full of details and 
 larger then etc. San Fierro in GTA: SA. In Liberty City you have 4 boroughs: Broker ( Brooklyn) 
 , Algonquin ( Manhattan) ,Dukes ( Queens) , Bohan ( Bronx) and Alderney ( New Jersey) . The only 
 borough that isn't copied from New York, not in the game at all is : Staten Island. But without 
 it, the game is still full of fun, experience and reality . Perfect game for GTA lovers! Just and 
 advice: the game isn't very good on PC because it has a lot of bugs and it's complicated to install 
 and to start it. And you need to have monster computer. It's best on PS3 and Xbox. Enjoy the game, 
 if you don't have it, you are missing some thing big. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadedsniper
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 1:04 am PT
Review:  For how much hype this game got and recognition i'm not sure it lived up to all of my expectations. 
 But it is a great game that deserves your time. Easily is the best GTA game so far and the story 
 is very well developed and interesting enough to make you want to actually finish the game, instead 
 of just fooling around which is what i would find myself eventually doing in all the previous titles. 
 However a few changes they have made were not good, such as the new driving control. Its really 
 wonky and difficult to get the hang of. I found myself struggling to beat simple chase missions 
 because i couldn't take a corner unless i slowed down to a slow crawl. I think maybe rockstar was 
 attempting to make it more realistic than the previous games, instead they made it worse in my 
 opinion ( i mean come on we all know you can take a corner at 35 mph with a sports car without losing 
 control) Aside from this the overall game was great, it doesn't deserve the 10/10 rating though 
 because its far from perfect. Bottom line: ITS A BUYER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidosch
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Man I had a enormous hype for this. I pre-ordered it from online and it would be in my mailbox 
 on release date. I knew the time when mail was going to be in our box so I left school early. Once 
 I got home, I went to computer to Gamespots site for GTAs review. Once I saw number 10, I ran to 
 mailbox and got it inside.
  
  Once I started the game I couldn't realize that GTA could look that good. It was just stunning. 
 Second thing I noticed was how well and smooth the cars ride.
  
  After few missions the story started to suck me in. But one thing that I noticed compared to other 
 GTAs was that you get money much faster and you don't really need it that bad at the start.
  
  After playing longer thru story I started to get bored cause the missions started to feel the 
 same so I left it aside for a while and played some other games. When I came back to GTA, it had 
 that sparkle again and I couldn't stop playing it. Story started to get deeper and you could feel 
 that the end was near. After finishing I felt kinda empty and I started to explore the city. Then 
 I realised that you can't do anything with your money. Yes, you can buy guns and hotdogs but it's 
 nothing like SA had (Car tuning etc.) I guess Rockstar had to work so hard for this engine that 
 they didn't have time or money to make such things. 
  
  After a while made a decision that I will get the 100 %. Other things such as stunt jumps and car 
 things were fun to do but pigeons were a big pain in the ARSE. When I got 100% GTA felt empty and 
 I gave it a rest, again. Couple weeks forward my friends got the same game and we went online together. 
 And I can only describe it with two words : Endless Fun. It's amazingly fun to make a private free 
 mode, turn off FF, have only RPGs and have a Terminator fight. Or go to same car and do the Swing 
 of Death. Or hijack a bus and get some cops after you. Rank system is also good, although I wished 
 for better rewards after rankups.
  
  
  GTA IV is a great game, no doubt. For me it didn't feel like earlier GTAs but I think it's a good 
 thing when we go forward on time. I think the way from here can only be UP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fissurestriker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game i have ever played for more reasons that i can even remember. everything 
 is perfect; driving is highly realistic, graphics are fantastic, unbelievable replay value, fantastic 
 story, great on-line play, fantastic cover and shooting system and best of all its FUN, FUN, FUN. 
 one game i would highly recommend and you are not a proper gamer until you buy it. if you ever 
 only play one game make sure this is it!!! ok.. the negatives... well.... there aren't any at all 
 what soever!!! this is my honest opinion there is not much more that rockstar could of done to 
 make this any better. well i wish you could change your hair and create a character from scratch 
 and i wish they kept planes but other than that it is one hell of a game that has put its self 
 in a league of its own. i have one message for THQ; GIVE UP, saints row will never be as good as 
 gta and i think everyone will agree with me. this game has set the bar not just for action/ adventure 
 games but for all games and i would like to see someone beat it... but be ready for one hell of 
 a fight as rockstar will not go down easy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Lately, it seems that a lot of game franchises are starting to really fall apart with lackluster 
 or just plain crappy sequels. But there are some game franchises that are still going strong, and 
 that you can still stand outside your local GameStop at midnight to pick up a pre-order and know 
 that you are getting your time/money's worth. Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that proves that this 
 is still true.
  
  I had my doubt about whether or not GTA could continue to succeed on this new generation of consoles. 
 The jump to multiplatform release had me worried that the game would suffer from bugs, glitches, 
 and poor gameplay from having to split the developer's time between two consoles and not giving 
 either console the attention it deserved. And given the increase in console performance, would 
 the game feel appropriately immense? Or would it feel like just a copy-cat of San Andreas?
  
  I am please to say that aside from a few bumps, GTA IV matches and exceeds its predecessors 
 in terms of scope, gameplay, size, realism/believability, and pure entertainment factor. In fact, 
 it blows it predecessors out of the water.
  
  Some people are quick to criticize this game because it doesn't have all the "cool" features of 
 San Andreas. And this is indeed true. The player is no longer required to eat food everyday in 
 order to keep his health fully charged. The player can no longer get fat or buff based on how much 
 he exercises. The character is not able to drive around in a fire truck putting out car fires for 
 hours on end or picking up injured people in ambulances. You can no longer play video poker in 
 casinos. Yes, a lot of the old "standard" features of GTA have been removed. But I assure you, 
 that every San Andreas feature that was cut out, was either removed because it honestly doesn't 
 add anything to this game, or because it was replaced with something better. And any naysayers 
 who claim that this game is bad because it doesn't give you as much to do as San Andreas is probably 
 the kind of person who just drives around shooting people and never actually PLAYS the game.
  
  Because this game does not excel in just mindless, stupid violence. Sure, you can have plenty 
 of mindless, stupid violence still. But where this game really excells is its superbly written 
 and presented story with memorable, believable, and most importantly: likeable characters. And 
 it starts and ends with the protagonist, Niko Belic. Sure, he's a stone-cold killer when he has 
 to be, but strangely enough, he's also a really nice person with an astounding sense of humor and 
 compassion. Treat him with courtesy and respect and show him that you too are a decent human being, 
 and he will be the most loyal friend you could ever have. The way he defends his cousin Roman, 
 and his interactions with other friends like Little Jacob and Kate McReary, are perfect examples 
 of just how good a person Niko is. And it does take a while before you start to see this side of 
 him, because, on the other hand, if you're a disrespectful and cruel (as many of the characters 
 early in the game are) , Niko will come down on you with a vengeance and brutality the likes of 
 which we have never seen in a video game.
  
  But the character of Niko is not a linear, set in stone, biography, as this game, in a way never 
 before seen in a GTA game (or GTA clone) , presents the players with a series of ethical decisions 
 that will have you sitting, jaw-dropped with the controller limp in your hand because you just 
 don't know what to do. For example, at one point in the game, you are given the choice to kill 
 one of two people. Both of which you have worked for in the past, and both of which treated you 
 well. But the decision of which to kill is left to the player, and the decision will be based not 
 on how those characters treated you, but rather how they treated each other. And each choice will 
 have lasting consequences throughout the course of the game.
  
  And in the end, this game is more of a game about the characters and their relationships and interactions 
 more than it is a game about stealing cars or killing people. The previous games started to introduce 
 relationships that can be molded throughout the game. San Andreas's girlfriend feature has returned 
 with a much-needed overhaul. These new girlfriends feel much more like real people, as they will 
 engage Niko in lengthy conversation and have distinct, noticeable personalities. But in addition 
 to the girlfriends, you have several other friends who you can chose to spend time with or not. 
 And each friend and girlfriend provides the player with unique (and sometimes very valuable) rewards. 
 For example, if you take the time to build up your relationship with your cousin Roman (which is 
 pretty much an automatic in this game, since missions will often build this relationship without 
 giving you a choice) , he will offer to let you use his cab service free of charge. Simply call 
 him on your cell phone and he will send a cab to your location within seconds that you can then 
 take anywhere in the city. And another character, Little Jacob will offer to sell you guns and 
 armor at wholesale. Another example is one of the girlfriend characters who is a pro-bono lawyer 
 with a desire to help those who "can't help themselves." Building a relationship with her will 
 allow you to call her on the phone and ask her to use her influence at the DA to remove any wanted 
 level you may have acquired (although at some points in the game, this option is not available) .
 
  
  But the game also offers some very subtle ethical decisions. Whereas in previous games, it was 
 virtually impossible to live a life without crime, in GTA IV, it is much easier to keep your character 
 more on the respectable side. Enemies that are not required by the mission to be killed can be 
 left stunned, and you can allow them to limp away from the battlefield while saving the death-giving 
 for the mission-specific target. In addition, the game finally allows the player to hail a cab 
 and pay to be driven all over town. So you are no longer required to steal somebody's car to get 
 anywhere in the city. In fact, riding cabs has a distinct advantage in that with just a press of 
 a button, the game will automatically jump to your destination. This will help to speed up the 
 game, especially if you're just doing simple things like going on a date or taking a friend to 
 lunch, as such things can be done in just a couple minutes rather than requiring you to spend half 
 an hour making the round trip picking them up, taking them to the destination, then driving them 
 back. Now, jumping to your destination will charge you slightly more money, but since your character 
 is no longer required to spend lots of money on buying food every day or purchasing useless houses 
 or hundreds of sets of clothes or haircuts or tatoos, you will have plenty of cash to focus on 
 buying guns, armor, life-giving stripper lapdances, and maybe one or two stylish new suits, and 
 still have plenty of cash left over to take advantage of the game's swift taxi cab travel. And 
 in case you're wondering, you also have the option to skip to your destination with Roman's cab, 
 saving you even more money, but if you do that, you'll miss the amusing conversations that Niko 
 has with Roman's disgruntled cab driver.
  
  Is this game perfect? Not by a long shot. Occasionally stupid AI, a sometimes complete lack of 
 traffic on city streets, dead guys who suddenly stand up and lay back down, akward targeting issues, 
 and sometimes clunky controls, among other issues can sometimes detract from the game's brilliance 
 (along with some frustratingly difficult missions, but these are few and usually far between) .
 
  
  Thank you, Rockstar, for not letting the popularity of your game cause to you just cash it in as 
 a money-cow, or dumb it down, or strip it of its grittiness. Rest assured, all the violence, swearing, 
 sex and drugs are still in-tact and more graphic than ever should you wish to pursue these aspects 
 of the game. Heck, you can even go drunk driving now, much to the irritation of MADD.
  
  GTA IV is an immersive, innovative, and all-around entertaining masterpiece of interactive art, 
 using its exaggerated and slightly cartoonish depiction of American life to paint a funny, yet 
 also disturbing picture of social, political and economic satire that will no doubt be entertaingin 
 (and offending) players and spectators for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trans13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I personally think that Grand Theft Auto IV is in fact the best game ever up to date, if you think 
 it is not that is your business and not mine in any way, shape, or form, your thoughts are your 
 thoughts and nobody elses, anyway, best Grand Theft Auto game ever made, I seriously advise buying 
 Grand Theft Auto IV, because it is worth ever last single penny you spend on it, I mean, it has 
 extremely good graphics, best graphics on the Play Station Three from what I have seen so far, 
 it is kind of hard to tell what some of the people in the game are saying, but it is the most multicultural 
 Grand Theft Auto game up to date, it has Black, European, Jamaican, and Mexican, I think that is 
 what Manny is, if not please do not get mad I just did not know, it is so dark in his club or house, 
 that I find it hard to see, and that is only as far as I have gotten in the game, I only just now 
 unlocked the second part of the city... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malibo1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't put anything against Grand theft auto 4, however it is one game which i find severely 
 overated, with repetitive missions, an inconsistent framerate and combat controls that are matched 
 and improved by many other games out on the market.
  The vast world of Sand Andreas is also a factor on the down pour of the game, and also driving 
 halfway across the town just to save can become extremely monotonous.
  Complaints aside the game can be very enjoyable with the thrill to give you undivided freedom and 
 a sense of exhilaration not alot of games do offer.
  
  As an end conclusion i would have to say i believe the game is good, but definitely has its fair 
 share of problems which have been overlooked simply because the game is labelled "Grand theft auto" 
 , and so with the popularity of the franchises name gained extra credit, i most certainly think 
 there were better, more perfected games out there this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_csa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  Like nearly all of the GTA games its fantastic, awesome, brilliant etc. But i dont really know 
 if this is better than San Andreas. In graphics and reality no doubt but, Im missing something 
 in it. I think its the fun of the whole thing. I dont say that you cant have much fun with GTA 
 IV but, somehow it was better in San Andreas. You had more weapons, PLANES and other silly stuff 
 :) . Yeah, that was it! These are the missing things in GTA IV that where really amusing in San 
 Andreas :D :D :D. I dont know why they took these things out but whatever the reason was GTA IV 
 is still a must have game.
  
  So, thats all from me about GTA IV :) :) :)
  
  Oh but at the end I think youll like GTA or youll hate it. Its your decision... Good luck :0 :0 
 :0
  
  See you at my next review... (I think about MGS 4) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BritishBeans
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:07 am PT
Review:  Ive been reading many player reviews and it seems to me that people expected so much from this 
 game they marked it down. I will tell you why this game is a 10.
  
  Firstly the story, well thought out, tense and great voice acting from the characters and these 
 would make you want to go through it multiple times.
  
  Niko Bellic, the main character is one of the best characters brought to GTA games and he is more 
 human, showing his emotions and fearless loyalty to the people he cares about.
  
  Another thing is that player reviews are saying you cant go in gyms and they miss the countryside 
 and gang wars. Well if you think about it would that actually work in GTA4? Some eastern european 
 doing benchpresses? Come off it if you like San Andreas that much go and play it! oh and like it 
 or not it is a entirely different story. what about the things that rockstar have added to the 
 game? 
  Online multplayer
  Bowling 
  Hanging out with friends
  The most alive map you are ever likely to see in a game
  Taxi service
  Comedy clubs starring 
 Ricky Gervais and Katt Williams.
  
  Basically everything that is in this game is done brilliantly with absolutely tons of variety. 
 People need to stop comparing with San andreas as these are two completely different games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  Well I have to start off by saying that this game does NOT have many bad things to say about it. But 
 Ill break it up for you to read so check it out.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is great, There is alot to do and the characters in the game make it all worth 
 it. The time spent on the game is also alot... If you arent a ONLY storyline person and wish to just 
 explore a bit it can take alot of time. Great gameplay overall.
  
  Sound & Graphics: Sound is good. Its very vibrant during gameplay and fits well with the game... also 
 the music provided in the game set the mood. I love the sound of most of it just because Its very 
 well done. Graphics are very detailed. Full of colour and very nicely done. The best features are 
 at night in the game when you are ontop of a roof and look over a town and you can see everything. the 
 lights, the houses, the water and it all makes the game very smooth to play.
  
  LAG: No lag at all actually.... Just wanted to get this out of the way.
  
  Storyline: Well prepared 
 and I think that they were going for a mafia feel in the game just because they had alot of gang 
 fights and also many people in groups with guns plasting you away. I love the details in the storyline. like 
 the voiceacting is great and I enjoy to see very well done cut-scenes.
  
  OVERALL: Nice game. very well done. alot of vibrant and flashy colours that really set the mood for 
 the entire game. Alot of great voiceactors have worked greatly. BTW Online isnt that good. INMO that 
 is the only thing leaving it from the perfect ten but its close so I stick by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Once I got GTA IV and started playing, I got the sense of satisfaction that I can finally play 
 this game. After finishing GTA IV, my reaction was pretty much..... is this it??????
  
  I'm not suggesting that GTA IV is a bad game; it's amazing, but I don't think that the game can 
 be deemed "perfect". First off, the storyline of this game didn't appeal to me. To me, the storyline 
 can be considered as a revenge storyline, but the dialogue provided doesn't really give a sense 
 of revenge in Niko; even if there was, it only made up a small part of the game script. The missions 
 are almost repetitive compared to the missions back in VC and SA since all we do is kill everyone, 
 drive to location and get ambushed, losing wanted level, etc. Its nice to have little elements 
 of the game make the missions more original (i. e. use internet to meet contact) so I'll give them 
 that. This game has two different endings (I did one only) but both endings were a bit disappointing 
 (saw other ending on youtube) - In other GTA games, the end missions require you to kill 2-3 major 
 characters, but GTA IV only requires you to kill one major character. I have to admit, the graphics 
 in GTA IV are amazing - the city, car + car physics, water, lighting of the city, etc all look 
 real, but obviously, the detail of Liberty City was used to compensate for the size of the game 
 world. Also, the radio stations didn't quite appeal and generate a hook like the radio stations 
 of VC and SA. About the character, I'm fine with a European being the main character, but it would 
 be appreciated if he looked and sounded more of a badass like Tommy Vercetti.
  
  I know that GTA IV has received a large amount of positive feedback. I admit that this is a good 
 game; considering this is the first game I've played on the PS3, but as a GTA game, besides the 
 excellent visuals and realistic gameplay (i. e. driving, shooting) , I would say SA is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djjenkins12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  man when you thought a game is for real due to the commercials, anyways about the game well I really 
 appreciate the graphics and physics engine and all but they have took out a lot of things that 
 they have shown in San Andreas like the GYM, the Huge selection of clothes, the ability to ride 
 a plane and etc. And whats up with the controls I mean there hard as hell, when you wanna turn 
 your vehicle you'll just go straight and crash.
  
  And I also dont like the music selection on the radio (you cant play your tracks in your hard drive) , 
 the setting of the game was just a Big City but in San Andreas you got a City, A country, Las Vegas, 
 Los Angeles and a town. 
  
  But theres an upside to IV that any GTA series doesn't have. Pedestrians are hard to beat, there 
 like real people now and the physics engine when to got hit by a car you'll fly away like a rag 
 doll hahaha. 
  
  Overall GTA IV is a good game for PS3 and Xbox 360.
  
  play San Andreas Again and Compare the Difference.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_prince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV offers a lot of new options in the game taking out unnecessary features and adding new ones, 
 the game is also more realistic. You can call cabs and when getting in a car you first have to 
 start the car. The graphics have been touched up using Rockstar Games new R. A. G. E engine. There 
 is a lot of multiple decisions to make in missions, Havok is fully implemented when you get driven 
 over or when you push someone anything can be move even small objects can be picked up. You can 
 also block or dodge melee attacks, there is also a new cover system that allows you to cover behind 
 most stable and unstable things. You can also take friends out and everything you do mostly is 
 a mission, you must also collect packages, shoot birds and do jobs for your friends to complete 
 the game 100%. Trophies are also available for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilmititis
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The game was way over rated.
  
  There was absolutely no depth to the gameplay what so ever, being that the missions were very linear, 
 despite the expansive environment. They were also very difficult to commit to after a while because 
 they are just so empty and tacky. The story felt like reruns of all the cheesy old mafia movies 
 which are so very dry and very typical. The characters were pointless and left you not caring for 
 them at all, and the vehicle choice was much more interesting then the guy you play driving them... 
 
  The character design was lousy, in that most of them looked like neanderthals. It was sad actually. 
 Even though the city was huge, it was also boring to the eye. You keep your eyes on the vehicle, 
 because there is nothing else to look at. 
  
  Basically the vehicle choice and crashing it was the only good part of this excuse for a game...
 
  
  The complete 10 rating is utterly outrageous.
  In no way could this game deserved such a decent rating....
  It's a shame this particular game 
 is viewed as spectacular, when it is one of the most disappointing games thrown together... aside 
 from sports games....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpspeed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that this game took me a little while to get totally hooked, but in the end it 
 was a great game overall. GTA 3 and Vice City sucked me in right away, while San Andreas and GTA 
 IV took a little longer. The inclusion of a GPS system made getting around so much easier than 
 before, and I loved the cell phone and internet features although I wish they had made the internet 
 a part of more of the missions. I also liked that some missions gave you the chance to decide what 
 to do at the end, making the story even less linear than ever before. It makes me want to play 
 it again just to make the other choices and see what happens.
  
  I would say that the graphics were the best I've ever seen, but Metal Gear Solid 4 currently holds 
 that distinction. All in all though, the graphics are great considering that the GTA graphics have 
 usually been a little behind the curve when compared to other games released around the same time. 
 That is not the case with GTA IV. These graphics look fantastic.
  
  As for Liberty City, it was by far the best example of a "living" environment out of all the GTA 
 games. All of the little things that were included (hot dog vendors, subways, taxis, street preachers, 
 bums, hookers, random phone calls from friends) really made it feel like a true city.
  
  If I had any complaints about this game, they are few. I would have liked to have seen some airplane 
 action, and it would have been great to fly around Liberty City on a jetpack, but those are minor 
 concerns. I also wish there had been some way to buy property or businesses like you could in Vice 
 City, but I also understand the "rags to better rags" approach instead of "rags to riches."
  
  I thought the story line was great. I was a little disappointed in the story for San Andreas 
 because the story for Vice City had been so good, so I really feel like they did a good job of 
 taking the story back to something a little different than ever before. Niko Bellic was by far 
 the most memorable protagonist they've ever had. They really gave him a true personality and it 
 made you want to help him find who he was looking for.
  
  All in all, I've spent almost 90 hours on the game and I plan to go back and start over again for 
 trophy purposes and 100% completion. There are so many secrets that I have yet to uncover.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to anyone that has played a GTA game before, or anyone looking 
 for an immersive experience with a great mix of action and humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dikash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  I couldn't believe when i saw Liberty City so alive with Serb Niko Belic (Bellic is not correct) 
 as main character: ) . Yes Niko Belic is Serbian because he speak Serbian language with ekavski dialect 
 (which only spaeks Serbs from Serbia) , believe me i know because i speak the same language but with 
 ijekavski dialect which understands Montenegrins, Serbs, Bosnians and Croatians : ) The only fault 
 is that in the first part of the game all characters are Slavic people but somehow all of them 
 can`t pronounce Niko's name and surname correctly which is impossible in slavic's languages that 
 we pronounce our names like Anglo-Saxons speaking people-big minus. Even he doesn't pronounce his 
 name correctly : ) Other than that game is fantastic, so alive, so real with so many features that 
 are totally original and so greatly put into the game.
  
  Must play game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_well_cook
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Well i loved this game! A great stort, comnined with great graphics and kickass missions!!! Ya 
 some missions were kinda boring and sort of repetative, but overall they keep you very busy and 
 always into the game. And some of the interesting parts were u being able to hang out with people 
 and friends, including girl friends haha i found that pretty cool. And of your good enough friends 
 with them they give you help during the game. But overall the game was fun and amazing. And i would 
 definitaly buy it because the game took me about 40 hours exactly to finish, ya thats a little 
 high campared to most others, but i took my time and did all the side things, which made the game 
 very different from any other. The game had memorable characters and you felt like the lead character. 
 It was highly addictive and i couldnt put it down, hence the 40 hours of game play haha anyway 
 easily an instant classic and should have been the game of the year for 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeDynasty777
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  First, Let's talk about the story. You will play as Niko Bellic. He is a illegal immigrant from 
 Russia. He is a former Military and he got experienced and he used that experience to survive in 
 Liberty City. Niko had a cousin named Roman Bellic. Niko will work for some Mafia Family.
  
  
  Okay, let's talk about Grand Theft Auto IV's additional features and some of it's changes. 
 You can now use the computer and got an access to the internet and find a mate LOL or just surf 
 in the net, If you're riding on a bike, you can use a helmet if you want, you can now use your 
 cellphone and choose a skin and ringtones from the computer! You can hang out with your friends, 
 You can also join some races and get a cool cars (Customized Cars) , You can watch T. V on Niko's 
 house and ride a taxi (If you're tired of driving) . Liberty City has changed a lot since 2001 (GTA 
 III)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Generally, people have come to expect a good game, every time Rockstar announces another addition 
 to the GTA series. However, the experience has never been this vibrant and exciting, because this 
 is the first time a GTA game has gone Next Gen.
  
  In my opinion, GTA has never been able to deliver very well in the graphics department. This year 
 is totally different. Besides that whole new story and other BS, the first thing you're going to 
 notice is that this game is beautiful. The gigantic map has never looked this great, because the 
 Next Gen strength out competes any old consoles. Everything is more clear and detailed, and the 
 action and movements are far more realistic then they have been before. Explosions are probably 
 the coolest thing, since they now look incredibly realistic.
  
  Generally you will play through the same kind of story as always. Many short missions will pull 
 you through quite an interesting story, during which you will meet a brand new interesting cast 
 of characters. That being said, the missions aren't incredibly challenging and may not keep you 
 very interested. Some very interesting details are the fact that not every person on the streets 
 is a copy of a few character models. Instead, Rockstar has gone very deep and some how made many 
 more characters to fill your streets. Still there are many weapons and cars. One problem is that 
 the police might come abit to easily for your own liking. Aswell as this multiplayer isn't very 
 strong at all.
  
  Once again there is a great soundtrack, featuring many classics, aswell as some newer titles available 
 through the radios in the car. Aswell as this there is some great voice acting, and some funny 
 commentary while you play. Also there are some great weapon sound effects which will all have you 
 blown away.
  
  If you think you've played GTA before think again. This is a game that you need to play to feel 
 the true experience. Visually the game is now officially stunning and brings the map to life like 
 never before. An 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioPrison
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is probably the quickest to complete out of the GTA series to date (even without the help 
 of cheats) . In saying that it's still very enjoyable game; the storyline is good, the humour is 
 laughable and the characters all have their each individuality instead of being the comparable 
 gangsters with drug habits like in some of the earlier GTA series.
  It also redeems some credit for the fact that you can interact with alot more of your sorroundings 
 e. g. if you ever feel like throwing a brick at some innocent civillian, easy just find one one 
 the ground, aim, and let it fly. Crashing into a wall has never been so much fun, just head straight 
 in to wall and smash through the windscreen and spend ages trying to get back up again. Whilst 
 your waiting to get back up you could always gaze at the amazing detail of the crushed concrete 
 on the wall you drove into. Even if you don't like this sort of game the graphics are definetly 
 something to be admired, i won't go into detail you'l have to see for yourself but they are much 
 like what you would see in the real world. 
  This is definatly a game to have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing a Grand Theft Auto game, and I knew I would be in for an immersive 
 experience, but I really didn't realize how deep it would go. The story was well-written, the characters 
 were complex and interesting, and the city itself bordered on breathtaking in its immensity. Though 
 the gameplay itself didn't necessarily appeal to me 100% of the time, GTA IV is most definitely 
 a must-play game.
  
  The art direction and graphic design of this game are superb. Rockstar has created a lush, immense, 
 vibrant city riddled with hundreds of miles of roads, and a variety of neighborhoods that rival 
 its real-world analogue, New York City. The bridges that connect the boroughs, the trains that 
 run overhead, and the thousands of cars and pedestrians in the streets all contribute to the overall 
 realism of the setting. The overall look and feel of the entire city really help immerse you in 
 the world.
  
  The writing and voice-acting are excellent. The narrative is compelling and dynamic, and the main 
 character Niko is a strong, complex and truly likable character. In fact, most of the characters 
 in GTAIV are really interesting, each with fully-developed personalities, motivations, and goals. 
 Roman, Little Jacob, Brucie... the world is full of great interactions. The sound design, too, 
 is really fantastic, with a staggering variety of radio stations, ambient city noise, and background 
 murmuring of the people crowding the streets.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty simple to master. Driving the car with reckless abandon in the streets 
 of the city is a very satisfying part of the game. One caveat, though: you will have so much fun 
 running through red lights and passing idiots in front of you that you will be tempted to do the 
 same in real life! For the most part, the tasks involve driving from point A to point B, picking 
 something up or dropping someone off. But for me, the gameplay sometimes got a little bit frustrating, 
 especially with timed missions. Some timed missions I would try over and over again, and never 
 be able to get there in time. It can sometimes feel next to impossible to do certain tasks. It 
 is for this reason that I do not give this game a perfect score. I am someone who likes to enjoy 
 a game by really drinking in the environment and stopping to smell the roses. Putting a nigh-impossible 
 time-limit on tasks really hampers my enjoyment.
  
  With that said, this game truly is great. The graphics, storyline, and characters make this a game 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj_simmons
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8
  
  the character models in grand theft auto 4 are top of the line, however the enviremental grahics 
 are not. while there are parts of the game where the textures are top of the line, for the most 
 part they are just adverage. there are also a few graphical glitches in the game in the form of 
 the main character will partually sink into objects, aswell as framrate drop. while the framerate 
 drop isn't so bad that it distracts from the gameplay, it is noticeable. especually on powerlines, 
 street lamps, and metal objects when in motion.
  
  sound: 9
  
  the sound quality in gta4 is way above adverage, but isn't top of they line. it isn't a game where 
 you will wan't to hook up surround sound because the sound is so amazing.
  
  also, after you ride in a cab a couple of times you'll notice that the cab driver says the same 
 thing over and over.
  
  the sound track in gta4 is truely amazing. with the abillity to switch radio stations, you will 
 be hard pressed not to find somthing you'll want to listen too
  
  
  Story: 10
  
  gta4 has a great story that involes lots of action, drama, love, and betrayal.
  
  it has a 
 strong narative
  it fully develops its plot
  it fully develops its characters
  and it clearly definds its objectives so that you know exactly why your doing what your doing.
 
  
  overall gta4 is a story you don't want to miss.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  while gta4s gameplay is very solid, there are some issues that pop up from time to time.
  
 
  when walking up and down stairs, nico's movement can seem buggy. also when driveing , turning 
 can be difficult even when moving slow. 
  
  while this does slightly take away from the gameplay, it's not so bad that it will make you want 
 to stop playing.
  
  also when driving and walking up stairs, the camera can take bad angles making it hard to see where 
 your going.
  
  again though, while it does take away from the game play, it want stop you from continuing.
  
 
  
  Entertainment: 9
  
  gta4 is a very entertaining game with lots of violence and a great story.
  each mission is completely 
 diffrent from the last so there isn't any sence of repetativeness.
  
  the only thing that takes away from the entertainment of gta4 is the rare occasions when the movement 
 is buggy and the camera takes bad angles. but again that only happens rarely.
  
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  gta4 is an extemely fun game with lots of violence and chaos and includes 
 an unforgetable story with lots of drama, action, and comedy that features lovable and unforgetable 
 charaters. 
  
  A Must Play Game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batman_24
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is definitely a must get. Gamespot was not lying when they gave it a perfect 10. Liberty 
 City leaves you with so many options, you will not know what to do first. The main character is 
 awesome and stops at nothing. The graphics are pretty good and the game is more realistic than 
 the other GTA's. Driving is a lot better with all the sick cars that you have to choose from. Then 
 the shooting system is good and you have either free aim or locking on. You even get a cellphone 
 in the game that you can actually use. Then once you are done with the storyline, online is a whole 
 new thing. Playing with 16 people online just never really seems to get old. There is games from 
 free roaming Liberty City, to playing Cops and Robbers. Then as you rank up online, you get cool 
 things like more outfits for a characters and stuff like that. So this game is just one of those 
 things that has to be owned. There is no way you will go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Its one of the best GTA games, however it could have been better. The best part of this game is 
 the attention to detail that has always been the case with Rockstar's games in the past and they 
 have not failed this time either. All the characters in the game are really cool. Some of them 
 are funny, some stupid, some just plain fun to be around. Also Nico himself is quite a decent character 
 and has a ton of funny and witty lines. Graphics in this game are quite good, though not the best 
 in gaming. That's understandable-the city is HUGE. That's another high point to the game. However 
 this also is a downside, because this game runs at 30 fps MAX. This would be ok for an adventure/puzzle 
 type of game, but not for a shooter/driving game that GTA is. While the game is forgiving and you 
 dont need to be Michael Schumacher to get away from the cops it is still very annoying when you 
 crash into something because of the game's slow response and low frames per second. If you can 
 look past technical issues I would highly recommend the game. This game definitely deserves to 
 be in this year's top 5, IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocelot1994
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  No doubt GTA IV is an excellent game but they have left out many weapons eg: chainsaw katana and 
 lock on RPG
  
  The story is really great and Niko is a loveable character although he is a ice cold slavic killer.
 
  
  The SP is really long like 40 hours with a bunch of side activities so the SP will keep u occupied 
 for a long great time. You have friends now that you can take care of which will give u perks such 
 as bombs, Guns and free taxi rides. The story is 94 missions long and just doing missions will 
 take u 35 hours. its that long. but really good.
  
  The MP is also great but nothing too special. Cops n Crooks is the best mode u gotta try that. 
 Having a headset enhances the expeirience. Sometimes connecting can be so annoying u just give 
 up with it thats my gripe with the online
  
  GTA IV is surely a great game but so many things left out makes it hard to not miss San andreas 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob11224
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game 
 ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best 
 game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! 
 best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game 
 ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best 
 game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! 
 best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game 
 ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best 
 game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! 
 best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game 
 ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best 
 game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! 
 best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game 
 ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best 
 game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! best game ever!! 
 best game ever!! best game ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im2cool123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  it was a good gomae. not great and not perfect. sure people say ooooo the graphics are so good, 
 so what it doesnt mean its a good game. it is grandtheft auto 3 with like 10 new people and better 
 graphics thats it, gta vice city and sanandreas were much better games. ok sure if im bored i will 
 go kill people and cause chaos but then you turn it off and think ok time to do something else 
 after like 10 mins, not even thinking about the game you payed 60 !!!!!!!!!! bucks for, god damn 
 im pissed about that, it wasnt even worth it, but ofcourse there are fans out there who will love 
 it, thats just how it is, people hate something and people lovwe it at the same time, not saying 
 the fans are wrong, they probably have totaly different reasons for playing it but this is just 
 my opinion of the game. what i would recommend doing is if you go to gametop and buy a used game, 
 you get 7 days to beat it or if you dont like it you can return and get a full refund, that little 
 rule has saved me so much money, i remember i bought gta 4 and 1 week later you could trade it 
 in for like 25 bucks, wow what a ripoff, so thats why you should buy this game used to try it out, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themando
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  i found GTA4 to be possibly one of the worst ps3 games on the market.. i bot it the day of release 
 and was pretty impressed by it, but once i started playing it and played through the disgustingly 
 sad missions i realized how big of a dissapointment this game really is. For one, the graphics 
 are garbage, everything was washed out and very there wasnt any noticable detail anywhere. Second, 
 the characters and the plots are terribley done, old and repetitive. Thirdly, I found that every 
 Mission was exactly the same as the one before it.
  
  I only found very few things in this game i was impressed with, One of them is the ability to share 
 a car or vehicle online with a buddy, or someone random.
  
  To conclude, I am Rediculously shocked how many sites gave this horrible boring game a perfect 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Now i waited for gta 4 for about since 2007 and when it got delayed i was heart broken then i heard 
 about a april realese and i got so excite but it was still 2007. then came april 28th 2009 and 
 i got my copy. so theres my little story now i will review this game a little late. so gta 4 is 
 it the gameing mile stone or the crash of the century. well its bigger then i thought it would 
 be. first thing i will be reviewing about this game is the graphics witch are just great from the 
 lighting effects through cars and buldings to basically how cars damage and nikos animations something 
 about liberty city just feels alive and sprawling. also another note on the graphics is the desighn 
 on the city to ressemble new york its just great i cant explain. ok now game play its kinda the 
 same but with new twists u still drive around selecting missions doing errands for some very slimy 
 and colorful characters. but now you can take a taxi cab were u need to go and when u fail a mission 
 u get a text message asking if u want to do it again and that brings the biggest game play tool 
 the cell phone. it allows u to make apointments for missions or dates to call a friend to drink 
 some beers or go out to eat. or to use a friends special abilitys. ok now the story witch i thinks 
 is the best story i have heard ing gameing since metal gear solid guns of liberty. u r niko bellic 
 a imagrant from liberty city u r tricked by ur cousin roman that hes living the life of sport cars 
 and hot women and what roman loves best big boobies any way so u get there and u realize he was 
 lying and then u r sucked in to doing missions for the russian mob a roid monkey named brucie and 
 some of the most funniest mob characters ever jimmy pegarino and phil bell. but my favirote characters 
 are palyboy and jimmy and mikale faustin. another thing in the story is that niko is a good man 
 and trys to do the right thing a lot of the time that adds a layer of humanity to his character 
 also the game makes u make decisons on who to kill and make moral decsion a lot of theese are gut 
 renching for example SPOLIER ALERT when u have to choose to kill dwayne or play boy x i choose 
 dwayne. so there u have it my gta 4 review just buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  ok, it's time to talk Grand Theft Auto...
  
  Storyline: 
  
  From when you first step into liberty city right up until the times you are causing havoc on the 
 streets, it is amazing. The characters you meet make you wanting more and more every time you play 
 a mission, every character you get to know in there own way through different missions and objectives. 
 The length of this story is unbeatable, at 30 - 60 hours of gameplay it really captures the true 
 essence of your life in liberty city. Unlike some games, it's not just a summary of the characters 
 adventures, no, not at all. Every minute in the game takes you into more detail of each characters 
 life and side missions take you even deeper into the world of liberty city.
  
  Graphics:
  
  MASSIVE improvement over previous Grand Theft Auto Games but still not the best. the lighting, 
 however is one of the best. For a game not trying to go for the "photo realistic" graphics such 
 as call of duty 4, it is simply awesome to finally see Liberty City in stunning High Definition.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  So Much to say about gameplay but it's really simple. You can pretty much go anywhere and do anything 
 no matter where you are or who you are with. The gunplay is greatly improved with a cover system 
 although not the best, still adds to the fun of the gunfights and assassination missions. The driving 
 is 100 times more realistic which personally, I like. It takes awhile to get used to but once you 
 get the hang of it it becomes second nature. The Euphoria engine is amazing, bodies are interactive 
 even after they are dead. There are some minor glitches and moments that make you want to throw 
 your controller across the room but all of these minor issues take a back seat to everything else 
 and the great gunplay and physics greatly overshadow any of those problems I mentioned.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  It's GTA online, what can I say? it's nothing really new except for it has 
 the biggest multiplayer maps ever along with a cover system, cars, boats and helicopters. It's 
 innovative, addicting and most of all, VERY fun.
  
  Overall: Immersive world, Good graphics and Great storyline makes this the best sandbox game yet.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Some_One_Plays
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  You came straight from Europe for a better life that your cousin Roman has been bragging about 
 all these years until you realise it was all a lie. With reality hitting you, you work for your 
 cousin who's part of a chain of criminals that always gets the short end of the stick when it comes 
 to getting the goods. Little does Roman know you came to America for another reason for something 
 that happened over 10 years ago. As always Grand Theft Auto is about being a freelance hitman in 
 an opened world and as the series goes on you gradually make choices of how close you want to be 
 with your clients. The closer you get with your clients the harder it becomes for you to accept 
 the consequences of your actions. The story is told in a linear fashion from beginning to end with 
 dynamic missions from Niko Bellic's point of view. It's a recreational city based on modern New 
 York City with Rock Stars own universe pulled over it. 
  
  The story is compelling with good dialogue throughout but with very poor facial animations that 
 at times make the characters feel too stiff. There is a good story to be told if you can accept 
 some of the poor animations in spots that would have made this game a spectacular hit with presentation 
 alone. What's ironic is that the story has a powerful message even though it's considered to be 
 the most violent game on the market. In the cinematics sometimes you'll see characters holding 
 a gun in their hands yet you don't see the gun itself can pull you away from the narrative. Overall 
 there are a lot more animations in the game
  
  First off when you start playing the game you'll notice that the graphics don't look so sharp most 
 of the time, if not all of the time. The overall graphics in the game is better than the last instalment 
 at the same time the level of exploration maybe smaller. Reflections, lighting, and textures are 
 reasonably decent with texture depth/depth of field is poorly done especially when you're in helicopters. 
 This is also partly done by the perspective the developers gave you so everything has a level of 
 blur making the depth of field almost nonexistent. This at times can affect your gun play like 
 when you go out to do the Museum Piece with Johnny (The Lost member) to do a deal so Johnny can 
 get his half; for Ray Baccino. When the bust goes wrong as per usual when targeting distant enemies 
 it's hard to tell when you can shoot them or not or even see them until they fire back at you. 
 The only time when depth of field was used right was when I was driving drunk. 
  
  They've done very little to hide this in the game and can sometimes give the game a too soft look 
 overall. Throughout the entire game the water reflections from the oceans at night will be the 
 best thing graphically in the game. The lighting isn't something to be impressed about but it suffices 
 for a decent play. Shopping in various stores will change your avatar's look but your avatar's 
 hat won't be displayed inside vehicles plus hats can be blown away. You can always put on a new 
 hat back at the safe house. The game can get too dark at times like when I was doing Pegorino's 
 Pride mission doing a sit-down at the "Old Refinery" when moving around some of the environments 
 were too dark to see anything even in the in-game cinematics. 
  
  The game still uses visual cues to trigger traffic and has the annoying random vehicle always popping 
 in your way when driving but nothing ever comes when you're on foot. Part of the interface is cleaned 
 up due to that fact that your cellular phone holds the time, text, messages, pictures, and everything 
 else the pertains to cellular phones adding to the emersion. The cell phone is also used to call 
 for paramedics, fire trucks, or even back-up officers when you're playing in the game. If you're 
 like me you would have to get use to the graphics it isn't as soft as Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 
 Vegas, but will be a shock to most.
  
  Physics in the game make you more aware of your surrounding resulting in a more realistic damaging 
 so watching out for cars, avoiding crashes, or simply using common sense as if it were real can 
 keep you alive longer. Ultimately consequence is more dominate with the physics and is very much 
 like Holly Wood realism because not exactly what can happen in the game is real but happens in 
 movies. Good examples of this would be vehicles easily taking flight or Niko Belic using his forearm 
 to break a car window. Sometimes you wonder about the physics because your car can flip because 
 you ran over a pylon. An official cover system is implemented but isn't executed so well because 
 half of the time you're fighting with your avatar when shooting if cover especially when you want 
 to free aim and coming out of cover in the heat of the moment. For the most part this is also has 
 to do with the environments, the cover system doesn't work so well in closed areas. Another thing 
 with the cover system when navigating in heavily active areas with objects can be a drag especially 
 when you're shooting you can't even camera toggle from left to right when bending around corners 
 without using the cover system, plus on top of that you always walk unless you press a button it 
 would be nice if it was triggered by sensitivity resulting in less confusion. I find coming out 
 of cover when you really need to is slow and doesn't respond very fast leading to preventable deaths 
 like for example realizing someone is standing behind you.
  
  The vehicles in the game have changed greatly with GPS (Global Positioning System) voices in some 
 vehicles/chimes to direct you but can't use it to track down moving targets or on the water. Pressing 
 down on the D-Pad gives you a hub (car name, location, ammunition etc) and when driving drunk the 
 controls are difficult adding to the realism. The little touches in the game with lights turn on 
 in the car when doors open, can fly out windows if impact is strong enough, and vehicle destruction 
 is dynamic. You can use police vehicles' computers to do additional activities like search criminals' 
 locations that doesn't make or break the game yet adding to the realism of the time frame. Entering 
 vehicles isn't perfect and your avatar will try to take a vehicle that's moving away from him instead 
 of the one you're standing next to. Riding a motorcycle is difficult let alone riding one while 
 shooting that you're doing most of the time when riding one in the game. When driving you have 
 to compensate for your avatar to change gears so waiting for that sound cue is needed or you'll 
 over power the gears and have to wait for the gear shift in order to hold down harder on the gas. 
 There are no bicycles this time around or anything that made the last game significant from the 
 genre. 
  
  You can date, check emails, search websites; just anything you can do with a real computer making 
 the game almost like a simulation of life with only the fun bits when using the computer. This 
 compliments building good relationships with your clients or girl friends to gain benefits for 
 example dating a Law Clerk can help you with your wanted level. With all this relationships building 
 you're going to chose people's fate is a new element that I like in the game considering his (Niko 
 Bellic's) specialty. 
  You'll see drivers get into accidents; pedestrians get into arguments, police officers pulling 
 over drivers, or just simply duking it out. Weather effects are implemented and when it rains the 
 people around you will adapt to the weather and start using umbrellas or newspapers to cover themselves. 
 This instalment of GTA the pedestrians don't jump in front of your car like the predecessors but 
 will turn into the lane you're driving in cutting your off (laughs and shakes head) . This will 
 happen with a whole row of cars not just one ever so often. The world seems smaller than the last 
 one which is disappointing because sequels usually add more not take away. 
  
  No country environments to explore or any animals in the city that would have added to the realism 
 especially the parries but Rock Star chose not to evolve the series in this aspect. Rocket launchers 
 don't always seem to work properly half the time and completely change direction with no explanation 
 why.
  
  You can go to places to watch a stand-up comic Katt Williams, can watch TV (on your TV) in your 
 apartment, exterminate pigeons, most wanted missions, vigilante levels, deliver drug packages, 
 or as stated before driving drunk giving your vision and control as consequences with many other 
 things to do. As usual the game keeps track of everything to crimes, vehicles, money, to network. 
 You can do some side missions for random people you meet on the street from pedophiles to drug 
 addicts to friends on the boat you were on heading to America like Hossan. Some of the characters 
 will push Niko's buttons others will reach his heart like when a teenager needed drugs and was 
 willing to do anything for it. 
  
  There's an online portion of the game by using your cellular phone in-game to access it allowing 
 game modes like Deathmatch (2-16) , Mafiya Work (2-16) , Car Jack City (4-16) , Race (2-16) , GTA Race 
 (2-16) , Team Deathmatch (3-16) , Team Mafiya Work (3-16) , Team Car Jack City (4-16) , Cops 'n Crooks 
 (4-16) , Truf War (4-16) , Deal Breaker (2-4) , Hangman's NOOSE (2-4) , Bomb da Base II (2-4) , Free 
 Mode (1-16) .
  
  Mafiya Work you complete contracts before the competition does and get rewards before the other 
 players; Deal Breaker you kill everyone doing a major deal to take whatever the dealers have with 
 you; Hangman's NOOSE Petrovic comes into the country but there is a warrant out and you have to 
 help him escape; and Free Mode is something that gamers have been waiting for, for a long time 
 where you do whatever you want with your friends in the opened world. The online is smooth the 
 only problem will be the people you play with.
  
  With the online the audio at times will take a while to kick in making you think something is broken 
 and off-line it will happen making you rely on subtitles when talking between characters. There 
 is proximity audio with all vehicles in the game taking advantage of next generation audio so with 
 people blasting the radio you can hear it through the vehicles. Voiceovers are amazing making you 
 believe their emotion, situations, and personalities that make them distinct and remember-able. 
 
  
  The strongest thing going for the game is that it has good narrative with a lot of good dialogue 
 in-between it to carry on the story. The music throughout the game is amazing and sets the mood 
 nicely almost like a 90s motion picture.
  
  Overall Grand Theft Auto 4 barely made the hype in my professional opinion by not expanding on 
 the previous game and having graphics that don't even look like the adverts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  There's no getting around it. GTAIV is an incredible achievement. Liberty City is alive and breathing 
 more than any city or environment in any game to date. The first several hours I spent on this 
 game I had a very hard time focusing on what I was supposed to do, because I was in constant awe 
 of the surroundings. Staying with what's right: Niko, one of the most interesting characters I've 
 ever seen, right up there with Solid Snake in terms of a character you care about, and want to 
 succeed. The choices to make. To kill or not. This will effect gameplay and what happens, a very 
 good add on from Rockstar. The music, as always is top notch. You may not have heard of every band 
 in the game, but that's not a bad thing. The only drawback, whereas San Andreas had the whole early 
 90's music vibe that perfectly matched the game, GTAIV's music doesn't quite connect to the city 
 and atmosphere. GTAIV is massive as well, driving long distances gets a tad old, but there's always 
 a cab ride to quicken things up. GTAIV is darker, and the humor is standard (another good thing) 
 Rockstar fare. The story is very ambitious, and while it hits home runs in some spots, (Brucie, 
 Brucie, Brucie) others it fails (Girlfriends=boring very quickly) . The game can take an insane 
 amount of time to finish, which is fine by me, I've yet to even attempt the multiplayer. To sum 
 up GTAIV one mission/scene stands out. Fairly early in the game you need to go and save a main 
 character, Niko is cursing out his enemy on his cell while driving and hearing his "friend" be 
 tortured. It took several tries to finish this mission, But on the first few I noticed how fast 
 I was driving, with reckless abandon, and then it hit me. I cared about saving this "friend", truly 
 cared if he lived or died, and seeing as how my decisions impacted who lived or died earlier in 
 the game I wasn't sure if he would live or die. I'm not sure in 25+ years of gaming that I've ever 
 felt that for a side character, which is a testament to the greatness that Rockstar has achieved 
 with GTAIV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  The previous GTA games always left me feeling confused as to why the main character would go to 
 such extremes in the things he does. This game has certainly cleared all of that up. 
  
  A lot of the modification options and mini games have been removed but what is left is a solid 
 action game that will keep you playing for hours on end. There are one or two things in the game 
 that leave you wondering why the developers even bothered to put them in (A car-wash???) but overall 
 this is a well thought out and moving game. 
  
  You really get your money's worth as it has at minimum a good 30 hours of gameplay on your first 
 play through (although this is easily increased as you may find yourself loading the game merely 
 to increase your popularity with your friends and ignoring any missions for a while. 
  
  The sound and visuals, especially for such a large game, are breathtaking. All that is missing 
 is the ability to play your own music. Buy this game. There is not a lot that you won't enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Ok, I was against giving any game a 10, but how can you not with a game that is as close to perfect 
 that I have ever played. Let's start weith the graphics, it is simply awesome to see. It's a stylized 
 verson of the other GTA games so it's not completely realistic, but that's fine; if you look at 
 the game harder, you see the when your car gets hit the bumper dangles as you go over bumbs in 
 the road or hills. There is no load time going from one place to another in a car and what load 
 time there is is when you go inside a house or an apartment or start a mission, but that's only 
 a second or two. While in the car and NOT during a cut scene if you pan into the car your characters 
 move thier mouths while talking. I never seen little details like this in any game and find this 
 amazing. The story line is incrediable and unlike the maincharacters in the other GTA games you 
 really care about Niko, he's a faulded charcter with a tourtured past and that makes him more human. 
 The more you visit his friends and "go out" with them the more he talks about his bloody past and 
 you really feel or the guy. The sound is great, when your traveling through a tunnel the car sounds 
 like it, the music is ok and the radio dialog is funny, but gets repetitive after you play the 
 game for a while, but doesn't take away from the game play at all. There is so much to do in Liberty 
 City as you can play Darts, pooll bowling go see a two clubs and go to a strip bar (no nudity) , 
 even watch TV at home. The Online play is fun and is a good mix of things to do there. You also 
 have a choice to kill certain people in the game or not and the outcome will change (in a minor 
 way) the outcome of the game. The Trophys are also fun to collect. Everything about this game simply 
 shines and is a must buy for any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  GTA has been a fantastic series in 3D it really did help the franchise from its 2D top down view 
 so how does GTA4 do.
  
  Story
  
  You play as Niko Belic who gets a welcome by his cousin Roman who tells him about the troubles 
 in the city. Roman shows him around a few places and helps him out with the trouble.
  
  Gameplay
  
  You play ad Niko Belic taking down either rival gangs or people who are just dangerous. 
 In some missions you get to take down gangs and help someone out or get to a location and pick 
 up certain people. Like its predesscors you get marks mostly through letters of what people you 
 are helping. Also when you get told where to go a yellow mark tells you the quickest route to get 
 there and the red dots indicate enemies. Unlike the others if you get a line of coppers on your 
 tail for either taking someone out or destroying something they chase you but you get a red circle 
 that you need to get out of an then you can lose them. If you can lose them the flashing circle 
 goes away indicating you lost them on your map. It can be easy when there's only one chasing you 
 but 4 or 5 then it becomes difficult. Or another way is finding a paint and spray which loses them 
 and gives you a brand new car with no damage. When you are at your location you either walk or 
 drive to it and if you are not on the right floor then there will be a round circle shape meaning 
 its on another floor.
  
  Also you get to go on dates with females and nights out with your friends and you get to choose 
 your item of clothing as well. You also get a mobile for your friends and it can be really helpful 
 if you fail a mission because you can quickly go onto the mobile phone and try again. The controls 
 are just like its predesscors which is nice. X is for run and circle is for fire and triangle is 
 to get in a car. The missions do get harder as you go along because some you end up battling against 
 loads of people and protecting someone or chasing someone as well or taking them out. The game 
 saves itself automatically each time you finish a mission
  
  Sound and Graphics
  
  The sound you get to listen to all sorts of different tracks when driving and you can change the 
 song while in the car as well. The graphics are also very nice as well which is good. The graphics 
 look so realistic it is some of the best seen in a game.
  
  Lastability
  
  This game could keep you occupied for a very long time because there is so much to do in it and 
 it has a 16 player online option as well where you get to play online with 16 other to make it 
 more fun exploring. So it could be a veruy long lasting game because there is so much to do in 
 it.
  
  Overall opinion
  
  Overall it is a very good game one I would recommend. It has alot of missions and it is basically 
 a game where you can either do missions or just drive around and do what ever you want. It is such 
 a huge game with so much to explore. It's a good game but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  GTA has always had unrealistic feel to it which made the game a lot of fun to play outside of the 
 story. Everything was over the top from radio commentaries to boss battles. The series has been 
 epic to say the least. GTA III and Vice City were just mindblowing. GTA San Andreas was crazy as 
 well, but the story and environment was too dynamic for a game hyped around Los Angeles Streetlife 
 and the ending seemed like the ending to a low budget black film (I black, so dont trip) . Nonetheless 
 it was a good game. Since then I have gotten older and more mature, now 21. Video games just do 
 not have the same appeal to me as they use too because they all just seem childish and dumb. I 
 like a good story and that is usually why I play a game. This year has given me hope because of 
 MGS 4, Fallout 3, Dead Space, Midnight Club LA and Resistance 2 hit shelves. But I would of never 
 have played these games if it were not for GTA IV. 
  
  This game is the reason why I purchased a PS3. After reading reviews, I had to get this game. After 
 I purchased it, unwrapped it, and slid the disc into the drive I knew I was in store for something 
 great. After 6 hours in, I realized the GTA series had been remastered, brougthen into a new era. 
 They have done away with the wacky all over the place story line, and went back to the serious 
 roots of GTA III while keeping the mature silliness of GTA Vice City alive and the vastness of 
 San Andreas. GTA IV has outstanding graphics and the main character, Niko Bellic, is a beliavable 
 character. I did not really care for the whole Russian character thing, but after I got into the 
 character, it gave the game more of a soul. Mostly all the in game characters are believable because 
 they have personality. The missions in this game have the same 'drive here, kill them' feel, but 
 it is done more tasteful and well thought out this time around. Each mission feels novel also if 
 you just don't rush the game. There are three Islands meaning there is enough world hear to explore. 
 It is mindblowing to see how far games have come and GTA IV represents that milestone very well. 
 People may say the mature content this GTA packages is boring and not as fun as the others, but 
 what they must understand is this game is maturing just like the gamers who played the first GTA 
 games. Even though some missions feel stale, you can not disregard that each mission makes since 
 compared to previous title in the series. They also make more sense than missions in other games. 
 
  
  In games cutscenes are well done with voice acting better than most movies which make the story 
 so much more appealing and better to follow. The graphics are vastly improved over previous installments, 
 while they sometimes do appear blurry. Away with claw hands and awkard head and body movements. 
 We now get facial features that are close to real life which make Niko and other characters more 
 appealing, believable and diverse. The mission contents are just like the other, but like I said 
 earlier, it is done more tasteful. I think that greatest things this game has done is adding the 
 cover system, beautiful dynamic weather system, detailed enviroments (outside and inside) , and 
 deeper characters. 
  
  There are flaws though. Not as many sports cars. The cars handle in such a way that feel real, 
 but to tell you the truth, it makes driving, sometimes, boring and annoying. But it make cop chases 
 and car crashes even more satisfying because you do not feel like a God against people who play 
 God (get it) . Anyway, the game just feels real. Another problem is you can not buy property like 
 in previous installments, day time graphics look fuzzy when sun glare is not present sometimes, 
 cops are sometimes harder to evade due to car handling, and soundtrack could have been better. 
 But those of just little flaws in such a well done game. This game is the definition of taking 
 the next step and taking a risk because the end result is more rewarding then I could of dreamt. 
 Niko Bellic will be a very rememberable character, even if he is just a video game character. 
 
  
  Overall, GTA IV is the best game I have ever played. Though its story did not make me think too 
 much, it was good enough to be considered on of my favorite in game experiences. The story was 
 very believable. This game has put me back into a world of gaming that I sorely missed. Just like 
 MGS 4, this movie is disquised as a game, but unlike the MGS 4, it is not as solid or meaningful, 
 but nonetheless GTA IV brings us back into the real world, not a imaginary world. I love when you 
 can feel emotionally attached to the main character and characters in the game because it really 
 feels like another world. Worth every bill!!! Only 'true' game worth the asking price. I gave this 
 game a 10 because it actually worth more than its asking price. The game just has some much jam 
 packed into it. No game is as diverse as this one and no game compares to it in its genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  
  So, enhanced graphics, better storyline, better sound, overall the resum looks very hawt!
  
 
  But boy oh boy was i disappointed.
  
  The reason it maintains such a "high" score from me, is because it still has many of the elements 
 of GTA: San Andreas/Vice City in it which i liked. The reason it didnt get a higher score, is because 
 so much of what appealed to me in the former GTA games (ive played them religiously since GTA 
 1) is just... gone. I was kinda expecting the game to be bigger, the options to be more plentiful, 
 and the execution of the choices taken to be superior to the other games. But i was wrong. Very 
 wrong. Where is my dodo? Where is my public airline transportation? Where is my friggin tank. 
 Where is my BMX bike. Where is my gambling, my vehicle tricks, my weight lifting, my combat style, 
 my car customization, my rocket-firing chopper, my diverse landscape, my gang-friends, my territories, 
 i mean... Seriously! What the f***.
  
  I want my 500 kroners back. And while i wait for them, ill play some San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-T-A---M-A-D
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Well when you first start off you get wowed by the detail and graphics of the atmosphere around 
 you. The storyline was nothing special, San Andreas's storyline is the best. You finish the story 
 and then what is there for you to do? pretty much nothing compared to San Andreas, Sure you can 
 go around shooting helpless hidden pigeons (*sarcasm*Very creative idea Rockstar*sarcasm*) and you 
 can do Brucie's races. But after that there is nothing to do. The problem with this game is there 
 isn't much to do after you finish the game, unlike San Andreas, Rockstar have to raise the bar 
 not lower it.
  
  Now I don't know about you but I hate how Rockstar focused more on graphics than the "FUN" factor 
 of the game. Speaking of graphics.... they were the only thing that GTA IV advanced in. The music 
 in the radio was very crappy but the talk shows were hilarious (and racist) and made the gameplay 
 a wee bit more enjoyable.
  
  Now lets get on the Gameplay, the shooting was very realistic and it had a vast number of weapons. 
 The cover system was implemented into the game very good and it worked greatly in missions (though 
 it made alot of missions too easy)
  
  I'm not a big fan of the whole "physics" element in the driving, I mean lets not forget this is 
 a game we shouldn't get way ahead of our selves. I was also pretty mad that they didn't include 
 a tank so you can just go around the city and blow it up in those nice graphics. Another thing 
 they had to include was a bigger variety of planes not just 2-3 types of helicopters.
  
  To conclude, it is a good game over all but way too over rated and it was also over hyped ( but 
 i can understand why)
  I recommend that you rent this game or borrow it from a mate before buying because you might not 
 enjoy it too much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monstar23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  I gave GTA 4 a 9 out of 10 and yet I say this game is disappointing... how so? Well first let me 
 start off by saying that this GTA is by far the most advanced of the series. This game has a lot 
 of good things, such as the voice acting is amazing, some missions are very much entertaining, 
 especially "Four Leaf Clover", where you and your Irish buddies rob a bank. When you play this 
 mission you will automatically think of the bank robbing scene from the movie heat. This is the 
 highlight of the game. While this game is a lot of fun, the good things about the game is all also 
 the bad. The characters in the game simply do not get attached to you at all. When I played through 
 I really didn't care about much of the people of the game, whether they lived or die I didn't care 
 (when you play the game you will know what I mean by that last statement) , and also Niko is such 
 a bad ass, but he just gets bullied all game and gets told what to do until the very end, which 
 really dumbs down his character. Also Niko is not even the main character in the game, the city 
 is. The city looks amazing is completely alive, but lets face it, you didn't buy GTA 4 to drive 
 around and admire the place did you. The biggest thing that I have against this game is that when 
 you beat the in game mission you are FINISHED with the game. There is literally nothing else to 
 do in this game after the main missions are done except drive around and look at the city and kill 
 people (sounds fun but gets boring after like 30 min.) . This game has ZERO replay value and the 
 online is not that good, and fun for a while but not too long. I remember playing San Andreas, 
 and even after I beat the main story missions there was still stuff to do. I ended up returning 
 this game after beating it because it just took up space. GTA 4 is the most advanced game in the 
 series, but definitely not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duysan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  holy crap! HA! jsut what i expected! best game i have ever played, lives up to its hype and is 
 definiately a must have for everyone who has a ps3.
  first thing i noticed was the graphics! PWOAAHH the details spent on the graphics must of been 
 HUUGE cas looking around the city seems just like a real city. love walking into peopel who have 
 coffee or hotdogs and they drop them HAHA then start random fights on the street! Last time i was 
 playing and a taxi hit me, my mum screamed  _  i looked at her and she was like "my god thought 
 it was real". Now i know parents are not very good with you know technology but mann who woulda 
 thought games could evolve from a pizza shape eating squids and cherries into a full story line 
 games with side missions when bored. The story is just magnificent! makes it seem like a movie 
 and the characters you meet are very suprising. It took awhile for me to get used to the new driving 
 control but once your used to it youd prefer it then the X accelration one. The new cop system 
 is more realistic and better then previoous games. it makes escaping a challenge and the car chases 
 more fun. when im stuck on a mission i usually turn off the game, BUT in GTAIV i whip out the phone 
 and click multiplayer! this is the best multiplayer game i have ever played! running around doing 
 missions for mafias with friends is great! or gunning down some asians in team deathmatch :D *note 
 im asian* The bad thing about Multiplayer is that you cant play 2 player offline : (
  
  I recommend playing this game without cheats, its more enjoyable
  and is a must have for everyone! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonygonz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  the game is amazing. the graphics and the way they made new york city is crazy. the way you can 
 fly through a windshield is crazy. the abilty to get a new girlfriend thourgh the internet is cool 
 but you can only get three though which kinda sucks. geting a friend and metting total strangers 
 is also good. having a choice in the story is great having to kill or let him live or do this or 
 that which is good to. you can block a punch and counter. you can enter a couple of buildings and 
 two hospitals. you can watch tv and comedy clubs and strip clubs. you can take a taxi or a train 
 instead of driving but the taxi will cost you but it takes you any where and the train is free 
 but it is not where you want to go you will have remember which train stops by a certain area before 
 you get on and go the wrong way. the bottom line is it is a must buy game either you are a fan 
 or not you will fall in love with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoulars
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game never gets old. It is like every other game that you would like to play all rolled up 
 into one. You can drive, fight, bowl, shot darts, eat, sleep, change/buy cloths, etc, etc, etc 
 This game is not rated M for Mature for no reason. The crimes are ridiculous, but they are a sight 
 to see. It is nothing to Niko, when it comes to blowing someone's head off. You are definitely 
 living the life of a criminal when you are playing this game. I am constantly getting chased by 
 the cops by losing cool due to dumb people who get in my way that are walking/driving in the streets. 
 Not that I want them gone. The people make the game more realistic, and also available to fight 
 whenever I want to relieve some stress. Did I forget to tell you that Niko is in love I am constantly 
 calling up Michelle to see if she wants to go out on a date with me. But don't make her mad, or 
 she will give you the cold shoulder for a while. She might be the only thing that keeps Niko calm, 
 and out of trouble. I always tell myself that I am going to complete just one more mission, and 
 then I am going to cut the game off. An hour later, I still in front of the television screen wanting 
 more action. The fun is amazing and consistent. I didn't want to get this game at first, because 
 I use to own one of the GTA for the PS2. I thought I would not have liked it because it would basically 
 be the same concept. I was dead wrong. This game is GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  The first sets of Grand Theft Auto games were more than forgettable. The overhead view made playing 
 the game a pain and you had no sense of where to go next. But all this changed in 2001. Rockstar 
 released Grand Theft Auto 3 for the PS2, and it scrapped the traditional overhead perspective off 
 previous games and replaced it with a much better 3rd person perspective, making the game much 
 easier to play. Even since all GTA games have had incredible success and Grand Theft Auto 4 continues 
 the trend.
  
  You take the role of Niko Bellic, a Russian immigrant who comes to Liberty City because he is trying 
 to escape his old life, and because he is looking for a better life. And another reason he comes 
 is because his cousin Roman who lives there has boasted to be loaded. But it soon becomes evident 
 that Roman was telling bald-faced lies, as he lives in a run down apartment in a rough part of 
 town, and he requires Niko's help because he has gambling problems and he can't pay back money 
 he borrowed from local gangsters. This is postponing his plans to propose to his girlfriend Mallorie. 
 But of course these events lead to Niko becoming one of the most wanted men in Liberty City, as 
 he is soon doing work for every 'bent' person in the city. This spans over 70 missions, from more 
 than 20 different people, from Vlad to Packie. And if you die on a mission, you'll get a text on 
 your mobile phone to ask you if you want to restart the mission, rather like the taxi you see on 
 Liberty City Stories.
  As well as the story there are a ton of sub-missions for you to complete. The street races are 
 the most memorable ones, but there are more. And you can also call Niko's friends and go and play 
 pool, darts, or just go and get drunk, which is a laugh. And Niko gets girlfriends too so you can 
 go on dates with them. Liberty City feels like a real living, breathing world.
  
  Ever since GTA 3, the series has been praised for the scale of the games environments and nothing 
 has changed here. Liberty City is humongous, and it will take you an age to travel around it on 
 foot, so Niko uses all modes of transport from cars to helicopters to get around. And you can also 
 call Taxi's over to you and they can take you to where you want to go, so as big as Liberty City 
 is there is never really a problem getting around it. And also in tradition to the series when 
 you first start the city is cut off to you, so you can only stay on the one island, but the more 
 and more missions you complete the more of Liberty City opens up to you, so travelling isn't too 
 much of an issue at the beginning of the game.
  Another thing the series has been praised for is its humour. While driving around listening to 
 the radio you hear allsorts of funny and ridiculously crude averts that never fail to make you 
 chuckle, as well as the language people on the streets speak. In a way the humour is what has made 
 the series so successful and it's as good as it's ever been in GTA 4.
  Also, like the previous titles on the PS2, the visuals on GTA 4 are magnificent, but aren't the 
 most stunning that the PS3 has to offer. The game supports HD 720p, 1080i and 1080p, so the game 
 does look stunning, but a lot of the game is dark so other PS3 games like Uncharted that are set 
 in more outdoor environments appear to look better.
  
  The combat system in GTA 4 has been updated to what it was in the PS2 titles. Sometimes on the 
 PS2 titles when you locked-on to aim, you aimed at civilians instead of who you were actually aiming 
 for, and don't think this doesn't happen in GTA 4 because it certainly does, but it is rare. And 
 close combat is simpler too. If you get stuck in a close up fight when you have your gun out, when 
 you attack instead of trying to shoot the person you hit them with your gun, so there are no more 
 worries about getting caught up close with a gun.
  The police react differently on GTA 4 too. Instead of them just ramming into you like on GTA 3, 
 they will try to shoot the cars tyres so they can slow you down, and they only ram for a last resort. 
 And when they get close to you instead of surrendering and getting busted like on the PS2 titles, 
 you can resist them. And if you get a wanted level, all you have to do is drive outside the wanted 
 zone on the map and stay out of it for a certain amount of time to rid yourself of them, so it's 
 not as hard in that sense to get arrested. And if you die, the hospital give you your weapons back, 
 so you don't have to worry about that either.
  
  GTA 4, like the PSP titles before it, does have an online multiplayer mode. The multiplayer supports 
 up to 16 players and allows players to explore the entire city, so you know you're getting a huge 
 map, and there are several different game modes available. Team based gameplay modes include Team 
 Deathmatch, where 2-8 teams compete to accumulate the most kills in a traditional Deathmatch; Team 
 Mafia Work, in which 28 teams compete to complete contract work for the "mafia", such as escorting/killing 
 targets or stealing cars; Team Car Jack City where 28 teams compete to steal cars and earn money 
 for keeping them undamaged; Cops n' Crooks, featuring a team of cops who must compete against a 
 team of crooks (which features the "All for One" variation - requiring the cops to kill the crooks' 
 "Boss" before he is escorted to the extraction point - and the "One for All" variation - requiring 
 the cops to kill all of the crooks before they reach the extraction point) ; and Turf War, involving 
 two teams who compete to take control of designated areas of the map and control them for as long 
 as possible. The multiplayer has huge depth, but because of the size of Liberty City, if there 
 are only a few players on at one time it will take you a long time to find each other.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a brilliant achievement. Rockstar promised us a brilliant game and they delivered, 
 but they have toned things like the police down so it's not as hard to get busted as it was in 
 the PS2 titles. And while some people will find this better I actually don't because for me the 
 thing that will always make me remember the PS2 games is the fact that I enjoyed escaping the police. 
 But they have kept all the series trademark features like its humour, which is better now than 
 ever, so this evens things out. If you buy this game to expect it to be a brilliant game then you 
 won't be disappointed, but it's not as magnificent as GTA 3 was back in 2001.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 10
  Value - 8
  Design - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  As I said in the review deck; I just don't get all the fuss. 
  
  I give the game an 8 based on the immersiveness of it, because most PS3 games are sorely lacking 
 in that, usually about 7-10 hours long. That's larceny when you have to pay $60 standard for a 
 game. GTA IV gives you much more than that (but probably not as much as previous titles) . Otherwise...
 
  
  The graphical presentation is mediocre at best. The early fight scenes look downright silly. I'm 
 not sure which point Rockstar games wanted to focus on, but it definitely wasn't fisticuffs.
  
  To be honest, I'm not sure they really focused on anything. Oooh bowling! Poor graphics, bad 
 controls, waste of time (in my opinion.) Every sidebar game is a throw-in, not good enough to be 
 stand alone. So why have them?
  
  The city layout and main character models are only so-so. The move a little clunky and look a little 
 clunky too. Like a decent PS2 or Xbox game, but that's not acceptable to me for a PS3 game. 
  
  Supposed GREAT innovations are shoulder shruggers to me. A cellphone. Neat. Type type on a 
 computer. OK. Get a lapdance. It might be super cool to an adolescent, but I'm married and jaded 
 to the sexual stuff I guess. Not enough to get me jazzed about a game. Nor is hearing "salty language." 
 
  
  Even in the bad part of town, some things are just silly. Walking up, kicking in a window to a 
 car, hotwiring it, running over countless people, knocking over street signs, lamp posts, blah 
 blah... not a peep from the cops. What??
  
  I'm not saying this is the worst game I've ever played, there's some enjoyability in there, but 
 when I can fire off a list of bad things straight off the top of my head, I look at all the 10's 
 and say
  
  Huh? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sazvan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  The good:
  It is much like any other GTA game.
  
  The Bad:
  It is much like any other GTA game.
  
  Since I was a little boy at 6 years I have always loved 
 the GTA series. - So we just got it cleared that I am not a GTA hater.
  
  GTA IV is one of the most anticipated games well for a long time and it sure doesn't live up to 
 the expectations.
  You can feel it is a GTA game but something is missing, the feeling, the feeling of that you are 
 doing missions and earning money for a reason. Well the story is no Godfather not even close, so 
 you are not progressing for that reason.
  You can't by houses, take territories or raise through the ranks.... gangster ranks or what ever...
 
  However you could buy houses in previous games.
  AND Niko Bellic (you're character) is not precisely saving the world, or being a bada ehh gangster.
 
  So everything that you are doing is pretty much pointless, and that is the worst about the new 
 installment of the series.
  There still are the problems from previous GTA games: missions are way too short, you spent most 
 time driving around the city (however this have changed a little, now you can be driven by a cape, 
 but you still have to.) chase somebody or escape from copes, and were still are a lot of annoying 
 ways to die or lose a mission. Also the gameplay is very repeating you always got to drive around 
 then chase somebody then kill somebody then escape from the cops and then DO IT AGAIN.
  The mood/atmosphere is also as bad as ever!
  You can go out with friends and girlfriends, actually 
 many girlfriends after all Niko is a wanted guy in liberty city, but it is sooooo boring and so 
 is any other new extra content which actually doesn't really change the game well not for the better.
 
  The graphics (this was my first next-gen game but) are not very pretty close up however this 
 can be forgiven since you won't notice it, actually the city looks great, however ugly in the poor 
 areas which is realistic but sadly looking at areas so ugly (like you're apartment) is depressing 
 and I must say that I miss the 2D look from previous games of series.
  There is more missing from previous games like tanks, garages, customizations (hair, tattoos and 
 so on) , and much more that made previous games like San Andreas and Vice City great.
  With that being said the single player-campaign of GTA IV is not the best in the series at all.
 
  You might like the multiplayer though it is like any other multiplayer, repeating gameplay, however 
 in this case where there are so many different and good game modes, but still is, yet not very 
 much repeating gameplay, the multiplayer raises the game from the ruins of the single player-campaign.
 
  It may sound from this review that the game sucks but it doesn't (well only the single player- 
 campaign suck [and by the way very much] ) , though it is way too overrated and not the best game 
 in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocker9890
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Rockstar has done it yet again! If you are a fan of the GTA series then you will definately love 
 this game. However, if you are new to the series then you will find this game to be quite enjoyable. 
 If you are familiar with the series then you will notice a lot of changes. The shooting mechanics 
 have been redone which make it alot easier to use. Car physics and body damage have all been redone 
 to give the game a more realistic feel and approach. Graphics are amazing considering how difficult 
 it is to create an entire city based off New York City. This game will keep you entertained for 
 hours and since there is so much stuff to do you will easily keep playing this game after 20 hours 
 of non stop gameplay. You will not get easily bored with this game as it has one of the best single 
 players of any game on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clientel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4... One of the biggest games this year to ever hit records sales higher than any other gta... 
 i find that Rockstar Games R. have really improved their standards in a video game. Considering 
 the full fledge freedom in GTA 4 makes it the best one yet... The thing i exceptionaly like this 
 GTA is because he is fron the land of Tsars, The land of the hammer and sickle the land that i 
 love... SWEET OL MOTHER RUSSIA !!! 
  
  This game truly deserves a higher rating than 10/10... This game is pure fun and full of exciting 
 activities to be done... Rockstar also added in an aiming system which i find truly needed for gta 
 games... 
  The benefits of having to own this game is to explore the world of Liberty City . Liberty City 
 is such a big place filled with such activities such as clubbing, strip dancing, online dating. 
 There is also another feature that is so massive yet simple such as the cellphone... Its practically 
 your social life with the press of buttons... Another great thing is the cars... The cars that 
 i have driven are cars that i like.. If you are a big fan of muscle and fast cars then this is 
 the game for you.
  The let down of this is the minor glitches such as poles stuck to the ground could flip a car over 
 and land on it... OUCH !!! (NIKO) 
  
  Nonetheless this game is truly worth thr wait and worth buying for... I see a bright future for 
 RockStar Games R. . In the end , all i could say is Good job... 10/10 or more from me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rekki111
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game I thought that there was so much to do that I must just have to play for a 
 week straight I did (well sorta I would have gotten a red ring but still) it was great I never 
 ran out of things to do whether it was multiplayer or not or the story or the comedy club or TV 
 or internet cafes it was all there and in my grasp this game is great I would suggest buying it... 
 NOW!!! if not you are not a fan of the game no wait you don't have to be a fan but I would suggest 
 for story mode having a backround of GTA furthermore there is still a lot of things to cover I 
 suggest watching the marathon because it shows mostly everything you could in 2 hours anyways if 
 you pick up this game you will never put it down you will marry this game (unless your dating a 
 girl in game) anyways this game has to be the greatest rockstar has ever put into a game I love 
 this game so much I am playing as I type I can't get off this game GTA IV is my anti-drug (unless 
 addiction is considered a drug for anything) anyways pick it up great game I just think the player 
 customization took a dive (and drowned) but that does not tank on anything there is still clothes 
 and many options on how you mold your character great game (I might have said that six times) but 
 anyways this is a must buy. Buy it love it play it forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto has a formula, and for the last few games it has stuck to this formula, occasionally 
 making minor changes to the graphics engine or adding relatively unimportant feature, for example 
 in GTA: san andreas, it introduces elements that you might typically find in an RPG instead of 
 an immersive open world game.
  
  However Rockstars first attempt on the PS3 simply redefines everything we know about GTA for the 
 better. Its not been changed so much that you feel unfamiliar with the game, but its changes and 
 improvements to systems already in place make it arguably the best in the series.
  
  Unlike some GTA games, as soon as you step of the boat as protaganist Niko Bellic, you immediately 
 like your character. From his quite sarcastic humour to his evident compassion for his cousin Roman, 
 you straight away are glad that Rockstar got it right with the Ex soldier Niko.
  
  The first change you'll notice in GTA is the graphics, although maybe not as artistically brilliant 
 as some games, like heavenly sword, (its murky, dark, and some of the civilians look a little plastic) 
 however the style suits the game. Its also extremely proficient in terms of frame rate, no matter 
 whats happening on screen it never stutters at all. 
  
  The next point you'll notice is the fact that the handling on the cars is different, the initial 
 camera angle may not to be of everyones liking when you start driving so you may need to fiddle 
 around with it for a bit. However the handling on GTA is extremely realistic compared to its predecessors 
 and this doesn't mean that any of the tense car chases you play within the game are any worse, 
 they still make your heart pound when you have to chase a train with a car.
  
  The map whilst your inside the car has also seen some adjustments, now, when you get in trouble 
 with the police, the radar acts as a police scanner, and although you feel it may be a little cheap, 
 it actually works extremely well. The radr shows the location of police cars and the area in which 
 there searching, which when you escape, you have to not attract any unwanted attention again.
 
  
  The guns in GTA 4 have also seen make over, the detail on them is good and the guns act like their 
 real life counter parts. There are two ways of aiming, either through auto aim like the previous 
 games or manual aim. I ended up using manual aim as it gave me or freedom and prevented me from 
 wasting many bullets.
  
  GTA has also introduced a cover system, pushing the R1 button makes Niko push up against pretty 
 much anything, a car, a car door, a wall, hell even an explosive barrel if your stupid enough. 
 The AI are also extremely good in GTA, firing quite accurately and firing blindly to keep you at 
 bay, meaning that you do have to use the cover mechanic frequently.
  
  The missions in GTA are as fun as ever, from the bank job (easily my favourite mission in any GTA 
 game ever) to the final mission, where you drive several vehicles and engage in ferocious firefights. 
 There are also side missions such as assassin and delivering weed and other products for Litlle 
 Jacob, ( one of the people you meet later in the game) A new idea introduced in GTA 4 is that it 
 offers you multiple ways to complete some missions, like in one mission a guy orders you to kill 
 his ex best friend, but his ex best friend calls you and asks you to murder the other person, and 
 as you have served both, you can decide who you kill.
  
  The single player game is huge, if you complete just the main storyline it takes around 15 hours 
 roughly, however it will take longer than that because you will want to explore everything, from 
 the side missions to just going into the cyber cafe and going on the internet and clearing your 
 inbox of spam promising viagra etc.
  
  The multiplayer is just as good, although there is a tendecy for lag, the multiplayer still looks 
 polished. There are a wide range of matches you can partake in, and the levelling system is also 
 pretty cool. When you go up a level you unlock new clothes you can wear during multiplayer and 
 also your starting weapon. Games in Multiplayer are huge, covering at least a quarter of liberty 
 city for each map.
  
  The only problem i really had with GTA were some of the models looking quite repetitive, however 
 this error has been consistent throughout all the games and although rockstar tried to rectify 
 it by introducing more than one character model for each type of civilian, it gets a bit boring 
 seeing several of the same character model altogether.
  
  GTA is one of the few games that actually achieves being funny, every missions has two sets of 
 dialogue recorded in case you need to retry, keeping you entertained with Packie Mcreary's banter, 
 Niko's comments, and Roman's generaly cowardice. Its also fun taking girls out on dates, such as 
 carmen and kiki, and getting drunk and listening to there drunken rants at you. 
  
  Although liberty city isn't as big as other cities within the franchise, it still is a huge city 
 and one of the feautres introduced into GTA 4 is a cab system, you can choose anywhere you want 
 to go and get there by cab by setting a waypoint on your map and asking the cab driver to drive 
 there, you can then sit in the cab or skip the animation and get therea lot quicker, although you'll 
 have to pay a bit more.
  
  Overall, GTA's fantastic single player and polished multiplayer makes this a game not to be missed 
 by anyone that is old enough to appreciate it. Its immersive story and humour make this one of 
 Rockstar's greatest achievements.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eione808
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  I love the GTA games but feel a little let down by GTA4 it has made some control improvements but 
 doesn't have the best selection of cars or shops, the map could be bigger and there are no planes 
 or jet pack and you can't buy properties and the role-play charter development has been dumped. 
 GTA Sanandreas was a better game in many ways especially for free roaming and messing about.
  
  The story is very good and the city and graphics look good but I think Rockstar shouldn't have 
 cut so much from the game I don't know why they took out much of the best stuff from the last one.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong it's not all bad Improvements have been made in game-play and I found the game 
 to be less frustrating in places than Sanandreas could be at times.
  
  The game is fun and if you haven't played GTA before or if you love the genre there is a lot of 
 fun to be found here.
  
  However if you were only going to buy one GTA game I would say buy Sanandreas even with it's flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkknot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  What can be said that hasn't been said yet. for what is worth, here are my two cents.
  
  Storyline, Graphics, Gameplay, Soundtrack, everything is perfect.
  although i missed the modification 
 of cars, haircuts, tats and everything that GTA SA had its not the end of the world.
  
  IV is truly an experience. Nikos character is perfect and fits well with the whole GTA series. 
 Liberty City feels truly alive and the scenery is great. Car dynamics are bit weird and might feel 
 a bit wobbly at first but you will find yourself getting use to it.
  
  The characters that you will meet on side missions and story missions truly brings a dynamic to 
 the game play, you get to like or dislike people and this will affect how the story evolves due 
 to decisions you as a person will have to make during the game. 
  
  Its just a pitty that i wont be able to enjoy the lost and the damned on ps3, guess ill have to 
 make some important decisions in 09...
  
  Truly a must have in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface6793
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is an amazing experience as soon as you slip in the disc. PROS
  Driving- realistic, feels natural and is fun.
  Shooting- the new cover system is used as was 
 in Gears Of War and Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. this is new for gta and is good with elements such 
 as blindfiring and tweaking your aim.
  Story- very engaging story you will have to make certain choices in the game between two which 
 makes all the better for repaly value.
  Roaming Around: there are a couple of activites as in going on a date with your girlfriend or out 
 on the town with your friends. you can see a comedy show with kat williams, you can go bowling, 
 get drunk and go to a strip club.
  
  CONS
  frustating friendly ai thers no more cons for this masterpiece
  
  FINAL WORD
  BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 u can and will get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajballways
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  at 12 i went to the game shop to get a copy of the game it must be the best game i have ever played 
 the graphics well if all the games looked like that it would be like real life i dont if it only 
 look that good on a ps3 because i have not got a xbox 360 but you should be at the shop now if 
 you only ave a wii go and by a ps3 or xbox 360 and get playing if you can go online and you will 
 never walk a way from the tv till you finish the game i have finished the game and now i stay online 
 you will have to buy a copy the best place is the internet to get a copy i would try play. com or 
 try the high street or the gaming shops but you will love the story it is set about a man called 
 niko coming from russia and meets his cousin roman and roman gets killed later on in the story 
 it will take about 20 hours to finish if you are very good at gaming like me or 30-40 hours is 
 your not so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devilzblood
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  GTA IV = Perfect
  
  This game is perfect, i have been playing this game for so long and am still playing it, specially 
 after the trophy update the game is even more fun.
  
  Niko, fresh of the boat finds himself doing dirty work even though when he left Russia he swore 
 not to do it again. The choices you make determines how the game will end up. 
  
  The story is amazing the graphics are awesome and Liberty City is just amazing, specially at night. 
 The city looks as real as one can make it to be. I have been a fan of GTA since i played GTA III, 
 after San Andreas, i thought it was merely impossible to improve on anything else but the graphics 
 but i was wrong, the whole gameplay is different. There is always so much to do that you never 
 get tired of playing the game.
  
  The car damage is also amazing, if you hit it just right niko flies out of the car from the front 
 windshield, if the damage the car right from the side, the tires wunt work. Making prank calls, 
 calling 911 everything is just amazing.
  
  Playing online with friends in Liberty City is just amazing. Hang around, kill pedestrians, kill 
 cops.
  
  This game is perfect.
  
  I give it 10/10, would have given it more then 10 if i could as this game is just awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BryceHartell
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  GTAIV is one of the most hottly anticipated games of the year, and unlike what everyone else says, 
 it is a big let down. Anyone who owned San Andreas will feel cheated by GTAIV, as it has removed 
 so much, and added so little. 
  
  GTAIV is set in Liberty City, but doesn't even remotely ressemble the Liberty City from GTA3. It's 
 a massive metropolis split up in to four different islands. It's smaller than San Andreas, but 
 unlike San Andreas, features no country side at all. This makes it incredibly hard to learn your 
 way around, as there aern't exactly many defining landmarks to help you remember where you are. 
 But Rockstar has combated this by adding a wavepoint to the map indicator. Although this does help 
 you find your way around, it makes it even harder to familiurise yourself with the huge city.
 
  
  Graphics wise, GTAIV can be summed up in one word, average. Don't believe what everone says, GTAIVs 
 graphics are nothing special. Sure they're alot better than San Andreas, but San Andreas didn't 
 exactly have good graphics anyway. And the worst thing of all is the shadow. It wont be long in 
 to playing GTAIV that you start to get anoyed with it. Buildings and bridges will create shadows 
 on the road, and although it's good in theory, it is just horrible. It makes visibility almost 
 non existant. nothing's worse than having to keep your lights on during the day. 
  
  The story behind GTAIV is probably its best attribute. You take control of a Russian imigrant named 
 Niko Bellic, and attempt to make a life for yourself in the land of opportunity. This is probably 
 the best GTA story since GTA3, and you will be satisfied with it.
  
  Other than the story, the only other real positive change, is the combat. You can now take cover 
 behind obstacles, whether it be a wall or a car, and shoot over the top or round the side. This 
 makes fire fights alot easier and far more tactical than previous GTA games. Also melee combat 
 has been improved. You can now dodge and counter, which is an overdue addition.
  
  But apart from those two things, GTAIV is a step backwards from San Andreas in almost every area. 
 GTAIV features less weapons, less vehicles (including no planes or push bikes) , less safehouses, 
 less clothing options, no tatoos, no haircuts, and no variable body shape. There's also less random 
 things to do, like no casinos etc.
  
  Another big let down is the new police system. You still have the normal stars, but when you are 
 being chased, a circle will surround you on your map. To escape the cops you must get out of this 
 circle, and remain unseen for 10 or so seconds. This makes it extremely easy to evade 1, 2 or 3 
 stars. but above that it becomes almost impossible, and can be extreamly irritating.
  
  But the biggest change with GTAIV is the cell phone. You now carry around a cell phone which you 
 will recieve calls and texts to. During the missions it works fine. But you soon realise that Rockstar 
 wants this to be a 'social' game. You are constantly asked to do various activities with your friends, 
 whether it be going out for a drink, or playing some pool. This is not only very repititive after 
 a while, but doesn't give you any sense of achievment.
  
  GTAIV does bring online multiplayer to the table. But it still isn't enough to save this highly 
 anticipated game.
  
  Overall GTAIV is a poor game from an amazing company. If it wern't for the good story, I would 
 probably recommend GTA San Andreas over this. But once the 20hour ish story ends, you will find 
 there isn't a hell of a lot to keep you occupied. Don't get me wrong, GTAIV is a great game, but 
 compared to previous GTAs, this just isn't up to scratch.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trombonedude13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow.. Where do I start? 
  
  The GTA series has become the benchmark for 3rd person shooters ever since its 3D release in 2002. 
 GTA 3, GTA VC, GTA SA, all three Stories for the handheld consoles, and now GTAIV, are all known 
 to be some of the best games to ever have been created. If it wasn't for the extreme controversy 
 surrounding the GTA series, it would without a doubt steal the show at every award ceremony held 
 in the years of its release. Saying all of this brings me to the beginning of my review. From here 
 I will list the things that good about this game, and I'll try to think up something bad about 
 it. But it won't be much. I promise.
  
  Things That Are Good About GTA IV
  
  --Awesome Graphics: The graphics in the GTA series have always been a step ahead of time. In GTA 
 IV, they take it multiple steps further. Vehicle crash graphics and handling are superb. This is 
 not one of those games where paint chips off the car after slamming into a wall at 120 mph. No. 
 In this game you can literally squish your car to half its size. Mangle your wheels to point where 
 your car will not move. Lose your hood, doors, tires, winshield, back and side windows. Every surface 
 of your car is completely dentable. And it will get dented, believe me. Along with the crash graphics, 
 the vehicles themselves are a work of art. Every car in regular gameplay, is almost the equivalent 
 of a movie scene in the previous GTA games. In other words, the cars are incredible looking. At 
 times I will be driving, and come across a car that is just so clean looking, that I would have 
 to pull over and steal it. And lets not forget about the city itself. The buildings, water, even 
 the sky are more real than ever. You have to see it to believe it.
  
  --Weapons are Slightly Improved: The weapons in GTA have never really been a huge focus in relation 
 to gameplay. The only two new things I really saw were the fire and explosions from rockets and 
 grenades, and a few smaller things associated with the Rocket launcher. The explosions have definitely 
 gotten better as to the amounts of debris and junk that flies out after destroying a vehicle. And 
 a cool thing added to the rocket launcher is that your rockets can actually ricochet off of surfaces 
 if aimed right. A few nice additions.
  
  --The Storyline Is Captivating: The storylines in the past GTAs haven't been all they're cracked 
 up to be. I can't remember them ever really holding my attention to well. In fact, at most, it 
 felt like senseless killing missions one after the other. But in GTA IV that all changes. The storyline 
 in this game is a much improvement. This time you actually feel like your living a life and not 
 just doing senseless jobs. Niko completes a variety of missions such as robbing banks, high speed 
 pursuits galore, assinations, and just plain ole givin' someone a ride. Niko also has an entire 
 friend system in this game in which he racks up over six allies which you can call and perform 
 numerous activities with, such as Drinking, Eating, Going to a Comedy Club, Strip Club, Bowling, 
 Pool, Darts, and more. These activities never get boring and continue throughout the game, even 
 after 100% completion.
  
  --Environment (Liberty City) Is As Beautiful and Vast As Ever: The 3 islands of Liberty City are 
 a graphic marvel in this addition to the GTA series. First off, the city is huge! Driving from 
 one corner of the map to the other might as well take you 20-30 mins sometimes (depending on what 
 kinda car your in, hehe :-P) Don't feel like driving? Take the helicopter. There's over 5 different 
 locations I was able to find one at. And lets just say that flying through the downtown area of 
 LC at night, is something you'll want to do over and over. Its beautiful. The city lights and cars 
 driving on the ground will make you swear your really flying over a real city. Land on top of sky 
 scraper and stare out across the city for miles if you want. There are no nasty loading screens 
 or foggy distances to mess up your scenic view. The developers really outdid themselves environmentally 
 in this game.
  
  --Replay Ability of GTA Games Is What Gives It A Perfect Ten: I can't say I've ever played another 
 game with the replay ability of GTA. Beating GTA IV 100% was only half the fun, since Rockstar 
 added the incredible multiplayer system in on this one. I'll talk about that next. Going back and 
 stealing vehicles never gets old. And plus, like mentioned before, you have the continuous option 
 to hang out with all your buddies even after completing the game. So Rockstar pretty much covered 
 all the bases on this one. Couldn't ask for much more.
  
  --Multiplayer Capabilities Rock!!: One of the major teases of GTA SA was the pathetic multiplayer, 
 single-screen system they gave us. Yeah it was multiplayer.. as long as you and your buddy stayed 
 on the same screen and drove the same car. Blah! Not in GTAIV. Rockstar gives you the entire city, 
 traffic, pedestrians, weather, graphics, vehicles, guns, you name, all stuffed into a nice little 
 multiplayer system accessible through your cell phone. Not to mention 15 different types of gameplay 
 including Deathmatch, Cops and Robbers, Bomb Da Base, and much desired Free Mode. In these modes 
 work together with up to 8 players on each side (16 total) and try to accomplish different objectives 
 to gain more points and increase your rank. Never gets boring. A lot of people ask about the lag 
 in multiplayer. I have a standard dsl connection with about 2 megs downstream and 350kb up and 
 I don't see a lick of lag. I don't know how the game does it, but it just works, and it works well. 
 If you liked the single player missions in other GTA games, you'll love the multiplayer included 
 in GTAIV.
  
  I could probably go on for another 10 pages with descriptions of exciting things in this game, 
 but you just have to believe me when I say this game is worth the 60 bucks. Don't even worry about 
 renting it, just go buy it NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokas1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Liberty City. A city where people dreams come true , a place where you can find you're true call. Or 
 isn't it? That's what Nico Bellic thought first time , when he got invited into the Liberty City 
 , by his cousin Roman. After year's of his experience of being a veteran in military , he left that 
 job. He thought that he can start a new life in that city and earn good money , house and a woman. Roman 
 told him that he lives there like a king , has everything he needs and he is stinking rich. Well 
 when he met him he was drunk. He had to drive him back home with his car. When he saw that the so 
 called good looking place was a kingdom for cockroaches , he went angry and realized that he was 
 tricked by Romans bull ****. And that's how the whole game starts just like in GTA SA. You start 
 from nothing , start doing small business with people , live in a small apartment until you get 
 yourself bigger house or room , get a better phone , friends and contacts , leading you to the 
 last goal. The whole game-play is just awesome. Euphoria physics are truly the best looking so far 
 for physic engines. Driving is now a lot more realistic , people react better to things you're doing 
 , police has gotten smarter and now the whole new shooting system is born. You can shoot at you're 
 opponents leg to disarm it , shoot into his head to make a fatal head shot and just simply blow 
 him out with an RPG launcher. The Liberty City itself looks alive , has a lot more people since 
 the last game , better emotions , sound and music. Driving a Comet car , while crushing people under 
 it's wheels and listening to hard metal music is flawless. However the map is a lot more smaller 
 than the San Andreas , but admit it , it has more interactive places than a plain field in GTA 
 SA , which takes about 1/10 of a whole map. Missions are all mostly different , every single of 
 them has a real life story to tell to people , and it's pretty good looking. The game has everything 
 you need: Cars , Weapons , Helicopters ,Crazy People , Good AI and other stuff. Speaking of stuff 
 , there is stuff to do when you finish Main story. Which is completing all stunt jumps , killing 
 birds , surfing the net for some secrets , doing side missions like stealing exotic cars and going 
 out with friends. This game is a must get it for all people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuarthynd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas gave GTA 4 a lot to live up to but if anything GTA 4 blew it out the 
 water! This is (as expected) the best game in the Grand Theft Auto series. Everything that has 
 been wrong with previous games has been sorted in this latest edition, and the things that were 
 great have even been made better. The game play is smooth and the in game graphics are superb ! 
 Even if you have never played a GTA game it is quite easy to learn how to play, though it does 
 have some tricky parts also.
  
  So you play an illegal immigrant called Niko Bellic who has came to Liberty City to find fame and 
 fortune along with his idiotic cousin Roman. To Nikos' surprise he rarely finds fame or fortune 
 and is plunged into a world of crime and death dealing.
  
  One of the many things that make this specific game so memorable is the fact you can make in game 
 decisions, like whither to kill the target you have been assigned to eliminate or let him go. This 
 factor lets you see further into Nikos character. Playing a character like Niko is definitely a 
 big change in my eyes as games such as San Andreas, Vice City and GTA 3 you hardly found anything 
 in the character you were playing. Whereas this game has more of a story behind it and you can 
 choose the final outcome. Every new mission is different which keeps the game at a high tempo and 
 the car races are exhilarating.
  
  Whither you love or hate 3rd Person shooters I definitely recommend all gamers to buy this game. 
 To me it is the best PS3 game released to date with its stunning graphics to its loveable game 
 play and storylines. I rate it 9.5 as I believe it ended to abruptly but that is one disadvantage 
 in a game with thousands of advantages so go out and buy it now. If you haven't already ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Wow, GTA has changed A LOT! I never expected GTA 4 to be SO different. It's SO much better than 
 GTA San Andreas.
  
  It has spectacular graphics and an awesome and VERY realistic gameplay you CANNOT compare with 
 its predecessors. The sound effects are awesome as well.
  
  The controls aren't so similar and they require getting a little used to, plus driving cars aren't 
 very easy, even for those other video game wheelmen out there. You're gonna have to put your driving 
 skills at 110% to master all the vehicles' handling.
  
  I haven't played GTA 4 a lot, I only tried it out at a friend's house, so I don't know everything 
 about this game, but I'm sure you still steal boats and probably airplanes too, but THOSE AIRPLANES 
 ARE SO EFFING BIG!!! I haven't tried stealing any of them... yet! And watch out, when you enter 
 the airport, the police go crazy!
  
  Otherwise, this is by far THE BEST GTA game made since GTA San Andreas, no questions asked! GTA 
 has NEVER looked so good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golddog101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  This game should be the best in the hole gta series its got it all graphics good story line good 
 charecters.
  
  Now this is a game that you should by it's worth the money trust me. Everythings perfect in it 
 you can't go wrong with a game like this i have been playing it now for about 35 hours i am almost 
 done it. You can beat it in under 40 hours but if you do all the mini stuff it will take you 60 
 hours or more.
  
  This is how i would score the game.
  
  graphics 10/10
  story 9/10
  charecters 8.5/10
  
  Well thats what i would rate it but this game you should 
 defently consider buying it when you first buy it you think just another gta right wrong when you 
 play it it's really like Liberty city comes to life. Plus each charecter you see is different they 
 may have the same skin colur but different clothes. When you look at the graphics side of it everything 
 looks more 3D on the newer consoles. My main point is go out buy it and you will get your money's 
 worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  It's bigger. It's tougher. But is GTA 4 any good. 
  
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  ***This review is cut in to 
 8 different categories. In each category I will tell you about the game. At the end of the review 
 I will give you my final thoughts on the game***
  
  
  (Before I start of with review I just want to say that I'm very strict as rating games. I will 
 not give a game a 10/10 if it does not deserve it even if I love the game so much. A game will 
 have to get a perfect 10 in all categories for me to give a 10/10.)
  
  
  Quick Thought
  Grand Theft Auto is with out a doubt one of the hardest games out there to write a review on. No 
 mater what the reviewer says there will always be someone who will disagree. So I know I will probably 
 have a lot of people who will disagree with me on this review and may even decide to rate this 
 review as a bad one. But what you read in this review (or any of my other reviews) is my real thoughts 
 on the game. I take game reviews seriously. 
  
  I - Quick Review
  
  (* = Very Week. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, the stronger the restriction)
 
  
  Violence: * * * * * (Very Strong)
  Bad Language: * * * * * (Very Strong)
  Fear: * (Very Weak)
  Sex: * * * * (Strong)
  Drugs: * * * (Mild)
  Discrimination: * * (Weak)
 
  Gambling: * * (Weak)
  
  Age Rating: 18 years and over
  
  
  The Good:
   Violence
   Some Cool Missions
   Voice Acting
   Great Start
  
  
  The bad:
   
 The AI System
   Some Annoying Mission
   Can't Fly Planes
  
  Whether you love it, or hate it, you cannot disagree with Grand Theft Auto (from the very first 
 to GTA4) being one of the biggest and most popular games to come out. But is Grand Theft Auto 4 
 really worth all the wait.
  
  Read on to find out what I fully thought. 
  
  
  II Plot Review  7/10
  
  Your probably thinking story? GTA is the type of game that you don't 
 really follow the story. You just want to play the game. But the story in GTA 4 is rather good.
 
  What does the American dream mean today?
  For Niko Belic an immigrant fresh off the boat from Europe, it is the hope he can escape his past. 
 For his cousin, Roman, it is the vision that together they can find fortune in Liberty City, gateway 
 to the land of opportunity. As they slip into debt and get dragged into a criminal underworld by 
 a series of shysters, thieves and sociopaths, they discover that the reality is very differently 
 from the dream in a city that worships money and status, and is heaven for those who have them 
 and a living nightmare for those who don't.
  
  
  III - Graphics and Presentation Review  7/10
  
  The graphics in Grand Theft auto have always 
 been just, good. And GTA 4 is no exception. The Visuals are good but if you where to compare the 
 graphics in GTA 4 with say Metal Gear Solid 4, Devil May Cry 4, Dead Space or any other BIG game 
 to come out or has been out this year, GTA 4 will make you feel like your playing a PS2 game. Now 
 I hope your not taking this the wrong way by thinking I'm saying GTA 4 is a bad game. I know as 
 well as you do, that it takes more than just graphics to make a game amazing. Graphics are all 
 about capturing the viewers (Us player) eyes into buying and wanting to buy a game. 
  
  
  IV - Game-Play Review  7/10
  
  You play Niko Bellic, and just like other Grand Theft Auto 
 stories, you start off with nothing. You have to fight, steal and even kill just to survive in 
 Liberty City. Liberty City consists off three islands and just like previous GTA games you start 
 off in one island and you will have to play through mission to get to the next island and of course, 
 get further into the story. Each islands has different cars, looks, people and so on and so fourth. 
 Normally when you play GTA when you get further on in the game, all you'll want to do is get to 
 the last island just to see and get the new car and what not. In GTA 4, getting to the last island 
 wasn't really that worth it I thought. 
  There is a lot you can do in GTA 4, much like the previous games. Steal cars, bikes, fly helicopters 
 ride boats, rob shops, change cloths, buy weapons, have gun fights, go to strip club, play darts, 
 play pool, go on dates, watch TV and much more. But with all the things you can do with the game, 
 I personally feel that the game-play is over hyped. Why? Well as good as playing darts or pool 
 or even bowling may sound, there really not fun to play and not really that worth going all the 
 way to play. It's like they give you all this stuff to do in the game, and you'll probably do it 
 the first time and say cool, but why? Like watching TV, I find pointless. You can go on dates, 
 which again I found really pointless. You have a mobile phone by your side in GTA 4, but as cool 
 as that my sound it get annoying when your friend phone you up all the time to see if you want 
 to play bowling or play darts. You can go out and get drunk and watch Niko Bellic stumble and fall 
 all over the place as you try to control him, or you could go and drive while drunk to make it 
 more dramatic But the drunken fun doesn't really last long and is the sort of thing that is funny 
 to do only a few time. 
  GTA 4 has some annoying and sometimes really frustrating glitches. 
  The game changes sometimes 
 you turn the camera. Example, your walking down the street and you see a car you want. You run 
 up towards the car (Planning on stealing the it) when you accidentally press the rear view bottom 
 and the camera then changes to show you what is behind you. You release the bottom only to find 
 out the car you where running towards has vanished. But it's funny because it only does it when 
 you don't expect it. Same when you're driving. Your driving along and you see a car you want drive 
 past you. You do a U turn and the car as vanished. 
  Don't get me wrong the game-play is good (7/10 means good) and it is fun to play. But it's not 
 really much more than what we have already seen. 
  
  
  V - Sound Review  10/10
  
  Rockstar never go wrong with this category in GTA. The music in GTA 4 is fit for anyone with lots 
 of different radio stations. The voice acting is really really good and some of the speech dialog 
 is very funny. The sound effects are spot on as well.
  
  
  VI - Lifespan Review  8/10
  
  GTA has always been quite a big game. GTA 4 will probably take you about 30 maybe to complete. 
 There is replay value there but it just depends on you. 
  
  
  VII - My Final Thought Review  7/10
  
  OK GTA 4 was a good game. The graphics were good. The 
 game-play was good despite the annoying glitches. Awesome sound effect and great soundtrack. I 
 would not say GTA 4 is worth 10/10 and I would not recommend the game to everyone. I would not 
 say it's the best game ever nor would I say it's a must have. But I will say, it's a good game. 
 GTA 4 (To me) is much like the previous GTA's. After finishing the game you'll probably just spend 
 the rest of your time blowing **** up. Activating all the cheats and trying to stay alive as long 
 as you can on the highest wanted rating. Or playing GTA 4 online, which is new to the GTA series. 
 GTA 4 online is rather good. Play death match with other players or with your mates (Friends) online 
 and so on.
  The game is fun to play for the first few days or maybe even a few weeks. But the game does get 
 annoying at time and can be quite boring. The game is quite funny. It's like watching an adult 
 film that you're not sure if it's mean to be funny, or a serious film but you laugh anyway. If 
 you like violence, games where you can kill people for no reason and steal cars than GTA 4 is a 
 game you'll probably play awhile and love. If not, GTA 4 is not a bad idea if you borrowed from 
 a friend some time. 
  
  
  VIII - Overall Review  7.5/10 
  
  
  Overall, I give Grand Theft Auto 4. A 7.5/10. Good game. Nothing more. 
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethweg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I am a very difficult person to please; but with gta 4, it doesn't take much to impress me! The 
 game play is extremely fun, the story mode is a MASTERPIECE, and the graphics are amazing. This 
 in my opinion is the best video game of all time, "and I know and have played MANY great classic 
 games like Ocarina of Time and all the other gta games! BEST GAME EVER, STILL ADDICTED, HAVE HAD 
 THE GAME SINCE THE DAY IT WAS RELEASED! Get it! there is no going wrong when it comes to Grand 
 Theft Auto 4! I do not give in to any hypes, I judge everything on my own. I am my own person and 
 know-one can ever put any ideas in my head. THIS IS MINE AND ONLY MY REVEW AND THIS GAME COULD 
 NOT BE ANY BETTER. GET IT, LOVE IT, APPRECIATE IT AS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  If you've never palyed A Grand Theft Auto game before it's pretty much this, you go around doing 
 missions for money. You get to buy guns, houses, etc. But this one is differen't it has a great 
 story mode with plenty of missions and enough to keep you busy for atleast 30 hours of play in 
 order to complete the game. But that's just the story you'll probably go around waisting your time 
 killing people for fun. The guns are great such as the mp5 and etc. Also using your cell phone 
 is pretty neat instead of just tapping buttons for the cheats. The online play is pretty good since 
 this is the first time it actually had online. The game is just simple fun, like once you pick 
 it up you won't put it down. Driving around can be a pain though, going from mission to mission, 
 place to place can be a real drag and there are some small minor glitches but that's just about 
 it the game is an overall master piece. So head to your local video store and buy/rent Grand Theft 
 Auto IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX_-X-_Xx
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  An emotional gaming experience.
  
  Getting beyond the hype and the 10.0 that it somehow received you have a game that intrigues and 
 entertains but also infuriates. A game that can be best described screaming at your television 
 "WTF"!
  
  Upon putting this game into your system you have expectations to be satisfied not because of hype 
 but because of the previous titles. Unfortunately and sadly you will not, this game fails in many 
 ways that it is hard to even see why it entertains us and ends up leaving us with a question "why 
 did we spend money on this?"
  
  To breakdown this game you have to look at all the elements and try to do the comparing to games 
 in the series, however, most of us compare games to games that should not be compared, in this 
 reviewers opinions I will try to make all comparisons to the previous titles.
  
  - Graphics are a few steps up from the previous games but fall short of other games. The city and 
 cars have more details and look realistic. The lighting works perfectly and reflections are an 
 added thrill. Taking a heli-tour and looking at the city at different times of day is a must, this 
 vast city looks downright gorgeous from the sky. However the occasional graphical glitch happens 
 more often than not, whether cars and building disappear and reappear right before your eyes or 
 streets turn blue like you are driving on water, body parts going through objects, it seems like 
 a list of graphical errors would be just as long as the credits. These small inconveniences could 
 be tolerated if there were not as many and if they didn't occur as much as they did. 
  
  - New and improved targeting system is one of the main reasons why you will die. In a perfect GTA 
 world it would be the nice to have a targeting system that would lock-on to the enemies posing 
 the biggest threat. I know if I was being shot at and staring right at the person, he would be 
 on the top of my list to kill, however this targeting system and I do not share the same views/concerns, 
 attempting to target this threat I end up locking-on to some pedestrian walking down the street. 
 (It must have been the clothes he was wearing, Niko was jealous, I just know it) And let us not 
 forget that some enemies that you kill after using potentially the whole clip (invisible armor) , 
 do death animations and the targeting system being as advanced as it is will still lock-on even 
 though the enemy is dead. So those six guys that you got into a firefight with you can't just lock 
 on, shoot, lock on, shoot until they are all dead because you will end up locking back onto one 
 of the guys who is in animation mode. You can use the left analogue stick to switch between enemies 
 but this adds more aggravation then relieving it. So in many cases you will find yourself using 
 the free aim, and now the accuracy all depends on your individual coordination, which works better 
 if you can pull it off or if it did not take clips to maybe kill one person.
  
  - The artificial intelligence makes you laugh, cry, scream, break stuff and quit playing this game. 
 Driving a vehicle has the added benefits or being cut off by other cars for no reason. Usually 
 while coming up to a street light the car that just hit you switching into your lane cuts you back 
 off to turn at the light. A clearer picture of this is you are in the right lane a car from the 
 left lane switches lanes right in front of you causing you to break, possibly slamming in back 
 of him or into a wall, so he's now in the right lane and you in the left at a light, he will make 
 a left turn from the right lane in the middle of the intersection, which usually leads into you 
 crashing into something. Hailing a cab quite possibly is the only reason you stick with this game. 
 If you can make it to the cab, pedestrians do not have the right of way; get use to being run over 
 countless time and in the special occasions die during a mission. Now hailing a cab the taxi will 
 stop onto the sidewalk knocking over light polls, hitting people, oh and not to mention the cab 
 will drive almost a block down from where you were standing, so you have a whole block to run to 
 get into it (three dimensional frogger anyone?) .
  
  - The police could never be as annoying, infuriating in my wildest nightmares then they are in 
 this game. There is a circle and in this circle you have a wanted level, escape the circle and 
 after a couple seconds (10 or so) you no longer have a wanted level. This seems simple enough, 
 get out of the circle as fast as you can. However this circle is the worst part of this game by 
 far, I have quit playing this game, weeks at a time just because of this one game element. The 
 police spawn and spawn in weird areas, you could be out of the circle waiting on a beach for your 
 wanted stars to go away and a police car spawns right by you on the beach. Furthermore there was 
 an instance where I had a five star wanted level and hid down an alley behind boxes, on the radar 
 the cops were spawning all around me but they had no idea where I was, the stars were grayed out 
 meaning they could not see me , and were sayingI have lost him". I left the game on went to 
 work came back nine hours later and still had my wanted level. Now driving from the police is even 
 more annoying because they are all sharp shooters, full health and armor makes no difference going 
 full speed in a banshee, because a cop coming opposite direction one shot you are dead.
  
  - Driving is new and in my opinion improved you use both the analogue sticks to turn and change 
 the camera angle and use R2 and L2 to use gas and break. However the new physics of the cars is 
 worse than ever. You will be going very slow to make a turn you either have to use the emergency 
 break or all most come to a complete stop in order to make the turn without going onto the sidewalk. 
 Also cars have a tendency to flip going on a smooth straight-a-ways. What is even more irritating 
 about this is that many of the missions require you to do a lot of driving and at high speeds. 
 A thought comes to mind about the Rockstar employees while you are driving "have these people even 
 driven a car before!". One fun aspect of driving at high speeds when you hit something you go flying 
 out of the windshield same goes for computer drivers. Although this can be fun it also can be just 
 as annoying when you don't want to do it. With those pesky horrid AI drivers this can occur at 
 anytime, anywhere and leave you in utter disarray.
  
  - The story actually as depth in it, which sets it ahead of the previous titles. But of course 
 in this game when you have a good element the aspects of that element are dreadful. The missions 
 have not changed one bit, the bulk of the missions are chase/follow this person then kill them. 
 To add something to these chases they have added cinematic sequences. So the car you are chasing 
 will pass a truck full of logs and make the truck weave across all lanes losing its load. The downside 
 to these cinematic sequences is in many cases you cannot kill the person you are chasing until 
 a certain point in the chase usually after these cinematic sequences. So right in the beginning 
 you have a shot, so this chase will take all of three seconds, you shoot but your bullets have 
 no effect! A good way to find out whether you can kill these people is to shoot their back lights; 
 if the car takes damage then you can kill them, if it's immune then save your ammunition until 
 you pass one of these sequences. There are a few fun missions and characters that you encounter 
 but in the end you are left dissatisfied. There are choices now, in certain missions you are told 
 to go kill this person but after you kill all the bodyguards and chase them, you can either execute 
 them or let them live, it has no effect on the story and you will usually just kill them for the 
 inconvenience of chasing them down. If you do let them live they show up as a random character 
 on a street and you can do a mission for them which usually involves chasing and killing. 
  
  - The phone is another good element; you get phone calls and text messages that activate missions 
 which is fine. However the friends and girlfriends also call to set up activities which are annoying, 
 you ignore them and their like for you decreases. You can accept and then call them back to cancel 
 but that is a huge hassle. Also you dial cheats into your phone instead of the good old days of 
 the button combinations. So you bring up the phone which if you get shot your phone closes, to 
 dial a cheat, thankfully the cheat is saved under the cheat menu in the phone but of course it's 
 not the bottom menu but the second to last menu, which means when you are trying to activate a 
 cheat when you are not in a mission you will accidently hit the bottom menu which is sixaxis training, 
 and you get teleported to the airport. It does have a good aspect that if you fail a mission you 
 will get a text message to retry the mission, but of course it takes back to wherever you talked 
 to the person to initiate the mission not to the yellow triangle that starts the actual mission 
 (all that fun driving again) . You also can access and receive multiplayer invites.
  
  - Multiplayer should have been left out; it sounded like a good idea but failed. The modes are 
 interesting enough however massive lag ruins them. You are in a car and go to run down an opposing 
 team member and on your screen you succeed, however in actuality you missed him and the time spent 
 shooting at the ground is time enough for him to aim at your head. The level up system takes a 
 long time, and the time that this game is fun online may only get you to the level five out of 
 ten possible levels. 
  
  - Cheats are not only ruined by activating them through the phone but also by lack of innovation 
 and fun. There was nothing like typing in a cheat to make all pedestrians riot with samurai swords 
 or to activate one that blows up all vehicles or to drive around in a tank. Those are all things 
 of the past nope in GTA 4's cheats are the basic weapons, health, armor and some vehicles. Nothing 
 exciting just plain boring and unfortunately takes a way almost all of the replay value.
  
  - Obtaining 100% is again rehashed; the story takes you to 60% which is expected. And you have 
 50 stunt jumps which are also expected. The hidden packages are killing 200 pigeons which would 
 not be as annoying if you did not get a potential wanted level after killing one, a silencer would 
 have been a great idea that seems common sense to me but apparently not. You have to meet random 
 characters which should have been expected but the redundancy of story missions obliterates what 
 could have been fun. Assassin missions are also ruined by the story missions. Also you need to 
 play the in-game games such as pool, qub3d, darts and bowling. Usually when a company wants you 
 to do something they don't have you doing something that is half-done but in this case they must 
 not care. Pool has no physics a perfectly lined up shot won't go in just bounce around, and you 
 tend to do a trick to win. Qub3d is actually interesting I like it at the same time I don't, it 
 is like Tetris only instead of eliminating rows you eliminate same colors that you land to make 
 a Tetris shape. Darts is okay but leaves a lot to be desired. Bowling is outrageously bad and if 
 it wasn't for a trick that gives you an automatic strike you would not play it. You have to take 
 your friends out to every activity that they like to go to which you usually can be done if you 
 just accept their invites when they call you. Also by doing this you unlock their special ability 
 but these are so pointless you don't even know why they are in the game. Stealing and racing cars 
 are other aspects for the 100% and with the horrid driving you might not even want to go for 100%.
 
  
  That is this game summed up, reading my review may cause you to lose interest with this game (sorry 
 about that) but I assure you it can still be fun. There can always be more said about a game but 
 I try to only review on the main points that make/break a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_T-Rex
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto puts you in the shoes of Niko Bellic; a former soldier who is moving to Liberty 
 City under false pretenses of his cousin, Roman. Roman promises Niko a life of luxury but all Niko 
 gets is a life of pretty much ... Hell. As he is forced to protect his cousin from gangsters and 
 loan sharks before his name really gets known.
  
  The controlling of the cars in this game is terrible and for any other game, would be a real problem. 
 But, the missions in GTA IV are pathetically easy and repetitive. They are all basically chase 
 and kill. There is little variety in the missions though the fact the game is as fun as it is really 
 makes you forget this. The missions are all fun, but all something similar, making failing them 
 something you'd have to try to do. The games difficulty even not using cheats is something that 
 failed it.
  
  But, the story and the characters are compelling. The city is beautiful and there is always something 
 to do if you don't feel like doing missions. Free roam is as fun as every and simply running people 
 down is great. The gun aiming is quite easy when you get used to it and just shooting people dead 
 is funny to watch. Though, the lag is something you need to watch and there are a fair few glitches 
 that you need to watch out for aswell.
  
  One positive note about the game is also getting to choose who to kill etc. It reflects differently 
 each time you do it and that makes for replay value. Sometimes, you can get yourself involved with 
 one character and it actually becomes a hard choice, because most of the characters in the game 
 are so well presented that making the choice can be painful. But, that is the life of Nico Bellic.
 
  
  The game has alot of side quests which again, makes for something else to do if you don't feel 
 like playing the main quest. You meet that many contacts that you always have something to do throughout 
 the game until you eventually finish the game.
  
  But, overall, the game is a classic. Through and through. But, it is very easy and repetitive that 
 some players may opt to simply quit playing, making the game less compelling in the variety stakes 
 and that is unfortunate because it has a great protagonist. But, for me, I stuck it out despite 
 it's utter ease and I enjoyed it.
  
  8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl_W21
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Dissapointed ? slightly, It looks great but for a GTA series the fun has been sucked out, mini 
 games are good but not when some idiot rings you every 10 minutes to go do some crap. After you 
 finish the game their is really nothing to do but admire the graphics. San Andreas, fly a plane 
 into a really tall mountain jump out parachute, find a quad, speed through miles of forrest, get 
 your jetpack into an army base, get chased by tanks blow crap up and play some blackjack. Storyline 
 ain't to good either and nothing much to spend your money on, no houses or anything to buy just 
 weapons. The game is a must have but Gamespot a 10 ? really, 9 is about right, maybe 8.7 if that 
 was possible. The main story you could do in about 5 hours but other stuff is chucked in like with 
 that drug dealer up in Bohan, it's as if you do her missions before some one else that has a part 
 of main story calls you up, like you are being sidetracked from main story just to throw a couple 
 of extra hours in their to give you value for money, I am glad I did not trade San Andreas in since 
 a new one came out, I still have a lot of fun with that. On the upside Online mode is really fun 
 I do enjoy Freemode and GTA Race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  so yeah , i played all gta games , from 1 to san andreas to finally libtery city , i gotta tell 
 u , gta has lost its charm , if u liked san andreas with its fun story , or vice city with its 
 charming characters , ull seriously hate what libetry city has to offer , u play as niko bellic, 
 wich is an ok guy , but the probleme is that the city itself aint that memorable , not like san 
 andreas or vice city where u can go to the destination without even looking at the map , its just 
 not that charming , and the characters u encounter are worse than anything i have ever seen , except 
 maybe niko's cousin, but the other cast is seriously forgettable , i was playin this mission then 
 that guy came to me and asked me about this other guy wich u were suppose to be doing some missions 
 for him but i totally forgot him , also , the missions are hella repetetive , kill that , transport 
 that , protect him / her.
  Now , im not sayin there hasnt been any improvemnt , now u can call a cab , ride one , even take 
 the passenger seat , also u can call the cops , and also the graphics are georgeous , if only they 
 had made a better story , some memorable cast or smthin , this would be a winner , but , the story 
 leans on the noir side rather than the comedy side, so , if any1 lookin for some fun gta playing 
 with cool story , im sorry , but u better of with san andreas, 3/4 my friends who bought this game 
 havent even finished it, and those who finished it (just me and a dude from psn) were seriously 
 pissed , even the multiplayer isnt that good , so pleeaseee dont do the same mistake i did and 
 just RENT it .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ewangotkool
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  I think Grand theft auto 4 is the best game ever because the story line is great and the graffics 
 are ok and its really funny when you die. Multiplayer on the game is the best multiplayer ever 
 because there alot of diffrent stuff to do like deathmatch and mafia work and you can chosse diffrent 
 weapons and locations and about the story line i think its the best of every grand theft auto game 
 ever because you can choose the fate of some people and the explosion are amazing and now you can 
 get trophies for the game and im geting abit adictied to geting all of the and i've started the 
 game again from the begining because im trying to get all the trophies. The game is not to hard 
 and the story is fairly long and as i just said the story is really good. If you want to buy this 
 game and say do it and you defenetly wont be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was in the for front of all next-gen console owners since the day it was announced, 
 the years of waiting build a hype that no other game to date could possibly match, the latest entry 
 of the famous sandbox game has finally arrived, and it delivers more than what we expected.
  
  Story: Nico Beleck, having fought and survived a brutal civil war back in his home land, migrated 
 to a land where it's said that many opportunities flow by and in this land Nico hopes to begin 
 a brand new life of fortune and never ending happiness, this land is called America.
  Nico now finds himself in Liberty City, where he meats his cosine Roman Beleck.
  Roman claimed 
 to own a large mansion with great fortune thanks to the massive opportunities in Liberty City, 
 however once they arrived Niku discovers that Roman was far from wealthy, Roman is not only over 
 dept but does not even seem remotely close to getting wealth, and probably won't any time soon.
 
  Having decided to stay in America Niku decided to seek out these so called "opportunities" and 
 hopes to make a satisfying living.
  
  Game design: GTA IV is a completely new chapter in the GTA series and is set in a new Liberty city. 
 
  The world in GTA IV is huge as you would expect. The game truly demonstrates what the next gen-consoles 
 can do, graphics are incredibly detailed, people and the environment would react in completely 
 realistic way and looks absolutely mind blowing.
  The past games suffered frame rate issues and with improved graphics proved difficulty for their 
 respective platforms to handle in an acceptable speed, here in GTA VI there are almost (and I mean 
 99%) no frame rate slow down! Of course this might be because I played it on the PS3 and don't 
 really know if the X360 version suffers slow down or not, the important issue is expect a smooth 
 experience game play with almost no interruption! That's right! You can even enter buildings without 
 having to wait for a loading screen! You just simply open the door and that's that! Of course when 
 begging and ending missions there will be loading screens, but they last for a mere 5 second each.
 
  The main quest takes around 30 hours to complete, however side quest will take a long time to 
 complete, beefing the game over 100 hours, they are either set side quests given to you during 
 the story or you could randomly meet people in the streets and you will trigger more missions and 
 more stories.
  There is so much to do in GTA IV and every single task is unique in its own right and are, most 
 importantly, fun to do, and if you ever get lost in the game then you can always go to an internet 
 caf and check out what you kind find, that's right there is even an internet caf in the game 
 with many websites, all amusing to look at.
  Traditionally you will be stealing vehicles from people and it's a bit challenging this time around, 
 since people won't just stop the car to let you steal them or won't watch you drive away with them 
 either, so its wise to pick a good time rob someone or the police can get on your nerves.
  The world is huge so vehicle is vital for travel, however if you don't feel driving a long distance 
 you can always call a cab and warp to any spot you want to go to in liberty city.
  
  A major addition to the GTA series is online multiplayer. 
  You can participate in various battles 
 and death matches with players around the world, the battlefield? LIBERTY CITY ITSELF! That's right! 
 The entire city is your play ground, there are NPCs all around and the frame rate is as smooth 
 as the single player campaign, up to 16 players can join and it's an absolute blast to play! 
 
  You can even set up a private network where only your friends may join, other modes and the fact 
 that PSN is for free makes playing online a definite must and everyone WILL enjoy it, guaranteed!
 
  
  Game play: Many changes had to be made in order to further comfort the controls, therefore default 
 controls have completely changed, it may feel weird at first, however you will quickly adapt to 
 it and will learn that the controls changed for the best.
  As Nico you will be able to walk, sprint, run, jump and climb, however these skills cannot be improved 
 as the development system from San Andreas has been removed, but that won't matter since you will 
 always get to where you want to go with your current abilities.
  In the past the game suffered from flawed controls, mainly in the combat department, however control 
 schemes for weapons have been mastered and are absolutely easy to use.
  You can lock-on to enemies and can slightly alter the target to for improved damage; this allows 
 you to focus on enemies without ever losing site of them.
  A new feature is the cover system, Nico can take cover on every object there is and can fire at 
 enemies from there, it sounds complicated but it's very easy (much easier than Metal Gear Solid 
 cover control schemes) .
  In the past while performing drive-bys on vehicles it was frustrating because you could only shoot 
 side ways or have to focus the camera at sides, leaving you completely blind to where you are going, 
 here you can aim at any direction you want using the stick and will always have a good perspective.
 
  If the improved control scheme isn't enough to impress, another welcoming feature would be the 
 use of a mobile phone.
  You will gain a mobile phone and it will essentially act as your manager, you can call people and 
 start amusing social activities (such as Bowling or Pool amongst many other activities) to improve 
 friendship level, check at what times you have to do what or can even restart failed missions.
 
  
  Music: Do I have to say more? There are over 10 radio stations each with over 10 songs, you will 
 definitely find a new favourite tune and will find yourself sitting in your vehicle just listening 
 to the music.
  Voice casts are absolutely brilliant, dialogues are well written, creative and very funny, you 
 will truly find yourself sunk in the game's story.
  
  GTA IV is clearly a fresh new start for the series and managed to deliver beyond expectations, 
 there is so much to the game ranting about a few flaws would be pointless, but regardless they 
 still have to be mentioned.
  While the world is huge it's smaller than San Andreas.
  While it's nice you can restart missions you will still start all over from the beginning of the 
 mission, that means if you had to endure a long car chase mission and just died near the end you 
 will have to start all over from the beginning (and if weapons and armor were used you won't start 
 with new sets, leaving you to drive all the way to the shop to buy new ammo) which is quite a punishment.
 
  Also while the Online is sweet there are occasional connection errors and you will find your friend 
 logging in again, but that really depends on how strong your server is.
  Vehicle handling isn't like Need for Speed, some vehicles (especially bikes) can be difficult to 
 handle because cars always tend to slide too much, making sharp turns difficult to perform, however 
 only some vehicles have that problem, there are vehicles that are much easier to handle.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is the greatest game yet and is just the start of the GTA series' loop to the 
 next generation, after playing this I just thought "how would the San Andreas version of GTA IV 
 handle itself on the next generation?" I shiver just at the thought.
  
  With that said Grand Theft Auto IV is a must buy for PS3 and X360 owners and will definitely require 
 lots of time to finish, so a rental is not an option.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  In grand theft auto IV there missions are kind of hard because some they make you do you mostly 
 die unless if you have armour if you have armour you have extra life and you wont die so fast. 
 and you need good guns that shoot fast to kill people easily. one of the missions you have to kill 
 so much polices and after you have to get out of the apartment your on 3 police starsand you have 
 to evade them fast. Ther another mission when they make you use a sniper rifle and you have to 
 protect patrick from dying by alot of gang members. to beat this missions keep your gun next to 
 patrick so that no one sneaks up on him and kill him aafter you kill all the gang members you have 
 to kill the guy who is trying to get away in a van and you have to shoot the vans front mirror 
 to kill and then you past. when you get to the 2nd city. the missions get harder and your gonna 
 have to start getting armourso you dont die quick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  When I first heard the announcement to GTA IV I personally thought to myself 'it is going to be 
 the best GTA and definitely the game of the year'. I bought a copy of it and thought it was absolutely 
 staggering but then I started to find out all of the problems and issues about the game. One of 
 them was that Rockstar Games went over the top with the realism and took away the 'arcady' feel 
 to GTA IV. 
  They took out the entire fun weapons such as the knuckle-dusters, katana, minigun, flamethrower, 
 machete, and lots more. Rockstar also completely wiped out the fun cheats and the OTT violence, 
 which I thought were one of the main factors to make a decent GTA. In the game there is hardly 
 any cheats to mess around with and it is just the ordinary-least important ones but the one was 
 very disappointed not seeing was the never wanted cheat because at time I feel like walking down 
 the street mowing people down with gunfire without anyone getting in your way which is why I have 
 to go online in order to do that, which I hated. Another thing that made the game incredibly easy 
 was the cover system, imagine yourself surrounded by hostiles or police, you take cover behind 
 a wall and all you have to do is pop up and shoot and take hardly any damage which made the hardest 
 missions incredibly easy.
  
  The new-improved Liberty City is very well designed and looks stunning. I think it was very well 
 spaced out and very big that it does take time to get used to it and know where you are going, 
 so that is definitely an improvement to the series. The buildings and the textures are very well 
 designed and the draw distance is very impressive and the water graphics are top notch. Also all 
 of the sights and places to look at where somewhat very amusing as all of the major attractions 
 had the mick taken out of them like the statue of happiness holding a cup of coffee with a smiley 
 face.
  
  The story on the GTA IV was (hands down) the easiest out of all the GTA's put together. I heard 
 the announcements that it would be challenging and would roughly be about 30+ hours; well I completed 
 it (surprisingly enough) less than 18 hours. However, I have to admit I bloody enjoyed it! I thought 
 it was well written, it wasn't all over the place and just enjoyable. The main character Niko is 
 by far my favourite character out of all the video games I have ever played. He is a character 
 that you can't hate. With Niko he shows that he has a good side unlike all of the other GTA characters 
 they are either hateful, whiney, wimps or just someone you wouldn't care for. Niko also has a great 
 personality as well and is a very interesting character, which made the story enjoyable. 
  The cutscenes on the other hand is well directed and designed, it just amazed me how they moved 
 as if they were real people and they responded very well to the dialog and the environment and 
 was very amusing.
  The online on the other hand (I think) is the reason why GTA got high scores in reviews as there 
 is just so much to do as Rockstar have given you 15 different game modes to chose from which is 
 definitely a thumbs up, and it is just bloody fun! You can do free roam, which is my favourite 
 as it is just funny as hell, and makes you play it for hours. 
  
  Last off all, the physics and the animations. All I can say is that it is perfect, the realism 
 in the collisions is absolutely impressive with all of the dents and scratches in any part of the 
 car, unlike the previous GTA's you crash a car, all that comes out is a dent and smoke (nothing 
 interesting) but lots of different parts of the vehicle falls off, the windows smash and scatter 
 over the road and if you crash at full speed you fly out the windscreen. Another thing is that 
 when you ran over a pedestrian on San Andreas your vehicle either flipped over or slowed down by 
 like 50 mph, but in GTA IV when you splatter a peddy blood squirts on the car and the go flying 
 depending on your speed. The animations is very realistic but very annoying at times, because just 
 imagine you are wanted by the police, they are right behind you and you either run upstairs or 
 downstairs but Niko slows down A LOT when moving down which means you get gunned down very easily 
 which just p****d me off. 
  
  Overall I think GTA IV is a very good game but is quite disappointing due to the fact that it doesn't 
 have the same amusement as the previous GTA's had and the fact that there isn't many things to 
 do around the city compared to San Andreas like the shops etc but this is a game worth buying. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzzfuzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV... hm where do I start?
  
  How bout the first in game curves on sidewalks? Shooting limbs actually affects NPCs in the game? 
 Inventive and huge online gameplay that will give you memories of all your friends jumping off 
 the empire state building?
  
  You tell me, but every element of this game just works! It has a lot of missions to have difficult/fun 
 with and such a big open world of city life, it literally just makes you feel like a foreigner 
 in New York! Not only is the story just fun to play with, there are many easter eggs like the *cough 
 cough* statue of happiness =]
  
  only prob i have with the game, which you wont have to worry about TOO MUCH, since it is temporary, 
 i just got bored with waiting for the missions to pop up over time because it just feels like it 
 takes reallllly long for someone to call you nd tell you whats up
  
  much like real life...
  
  ... BUY IT, don't waste your money on renting it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Indeed, I've always talked down about Grand Theft Auto; and I still to this day believe GTA3 will 
 always be the pinnacle of what the game can be.
  
  However; when I got a PS3; I made sure to pick up this title mainly because of the hype revolving 
 around it.
  
  Visually the game had me in awe; being the first PS3 game I played, it'd do that to anyone really. 
 The improved physics and use of the rag-doll system really does put a good improvement on the previous 
 installments of the game; who always used scripted deaths and falling. The dings, dents; and destruction 
 of cars also finally got a much needed improvement; ranging from blood smeared from people run 
 down, to tires popping from burn outs.
  
  The lightning and environment textures and details are excellent; giving Liberty City a Next-Gen 
 face lift; winding roads and freeways make it fun to drive around the well made city. 
  
  Now story wise; Niko immigrating for abroad and almost instantly taking up a new life of crime 
 after trying to leave an old life of crime, was a bit...... stupid? I'm probably the only one who 
 thinks that, but still; he left his homeland for two reasons, leave bad things behind and to find 
 someone.. to kill them.
  Missions like before will help the story progress and reveal more of the other character's stories, 
 and loyalties, but some things could've been left out, while other things not included, should've 
 been.
  
  The revamped combat/shooting system is a decent improvement from the past games, but it fails horribly 
 due to the automatic targeting needing to be relied upon. If you're in a crowded area and being 
 shot by a single person; it's sometimes hard to zero in on that person, though you can always dive 
 for cover and try to target them from that position. And yes you can manually target people, but 
 the game obviously isn't made for that.
  
  Car selection is the same as always, with new cars appearing as you progress through the game; 
 and the usual glitches of seeing a lot of the same car you're driving. 
  
  In the end, GTA4 should be in everyone's PS3 library; everyone should try it, but not everyone 
 will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  First thing you will notice is that there is about 3GB worth of game data (hey at least it doesnt 
 take as long as DMC4) that has to download to your system before you get going. Another thing you 
 will notice is that it autoloads and yes you have to watch those cut scenes every single time you 
 play. The game starts off on a boat making its way to Liberty City, "land of oppurtunity". You, 
 Niko Bellic, a russian immigrant are on this boat having left home to try and make a new life and 
 get away from your past. After a few seconds of waiting, your slick talking, gambling addicted 
 cousin Roman shows up but he is to drunk to drive so you drive home and thus get your first feel 
 for driving in GTA4. The driving mechanics from a technical standpoint are right on, the physics 
 on the cars and the damage they can sustain are all spot on though brakes are well for most vehicles 
 except the most expensive ok at best. You will notice that you are now driving with the triggers 
 which takes a little getting used to but not a big deal.
  
  GTA4 is a much darker game than either of its most recent predecessors Vice City or San Andreas. 
 I mean in Vice City and San Andreas you could pretty much say that the goal was to get rich and 
 take over everything, and while that is a component of this one you don't feel like its the main 
 thing interestingly. You will notice that the game develops a lot slower than any of the others, 
 by that I mean the story arcs. While I am thinking of it, man the story arcs are cool because you 
 now have choices that you never had in GTA before. You have the opportunity to choose if you whack 
 certain people and based on your choices the story arc diverges again, now its not all just based 
 on which missions you do first. But back on track, you have a lot more side missions and you accumulate 
 money much slower, well at least in the beginning. But that changes later.
  
  Another new twist is your cellphone which is upgraded throughout the game. This allows you to interact 
 with characters you have met during the game and not only get jobs from them but actually build 
 friendships with them that will either help you or hurt you in the game. For instance, you will 
 meet a Rasta named Little Jacob rather early in the game and do things or you may not. Depending 
 on the order you do things, he will come along with you to have your back in certain situations. 
 Same as with the rest of the characters, you will call them and suggest things to do and they will 
 call you. Every choice you make affects the relationship, if someone calls and wants to go bowling 
 and you say no that affects your friendship, you say no three times in a row and well you get the 
 picture. Another thing is that the characters do remember you, what you do, girls will remember 
 clothes you wear and cars you drive and make comments on them each time you see them. So to a degree 
 its a lot like real life you have to balance your time and take care of your friendships, and watch 
 your friends too. I learned the hard way what dealing with the wrong people will do and now at 
 this point in the game I am paying for it (I knew they couldn't be trusted, darn Feds) .
  
  GTA4 introduces and all new cover system similar to what you see in Uncharted and the like. I like 
 the cover system, and you definitely need it in some battles but it is not as polished as some 
 of the others I have seen. Specifically, the fluidity with which you enter and exit cover. If you 
 are in a doorway, you can spin across from one side to the other to avoid fire but coming out of 
 cover is less than fluid. Of course the graphics are gorgeous, but in a rugged kind of way.
  
  In the end Grand Theft Auto 4 is one heck of way to start off the stream of big titles set 
 to be released this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is without a doubt one of the absolute greatest video games I've ever played. 
 It has all the elements needed to make an outstanding game: great story, great graphics, great 
 dialogue, great music, and superb playability/value, not to mention a great online multiplayer. 
 The main storyline itself would take 20-40 hours to complete; add all the side-missions and exploration 
 you got yourself a game to last all summer long. The multiplayer is, to me, one of the better features 
 of the game as you can play w/ or against your friends online. Deathmatch, racing, or just exploring 
 the huge Liberty City. 
  
  Overall, I can only think of a few video games in my generation that are worthy of the title "Perfect" 
 and Grand Theft Auto IV is quite clearly one of them.
  
  I give this game a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 981Master
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Well i got this game a couple months after release and was very excited to start playing it as 
 i have read alot of good reviews. First impressions were that the game was totaly kick ass and 
 everything you did was sweet. About 10-15 hours into the game i was starting to find missions repititve 
 and they kinda got boring. Same formula . .Go there, kill them, drive off.
  
  Graphics, are one of the best things about the game and they really look amazing at times. There 
 is at times alot of pop in but u mostly dont notice it.
  
  Sound is good everywhere except for the radio stations. The radio stations arent any where as good 
 as Vice city or San Andreas ones. There arent many songs that you can just enjoy listening to when 
 cruising around. 
  
  Multiplayer is good but there is definatley better around. Its just good to play when singleplayer 
 gets old.
  
  My overall impresions are mixed with this one. GTA4 is definatley worthy of a rental or a cheep 
 buy off trademe and it is mostly an enjoyable game but i guess your going to have to play it to 
 decide for yourself. An 8.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss_gil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 is, well... A good game. But, its definitely not perfect. First off the ending 
 is terrible, although it does have multiple endings both are very disappointing. Secondly the missions 
 are very repetitive, drive somewhere, shot and kill someone/people, then drive away from the mentally 
 challenged police. And finally your not going to have any "wow" moments like you did in san Andrea's 
 everything in this game is pretty boring. With that said the game is still very fun you can still 
 kill hookers for a refund, run over homeless people, and cause mayhem. The water looks great but 
 you cant dive anymore. And unfortunately the radio is pretty bad. Niko is a pretty fun character 
 you will laugh every time he curses with his funny eastern European accent.
  
  Its a fun game but don't be disappointed if its not what you expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun playing this game, but not as much as with previous installments. First with 
 the negatives... there really isn't as much stuff to do as one might imagine. I was dissapointed 
 of not having as much freedom as in San Andreas. THe graphics were double sided. The negative half 
 was that the draw distance is a bit shallow and the game isn't that colorful. THe colors are kind 
 of grey and nothing stands out, which is a problem I see in many console games. The story also 
 didn't draw me in as much as with previous installment. On the high side... everything else was 
 pretty much perfect. Despite the colors, the graphics were really realistic and extremely detailed. 
 The gun fights, driving, ect. are now much more realistic and more fun than with previous GTA games. 
 Overall, I really liked the more realistic approach to the game. The biggest great thing about 
 the game are the little things and details that made it an amazing experience. More realistic crash 
 models on cars, cool explosions, and rag doll physics made killing a destruction more fun. The 
 thing that gave me a big kick was that when I was going around and stabbing people in Hove Beach, 
 the pedestrians began running around and yelling swears in Russian. It was hilarious to see them 
 swear and panic in another language. Although I didn; t like the story too much, I liked how they 
 decided to make it about an Eastern Eauropean this time. Unfortunately after playing through it, 
 I didn; t find much else to do in it and sold it, something that I sometimes regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't say it deserved a 10, but it should be close. Going out with your friends getting, drunk, 
 playing pool, and playing darts can be fun. You can also go to strip joints and get lap dances 
 etc but I wouldn't like that cause I'm a female lol. 
  
  Its hard to put my finger on it, but the city seems so alive, each person seems different and if 
 you bump into them they will all say different stuff, After playing Grand Thef Auto 4 it puts San 
 Andreas to shame. Its like going from the NES to Gamecube graphics, thats how much the graphics 
 have improved on grand thef auto 4. San Andreas was great but it doesn't hold a candle to GTAIV.
 
  
  Gameplay~ the gun controls have really improved in the game now you can hide behind walls and shoot 
 people, it just gives it a more adrenlling rush this time, and more of a real feeling.
  
  Only bad thing is the missions can be somewhat repentiave like go and shoot this guy for somebody, 
 but honestly I can say most ever mission in the game is fun
  
  
  The vehicles I don't know quite how to describe it but it seems to have more of a pull to it, and 
 seems more better than other grand thef auto games in driving.
  
  After the game is over you can kill 200 flying rats, collect stevies cars and alot more stuff etc. 
 Pretty soon this game will have trophies and it will be worth doing this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Another_Brick
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Graphics (8.5) : GTAIV is certainly not a mind blowing game, especially during general game-play, 
 but it does look quite good. Liberty City, looks amazing and feels extremely realistic. Personally, 
 I don't feel the game has advanced much graphically since San Andreas. Cut-scenes are pretty nice 
 and the visuals feel very cinematic.
  
  Story (9.7) : GTAIV has a great story, probably the best of the series. GTAIV is a game, that if 
 for nothing else, you play for the story. There is a lot of stuff here, and in order to complete 
 the story, you'll have to put in hundreds of hours of game-play. Missions are repetitive (i. e.) 
 kill someone, collect something, buy something, meet someone, etc. but are still fun to play through. 
 The game has an amazing sandbox environment and is great for just doing nothing, when you don't 
 want to get involved in the story.
  
  Sound (10) : Voice-over's are very well done and sound is the best part of this game. An amazing 
 licensed soundtrack really adds to the game-play. Sounds in general are very realistic but don't 
 sound too far off from other GTA games.
  
  Game-play (9.7) : GTA has used the same basic formula for ever, and it works very well. This game 
 is very, very open and you can do basically ANYTHING. The game is easily at least 80hrs. long and 
 even more, if you are a completionist, online play adds to the replayablity, though GTAIV in general, 
 is a game you may not play through more than twice.
  
  Overall (9/10) : GTA4 has one major issuethe game is extremely overrated. Along with other minor 
 details such as; average graphics and slightly repetitive game-play. GTAIV hardly lives up to its 
 hype and that is really the big blow to an otherwise great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle341
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  the good: new cover system, good multiplayer, funny tv and radio shows, good story, easier then 
 other gta games, autolock is usefull while shooting, your decisions will affect the game's ending
 
  
  the bad: missions are repetetive, easier then other gta games (depends how defficult u would like 
 it to be) , shorter then other gta games (toke me like 30 hours to beat it) , bad frame rate, less 
 cheats then in san andreas (only bad if u use cheats.. u probably wont even have to use them though... realy 
 not that challanging) , less customization options (no tatoo's or hair dressers)
  
  this is a great game I recomend u to buy.. though it could have been much better if they would have 
 added more customization options made some of the missions a little harder and fixed the bad framerate.. also-they 
 removed some of the side missions (like taxi driver missions and ambulance missions) another good 
 thing they added to the game was the cell phone.. really makes the game more realistic.. also the 
 in-game internet is cool and u get funny emails.
  
  I recomend u to get this game... it's a really good game.. though lower your expectations a bit.. it's 
 still a great game... but it's not perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatslick911
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Alright, this is an amazing game don't get me wrong but there's something about it that I can't 
 point my finger on. Its not better than San Andreas. 
  The game looks great, plays very well but for me I didn't have the lasting appeal even though the 
 story is endless and the addition of online play.
  The only mode I thought was any fun online was racing, I think the problem with online is that 
 the should've made smaller versions of maps and had teams of people, maybe even clan wars. The 
 racing was very fun and sometimes forgot that it was GTA.
  Offline I really don't even feel the need to finish the game. I can't get into the character or 
 Nicko, who I think is the worse of the 3 main characters in the franchise. New York was already 
 made in the 1st game, I wish they used a different enviornment.
  If you can get past my nit picky flaws its an amazing game but also an overrated game.
  
  Graphics: 
 9/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Presentation: 9/10
  Replay Value: 8.5/10
  
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  the first thing i noticed between the 360 and ps3 is the lighting ,, the graphics are the same 
 as far as crashing and destroying your vehicle , explosions etc but when your driving at night 
 oh what a pain it is , no matter how bright you put it ,, its just dark and dull , 6. o for that 
 
  
  the story is again as from my 360 review it is a bit repetitive, still has the story of a gta game 
 has had, 
  but again it is no where like san andreas or saints row
  it is anoying when you get those calls and have to go to them right away
  
  also they made 
 it easier they pointed in the direction of where you need to go , i can do that my self thanks 
 any way rockstar, 7.0 
  
  replay value sound etc\
  \
  the game has the same modes as the 360 version ,, the sound track is the same as the 360 version 
 let me sum it up its sound track isnt the best of the gtas in fact its the worst of them , , only 
 2 good songs ,,, depending on your taste you like rap and r and b there isnt much here for you
 
  
  same goes for rock ,, its all electro type music at the best ,, , 7.0 
  
  the multiplayer is great it has a free roam which makes it even better, aside the deathmatch racing 
 and other various modes whic are also fun to play , online for 1-16 players a bummer is no split 
 screen as usual , 
  7.5 
  
  the good
  awsome multiplayer , great controls except for in the helicotpter, but still good , , ok story 
 ,, , and great graphics if you get past that night driving , 
  
  the bad
  the story is a bit repetitive lack of good song talent 
  the night graphics in this version makes 
 it impossible to see much ,, even at its highest settings , a mixed bowl of reactions to this game 
 all around 6.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJMorpheme
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Disbelief, rage, denial. Many were the emotions running though my brain when I read that GTA 4 
 had been delayed for 6 months. I, along with many other gamers, had been waiting for so long to 
 get out hands on this game. Hence the expectations were very high when the game was finally released 
 in May 2008. So, did it meet the expectations???
  
  Well, I would have to say yes. Rockstar delivered again. GTA 4 is one of the best games of all 
 times and deserves to occupy top spot of sales lists across the world for a long time to come. 
 GTA sold an amazing 3.6 million copies on its first day of release which is amazing considering 
 its 18 certificate rating. 
  
  The rating is probably justified, it's not a game for kids but any adult should be able to play 
 it if they want to. Unfortunately, certain narrow minded people disagree and this resulted in watered 
 down, censored versions being released in New Zealand and Australia. Oh well, what can you do? 
 These old farts will never understand.
  
  Anyway, the game itself is a masterpiece. The graphics and visuals are stunningly beautiful and 
 Rockstar have managed to create a living, breathing and totally recognisable virtual New York City, 
 oops sorry, I mean Liberty City. 
  
  Again the soundtrack comes in form of different radio stations that blend in well and help create 
 a great atmosphere. My personal favourite is Vladivostok FM which plays Easter European tunes. 
 
  
  The controls are much improved compared to previous GTA games but it is the game play that was 
 always the main attraction of the GTA games. The free-roaming vast world open to explore makes 
 the game very good value for money. The single player mode will take between 10 and 50 hours depending 
 on how much of the extra missions and missions you decide to do. 
  
  With the addition of online play GTA 4 will last for months and it makes the game a must have for 
 any serious gamer. 
  
  Buy this game, you won't regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigman01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4
  
  Pros:
  Beautiful graphics
  Vast exploration
  Entertaining multi player
  Captivating story
  Entertaining multi player
  Fun television shows 
 and music
  Cons:
  Minor tweaks with graphics
  AI tends to wander off during missions but not often
  
  The Grand Theft Auto franchise is a 
 trademark across the world, and an astonishing number of gamers are aware of its existence. GTA 
 has been around for almost 20 years and has brought joy to many people with its extreme violence 
 and great story lines. Enough said about the other GTA games from Vice City to San Andreas, it 
 works to improve and invoke a unique genre of gaming. As for Grand Theft Auto 4 it has a brand 
 new meaning to game violence... which of course is a fantastic thing for video games. This is unless 
 it offense people who don't even bother to play. With so many fans that Rock star can't seem to 
 handle it was inevitable for them to make this game.
  
  Through out the game from its astonishing story line to its always-amusing free play, GTA4 has 
 it all. The graphics for one thing blew the minds of gamers and made the experience more life like. 
 San Andres was also a good game but the story didn't feel as moving and powerful as this new installment 
 in the series. Every bit of detail from facial texture to the very explosions them selves have 
 a unique and realistic view to them. The story is witty and becomes in depth as gamers go along. 
 But what makes the story even more fantastic is the ability to make certain decisions along the 
 game and change the story. This is new to the GTA experience and makes it a more unique game in 
 itself.
  
  Niko Bellic, an immigrant from Russia, moves to America after leaving the army to live with his 
 cousin Roman, and find work. Niko is then compelled to work for one of the many factions in Liberty 
 City shortly after arriving, when he learns that his cousin has some potentially fatal gambling 
 debts. Niko's military experience makes him a useful freelancer for employers in the business of 
 killing each other, and though his reluctance to carry out their orders is often apparent, he does 
 whatever is asked of him in the hope that completing missions for other people will ultimately 
 give him the means to complete his own. Niko doesn't have to do everything that is asked of him. 
 This is where decision-making comes into play. As you play through his story, you'll be presented 
 with decisions that afford you the option of doing what you think is right rather than blindly 
 following instructions. You don't necessarily have to kill a target if he or she promises to disappear, 
 but you have to think a pone the risks involved of your employer finding out against the possibility 
 that the person whose life you spare might prove useful later in the game, or even have work for 
 you in the form of bonus missions. But decision you make has consequences, and you'll likely want 
 to play through the game at least twice to see how the alternatives unfold.
  
  Sadly the game only has a 30-hour story, but at least there are tons of side missions that counter 
 act the quick playing time. The majority of the story missions consists you with making deliveries 
 and/or killing people, and play out in much the same way as those in previous games. With this 
 in mind, most of the missions are a lot easier now, partly because Niko is a more agile and efficient 
 killer than any of his GTA predecessors, and partly because the LCPD seems to not care as much 
 for immigrants gunning down undesirable men in the city. Some of the more imaginative missions 
 sprinkled throughout the story include a kidnapping, a bank heist, and a job interview. The cinematic 
 cut scenes associated with story missions are superbly presented and are the sequences in which 
 the characters really shine. Without exception, the characters you encounter benefit from bravura 
 animation, superb voice work, and beautifully expressive faces. They're not always so extraordinary 
 when they join you on a mission and refuse to do what they're supposed to (for example, not following 
 you on an escort mission, or failing to negotiate a doorway) . Nevertheless, these problems are 
 a minority and far between, and they're made less painful by the new "replay mission" option that 
 you're presented with whenever you fail.
  
  Entertainment in the game has improved also. The soundtrack for the game is superior compared to 
 the soundtracks of previous games. For one are actually known through today's generation. So gamers 
 of today are more in tune with the choice of music, and it comes with more variety then before. 
 The game also has television, this has become quite comical and witty when u wants to take a break 
 and just want to watch one of the arbitrary yet strangely entertaining T. V. shows. The world of 
 GTA has little mini games like bowling, pool, and darts, which is also a delightful thing to try 
 when you want to take a break.
  
  Multi player in GTA4 is quite exigent and enjoyable. It takes time for people to get in the mind 
 set to become a fair player but if your playing one of the many game modes you can find what you're 
 good at and what you find more entertaining. Multi player consists of death match, team death match, 
 racing, death racing, turf wars, free play, and many more. Another thing that makes the multi player 
 unique is that 1 game can have 16 players and let them loose amongst the entire city to reek havoc. 
 One of the things that are found a bit tedious is the rate of death, players generally die fairly 
 quickly and are then found frustrated. Besides that the multi player is relatively fulfilling.
 
  
  With all of this in mind you have to agree that the game is just flat out a great sequel to an 
 already fantastic and well-known series. If you don't have this game then you are highly recommend 
 to get this game and exploring the world of GTA4 for your self. It even has so many Easter eggs 
 to adventure for, which leave players wanting more and giving more playing time and exploration. 
 Rock star has definitely left a new mark in gaming once again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linyoa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  ok, where to begin. I wouldnt call this game perfect, but it is deffinantley addictive and increadably 
 fun. I recently got this game, and ive played no other game (for the past two weeks) since I got 
 this game. I even got a little big planet beta key, which I havent bothered to use yet.
  but as for the review, I dont have much time, so ill begin with the bad stuff:
  instances are 
 few and far in between, but the cover system can some times act a little wierdly.
  radio station arent all there cracked up to be (although We know the Truth WNTT is so funny)
 
  No custom music! IF theres any game I want custom music for, its GTA IV!!!
  ...? the story is... too good? I spent 30 minutes debating weather I should kill Dwanye, or Playboy 
 X. actaully for the first time, you really do care about the story. It makes random shooting people 
 less fun in comperison. 
  
  thats all I can think of for now... mabye the combination of autosaving, and the fact that its 
 not totally linear make making a mistake terrible.
  as for good,
  the new combat system is a lot better, while still feeling familiar.
  the story is superb. Its 
 no... say FF7? but for a guy that seamingly randomly goes around killing hookers, id say its damm 
 good.
  the graphics!!! Look at liberty city at night! shooting an RPG at a car! while the graphics sometimes 
 dont hold up to the standard, when there good, there great.
  Randomlly shooting and causing myhem. it great.
  
  on comment before I close off. a lot has 
 been said about the new Alert system. while its far from realistic, it does do an effective job 
 at making 1 star wanted levels easy to escape from, but say... a 4 star almost immposible. (not 
 really but its deffinitly a challenge)
  
  anyhow, if you can get this game, I highly recomend it. Its a great game, and although its been 
 overhyped, no game could get past the hype of GTA IV
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bourkey207
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV
  The most antisipated game of 2008 turned out to be All Flash and No Substance. 
  First off the 
 character Niko Bellic is a sad depressed killer who for some reason thinks that coming to America 
 will make things better for his life. Wrong
  
  His cousin Roman is in debt to some Russian gangsters and this ends up snowballing until his old 
 life back in Eastern Europe catches up with him. There is no doubt that the story's are always 
 good in GTA and I was not disappointed, though the difficulty of the misson's was extremely easy 
 and for GTA veteran's like me this was dissapointing.
  The people at Rockstar said they wanted a more realistic GTA
  It's so realistic that at the end 
 of the game there's nothing fun to do except the multiplayer and getting 100%
  Multiplayer gets a bit tired after a few days since 50% of the time everyone drops out of your 
 game cause it's lagging so you end up with you and some other guy whose simple to beat.
  Graphics have been upgraded to a very nice standard and the cars you drive look so good that you 
 don't want to damage them
  Though the thing which killed me was that the Liberty City from GTA 3 (which i loved immensely) 
 was changed so much for GTA 4 that they kept nothing from that original map not even the shape 
 of the islands which I hated. If there not going to keep anything from GTA 3 why not call the city 
 something else
  
  Pros: The game has multiplayer, the car physics are extremly detailed and are beautifully modelled, 
 the storyline is good as always and has got great characters
  
  Cons: No Replay Value, Multiplayer gets bland after a few days, The Realism ends up becoming boredom 
 as that is pretty much why we play video games because realism is a bit boring, Liberty City ain't 
 Liberty City no more
  
  If you a newbie to the Grand Theft Auto games this should impress you, to GTA veteran's we deserve 
 better.
  
  Bourkey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KING_KEV_321
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  this is one the best games i have ever played, so much to do in the game it aint funny lol, im 
 playin it now online its addictive lol wen u get it u wont put it down very easy, u can race, roam 
 free, an kill po po lol wat more can you want, great graphics, the cars it self lokk amazin, everything 
 run smooothly from wat play, online is the best, thats wat make it great, its much fun 2 seee ur 
 frend gettin shot up lol, wat bothers mi really is the introductory loading screen it seems like 
 forever but other than that the loadin times are manageble, it wont drive you insane unless ur 
 extremely impatient, another issue like other online games, wen there are alot of ppl in one even, 
 lag is female dog, which can mess u up ur about to win a race grrr, it mite not be your connection 
 but the people that are playin with you, good chracter models, u wont b dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Prior to this, I played GTA San Andreas. I also had a crack at Vice City on the PSP. I've allways 
 loved this series for one very important factor. The cross genre. It is an adventure game. It is 
 an action game. It is also an arcade game. One minute you're racing cars, the next minute you're 
 blasting the hell out of people that need to be killed. This is backed up by a rich and amazingly 
 well acted, well told and presented story. The journey is simply amazing and it is also a visual 
 conquest succeeding every other game with any similar depth of technology. I have not given it 
 a 10 only because the engine seems to lag in framerates when there is an abysmal amount of action 
 on the PS3 screen. Yes, the PS3 is powerful, but sometimes you can clogg the hell out of it if 
 you're chased by 10 plus police cars and a helicopter in heavy traffic, all firing guns relentlessly 
 at you. Apart form this experience, GTA IV is almost perfect and Niko Bellic is the god damn man. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunknmunky3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  *Spoilers*
  
  What can I say about GTAIV... I'm lost for words... I mean, just looking at the city (or making 
 everything in it explode) is excellent! There's something in this game for everyone.
  
  In GTAIV you play as Niko, an immigrant to Liberty City who comes to try and make it big. If you've 
 ever played GTA before, you'll know what really happens. Everyone you meet in this game seems to 
 have a problem that involves something illegal, and Niko is just the one to solve it. From the 
 very first beginning you'll be forced to kill, steal and create an overall nuisance to the peaceful 
 place (yeah... right) that is Liberty City.
  
  In all honesty GTAIV should be a 10/10, but since there's no option for a 9.9/10 I have to sadly 
 give it 9.5/10. There's only one small problem that I have with this game; when you're driving 
 the AI drivers don't pay attention to you like they would to the other AI drivers. It's not a game 
 impending issue in any way but if you're trying to be inconspicuous in front of a cop (staying 
 in character) it just doesn't feel right to drive on the other side of the road lol... 
  
  In all honesty I think this is the best game I've ever played. It's got car racing, shooting, flying, 
 and there's heaps of random stuff you can do to fill the time. I can actually sit and watch someone 
 play and still enjoy it. I'm currently on my second run through the story, which is unusual me 
 for games of this length. 
  
  If you don't have this game, you need to get it. Steal it even to get in the spirit (jokes, seriously 
 just buy it) .
  
  NB: I will not be held responsible for any GTAIV games that have been stolen, it was not a serious 
 suggestion ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  - New carjacking animations? Check.
  - Improved gunplay? Check.
  - GPS on the map? Check.
  - Corny-yet-still-somehow-funny jokes? Check.
  
  
  It's natural 
 to want to take that sort of clinical approach to a sequel, but as I moved through Liberty City 
 and became more entrenched in its story, that stuff simply ceased to matter. At that point, and 
 for the rest of the game, the only thing that mattered to me was Niko Bellic, the game's protagonist. 
 Is he going to survive this time? Are his new-found friends going to make it out alive? Will he 
 ever find what he's looking for, and will finding "that special someone" bring him the inner peace 
 he needs? How did every single person he encounters end up so psychologically damaged? That psychological 
 side to the game translates into characters talking about how they feel, and about what they're 
 going through. It's extremely well-written and made a serious impact on me. This isn't the carefree 
 killing-and-carjacking romp you might have expected. The way the characters act made each life 
 harder and harder to take until I found myself rooting for Niko, hoping that he'd find what he 
 was looking for and finally get some peace. Of course, once you've gone on a crime-spree that has 
 you working for just about every different criminal in Liberty City, getting out unscathed simply 
 isn't an option. Though you'll make choices at critical points in the game, the impact on the overall 
 plot is mostly minimal. One choice you make near the game's conclusion makes the most impact of 
 any of Niko's decisions, and the choice you make here determines how some of the final missions 
 go, leading to one of two possible endings.
  
  
  One last thing about the way the story and characters play out: unlike most GTA leads, Niko is 
 no pushover. He's got a sharp, sarcastic tongue and he doesn't just mindlessly follow whoever is 
 giving the orders. This helps acknowledge the insanity that's going on around him and makes him 
 a likable character. Yes, he's out there doing horrible things, but he's not doing it to run some 
 Tommy Vercetti-like empire. He's doing it to survive and to hopefully find some closure along the 
 way. The majority of things you associate with Grand Theft Auto's gameplay haven't changed too much 
 in GTA IV, though many of the familiar things you expect to see in a GTA game have been refined 
 a bit. Combat, both armed and unarmed, is probably the biggest overhaul. When unarmed, you have 
 two punches and a kick, as well as the ability to block and counter when necessary. But more often 
 than not, you're going to be strapped with a melee weapon or a gun of some kind. The game now has 
 a cover system, letting you stick to walls and other objects, blind fire, and pop out to take a 
 few aimed shots before getting back behind cover. This addition alone makes shooting much easier 
 to deal with than it's been in the past. The game's lock-on targetting has also been tweaked. Overall, 
 most of the people who have had serious complaints about the way GTA handles shooting shouldn't 
 find much to complain about this time around. If anything, it makes things a little too easy, as 
 popping off headshots is a breeze now.
  The game is backed by some terrific audio, from character voices to the soundtrack, to the sounds 
 around you. Niko's footsteps are especially well-done. They'll echo off nearby buildings if you're 
 running across a quiet street, and they'll generally reflect the surface you're running on -- like 
 the metal walkways of a cargo ship, for example -- really well. The gunfire sounds great, car engines 
 are appropriate, and plenty of pedestrian dialogue helps make the city feel complete.
  
  
  The soundtrack is, once again, all over the place, with enough variety to keep you hearing 
 new things for quite a long time, provided you're open to scanning around the radio dial a bit. 
 At some point during my time with the game, I discovered that I sort of like dance hall. Weird! 
 The DJs, commercials, and talk radio stations are great, and deliver the perfect level of ridiculous 
 satire mixed with dick jokes.
  
  It was difficult to anticipate how Grand Theft Auto IV would turn out, given the way that the whole 
 "open-world game" thing is being done to death across as many different games and settings as possible. 
 Rather than try to out-do the Crackdowns and the Saints Rows of the world with bigger land masses 
 and more missions, Rockstar went the other way, and managed to craft an amazingly impactful story 
 and weave it into an open-world game in an incredibly meaningful way -- all without losing the heart 
 and soul of what makes Grand Theft Auto so popular in the first place. The end result is absolutely 
 masterful and absolutely worth your time and money.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosskinsey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Having recently completed GTA4 I do believe that the hype was not worth it. Lets face it the game 
 has the looks and presentation of a world class game, and the animation is gorgous but what it 
 lacks is substance. This is not San Andreas I know but thats why a lot of people were annoyed about, 
 all the cool stuff you could do seems to have been lost
  
  The Good
  
  The lighting effects are done extremely well, and the animation is prestine. Niko is a likeable 
 character and the other characters are good to listen to.
  
  The Bad 
  
  The missions are all run, shoot, and drive there are no cool RC missions or variety of missions. 
 The bikes are almost impossible to drive at high speeds and are worse than the bicycles in San 
 Andreas. 
  There are no bicycles, planes, tanks, tractors and other previous GTA vehicles.
  Unfortunatly although the story is good it dose not have a clear beginning or end, and it feels 
 like someone has just taken a portion of Nikos life and animated all the runnings with other characters. 
 This is especially annoying if you have come to like Niko. 
  There are no assets or business's to run, I know the makers said they didn't want the typical formula 
 of building up a criminal empire, but this was what everyone wanted.
  Completing the extras like Steve's cars or the most wanted dosen't really give you very much for 
 your troubles. In previous GTAs you did those missions to get money to buy property, but now you 
 cant do this it makes cash redundent.
  No stealth kills or cool weapons like kitana's, godfather had a list of exections you had to preform 
 that could have been a great addition here
  
  What I miss the most is flying a harrier shooting down enemy aircraft but no all you can do is 
 run, shoot and drive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieyabo
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Ha ha, getting all hyped up about GTA4. Damn, I was really looking forward to this game. But oh 
 boy, it was soooo boring after I finished it. People say the multi player excuses it. But the multi 
 player isn't what makes a game, well in CoD4, yes. But I don't like GTA4's multi player, so that 
 just leaves me with an easy, repetitive single player experience. It's a wonder nobody's mentioned 
 it, but GTA4's missions are incredibly repetitive. All the missions, basically, on the first island 
 are tutorials, then, on the second and third island, are just plain and simple. Go in guns blazing, 
 kill everyone, get some money to buy weapons and some s***** clothes and do it all over again. 
 Rockstar Games said, "play the game the way you want to play it." Well, with no silenced weapons, 
 boring sniping, and only ONE heavy weapon, I only have one option. Go in trigger happy. The weapons 
 are also very sloppy. The MP5 reload animation looks like Niko's hands got a bit off glass stuck 
 in it and he's trying to brush it off. And all weapon reload animations are stupid and unrealistic. 
 After the campaign there is NOTHING to do. All you can really do is go somewhere with a in-game 
 friend, and it's insanely boring. For a Next-Gen sequel, I expected more. Much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a good game in all. But it has many problems. The story is good for a GTA 
 game but its nothing out of this world. The game is pretty long but it is basically the same objective 
 over and over again. Yes its a GTA game but believe me you will keep yourself wondering "why does 
 Niko do whatever somebody tells them to". And there is also a major problem with the car handling. No 
 matter what system you buy it for, you will be a bad driver. Turning is a pain and crashing is a 
 bit fake. My real big problem with Grand Theft Auto 4, is that it feels more like a cartoon than 
 a "realistic crime game". However, the multiplayer is really amazing. Multiplayer is really the 
 real reason to buy this game. You and your friends can do anything you want. So in the end, GTA4 
 is slightly above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franks1701
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  I bought this about a month ago when my new PS3 finally arrived. Suffice to say, having bought 
 the previous titles like San Andreas, I was very much looking forwards to this update. Impressive 
 graphics aside, imagine my disappointment when I went off for a drive and started feeling this 
 immense sense of deja-vu. The whole set up, while nicely updated, hasn't moved on from the previous 
 game, ie, there's no real advance or improvement on the gameplay, no innovations to separate it 
 from GTA3 and its offshoots. Rockstar seem to have thought that merely updating the graphics (and 
 boy are they good. Apart from the motorbikes where the wheels turn, but the handlebars don't! Did 
 they think we wouldn't notice?) would keep our interest. Well, for me, I just think they needed 
 a little more innovation, a little less glam...
  
  M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWhiteHawk
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I was never into the whole "Grand Theft Auto" thing. I just didn't see the point of 
 joining gangs and shooting other gang members and fighting for "turf" and stuff. I didn't see the 
 point in carjackings and shooting cops.
  
  And then came GTAIV. At first my reaction was the same, but when I saw it got a Perfect 10/10 on 
 Gamespot and 5/5 on Gamespy I knew something had to be VERY good about this. And it does.
  
  This thing is a masterpiece. There's no actual senseless killing in this game. You follow the 
 story of an eastern european immigrant that fought in the war and came to "Liberty City" to find 
 answers and make a better living. With time, he is dragged into a world of organized crime, narcotics 
 and deceit, and tries to make it through.
  
  The main character is actually ambiguous: He does NOT smoke. He does NOT do drugs. He even advises 
 other characters to stop their habits. In fact, he sometimes even gets dramatic and rants about 
 the horrors of war and his past mistakes.
  
  Throughout the game you can FEEL the main character. You can feel he is a good guy, and you can 
 feel his troubles and his pain. The story? Brilliant. Full of drama, action, sorrow, comedy even. 
 Some sudden, unexpected situations will mess your head real hard. You'll be "WTF'd" many times 
 when you figure out some people you trusted deceived you. Sometimes you'll be amazed how an apparently 
 ordinary character turns out to be one of your best allies. The game has it all: customizable mobile 
 phones, internet websites, cars, trains, buses, boats, helicopters and bikes. And why not walking 
 and running too? You can pull off some serious action rolls.
  
  This game isn't a messed up pile of gratuitous violence, like some think. The story alone is worthy 
 of a top class movie. It's a 5 star story combined with 5 star gameplay, and a little bit of every 
 flavor you could ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV IS TOTALLY AWESOME!!! (as all grand theft autos anyways!!) To tell you the truth i did't 
 expect rockstar to put RAGE engine for rendering GTA IV graphics!!! I was totally surprised buy 
 the graphics quality of this game especially the lightning and the rain effects (wet road etc) . 
 Unlike the previous games of the sequel gta 4 is very very realistic in anyway by which i was also 
 surprised; when it is raining the pedestrians are opening their umbrellas, cell phone functions 
 and a thousand more details throughout the game. The duration was ok. Compared with san andreas 
 it was sorter but it is natural since it is the first GTA of a new era the IV era so it was expected 
 to have less functions availiable. It would be better to compare it with GTA 3 which is the first 
 gta of the III era. I don't have words to tell the game is STUNNING in every way I cannot find 
 any imperfection to this game. Imagine how well designed will be the next grand theft auto and 
 how many capabilities will the player have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jatzi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  unbelievable game play and story i honestly found it hard to put down my controller at night, and 
 it has been a while since i have had a game affect me like this one i could see it having some 
 good competition this fall but i do not see that there will be a game that poses any threat. Though 
 I am sure that once other game developers saw this when it came out they immediately upped their 
 standards and started to improve upon what they would not have seen as needed improving. This game 
 has basically taken all of the next generation games and moved them into a whole new generation. Anyways 
 long story short this game is going to be number one for a long time so Rockstar games and everyone 
 else involved in this game enjoy your reign as the king of games cause its gonna last for a long 
 time.
  Congrates to you all and hope to see more of this quality in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Change, it is a word that gets thrown around so often, the word: "Evolved" describes GTAIV down 
 to a T. It's been 4 years in the making and the wait has been definitely worth it.
  
  GTAIV takes us back to where it all began w/ GTAIII: Liberty City, which has received a major overhaul 
 bearing a striking resemblence to New York. We find a new leading man in Niko Bellic, he is an 
 European immigrant that has been attracted to Liberty because his cousin, Roman claims that he's 
 living the American Dream, cars, women, mansions, the whole nine yards, but when he arrives, it 
 was all a lie. Roman has a small Taxi business in Broker (spoof on Brooklyn) . A lot of crime, betrayal 
 and dirty money ensue.
  
  The environment, albeit not as expansive as San Andreas, is extremely detailed, it has the atmosphere 
 of a living, breathing urban jungle. The aiming system has also evolved as well with the cover 
 system which is very cinematic cause the player can't run head-on into gunfire. The visuals are 
 a major positive especially the water effects are very lifelike. The city can light up in the middle 
 of the night and bathe in the early morning sun.
  The car physics this time around are very lifelike, every dent, bullethole, scratch and all the 
 imperfections are vividly displayed, especially whenever the player gets into an accident, he flops 
 around like a ragdoll, which also adds on to the realism
  
  The audio is also a major plus from the music to the sound effects and the voicework is very compelling, 
 too. But, the inclusion of online multiplayer is where GTAIV's really at.
  
  In a nutshell, GTAIV not only stands out as the best GTA to date, but one of the best games ever 
 made. It nails every aspect there is to make in a game, Graphics, Gameplay, Audio, Replay Value, 
 etc. i can't name any negatives because there isn't any in my opinion and with all due respect 
 to Coolio, GTAIV is simply a "Gangsta's Paradise". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottoj
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  What can you say about a game like Grand Theft Auto? Well, you can start off with stealing a variety 
 of cars, using brutal and powerful weapons, killing lots of people and a great story. Grand Theft 
 Auto IV has all these elements and more! The graphics are improved and you are free to do even 
 more things in the game, such as bowling and eating out. The story is great (Well isn't it always 
 great in Grand Theft Auto games?) as you play as Niko Bellic, a Russian immigrant new to America. 
 He starts his new life by living wth his cousin, Roman, who is tangled up with gangs and money 
 collectors. You start off with small missions then eventually make more friends and start to take 
 part in difficult situations. The AI in this game is incredible and certain actions affect the 
 ending of the game and the missions you must complete. Unfortunately every game has its issues. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV suffers from very minor visual glitches and GPS issues. The GPS in the game 
 is very frustrating at times because it gives you the longest and safest route possible. Overall 
 though, this game is possibly the best I've played in my life because of the variety of new elements. 
 Every PS3 owner should have this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dericous
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  What can I say other than, "Best Game Ever!!!!" This was really worth the wait. I'm on my second 
 time through, and it's even better than the first. The story Line is well written and exiting. 
 I bought my PS3 specifically for the purpose of being ready for this game to come out. As soon 
 as I started playing I was in awe of the beautiful graphics and the new shooting system. Finally 
 you can duck behind cover and pop out and shoot. It really levels the playing field. Any Object 
 can be used for cover. I loved the way the cars looked, and the rain is amazing. There have been 
 better soundtracks for GTA games past, and San Andreas is bigger and has more content. But on sheer 
 gameplay and magnificence, this one is the best. I'm sure you don't need my recommendation to buy 
 this game, but you definitely have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briang3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Like everyone else, I did enjoy playing GTA4, but have to admit was thoroughly annoyed by Missions 
 and Friends. The problem with the friends is the rhythm of the game is constantly interrupted by 
 your friends calling to "get together" to do something incredibly boring. I hated having to drive 
 (usually) across the entire map to pick up Roman to go play pool (booooring) . The other problem 
 was the missions themselves. Was it me or were the missions very easy and very boring. They all 
 seemed to be the same structure, go somewhere and kill a bunch of people. It seems like Rockstar 
 has lost some imagination in the missions. I'm looking forward to Saints Row 2, which seems to 
 be using their imagination and know how to truly open up a open world. 
  
  So overall fun game, but would not put it up there with Bioshock or Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  In GTA IV, you play as Niko Bellic. An immigrant just off a boat from a European country. Niko 
 has decided to leave and come to Liberty City because of his cousin's (Roman Bellic) letters and 
 emails where he states how great life is in America, and how he has it all. House, cars, women 
 etc. When Niko arrives though, things aren't all what they were made out to be by Roman. They arrive 
 at his so called mansion, only for Niko to find out that it's really just an old, trashy apartment. 
 That's how the story starts, and while I won't delve into the story with detail, I will talk about 
 what you can expect while playing GTA IV, and my thoughts of the story, among other things.
  
  First, let's talk about the overall gameplay itself. It's a huge step up from GTA: SA. The physics 
 in this game are amazing. The cars handle very well, but it definitely takes some time getting 
 used to it. The "ragdoll" physics implemented in GTA IV are very interesting. For example, say 
 you get hit by a car that's traveling at a fairly high speed; Instead of just bouncing off and 
 hitting the ground, you'll be sent flying through the air, and you may even flip across the ground. 
 The same physics apply to not just Niko, but to all the pedestrians as well. Trust me, it's extremely 
 funny to hit a group of pedestrians at top speed and watch them all go flying across the pavement.
 
  
  The weapons in this game handle much better than in previous installments. Not only do the weapons 
 not sound similar, but the way each weapon handles is much better than previous games. If you've 
 played a GTA game before, chances are, you've most likely been in an all out gun battle. Never 
 has it been for fun than in GTA IV. A big reason for the success of this is the newly added cover 
 system. While it has its flaws and while it's by no means perfect, the cover system allows you 
 to take cover anywhere. If you need to press against a wall if you're pinned down by fire, simply 
 activate the cover system by pressing R1. (default controls) You can also take cover behind cars, 
 low walls; almost anything! While not perfect, the cover system is by far, one of the best additions 
 to the latest GTA.
  
  Next, the graphics. GTA has never been known for its graphics. GTA IV is no different. It's one 
 of the weakest areas of the game, but the graphics do not have to be good to make a game fun. It's 
 actually not a big deal at all, and you'll probably be somewhat impressed when you 1st play the 
 game.
  
  Next, probably the biggest letdown of the entire game. The framerate! While no one was expecting 
 R* to offer up a game with the framerate of a CoD4, for example (60 FPS) , GTA IV totally lets the 
 player down in this department. There are way too many hiccups and glitches in the framerate, and 
 it's almost unbearable when there's a lot of action on-screen. While the game runs fairly smooth 
 most of the time, the action really slows down due to the poor framerate. 
  
  The sound effects and overall sound in GTA IV are very good. For an entire city that would offer 
 up so many different sounds, you really get a feel for each different thing. For example, if a 
 car passes, you can hear the bass from the radio playing in the car. The way each individual car 
 sounds is distinct to that particular vehicle, and as a result, it enhances the overall experience 
 while driving.
  
  Next, the story. GTA IV's story is the best by far in the GTA series. Offering up close to 100 
 missions. (including side missions) I won't give any details about the story, but I will say that 
 the story is very immersive and will keep occupied for at least 50-60 hours. (assuming you don't 
 do just the missions)
  
  Online play in GTA IV is very fun. While I am unable to play as much as I'd like due to sorry internet 
 service, what little I have played, the online portion is very fun. Multiplayer is accessed through 
 the in game cell phone that Niko carries. Scroll to multiplayer, click, and from there, you're 
 able to choose from various game modes. The great thing about GTA IV's online is that you are not 
 limited to a small area or map. You can play in the same Liberty City you play in during the single 
 player. You have the option of playing in a specific part of the city, but you can play, without 
 being limited to a certain area as well.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a fun game with some minor bugs, but nothing too serious. The only really bothersome 
 flaw, in my opinion, is the framerate. Graphics aren't great either, but that's no big deal. The 
 bottomline is GTA IV is a great game, with a good story and tremendous replay value. You can spend 
 hours on end exploring Liberty City to try and see all it has to offer. Trust me, you will enjoy 
 this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple_b2k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Every GTA game attempts to top the previous effort. Surprisingly, Rockstar has been successful 
 in doing so. Each game delivers new features and the game never feels recycled unlike many franchises.
 
  
  GTA is a well crafted game. The story line is fresh and extremely entertaining. This is not just 
 random violence and unlike previous GTA games, the 'hero' actually questions his actions through 
 out the game. You may actually feel sympathy for him.
  
  A game this large with so many small things, you would except a lot of glitches. Surprisingly, 
 there are few to be found. There are times where visuals mess up or something odd happens but for 
 the most part, the game runs extremely well. The oddest 'glitch' I've ever seen while playing was 
 a car exploding without me touching it in the middle of walking around downtown. Without being 
 in a mission at the time, I thought this was extremely odd but at the same time, very funny.
  
  Overall, GTAIV will suck you in and you'll quickly get addicted. There are tons of things to 
 do. The best part of the franchise is the freedom to explore the city. There is a ton of little 
 details to see and find.
  
  This game will be hard to top but I say that after every Grand Theft Auto game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raftel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  first: the graphic is amazing. it's as simple as that: amazing. the only thing that's missing for 
 the game to seem like real life is the use of toilettes...
  
  great music too. very convicing characters indeed.
  
  what's missing?
  
  nothing, there's 
 pretty much everythimg you can ask for.
  
  the problem comes if you are one of the thousands of people whose first gta was san andreas. you 
 won't probably like this all that much. it may bore you ater a while.
  doesn't have continuos funny stuff going on, and there are just no characters as tenpenny, cesar 
 and truth.
  
  another problem may be the difficulty. it took me a long time to get to a very difficult mission.
 
  still is an amazing game that get bac to the older chapters of the game. actually... seems in 
 many points more like gta 3 than SA.
  
  your choice wether or not buy this game.
  
  i suggest you try it first. you know, just to avoid unpleasant surprises. i personally like it, 
 but i'm a fan of all the gtas
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Budwize
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This, the most anticipated game of the 21st Century to date, was finally released! It seemed that 
 everyone was just in awe of the game, few people had anything bad to say about it and if they dared 
 flame the game they usually got drummed off any message board for daring to badmouth the Messiah 
 of all Games.
  After the hype of owning the game wears off, and its been played for the 2nd and 3rd time, I thought 
 I would wait uniti now to review it. Of course I knew that fewer people would be looking for GTA4 
 reviews at this point but honestly, with hype as big as this game drummed up, I thought doing so 
 now would be a more honest review.
  I was like 99.9% of people who were high-fiving this game 30% of the way into completion and was 
 still as enthused after finishing it. What has changed now that its in the "pre-owned" section 
 of most stores now? Really nothing. Thats what a game of this caliber gives you in return for your 
 investment. The city itself is still something to be admired. Even now when I load the game, fly 
 over the city in a chopper, I am really amazed at the detail from the buildings and ocean to smaller 
 things. The storyline twists and turns, cutscenes, missions, acting, voice-over talent, still top 
 notch. My only disappointment in this game from the day I played it for the first time was the 
 sound of the cars. They remain unchanged in my opinion from San Andreas. Their look and texture 
 is so awesome. You get into the car and it sounds like you are driving a PS2 GTA car.
  If I am driving an Astro Van, I would expect it to sound like a cheap car, but if you are driving 
 a 100k sports car, you really want the surround sound, deep growl of a high horsepower machine 
 and you just dont get it.
  Thats really my only issue with the game. The changes in targeting were a huge improvement. Mr. 
 Bellic wasnt meant to be a karate specialist so his fighting skills arent breathtaking but they 
 get the job done with some good timing and button combos.
  I also notice whether you get into your own car or steal one, you still hotwire it. Why hotwire 
 your own car? I know... just petty whining but thats really the only few things about this game 
 I noticed. They could haved thrown in more stuff to find such as the beating heart in the statue 
 of happiness. That was a good easter egg and to my knowledge nothing else compareable has been 
 found yet.
  All they really need to do in order to take this game to the next level is to add more realistic 
 car sounds along with some FINGERLESS FRICKING GLOVES and we'll probably have our first 11.0 game.
 
  They are taking GTA in the right direction, they just need to do it sooner and deliver the game 
 when they say they are going to but it was worth the wait and it lived up to the hype, bigtime. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkinpark494
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  GTA has always been a great series for free roaming, fun, and cause alot of chaos and always stil 
 be fun from runnig from the cops, to blowing up cars, killing pedestrians, fun cheats, and funny 
 dialouge in and out of story mode. 
  
  Well GTA4 is amazingly big and immersive. It has a great story good 20 hours if you play without 
 stopping, a funny, witty protagionist/antagonist (depending on how you look at it.) . There is a 
 good amount of weapons, but some of the fun ones are missing like the flamethrower, the katana, 
 lock-on missle launchers, chainguns, and the infamous sex toys. 
  
  I won't go into the story because it is very good and I don't want to spoil anything about it. 
 The cars in this game are more modern, because it the first game that takes place in the 21st century. 
 They control better and doing movie style chases have never been easier. One bad thing is that 
 there is no tanks or planes. The cheats are also not as good as they were. There is no riot cheat, 
 no unlimited cheats, and no pedestrian cheats. 
  
  The online which everyone thought would be awsome, but turned out underwhelming and hard to play. 
 The maps are huge, because they are one of the four islands making it a hastle to find anyone. 
 And sniping is pointless because if you kill some one you must go pick up money they drop which 
 anyone can take freind or foe. 
  
  The best part about the GTA series is the free-roaming ability, but in this game is made two hard 
 because there are too many streets. Most of the time you'll be running around lost destroying stuff 
 and people. Even the cop function has been downplayed because now if cause trouble all you have 
 to do is hold the gas down and get away out of the circle. But once you get too 5 stars it is impossible 
 to get away.
  
  If you like chaos, and are good with navagation, you might like this game. It's a fun game but 
 it is way too big and too many things to do in it. The graphics are fine but a shotty framerate 
 on both systems. Not the best GTA game but it's not the worse. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Setting:
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is set in Liberty City. However Liberty City has been completely redesigned. 
 It is now the clone of New York City with some small differences (mainly names) . Liberty City contains 
 five burrows based on Manhattan, Queens, The Bronx, Brooklyn, and New Jersey.
  
  Gameplay:
  Alot of features have been removed since San Andreas. The game features a slightly 
 new driving camera but it is still similar to previous games in the series. Gunplay has been completely 
 reworked. You can now take cover and shoot blindly at your enemies or step out from behind cover 
 for a more accurate shot. This is the most significant addition to the series as of yet. The girlfriends 
 feature has returned and includes the ability to go out with friends as well.
  
  Graphics: 
  Slightly better than the rest of the games in the series but still what you would 
 expect from a GTA.
  
  Story:
  A completely orginal story makes up for alot of the missing features. Personally I would say it 
 is the 2nd best story in the series behind Vice City.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I cannot believe it U can do anything you want anything at all. Cruise in your car or take a cap 
 shoot an enemy fly a plane. Welcome to a living world. This is the best GTA to date it just have 
 a special feel to it. It is alive. the graphics are superb Wide areas open spaces, seemingly endless 
 exploration, I mean buying this game is like buying an adventure game a racing game a third-person 
 shooter game a first person shooter a fighting game a sport oriented game (balling , pool) a classic 
 arcade game.1000 game (genres ) in one game
  Here lies the real value of such games rich in all aspects rich beyond imagination
  If only the 
 guys who made this superb game care to increase the quality of each game genre they can have a 
 better title.
  superb. Defently the best game on the PS3 
  if u like a specific Genre to a fanatic level then this game is not for it is simply not
  it 
 is for plane fun unbelivable options excellent combinations a game which is hard to define a game 
 that opens the door for the future 
  we expect future games to be as rich and better in all aspects i want them to beat others in their 
 own genre i woulg love it if a game like GTA4 can beat a serious driving game and a serious shooter 
 at the same time.
  till now this is not possible but i think it will become the future. 
  Execelnt... it all boils down 2 Shooting & driving shooting that have been improved vastly but 
 this is not a fps it is not eaven a racing tilte.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livndead
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Well this game is great but to sort not sure how long but i think it was 12 hours long 
  to sort for me and very disappointing. very easy but still had to do some missions more then once. 
 There are 4 island and massive. There are bikes cars boats and planes 
  and plans as in helicopter and hunter. No police bikes there are helmets for bikes witch are free. 
 online is great fun. you have a phone and friends and contras call you for missions and dates. 
 You can have girl friends and friends and stuff like that. you can call them or they will call 
 you. The graphics are go but if you sniper people close up it looks like san Andrea graphics. The 
 car damage is great and fun to see it smash up. A new part of driving is if you smash u fly out 
 of your car threw the windshield.
  you can shoot any were around the car while your driving. you can swim but cant go under water. 
 Can catch the train. And over all the online is great with 9 i think modes.
  This game is great i dont think you should buy it if your a really good gamer because you will 
 finish it to quick. But if your not so good of a gamer you should buy it.
  you will want to play it again because you have choices in the game so the game changes if you 
 a choose different choices. Story mode is not 2 player and online has no online two player. you 
 can make a group of friends and vs other groups witch is very very fun. Well i think i have covered 
 ever think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroKen-ii
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV , is a great game to have when your bored, if you like to fool around then 
 this is the game for you.
  The graphics are great and the physics are fun to mess around with.
  i have to say the missions 
 are pretty much the same ( kill this guy and get money or save this guy and get money..... etc)
 
  its a great game to have if you want to mess around online with other people.
  but I'm telling you right now most players online are not to friendly, even if your on freedom.
 
  party mode was a great idea who ever came up with it was thinking about the people. 
  It's fun to have a racing mode as well.
  over all the game was fun and definitely worth the 60 
 dollars i spent on it ( 2 or 3 days after it came out)
  Yeah, I'm sure most people out there already have the game and are still enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV maybe the most anticipated title in video game history. Grand Theft Auto IV 
 was promising to expand on the familar ground of the Grand Theft Auto franchise, and add more ways 
 to play to the Grand Theft Auto experience.
  
  Whilst Grand Theft Auto IV exceeds in many areas, thank to it's engrossing plotline, concerning 
 a multitude of modern day issues and an intresting delve into the deep mind of Nikko Bellic. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV does it's job tremendously well too. Grand Theft Auto IV contains more lighthearted 
 minni games such as darts, races, and locale events in Liberty City. This gives GTA IV much more 
 of a relaxed and casual feel towards it, that ultimately makes GTA IV the smartest and most mature 
 GTA game to be released. However, GTA IV suffers from a sizeable amount of flaws which do make 
 it not quite the game we were hoping for.
  
  The story of Grand Theft Auto IV is deep, busy, and engaging. Nikko Bellic, who is a war veteran 
 from Eastern Europe, arrives in Liberty City USA, in search of his American Dream. Nikko Bellic 
 quickly gets involved with gangs, thanks to his friend Roman, taking advantage of life in America 
 being a life of luxury. Nikko Bellic aids Roman to help him out with gangsters, as he tries to 
 carve himself a new life. The story of Grand Theft Auto IV contains a wide variety of cultural, 
 historical and moral signifiances to the characters, making the whole game carry a large amount 
 of depth. Nikko Bellic himself is scripted with such humor and with a dynamic personality, that 
 you truly relate to Nikko Bellic in many ways. GTA IV contains a deep and involving story, that 
 any gamer can take a shine to.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV graphically is arguably the finest looking PlayStation 3 game to date. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV makes Liberty Cuty pefectly capture the scope and realism of somewhere like New York 
 tremendously. Grand Theft Auto IV looks great, and thank to it's immense texture and detail to 
 the city, sucks you into another world unlike any other video game before it.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV's variety of play is what makes it the most fun GTA game of the franchise. 
 GTA IV introduces a relatively deep and highly fun online play. Grand Theft Auto IV contains the 
 standard modes of play, and including a head to head mode. The online on GTA IV contains so much 
 variety, and suffers from very little lag, it is the best next gen online so far.
  
  Despite Grand Theft Auto IV is quite a solid game, the creative choices in the gameplay of GTA 
 IV. The onmission of the planes from San Andreas was generally a bad idea. Most of the missions 
 of GTA IV require shooting, or just getting to places on time. This sadly makes the core gameplay 
 of GTA IV fall into repettition, ans sadly looses it's potential.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is an extremely solid game. It will prove highly satisfactory to any hardcore GTA 
 fan. Despite flaws, GTA IV delievers upon it's promise with a high quality presentation.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of past gta titles, but i thought some new ideas and the added power of 
 next gen consoles would give the game a boost. well i can say that both the 360 and ps3 gave the 
 game a much needed boost graphically. otherwise its the same old thug life. and its getting old. 
 very old. Within the first 2-3 hours of playing gta4 youll have the most fun youve had this generation. 
 But after a while you realize that not only has this game done anything unique whatsoever but youll 
 realize its the same as the past titles with a little more customization options. Youll go through 
 a fairly original setting, but the side missions dialogue and characters all feel recycled with 
 the acception of Brucie who is funny and unique. (Think Bradd Pitt in Burn After Reading) In fact 
 i found missions and cutscenes with him to be the most entertaining parts of the game. The games 
 real Highlights would be the graphics music and overall depth. A good layout on the control side 
 doesnt hurt either.
  
  Overall i see gta4 as yet another disapointing title in the series which hasnt progressed much 
 since gta3. Sure in the beginning its fun but after a few hours youve seen it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodurk21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This is a short review, but I felt it was needed since 95% of reviews are overwhelmingly positive. 
 I should mention that I've only played around 15 hours worth. However, I felt this was enough to 
 give an honest take.
  
  Graphics = 9.5. I'm not a huge fan of that off-tint color used throughout the game, but the city 
 design is outstanding and visuals are generally nice to look at.
  
  Sound = 9.0. An interesting variety in the soundtrack, pretty good voice acting.
  
  Story = 
 7.0. Had potential at the beginning but honestly I haven't seen it going anywhere yet. Maybe I'm 
 just not patient enough to let this evolve. 
  
  Controls = 7.0. The driving mechanics are decent; in fact if this were just driving I'd give it 
 an 8 or 8.5. However, I just really don't like the fighting system. 
  
  Gameplay = 6.5. This category carries the most weight by far (hence why my overall score is only 
 7.5) . In summary, this game is just SO tedious, repetitious, and unmotivating. Again, maybe I haven't 
 been patient enough to reach the "good stuff". But I tend to think 15 hrs is alot of gameplay and 
 I just don't see anything that has me coming back for more. It's like, "here, go fetch another 
 task". 
  
  I would recommend renting before buying. I was just really let down with the gameplay element, 
 and I'm not having much fun at all with it. Guess it's back to Warhawk where I continue to have 
 a blast, going strong at over 200 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_sith
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  So I am a Russian Illegal immegrant named Nikko and I am Ex Military, sounds cool...
  
  Firstly the Game looks amazing, it works well, the cars are awsome all the same stuff from the 
 other GTA games but just better. The story sounds like it could get intersting but... these low 
 quality, low difficulty, low story, starting out tutorial style missions got me so bored I gave 
 up within a few hours and just started crashing cars.
  
  It's seems thats my problem when it comes to this game all I can do is crash cars, shoot cops, 
 crash more cars and never get anywhere... If you really love GTA you will love this game, but if 
 you are like me.. do what you always did with GTA play it at a friends or rent it out I did waste 
 my money on this one. 7/10 Still an awsome game but just not my style.
  
  Well when i get some time again, (if i ever stop playing The Force Unleashed, I will try this game 
 again and see if I can't do a better review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyman34
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game, but needs more things to do like in GTA SA. also needs a larger map. vary good game, 
 needs planes, car mods, bigger map, mare cars more guns more helicopters more cloth, more missions 
 more side missions more and more of everything. more buildings to be able to go into being able 
 to go into every building available more choices of phones no repetition of cars on the streets 
 .more more more more more more more more more more more more of everything. graphics are very gud 
 can be improved sound is very good but can also be improved. overall a very well mad game. can wait 
 to see all the improved things that rock star games will be havening in the new installment of 
 GTA V. story line was a good one having to make a choice in the games missions is a very well though 
 of idea to do!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The latest installement in the series is easily one of the best. Like GTA 3, 4 takes place in liberty 
 city. You're transition in the crime world is alot slower than last time, and gives you alot of 
 time to perfect you're skills. For example, you're first 4 missions are drving and the next 2 involve 
 evading the cops. Only then will you be given a pistol. After that, you work up the food chain 
 from mug to Proffesional hitman to One man army. 
  
  What may turn off some players is the lack of carnage. he cheats are slimmed down a good bit. You 
 can grap a chopper 
  and all the guns but not much else.
  
  The graphics are good for a huge scale game like this. The city is smaller but the city is more 
 accesible than the last and alot more building are enterable.
  
  The Multiplayer is ok. There are several modes from races to deathmatch to set misions and so on. 
 The set missions wit hup to 4 others is the best but the others are lacking. Theyre often buggy 
 and it'll take about a whole magazine on the target for the other players to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are a european dude that is in Liberty City and he is visited his cousin. This 
 game has beatiful graphics and but the story mode is hard. I like in the game how you can explore 
 all the three islands but for the other two you have to unlock by doing more of the story mode. 
 This game is just like the others. But if you use cheat codes to get weapons or vechicles it makes 
 the game more easier and funnier and they have the best cheat codes. The game is very long which 
 I like but it will bored you. But the cars and vechicles are awesome and really fast when you get 
 them going. If you travel to the other cities and you didn't do that much in the story then you 
 will get shot down. You do get a girlfriend in this game if you do some of the story then you can 
 call her to go on dates with her but if you kill her then she will not talk to you for a very long 
 time.
  
  The good of the game is that there is plenty to do. Beatiful Graphics. The sound effect is amazing. 
 
  
  The bad of the game is that it is just like the other Grand Theft Auto games. The story mode is 
 very boring and hard. The game gets boring really fast.
  
  Overall I rate this game 8.0 outta 10 because it gets boring really fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windsong27
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I just got this game since i bought a PS3 2weeks aGo, 
  well GTA4 is a highly addictive game and is really good and grows in u, i dont really know why 
 some people didnt appreciate the game well its either u love ds game or hate it and since the very 
 game itself looks so real i get anxious on killing people hhehe well it depenDs but i really got 
 the satisfaction of the game unlike bad comPany
  and assassins creed its prettY much a good game so buy it!
  
  
  Hmmmmm i pretty much repeat 
 the line "a good game"
  U knw why bcoz it is the last predecessors were good but was not my type hehee unlike this game 
 has it all hehehe 
  all i can saY is if u have extra cash buy this SHi* 
  i bought this game while w8ting for the SOCOM confrontation of course i will buy with the headset 
 version
  
  Its been a while since i wrote a review hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesner87
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out. I couldnt get my hands on it immediately. Since during those days 
 i only had my gaming pc.
  Once i got myself a PS3 GTA IV edition and finally got to play this game. I still remmember it was 
 like a whole new world oppening to me. I couldnt get off it for the next 9-10 hours or so. Infact 
 i didnt sleep the whole night.
  All of the previous GTA players should be familier with the story. But this time the good thing 
 they have done is they have kept multiple choices within the story itself ! 
  The story starts of with you (Niko belic) , an European imigrant who has just come to Liberty City 
 (what maybe a copy of newyork) for living the "American Dream". Half an hour in the game and after 
 around some 10 missions you finally realize that achieving that "American Dream" will not be so 
 easy. And you start finiding the truth about your cousin Roman Belic. Who tricks you into coming 
 to Liberty City.
  The story plays on VERY well. You really get emotionally involved in the story itself while playing 
 through it. How you achieve that "American dream" its all upto you ! You see they have created two 
 endings to the game. So basically the end depends on the choices you make.
  I`ll divide the review in small parts :
  
  Storyline : The storyline is simple and basic. But 
 the way they have presented it and the way you make your own story is simply awesome. Every minute 
 you spend changes the story line. There are alot of good and bad twists here and there. But mostly 
 you will be enjoying the plot and the setting. Over all with such a simple idea of an imigrant looking 
 for "American Dream", i really think that they have presented the story line perfectly !
  
  Graphics : Graphics are sinply AMZING. You can actually stand on the side of the beach or stand 
 in the middle of the city enjoying the enviroments. I`ll make it simple and wont go into details. But 
 to me this is the ONLY NEXT GEN graphics title they have made. I havent seen any game so far with 
 so many details that you dont see the same person twice ! Infact the physics engine makes it even 
 more cooler. Say bubye to the good old RAG DOLLS. Now you have a full human like skeleton to play 
 with. Everything is presented nicely. The final execution of the graphics is awesome. With such high 
 level graphics having barely no glitches and frame rate issues i would say thats an achievment. The 
 game is certainly worth a look, because its graphics cant be described in words !
  
  Sound : As usuall the GTAs have always been amuzing with that funny radio and funny voice actings 
 and stuff. But this time they have taken it to the next level. Almost every person have a different 
 voice. You walk in a group of pedestrains you will actually hear their mobiles ringing and can hear 
 their full conversations on mobiles... etc.. etc. Thats the amount of details they went into ! Infact 
 there are even some chinese guys speaking in chinese, some other peoples speaking in some other 
 languages. I usually enjoyed the accent of tourists :D. The voice acting done by the main and side 
 characters is simply AWESOME ! This time they have also increased the music library and you can 
 actually find out the song and artist name which you are listning to on the radio by poping up 
 your cellphone and dailing ZIT. So i would call this another perfect !
  
  Value : This game has certainly the value. When it comes to GTA IV you can easily say "You GET what 
 you pay for". Because of two different endings. The free roam fun. The friends missions after the 
 story has finished and alot more you simply never keep this game away. And also they have for the 
 first time in the history of GTA included a VERY WELL DONE multiplayer/online play. Where you easily 
 get to play with 16 players through many different types of games. So this would be another perfect 
 in my book !
  
  Gameplay : With all of those things above i seriously doubt that the gameplay is LACKING anything 
 AT ALL ! Simply because the story is very immersive, the action is awesome and the sound too and 
 above ALL the execution is PERFECT ! They have certainly not missed out on anything here. So this 
 would be clearly another winner.
  
  Conclusion : Although before buying it i heard from alot of people that it was dissapointment because 
 it had many things missing from the previous GTAS. I entirely disagree with them. Even if the things 
 WERE missing they covered the loss by many other BETTER things. And besides this really didnt have 
 the need for those missing things.
  This is a MUST buy for anytype of gamer. Its a collectors item if you ask me ! A masterpiece. So 
 start your car, go to the shop and buy yourself one immediately before it runs out ! 
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When you first fire the game up (Mind you I'm talking the PS3 version here, so this is assuming 
 you blew the 10 minutes of your life having to install it) , you are treated to a boat floating 
 into Liberty City harbor with the cast of the developers flashing onto the side of the boat's features 
 like it was some big time Hollywood blockbuster. But when you hop of the boat you get greeted by 
 your greasy looking cousin Roman. Your character Niko at first looks like someone fresh off the 
 boat... get it? Ah never mind.
  
  You drive back to your cousin's place and decide where to go from there, how to live the American 
 dream and make lots of money essentially (this is a theme that pervades the entire game. Remember 
 "Cash Rules Everything Around Me... Cream get the money, dolla dolla bills y'all") .
  
  See, Niko is trying to avoid bloodshed, he's seen enough in his days as illustrated through various 
 phone calls and conversations with friends and enemies throughout the game. You actually get to 
 understand Niko's pain, but aside from being a cold blooded killing drug dealing machine, he happens 
 to stick up for weaker people, and involves himself on the shady side of the law "For the good 
 of the people" of course. 
  
  In your times spent in Liberty City, Niko will traverse the 5 boroughs of New York... I mean Liberty 
 City and Alderney City (Jersey City, duh) . Along the way you will meet various friends (and potential 
 lovers) who will ask favors of you or to go out eating, drinking, a club, etc. Help them out enough, 
 and they will do you favors in the end. 
  
  To be honest, it is fun, and an interesting method to immerse the player in the game world by getting 
 a phone call to go hang out and get a drink (which results in a delightfully dizzying mini game 
 of getting back home... where you can get pulled over by the cops, but strangely enough, not for 
 running red lights in the opposite direction of traffic) . However, they have a habit of calling 
 RIGHT BEFORE you get to a mission, or one after another. Also if you decline the offer, your standing 
 with them goes down, or if you call them at an odd hour (again trying to be immersive here) , you 
 get chewed out.
  Apparently friendship isn't a two way street unless it's scripted. But ultimately this new addition 
 to the gameplay is useless once you hang out with your friends maybe 4 or 5 times. They like you 
 enough that you could decline any offer they make and they still will sell you guns out of their 
 trunk or whatever the case may be. 
  
  Other new features to the Liberty City world include multiple restaurants, in game bowling, pool, 
 darts and video games. Also, you can literally watch in game programming on TV. When I first picked 
 up my copy, I watched Roman's 17 inch Radiation King for 45 minutes, particularly enjoying "I'm 
 Rich" (Like "The Fabulous Life of..." on VH1) . 
  
  Liberty City is presented in such a diverse manner with each borough being reminiscent of their 
 real life New York Counterpart (of course not to scale, and not everything will be reproduced... 
 but hey) . Most noticeable are the Statue of Happiness, Middle Park, and The Triangle. Take a wild 
 guess what those 3 are. 
  
  Street corners have different vendors, street lights, lamps, boxes, you name it, the city does 
 not repeat. Random citizens have widely varying clothes from business suits to casual attire with 
 every form of clothing and footwear and accessory in between. Heck, you can walk down the street 
 and listen to random cell phone calls, or if you make it like you are going to run into someone, 
 people would drop their coffees to get out of the way. You might even witness a car accident or 
 dozen or robbery on the street. 
  
  Clothing shops allow you to customize Niko, and the clothes you wear affect your gameplay. For 
 instance when you try to rob a bank after an "interview", you have to wear a suit and tie. Or if 
 you are picking up "garbage" you need to wear an LCSD outfit (Liberty City Sanitation Department) . 
 
  
  Pay and Spray is there as always, and of course, the radio station (my favorite gameplay device 
 since III) is still there, amazing as ever (I love the Beat and Vladivostok FM particularly) . 
 
  
  In addition to the music, the voice work is superb as always, although the game has such authentic 
 dialect in some places you'd have no clue what's being said (See Baddman, you'll know what I mean) . 
 The voice actors are superb, the music always on point, the advertisements (Pisswasser is a good 
 one to listen for, dare I say better than Knife After Dark) are funny and a refreshing take on 
 today's popular culture and post 9/11 society. 
  
  Each car is modeled painstakingly after a real world car, although not bearing any brand names 
 so as to not infringe on copyrights. The driving in the game is slightly harder, as surface conditions 
 drastically affect your handling, in addition to the car's performance themselves (every single 
 car handles differently) . I at first was frustrated by this, but that was due to my own negligence 
 and lack of skill. One problem that cannot be made up with skill is the annoying tendency of a 
 enemy car in a chase to be able to take 90 degree turns at top speed while you go flying into a 
 wall (and get ejected using a beautifully programmed physics engine I must say) . That is one of 
 the biggest problems I have with the game, and it is something you will be experiencing a lot of, 
 as the overall game's structures mostly depend on either "Chasing" "Shooting" or "Chasing Followed 
 By Shooting".
  (Mind you, Rockstar did change the shooting mechanics, giving the game a more Gears of War shoot 
 from cover feel, a problem that is solved as promised, so the shooting is actually done well, and 
 more strategically) 
  
  A lot of trial and error and random cars pulling out in front of you can make your missions much 
 shorter. 
  
  And sadly, when I said most of the game's structure is the "meat and potatoes" as Sam Houser of 
 Rockstar puts it, it's not a lie. There were 3 missions I played that were not either mindless 
 shooting or chasing.
  
  One was a kidnapping mission where you had to drive with a girl in your front seat, but she would 
 periodically grab the wheel and you had to get her under control and not go flying off the edge 
 of the road and crash. I found it strangely fun, and not aggravating. This was one of the better 
 orchestrated missions in the game. Similarly, a mission where you jump on top of a speeding van 
 (after shooting it out) requires to to slowly inch forward, but then hold on tight while taking 
 the corner.
  
  Sadly, very few of these deviations are ever put into the core gameplay, and if something isn't 
 done to the overall mission structure, I feel that this game series will be nothing more than a 
 high quality sandbox version of Tomb Raider or Sonic. 
  
  Additionally, even as I mentioned the dynamic population, amazing physics engine, the diverse landmarks, 
 and more, the game suffers from a few technical issues that seem to be absent from the Xbox 360 
 version. First of all, there is no anti aliasing. It's not extremely obvious, but there is definitely 
 some jagged lines in the graphics. Second, I don't know what the technical term is, but some of 
 the filters leave a weird swiss cheese type effect in things, and textures can clip through shadows, 
 or even at times, shadows don't render. 
  
  Speaking of rendering, I assure you that the PS3 version of this game still has pop up issues contrary 
 to what anyone says, more specifically at high speed car driving, but not always. 
  
  Aside from the few nagging problems of technical graphical glitches and the rigid adherence to 
 the shoot n' chase mentality for the most part, Grand Theft Auto 4 offers up some of the best production 
 values and memorable characters you will see this generation.
  
  Gameplay 8 out of 10
  Graphics 9 out of 10
  Sound 10 out of 10
  Value 10 out of 10
  Tilt 9 out of 10
  
  Total 
 Score = 9.0
  
  Pros :
  + Amazing Production Value, highly immersive
  + Incredible Sound (voice and music and effects)
  + Great Graphics with diverse locations and 
 objects
  + A cast of likable characters, albeit in a gritty mature setting.
  + The combat got a reworking to be more strategic
  
  Cons :
  - A lot of the same technical 
 problems that have been plaguing the series since its inception still exist.
  - Not enough variety in the core mission gameplay, and the few deviations from it don't last very 
 long.
  - Why can't I take a 90 degree turn at the same speed my enemy is? Especially if he is in a Ford 
 POS and I'm in a Ferarri? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mateusprado
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  If u want come visit my country Brazil, but have fear of the violence, forget about it, it is not 
 10% of Liberty City!! Despite of the joke, THE ADVENTURE OF "N. B." is AMAZING!!
  
  Every chapther every mission, the girlfriend's dialogues, the internet, tv and radios, events and 
 central drama, the action moments and the caracthers, Playboy X, Roman, Escuela, Carmen, the excentric 
 Bernie, the crazy Dwaine, very funny a time that he said that dont know read because fights in 
 the school!
  YOU NEVER WILL SEE THE GAMES WITH THE SAME EYES AFTHER GTAIV. 
  
  PLAY BEYOND!! Mateus Prado Sousa, MG-BRAZIL
  
  IN PORTUGUESE
  
  GTAIV e recomendado a todos 
 q gostam de um bom seriado de acao e com uma boa dose de humor.
  cada evento, missao, personagens, jogabilidade, a internet tv e radios do game, SENSACIONAL! Junte 
 grana, venda seu ps2, compre o 3 ou um 360, mas nao deixe de jogar esta obra prima da RSTAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoaxee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game the world went crazy for since the announcement was made. We all 
 waited impatient for the release date, and we were highly let down. The game gets quite boring 
 for some people after they have completed the game once. Some people have even sold it, it's no 
 where no worth doing that. So it was a little to strict on physics, it's called making a realistic 
 game. I was slighty let down too at first, I don't blame Rockstar. I think they've down a pretty 
 darn good job! Don't judge the game by your friends, they don't know what a good game is and what 
 a bad game is! The graphics may not be a brilliant as other latest-gen games, it's because of the 
 amount of buildings and objects they have to do. Think about every piece as you stroll through, 
 think about the amount of effort they put in. Be grateful, it's Grand Theft Auto for goodness sake! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is gonna be a shorter review than my other reviews. I was a big fan of Grand Theft Auto III 
 even though I never finished it. But for whatever reason I couldn't get into its two followups, 
 Vice City and San Andreas. So leading up to the release of Grand Theft Auto IV, I wasn't sure whether 
 I should get it or not. I usually goofed around in GTA games, so I never got too far. The reviews 
 were enough for me to go ahead with purchasing it, and I'm glad I did. GTA IV is the first GTA 
 game I've ever finished, getting both endings as well. GTA IV was a lot of fun along the way, with 
 plenty of good missions, a very immersive, almost living city, an improved targeting system, and 
 a nice story.
  
  This time around you play as Eastern European, Niko Bellic, arriving in Liberty City at the behest 
 of his cousin, Roman. Things start small, as you help Roman at his Taxi company, but in GTA fashion, 
 things heat up quickly. Before you know it, you'll be doing missions with drug dealers, the mafia, 
 a crooked cop, even the government. The initial highlight is seeing Liberty City in all its glory. 
 Compared to the previous GTAs Liberty City is amazing. It feels alive, there are quite a few different 
 activities to do around town, there are various establishments to visit (bars, internet cafes, 
 comedy shows, billiard hall, bowling alley) , and the people feel alive. If you steal a car, sometimes 
 they'll fight you, sometimes they'll run away. If you're walking and get hit by a car, they might 
 be angry or get out to see what happened. If it rains, they'll go running for cover. I've even 
 seen cops chasing other people. Rockstar did a great job bringing Liberty City to life.
  
  If you've played previous GTAs, you'll be familiar with the controls and the way the game progresses. 
 You still meet up with individuals to get missions, then carry them out. This time around you get 
 a cell phone, which allows you to call friends to hang out, or go the bar, or go play pool, etc, 
 but also if you fail a mission, you get a text allowing you to replay the mission, a great inclusion. 
 Plus people can call you on the cell, either for missions or to do something. Another nice inclusion 
 is GPS, so when you take on a mission, you get directions as to where to go, or if you're cruising 
 around, you can set a marker for a location and get directions to that location. Nice little details 
 that help flesh out the game.
  
  The graphics look great for a GTA game. The characters look fantastic, they are animated well, 
 but as I said before, the highlight is Liberty City itself. This Liberty City is more like New 
 York than previously seen in GTA III. There's a Brooklyn Bridge, a Statue of Liberty, a Times Square, 
 even a Central Park. I couldn't find a Madison Square Garden or a Yankee Stadium, but considering 
 how well developed Liberty City is, that's an okay exclusion. On the audio front, plenty of radio 
 stations return, with licensed music as well. The voice acting is also good, even without any notable 
 voice actors like Vice City or San Andreas.
  
  All in all, Grand Theft Auto IV is a great title. I'm not giving it a 10 because I don't think 
 any game should realistically get a 10. Still, I had a great time playing GTA IV. There are plenty 
 of missions, including a bank robbery mission that's the highlight to me, but also being able to 
 experience the new Liberty City is worth it. GTA IV is the best numbered GTA, and is in the argument 
 for best GTA game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisher9000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I gave GTA4 a 10, because even tho its practically like EVERY other GTA in this world, car chasing/races/explosions, 
 random killing sprees, cops all over, and hookers who give you health. i have to say the multiplayer 
 is what did it for the 10 from me. i enjoyed the story, but not to the fullest cause it seemed 
 like another unoriginal GTA story ( GTA Vice City ) and you do mostly everything you have done 
 before, same missions just different people in them and different voice actors/actresses.
  also the other feature that took me in more to this game isBas Rutten ( MMA Fighter ) is the 
 voice on the T. V. showThe Mens Roomwhich i laughed at to be honest. These little features 
 Rockstar has added to GTA4 kinda gave it a bit of a edge for the overall score. the graphics were 
 good ( not the best ) , voice actors and actresses were well done and enjoyable to hear different 
 people, game play is however you plan it, but it does repeat itself ALOT! like every other GTA 
 ( you go on random killing sprees, cops come for you etc, etc. ) , the music tho wasn't as good 
 as the others ( GTA Vice City had the best music 80's baby! ) but GTA4 did have its good tunes 
 at times. finally to say the least.... GTA4 is a well done and happy killing game and very enjoyable 
 online when bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: con_matrix
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Where to start. Great graphics, incredible interactivity, diamond dialogue, speechless story. words 
 can't explain the shear genius of this production. The graphics make you really believe you're 
 in Liberty City. These are a few reasons why it is so interactive: 1. The way you can hotwire the 
 car faster by tapping the shoulder buttons. 2. The blocking and disarming system is so simple my 
 little sister could do it. 3. when you are drunk and you walk into the curb or a car or even just 
 some boxes it makes you trip over and have you ever tried to drive straight while pissed, it's 
 impossible. And I think they have the actors spot on how the characters should sound. The story 
 is pure greatness with the choices through the game and also the random character feature is pretty 
 cool. There is only two downfalls which are really petty anyway are no planes and no pushbikes 
 and also they seem to have missed out haircuts and gym fitness from this wonderful game. Overall- 
 Can't get a game like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game took me 34 hours to complete so it is hard to summerize it in a review but I will try 
 my best.
  
  First off, the campaign is awsome. You start out as a cab driver and start rising in rank until 
 you become a mafia errand boy... you keep contact with people you meet during the campaign and 
 can go bowling, drinking etc... with them whenever you feel like it.. You start out in a small 
 appartment that you share with our cousin Roman and if you do the right choices in the campaign 
 you'll end up having 2 penthouses and an appartment. 
  
  I am one who really doesn't like games with lock on targeting... I don't know if there was a setting 
 that removes the lock on but I still wouldn't have removed it since the lock-on was the only way 
 that I could see who's shooting at me since almost every single person who ambushes you takes really 
 good cover... some missions were hard because of this... yeah there were some missions which were 
 like taking candy from a baby, I'd be like seriously that's it?... then there are the others. The 
 ones that tempt you to break the gta4 cd. Did I mention that there are no checkpoints during missions?? 
 You'd have to drive across town, maybe even to another island to buy some armour before you try 
 the mission again, which ma take more than 5 tries.
  
  There are a million glitches in this game so I don't want to mention them all.
  
  On the bright 
 side the game is really long and you get attached to some characters, not the ones who give you 
 annoying missions though. It gives you choices to alternate your campaign too and I like that.
 
  
  There are too few weapons and clothes to choose from so it makes it hard to differ from the other 
 players.
  
  I didn't like the online at all and I shouldn't start about that..
  
  All in all this game is still addictive and long so it deserves alot of credit for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goobyman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  This is by far, the best in the GTA series. In my experience with the other titles, I spent a little 
 bit of my time doing the quests, and the rest of it, just shooting people and blowing stuff up. 
 And while this still plays a major part in this game, the shear level of design and thought put 
 into the construction of this game has made it a nearly perfect game. 
  
  I give the game a 10, because it deserves a 10. It may still have the occasional flaw, usually 
 some graphical glitch or frustrating camera angle, but these are just not enough of a nuisance 
 to cause a lower score. 
  
  The story is fantastic, and fun fun fun to play though. The design of the city is the best so far, 
 and leads to easy driving, and quick memorization as to where materials and items are.
  
  If you haven't already I recommend you purchase this game when you can, and find the time to sit 
 down and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Since its inception, the GTA series has become a supreme hype-magnet, and as such, GTA4 being the 
 first of this generation certainly exceeded the hype generated by any previous title, and those 
 are tough shoes to fill.
  
  So, GTA 4 comes along exactly as that, a game that tries too hard too correspond to its hype... 
 impossible.
  
  This time around the character is a russian immigrant coming to the US for vengeance. He's not 
 a bad person, but he does what he must. This, in my opinion, is the greatest step forward in this 
 game, characters are interesting, likeable or hatefull and above all relatable, unlike the previous 
 scumbags in all previous games. Convincing voice acting also helps a lot in this department.
  
  As for gameplay, well, if you played any previous title you already now the drill: go to that 
 guy, watch cinematic, go do that, receive payment, repeat... mixed around by some side quests and 
 jobs outside the main story. I really don't think there has been innovation in the general mechanics. 
 There's in fact so much side material the I doubt any but the hardest of hardcore gamers will actually 
 do it all, to get that juicy 100% completion. 
  
  While most side activities are fun and well implemented, I really feel that the new friend system 
 is an annoyance. We're going around, doing jobs and advancing the story and constatly the people 
 we meet are calling becaue they want to hang out, and the crap is that if you don't they won't 
 like you anymore and you'll loose special bonuses they give you. It seems that maintaining a social 
 life is something I should be doing in real life, not in a video game, specially when the characters 
 in GTA seem to be more needy than any real person, what is specially enerving when most of them 
 are mobsters and murderers...
  
  As for the story itself... well the story is actually great, and I like that here and there we 
 have to make some though decisions, however, by the time we reach half time the originality of 
 missions begins to dry out, and by the last quarter it has degenerated into a grind of shooting 
 hundreds of goons with just a few minor twistes here and there, while quickly and decisively the 
 difficulty sky rockets.
  Yes, this game is HARD, sometimes cruelly hard and when there's no way to save in the middle of 
 missions, sometimes frustration can overtake the fun of the experience, specially when missions 
 need long drives before the action begins that you must repeat once more if you die. Sometimes 
 this can be skipped by taking a cab, but in some cases you'll need to drive specific cars.
  
  Control-wise, the game improves on the terrible shooting mechanics of previous games with better 
 aiming and a brand new cover system. Still its rather clunky and sluggish, a shame when there are 
 so many exccelent cover systems in action games these days...
  
  Sound is what it should be in a real world game, it sounds real... as for music, the selection 
 is eccletic and will appeal to just about anyone no matter what musical tastes you have.
  
  As for graphics, the game takes a giant leap for a series that has always preferred size over quality, 
 graphics and effects are excellent, and the limited detail draw distance is forgivable if we consider 
 the amount of detail onscreen at any given time. There plenty of glitches here and there, specially 
 with shadows, but none that really detreact from the experience.
  
  Finally, the euphoria engine fits like a glove for a game like this, either taking fire or being 
 runned over, the character reactions are spectacular and add a great dose of reality to the game, 
 making it a much more dynamic and livinfg experience than the previous titles.
  
  Oh and there's multiplayer, but I rather not talk about that since its so damn laggy and glitchy 
 that I never got a decent match in!
  
  The amount of hype this game received was simply unbarable, so, in my opinion, saying this game 
 delievers a small bit of what it promissed is already a great compliment, and, despite its flaws, 
 this game deserves some due praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitten470
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  You have to play it to see it. When your driving its like you can really feel the pull of the car. 
 When you take your car to the paint-n-spray, the car gets more shiny and its a diffrent coler. 
 The gunplay just clicks on you its very easy to learn. Some of the cutscenes where funny, especially 
 the Packie, and Phil Bill missions. Even after you beat the game it has tons and tons of replay 
 value. You can kill 200 flying rats in the city, do 50 stunt ramps, go on the internet on the game, 
 steal cars for friends, race, take your friends to play pool, darts, bowling and you can also get 
 drunk on the game and drive and the way it swerves your driving. Theres 100s of people in Liberty 
 city you can walk up to each on and they would say differnt funny things. I loved all my other 
 grand thef auto games, but after this one I wanted to play San Andreas, and I was playing it and 
 was like wtf is this. GTASA don't have the gunplay value of this grand thef auto, the cars look 
 awful, I just can't get into GTASA anymore. Grand Thef auto 4 has got me spoiled. It is really 
 the best PS3 game by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bct90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Over the years Grand theft Auto has always been a very popular series, ever since Grand Theft Auto 
 3 came out. I believe that this game, Grand Theft Auto 4 is another step up from there series, 
 because of using the next gen systems. The graphics and physics were amazing, however they pulled 
 out a lot that I would miss, like burglarizing peoples houses, and the army when receiving all 
 six stars, but most of all I miss the tank. I always enjoyed robbing the tank and destroying every 
 thing in its path. 
  The story line for this game was very good, playing as Niko Bellek looking for that person who 
 betrayed him and his squad in the war. There are some parts where you have to make choices, and 
 some will change the ending. There are times when one will ask you to assassinate another, and 
 you must choose whether you should or not.
  Therefore I must say this is a good game but I wish there was more to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilSauce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I've finished GTA IV 3 times. And I can say that is the best game in series. GTA IV has got best 
 graphics and audio/video effects. IMO the story is really like a best hollywood movie. I really 
 have enjoy. But after 2-3 times it's getting boring :P. Level is Hard, but only when You've never 
 play on pad. When You've done the main game, You can play in multi player which is very good to 
 me, but should be better, because of laggs. Yeap, sometimes it's getting laggy and it's frustrating 
 while long gaming. Maybe it's a problem of where my country is ?! I don't know. In Mp there's a 
 lot of types of game. You've got: Deathmatch, Team Deathmach, Bomb Da Base II, Cops n' Crooks, Free 
 Mode (which is very exciting, You can do whatever You want With Your friend, for example bowling, 
 pool, whatever.) and more.. In future i'll come back to this game for multiplayer because I know 
 this game like my self ;) 
  
  
  P. S. Sorry for my bad english. Im from europe (like Niko Bellic :P)
  
  Lil Sauce 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedromaia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Cool, huh? Gta IV... fUntastic!! IT ROCKS!!! Great gameplay, great multiplayer, great sound, great 
 graphics, great history, great visual effects... ALL GREAT!! NICKO BELLIC IS THE BEST!! BETTER 
 THAN OTHER GTA's!! But... has a problem.......... the game is tooooooooo short... BUT NO PROBLEM!!!!
 
  
  Good - ALL!!
  Bad - Game's lenght. Too short.
  
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 10
  Effects - 10
  Gameplay - 10
  History - 10
  Features - 10
  Value/Overall - A++++++++
  
 
  Nicko Bellic and is cousin, Roman, are living in Liberty City. They thought they will have a normal 
 life in there, but they enter in a non-controled world of sex, drugs and violence. Whatever...
 
  
  Features - We have a phone (cool!!) , we can get out with our friends to comedy shows, theaters, 
 striptease clubs, etc.... We can watch TV in home (rocks!!!!) .....
  
  Just to say it's a cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool (...) game.
  
  Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagmaGecko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV really does live up to it's name. The graphics are mind blowing, and they finally 
 gotten rid of those annoying aiming glitches in the previous GtA's. 
  
  Even better, now the targeting system allows the player to select a specific body part, plus the 
 recoil is realistic. Also, before GTA IV, players would often get into heated combat with enemies 
 while standing out in the open because they could hide behind cover. GTA IV remedies that. 
  
  The voice acting and the story really complement one another, and makes the game seem even 
 more real. Although they had gotten rid of the body building option (san andreas) , I personally 
 found that to be a distraction.
  
  This game really is a master peice, and it will be interesting to see if Rockstar will make another 
 GTA.... And if they do, it's gonna be a hell of a challenge to top this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a blast you got a lot of things to like buy lots of clothes gamble go out with you 
 mates and all kind of thins. Same old wepons but very nice look on the guns. Cars are very nice 
 they have made a better job than a racing game lol The mission are al the same really as the old 
 ones but very exiting and a lot more characters than the old gta's. The city is amazing i would 
 say it is new york but with less sky scrapers. I would say there is a lot more things to do on 
 san andreas but the graphics and the cars make up to that. The multiplayer is good but not a lot 
 of things to do but there are few unlockable thing on the multiplayer. If you liked the old gta's 
 you will like this one so this is a must get game. If you didnt like the old gta's do not get this 
 game cause you will not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisal1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  GTA is a game was I was never really fond of. I never really understood what my peers really saw 
 in the series. It was an "Ok" game for me as I played through GTA3 to San Andreas. I never considered 
 it to be a good game because of the GTA series lacked story. It was always about some random guy 
 trying to take over the city. But this has changed since those ragged story lines. The protagonist 
 actually has a purpose, compared to the others only wrecking havoc and taking over the city. He 
 has an agenda, a background. Niko is not always the tough guy like the other protagonists. He gets 
 afraid, and also has more emotions that the previous games failed to show. 
  
  Good: Realistic characters with excellent voice acting. Very nice minigames such as bowling and 
 pool to keep the player occupied for hours. The game follows the conventional GTA game style, with 
 a variety of music to play from. The graphics have improved much since GTA 3. The important NPCs 
 of GTA 4 have a better personality, and interesting characteristic compared to other GTA games. 
 
  
  Bad: The driving is more realistic, but fails in many parts. The angle of the 3rd person views 
 is awkward. The first person view is strange because the camera is fixed outside the car so you 
 can not even see the rear view mirror and looks very strange. The pedestrians still are not interactive. 
 Some times it feels like you are playing just another GTA game. Niko needs karate lessons from 
 Nick from True Crimes Streets of LA.
  
  I rate this game a Nine because it is still fun to play around mindlessly, and also this game still 
 keeps the player occupied for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJFMBEN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  the 7th game in the Succesfull series of Grand Theft Auto , the best game of the series to date (my 
 opinion and many otheres) basicly the game's graphics r great aspecialy for such a huge massive 
 game.. I wouldn't say that the graphics are empresive for a modern game but very nice to play with, 
 the phisics angine is the best physics engine i'v played with ever.. (Kill Zone 2 should be better 
 when its out ;) ) the number of weapons is not too low but by my opinion not high enough i expected 
 more of it, the fighting in the game is great although u dont use it a lot in the game becuz of 
 obvius reasons.. (lol only 1 mission with close fighting no more after that u get yer 1st glock 
 ;) ) the story is great! (obviusly) the game never gets boring as long u still have missions left 
 ;) , the multi player though is boring as hell after u level up to somthing like lvl 4 it takes 
 u hours and hours of repetive game play to lvl up to 5 .. + the only thing u get from lvling up 
 is some frikin new clothes witch most luckly r a new top, pants, a hat and glasses... in higher 
 lvles witch r even harder to lvl up (i mean takes more time) u dont get Sh*t!!! after the whole 
 sh*t that i sad here all I have to say is worth buying I gave this game a straight up 10 (aspecialy 
 as some extra game content is coming up soon) .. I bought it in 400 new israeli shekels witch is 
 133$ and im proud of it ;) !!!!! sorry for bad english!!!! P. S.
  
   infected 
   mushroom ``
   .. Rocks!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacks677
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  It is a great game but it repeats itself.. Same Sh*T over and over and over.. we get it, we kill 
 that and kill this. whatever. its so ridiculous on how its the same from the last. I can drink 
 beer and beat this game.. how retarded. I didn't even really have to try to beat it. Am I that great? 
 Or is it that easy? But anyways it does have a good plot and all but the game itself should have 
 a level of difficulty that is displayed on the main menu. I know im dissing the game but what the 
 fuk man, I really did get bored of it after 25 hours... I played Metal gear for 19 hours and would 
 play that again and again and for this game, NO WAY! kkkkkkkkkkkkkk lllllllllllllll kkkkkkkkkkkk 
 jjjjjjjjj lllllllllllljjjjjjjjjj hhhhhhhhhhhhhh ggggggggggggggu uuuuuuuuuu oooooooooooooo yyyyyyyyyyy 
 tttttttttt rrrrrrrrrrrr eeeeeeeeeeeee sssssssssssss aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi_pr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  -Interesting and engaging story
  -Excellent voice-acting
  -Beautiful graphics. You can drive for hours exploring Liberty City's nooks and crannies.
  -Driving 
 mechanics are responsive and intuitive. 
  -Plenty of bonus missions extend the length of the game
  -Very fun add-ons (radio stations/tv 
 shows/web sites/relationships and friendships)
  
  THE BAD
  -Lack of character customization. This is a step back from the series after San Andreas. It would 
 have been fun to customize the appearance and even gender of Niko Bellic. 
  -AI is poor compared with other games in the market.
  
  THE (VERY) UGLY
  -Horrible hand-to-hand 
 combat mechanics.
  -Lack of save points inside missions makes long missions a hassle when an objective is not met.
 
  -Text (menus, phone, and subtitles) is often very hard to read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simondengrymme
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  -------Gta IV --------
  
  The game starts out with you playing as the immigrant Nico bellic. You arrive on a boat to liberty 
 city where your cousin Roman bellic are waiting for you. In the letters to Nico, Roman told you 
 how good he lived in the big city and Nico thought he could get a slice of it. Unfortunatley roman 
 have wild fantasies and often gets into big debts. Nico must now do everything he can to stay alive 
 from mobs and drug dealers. The game itself is quiet good and lets you free roam in an opened up 
 city. The story is great and is interesting. The multiplayer is awesome but lacks since theres 
 not much detailed customisation, and the rpg system with ranking is only giving you new clothes 
 and sometimes you get nuthin. Anyway the game is fun but its quiet bad that they have taken away 
 alot of stuff from gta San Andreas since that was such a big hit :/ . Anyway this game isnt bad 
 but there could have been more to it but in my opinion i like this game and theres much to discover 
 and the new physics makes the game alot more fun and enyoyable ;) 10 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This will be shorter than short. If you have played and most importantly, ENJOYED the GTA series... this 
 one is the crown's biggest jewel.
  
  And the main character of this game, actually is not Niko Bellic, but the city itself. It will 
 simply overwhelm you and you will be hipnotized by the lifehood of the streets... amazing.
  
  Everything else, everyone has already stated as "Great", and i will not dare go against that 
 comment.
  
  The dialogues are really well done. Same thing goes for the T. V. Shows and radio. My favorite it's 
 gotta be the Subway or taxi rides. Specially the Subway ride, when you can see every little detail 
 of the city... it's so good. It only makes me wonder if they have used the playstation 3 full capacity????
 
  
  This is just an awesome game that has and shows the power of the PS3. Keep it up ROCKSTAR, you 
 guys RULE !
  
  
  
  Oh, and Biggups to Jacob, bomboclat mo fire!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  GTA has always cranked out games pushing the limits whether it is graphics, the sheer huge-ness 
 of the environment, the freedom of doing whatever you want, etc. GTA4 certainly doesn't disappoint. 
 I'm sure at this point everyone has played a GTA game before and knows just what to expect so no 
 real surprises here. Rockstar has stuck to the foundation they've laid out and have just continued 
 to improve upon it for the passed 10 years or so. Always bigger always better.
  
  They've finally added online to the GTA series as well which has been anticipated for quite some 
 time now. Though it does give you plenty of options with online, I myself was not quite as interested 
 as I thought I'd be. Maybe I've just grown weary of the same ol GTA experience and the online was 
 not as innovative as I'd hoped. 
  
  Though I have grown tired of the GTA formula I still found myself play through the whole game and 
 I did enjoy it but it just feels stale to me now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolGam3rKiiD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game was almost perfect. It has like almost everything that a person could probably want in 
 a game but..... There are some bad thing about this game that rock star could have worked on is 
 certain clothes that they should have put on the game and you should have been able to change his 
 hair and shave off that ugly mustache that he had for like the whole game b/c it was getting kind 
 of anooying looking at. So let me start off with the clothes.
  
  Clothes
  You should have been able to get a better variety of clothes and more clothes store should have 
 been open b/c the clothes that they have gave it look like it was all sent from a homeless shelter
 
  
  Hair and mustache
  We should have been able to give him a new hair cut b/c his hair was getting annoying to look at 
 and the mustache that he had was getting even more annoying to look at to and we should have been 
 able to get him a makeover like it had said on one of those websites.
  
  There are some more things wrng about that game but I dont have time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypnotoad8128
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series has always been very popular. The series re-invented the open world 
 game play system. GTAIII took this and created a hugely impressive 3D game world for the then next 
 generation consoles and created a living breathing city. But since then there hasn't been a lot 
 of advancement in the series. Yes Vice city was a good retro diversion with cool 80's music and 
 San Andreas helped many young folk pretend they were a "gangsta" that likes to wear their undies 
 higher than their pants!
  
  So here we are with the next gen iteration of the series and the best I can say about it is, "more 
 of the same!" This isn't a bad thing mind you as the story mode is quite good to play through, 
 but even though this might be a "next gen" title, the game play isn't is far from next gen. It 
 just feels like GTAIII with tarted up graphics.
  
  Lets look at the positive things; Storyline, Graphics and Multiplayer. But the negatives outweigh 
 it more; Same old story mode, no originality, multiplayer, unlikable characters.
  
  Honestly, it feels as if I'm playing GTAIII with better graphics. While the story mode is good 
 it's just more of the same mission types that shows a lack of originality. The characters themselves 
 are just not likable either which will affect your perception to what is happening to these people. 
 Multiplayer is a nice addition to the series compared to the previous releases, but the multiplayer 
 is flawed and the the game types are just average.
  
  On the whole, GTAIV is a solid game, but not the best example of the genre. It's the Godfather 
 III of the series. Not bad, but not an excellent example of the genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Yes, thats right. Best in Series. I hold my ground on that. 
  
  No, San Andreas could never really be beaten for its map (unless a next-gen San Andreas map comes 
 out. Please?) , but the story was terrible. As it has been in every other Grand Theft Auto game 
 if you dare to compare them with the tale of Nikko Bellic.
  
  Things don't start well for Nikko. On a boat coming across the Atlantic Ocean, he is headed for 
 the American Dream. The break of his life. A mansion to live in, courtesy of his cousin, Roman, 
 and lots of American women up for it. Sounds good doesn't it?
  
  Except the mansion is a sh! tty flat, and the women, well the women just arn't there. Roman, it 
 comes out later, was basically just lonely and in need of help. I'm not going to delve into the 
 story, as it would be unfair for anyone who wants this review to just tell them about the features 
 of the game, so I'll just do that. 
  
  Graphics - Well, they surpass any of the previous GTA games within the first 5 seconds, if that 
 helps. In short, they are excellent. People tell me I'm wrong when I say their excellent, but consider 
 the size of the map, that has no loading times between it then tell me the graphics are bad. Textures 
 are good, lighting is good, and the character models are detailed and thourogh. 
  
  Gameplay - The major gameplay difference from previous GTA games is the inclusion of a fleshed 
 out and cleverly done cover system. Working in much the same way as Rainbow Six Vegas, it works 
 fine, but blind firing is occasionally an issue behind objects. The rest is same-old-same-old, 
 but that isn't an issue, of course. Excpet one other new thing... American all have one, so Nikko 
 had to have one too. A Mobile Phone. This is the most standout new thing in the game, and its inclusion 
 is so clever. All of your contacts are in there, and you can meet up to socialize with them, and 
 if they like you above "75%" then their special feature becomes available. One anoying thing is 
 that to just roll on the streets and have fun free roaming you have to constantly deny invitations 
 to go out, which makes people like you less etc. Thats without even mentioning multiplayer, which 
 is good and varied, but is at its best when just doing online free-roam and shooting people you 
 don't know, or mucking around with 15 mates. 
  
  Audio - The audio is solid, supporting surround sound and with a great track list, its strong enough 
 to listen to just by itself. Guns sound good, car sounds are varied. Solid.
  
  Overall - Grand Theft Auto IV is an excellent game, and had I written this review before I got 
 MGS4, I would have awarded this game a 10/10. But seeing how much more I enojoyed MGS4, I just 
 can't. When i do complete the GTA 4 story, I can't see myself playing through it again. MGS4 is 
 in its seventh run through from me. Thats the difference between a great game and a perfect one. 
 
  
  This, is a great one then. An excellent purchase, and an experience not to be missed, but not the 
 best experience out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstrchf12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is here and like every major game, it is accompanied by praises and criticisms (although 
 very few) . In short, this game lives up to almost every promise it gave pre-launch and delivers one 
 of the finest gaming experiences in the past few years. GTA 4 is a must-have disregarding which 
 console you buy it for.
  
  GRAPHICS
  GTA 4 has some of the best graphics one can expect from a large scale game like this. The environments 
 are richly detailed giving realism like never before. Character models are also equally good looking. The 
 only drawbacks in the graphical department are the occasional pop-ins and the awful looking foliage 
 which seems to be prevalent in the series. But in the end, this is one game that you can buy just 
 to treat yourself visually. Liberty City really comes to life and you can actually feel like you 
 are a part of this huge city.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay has been heavily modified from San Andreas. The new cover changes the series' definition 
 of gunfights. The system works similar to other games like Gears of War or Uncharted but it is a 
 little more buggy. The player occasionally sticks to the wrong side of the wall or the wrong wall 
 itself. The driving too has been made much more realistic. Each vehicle feels distinct and unique 
 in it's handling and performance and driving is one place where the physics engine comes full force. Also 
 the player can now shoot from the car in free-aim. The pedestrians too are highly reactive. They 
 will react differently to different reactions (whether you shoot them or run into them) . One shortcoming 
 here is the lack of controllable vehicles in this compared to GTA: SA. The planes are missing and 
 there is a lack of variety in the kinds of vehicles available (no harvesters here!) . Similary, the 
 arsenal of weapons is also limited. There are only about 2 weapons of each type for use.
  
  STORY
  The story here is undoubtedly the best the series has produced so far. Niko Bellic is one 
 gangster many people will be able to relate to. The story moves away from the movie-inspired ones 
 of the previous instalments and creates a completely original one. The story can branch off in several 
 directions due to the choices the player will be able to make (a first for GTA) . These choices will 
 affect the missions one will need to accomplish later in the game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  GTA 4 is also the first in the series to feature a fully integrated online mode. This mode is accessed 
 through the cell phone in-game allowing seamless transition from single player to multiplayer. There 
 is a host of game modes to play online (including the traditional deathmatch) but only a few of 
 these are worth playing more than once. Also due to the lack of a proper lobby system, getting online 
 can be more of a hassle than necessary. Multiplayer in GTA 4 is a good addition as it gives the 
 game a lot more replay value.
  
  Overall, GTA 4 is a great game (probably the best game of the year) . It's only flaws are that it puts 
 too much in it's plate and fails to deliver a completely flawless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combey94
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto 4... so many years I want to buy it but now I already bought it. At first I 
 thought this game is not very good but as I played it I realised this is a good, no, GREAT game to 
 play. I really love the mobile phone and the Internet feature. It really makes the game more interesting. The 
 game play is awesome and not to mention the missions that Niko has to do, not too easy and not too 
 hard. Another feature that is in the game is calling your friends or girlfriends to a date. But I 
 really dislike the clothes that Niko has. Why can't they make even more interesting? The cars are 
 much more textured from the past games. The sounds of the cars are much more realistic and the damage 
 of the car is like real life. I really like when Niko rides a motorcycle at high speed and then 
 hitting something and he is flung far away from the motorcycle. I was laughing like mad. Overall 
 the game is really good but I don't think it is advisable for kids under 14. With bloods and the 
 sexual and crude language. So, if you're 14 above I want you to buy this game. Thank you.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueblur87
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  If you've played all the last Gen GTA games, you'll know what to expect, especially since this 
 one takes place in the exact same city as GTA 3. The gameplay is very similar to previous games 
 - you can shoot people by locking on or using free aim, unlock better weapons as you progress, 
 and use body armour, health pick-ups and vending machines to survive. 
  
  The graphics are of a very high standard, light and shadow and water act pretty much how you'd 
 expect, its pretty detailed given the scale of the city, and amount of things going on at once, 
 yet they seem slightly blurry and of a lower frame rate when compared to games like MGS4, but if 
 you're using a standard def CRT you won't notice the blur. 
  
  The animation has been improved to an extent, you will instantly notice that when you walk into 
 a car you get knocked over realistically, and when you crash your car head on into something solid, 
 you fly out of the windscreen, when you kill someone at the traffic lights, their head tilts forward 
 and beeps the horn and their foot goes onto accelerator sending their car into other things, and 
 when you run people over its very realistic the way the ragdoll physics and animation blend to 
 make it more satisfying than previous games where they simply got squashed. 
  
  However, the controls are different, and this takes some getting used to at first- e. g. R2 is shoot 
 when on foot or accelerate when in a car. Also, driving has been made more difficult than in previous 
 games, especially cornering. In this game, a hand brake turn will send your car sliding sideways 
 into a building if you don't use the footbrake to slow down first, and braking and use of the handbrake 
 or footbrake is a subtlety that takes a while of messing about before you get good at it. 
  
  As with the last generation, you can choose which missions you want to do, and this affects 
 the story line, as certain mob bosses want to kill each other, and you have to decide which side 
 to take. The story is gripping and you will want to keep playing to find out what happens next, 
 or simply to complete the game... you will constantly be wondering when it ends as more and more 
 missions become available. 
  
  GTA San Andreas set the standard very high in the last generation, and the level of freedom and 
 variety of side missions and activities you could participate in were extremely vast. You may be 
 expecting GTA 4 to outdo the last games, well in this case you may be disappointed. 
  
  Firstly, the role playing stat building aspect has been removed, so for all those fans who used 
 to spend time in the gym building up strength and muscle in San Andreas, or getting fat at Cluckin' 
 Bell, or getting really skinny by running or cycling, there is none of that in this game! There 
 aren't even any bicycles in this game for all you BMX fans who used to love bunnyhopping over cars 
 or pedestrians. 
  
  Secondly, a lot of the coolest things in San Andreas are non-existant... These include sky-diving, 
 mountain bike racing, flying aeroplanes, flying with a rocket pack, swimming underwater, burglary, 
 gang wars and having your own gang to take when and where you please, also taxi missions, ambulance 
 and fire and police missions (to an extent) - all of these things are now gone. Why have they taken 
 these aspects away? possibly development costs? who knows...? It is still highly playable but I 
 was disappointed when I couldnt find any of the things I used to have most fun with in San Andreas. 
 
  
  So what's new? They have added a relationship thing, where each person likes or dislikes you based 
 on how much time you spend with them and contact them. You can take associates to the bar and get 
 drunk (quite funny when your view goes wobbly and you see Niko stumbling and walking barely keeping 
 his balance) , or go bowling, play pool, watch some strippers, etc. all of these things increase 
 the percentage that they like you by but you also have to drive them to and from their house, and 
 how well you drive and whether you get into trouble during the day out can lower the amount they 
 like you. 
  
  There are also girlfriends in the game which I found to be an annoying distraction from the game, 
 as you have to constantly go out on dates in order to satisfy your girlfriend, and they keep calling 
 you on your mobile phone whilst you are trying to do a mission. 
  
  The mobile phone is a nice addition, and instead of just receiving texts or chats from people, 
 you can actually dial numbers and ask to go out somewere or ask for work, and you can also later 
 use it to photograph criminals and send the photo to an associate, but this is a rare occurence.
 
  
  Internet cafe's are now usable, and some parts of the game require you to check emails or browse 
 the in-game internet for information, this adds to the overall feel of realism and depth, but is 
 also tedious at times when you don't know where to search or what to do.
  
  Online - Yes this game is playable online, and is great if you have mates that have a ps3, or just 
 to play with or against random people; you can easily invite them and set up various rules like 
 team deathmatch, where the parameters could be that the winning team is the one who is first to 
 get $3000 ($100 for each kill, plus some money is dropped where the person dies) You can also free 
 roam and just have fun killing cops and pedestrians with other people. Playing in an open city 
 is very entertaining, as you can roam anywhere, and its always hilarious when someone turns up 
 with a helicopter and someone else has a rocket launcher, or having car chases whilst firing uzi's 
 at each other. You always get some people who are extremely good at killing you before you get 
 a chance to fire though, and that can be annoying, but the overall experience is as you would imagine 
 - GTA but with lots of people just as crazy as you running around the streets. 
  
  Other stuff - I was excited when I saw the rollercoaster on the waterfront, but very disappointed 
 when I discovered it was closed and you couldnt go on any of the rides... given the depth of the 
 previous game, being able to go to the amusement park and ride the rides, or play the stalls was 
 one of my expectations but sadly it was just a dead backdrop. This was the same case for the Statue 
 of Liberty, which you cannot go inside. Perhaps we have to wait for the sequel or the NEXT generation 
 before we get a GTA which outdoes all our expectations? Anyway, all these shortcomings are the 
 reason for not giving the game a 9 or 10, because it would have deserved one had it met or outdone 
 everything I expected from it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raverque
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I kept playing on it from 16:00 to 8 in the morning. It's very addicting, and 
 I love the story and most of all the physics. I love how everything in Liberty City reacts to everything 
 you do. Sometimes the moving by foot may be tiring, and you will get annoyed by how all the drivers 
 hit you and kill you while crossing the road, but those are just minor things, they don't really 
 matter. Sure, you may lose your cool on some missions for losing many times, but later on you'll 
 get a nice amount of money from them. I love all the new ability's for the player to do, like calling 
 your friends with a phone, going somewhere like drinking, eating or strip bar. And there are new 
 useful things too, like going into corner and shooting enemy's from there, accurately or safely 
 but less accurately. It's not as hard like the last one's, but boy oh boy is it challenging. I 
 will keep the game and will play it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Here is a graph of what I think of the game:
  
  Graphics: Poor, 5.0
  Sound: Bearable, 6.5
  Online: Bad, 5.5
  Gameplay: Good, 8.0
  Game (overall) : Good, 8.5
  
 
  The game has minor changes and is exactly like San Andreas and I don't know why Rockstar Games 
 delayed the game so much for this, the fighting mode is poor and shooting has just gotten worse 
 but cars are still the best. Missions are the typical GTA mission. I was expecting so many things 
 from this GTA such as Snow, Car Indicators and a different story. But none of that happened so 
 I am terribly disappointed and to even make it worse you cannot fly planes! That is just so bad 
 even though the city is not that small. 
  
  Overall I think Rockstar Games could have done a much better job with visuals, and pretty much 
 everything, too bad though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boy009
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I could not believe that the series was finally taking it to 
 another level by doing online features. I use to always say that Grand Theft Auto would be much 
 better if you could play against other individuals online. Single player was great I did a couple 
 of missions and noticed right away, that the driving was a little bit harder, but that made it 
 ten times more fun. It always seems like there is a cheat in every Grand Theft Auto, so there were 
 some in Grand Theft Auto IV, however if you did enter a cheat you took the risk of your game changing 
 and not being the same as before. Online was great I enjoyed do drive byes, ramming my car into 
 a group of people, getting my partner drive so that I could shoot out the window, driving the helicopter, 
 snatching people out of there cars, and also sniping people from a great distance. Overall I think 
 this was a good game, but it could be better, at times it took to long to find a room, and sometimes 
 you would get booted or the game would freeze up for no reason. This game gets a 9.0 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bond47
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  It has finally arrived, the masterpiece, the game of games, yes, it's GTA IV. Rockstar have made 
 another success with this game. I'm not surprised: it's incredible! The graphics are beautiful, 
 they make everything look so real. They, ve made pressing buttons a whole lot more fun. 
  
  The story starts with you, Niko Bellic, an illegal immagrint coming in on a ferry to Liberty City. 
 Your first mission is to drive to your cousin, Roman Bellic, to his taxi place. Oh by the way, 
 I only gave this game a ten, because it was the closest thing to 9.9 recuring. I'm sure most of 
 the people who have played this game will agree it isn't absolute perfection, am I right?
  
  The story is very gripping and each cutscene is fun to watch, all the characters expressions 
 look more realistic, and to fully understand the story line you must watch each cutscene. The weapons 
 are good as usual, one for each category, like, sub-machine guns, assualt rifles all that stuff. 
 The new cover system works very well, and can make alot of missions alot easier, although most 
 missions are a challenge and have to be attempted a few times.
  
  Basicly, you have to play this game, or you will regret it for the rest of your life. So stop reading 
 this review of the game, put on your best jacket and go and buy  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_h_a_d_o
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever had one of those days when ...
  
  * You wake and wonder whether it's actually worth getting out of bed?
  * The taste of ashes fills 
 your mouth, where once you salivated with anticipation.
  * Life's glamour has faded, and it's glory feels jaded.
  * The promise of a new day elicits a 
 sigh rather than a smile.
  
  Welcome to Liberty City, 2008.
  
  The life of Niko Bellic feels a bit like this, and the indifferent, disheartened and cynical persona 
 donned by the main character mirrors my own feelings about this game. It's all a little ho-hum, 
 I'm stuck in a rut, and feel like I'm just living day to day, hand-to-mouth ...
  
  Initially I was suitably impressed - due partly to the fact that the game was played on brand-spanking-new 
 (purchase and experience-wise) hardware. But now that the honeymoon period is over (and a relative 
 sense of objectivity has returned) , I have to say I'm a little disappointed - not only does it 
 feel like just another day in the life of a Rockstar gamer, with the somewhat repetitive nature 
 of missions creating a genuine sense of deja-vu, but the game also seems to have taken a step backward 
 in development and realisation. Following on from previous titles, there are [imho] glaring deficiencies 
 - most notably, the non-inclusion of the [RPG-like] vehicle/physique modding capabilities, greater 
 NPC interaction and property management aspects - things that set GTA apart from contemporary games 
 within it's genre.
  
  Sure, some of the graphic elements in the game look pretty. Liberty City looks good, and visual 
 effects - fog, rain, lighting, shadows - are done quite well for the most part. But there are the 
 occasional nasty visual glitches that detract (flashing textures, artifacts, lack of continuity) , 
 and other aspects look out-and-out terrible, especially some of the animation/motion imparted to 
 characters, most annoying to me being the  
 action of both NPCs and protagonist alike. The camera motion/control can also be extremely annoying 
 at times, although admittedly, no more so than some other games. But the whole thing sometimes 
 feels like it's incomplete, unfinished, a product rushed out the door to meet deadlines before 
 being polished.
  
  It certainly possesses redeeming qualities - the excellent, parodical humour (especially within 
 radio and television broadcasts, and which often extends to the choice of music) , stand-up comedy 
 slots from top comedians, reasonably well-told and well-performed story, and an expansive, immersive 
 environment - all of which build on and extend the history of a beloved series. And it IS still 
 fun to play, though probably to a greater extent for a virgin, someone uninitiated in the worlds 
 of GTA. But my expectations were for something bigger and better than I'd seen previously. A better 
 world. A land of boundless opportunity ...
  
  But it seems those hopes and dreams have been dashed ... for me and Niko both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aijou_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:07 am PT
Review:  Like the title says, I really love this game. It's so close to perfect in so many ways.
  
  Today I finished the last story-based mission in GTA 4 on my ps3. It left me stunned and amazed 
 but most importantly it left me craving for more. Of course there's a lot more to do in the game 
 but I cant help but feeling a bit sad that the enchanting and well-written- and performed story 
 has now come to an end.
  
  even though this game is all i'd hoped for there are some things that I feel that I'm missing. 
 Most of these things are features from previous games (mostly GTA San Andreas) .
  
  Here's a list of the things I miss:
  *Wider Selections of clothes shoes and accesories. (including 
 short sleves)
  *Being able to visit the barber or tattoo-parlor
  *Flying Planes
  *Buying real estate
  *Styling Cars
  *The Gym
  
  That's about all I can think of.
  
 
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burstlimit514
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is the funnest i hav had on the ps3 in a while. Great story great online play and many secrets.
 
  
  The Good: The story is exellent! The game also has a variety of weapons that have their ups and 
 downs. The driving is fun and more realistic. The game also has a variety of secrets that can be 
 found. This game also supports online play! you can do deathmatch, Team deathmatch, cops n crooks 
 and more. Which can hold up to 16 players. Their are also 3 mission modes that hold up to 4 players. 
 You can also ride vehicles with others and shoot.
  
  The bad: their are times where an enemy dies and gets back up to get away and you will lock on 
 to them which will problably get you killed. In online mode the game will sometimes lag and a player 
 will be in front of you but they are reallyhiding behind a wall shooting at you. 
  
  Over all it is a great game and i reccomend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSchrowang
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't really on my radar until the day it came out. I had the day off, so I went to 
 Target and because I had the extra money I decided to pick up the Special Edition with the lockbox, 
 art book, etc. And then I played it for eight hours. I played it every day after work. I played 
 it all weekend. My girlfriend wanted to know why I was ignoring her to play some stupid game. I 
 played it and played it, and eight days later I beat it. 
  
  It's been a long time since a game captured my attention so singlemindedly. This is a game that 
 takes all the promise of the past Grand Theft Autos, and launches it into the stratosphere. 
  
  I am not lying when I say that a tear or two escaped my eyes when the finale came and a pivotal 
 character died. The choice you have to make at the end of this game is pretty gutwrenching.
  
  This is a game that I will look forward to playing for a long time, exploring and exploiting 
 all the little details in this massive sandbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auron_16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  It takes a lot to make a game as epic, and just pure, content. I have lost hours and hours of my 
 life, just cruising down the streets of Bohan in a Stallion and watching people go by, fighting, 
 talking, and let me tell you something- it takes a great developer team to make a game seem fresh 
 every time you boot it up. And there (for me at least) has been no repetition in anything, from 
 the people in the streets, to the way Bellic talks to his friends while driving home from a bar, 
 drunk. Try it on a bike, that's when its most fun. Everything from the soundtrack, to the way the 
 sunlight gleams on the windows to the way flames shoot out when you shoot the tanks on the backs 
 of fork lifts, is engineered flawlessly and flows together to form an expierience that leaves you 
 wanting more. I can't wait for the next Grand Theft Auto (not Chinatown Stories) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharma481516
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I've found that with the best games in my collection, I start to exhibit an interesting habit. 
 I will start to wander around in the game and try my hardest to do everything and anything I can 
 in the game, just so that I won't finish it. I've done it with the Final Fantasy series, I've done 
 it with many of the games of the Mario genre. And now I'm doing it with Grand Theft Auto IV.
  
  There is simply so much to see and do in this game, that it's incredible to think that the 
 previous games in the series seemed so big and open before, especially when GTA: San Andreas was 
 actually on a MUCH bigger map. This game is huge, and there's stuff everywhere to do and see that 
 it's so much more than just a collection of missions that you have to accomplish. Some people out 
 there seem to be bored because the missions are all the same to them, but I think missions are 
 just the tip of the iceberg here. 
  
  The mini-games are actual games in themselves, the cars have been tweaked to really take advantage 
 of physics, the NPCs are much more fleshed out with more realistic reactions and interactions, 
 the weapon system has improved immensely, the effects are fantastic (love the ocean waves) , the 
 cut-scenes look great due to the detailed characters, the cops are much more tenacious so it's 
 more of a challenge to go head-to-head with them... and on and on and on.
  
  This game is so incredibly immersive that I sometimes play just to see something new. Hop in a 
 taxi and look around, and you'll notice something new and cool every time, whether it's an inappropriately 
 named business sign, or a hilarious comment on one of the many radio stations, a person saying 
 something rude while on their cellphone, or a hilarious poster hung up on a wall. There's simply 
 so much in every corner of this game that it's amazing that it fits on a single disc. For those 
 people that only take the game and look at how its missions stack up against those from previous 
 games, I think they're missng a lot of what makes it fun to play this game.
  
  I really don't think I need to get into all the features of the game, since plenty of reviews out 
 there have gone over GTA IV in depth. But I just have to say that I think one of the reasons that 
 we all fell in love with the (modern) GTA series is that it allows us to do things in what seems 
 like the real world that we couldn't ever really do (without jail time) . And that's where this 
 game really shines, because it fills in even more of what it's like to live in a real city, and 
 lets you go nuts with everything in that city. We all want to be gangsters sometimes, and with 
 this game you get closer to that than you ever have.
  
  The ONLY thing I think could be improved is the framerate. While it's doesn't look bad at all, 
 there are times when the action on-screen is a little stuttery. I'm sure all the crazy effects, 
 high-poly characters, physics calculations, and streaming textures have something to do with that. 
 It's not a huge deal, so that's the only thing that keeps me from giving the game a 10 myself. 
 Otherwise, this game is perfection.
  
  Sure, I miss being able to fly planes. Sure, I miss the jetpack. Sure, I wish I could tear down 
 the street in the Rhino again. But those aren't enough for me to think that this game is somehow 
 bad or flawed. It's an incredibly immersive game with a living city to roam free in. And if that 
 city is missing a jetpack or a tank, I think I'll live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajy41290
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The wait for GTA IV was worth it. The ratings say it all. It is very rare that a game gets a 10 
 on gamespot and it is definitely the first I have ever seen. I think it is because it is such a 
 well rounded game. The story is great, the gameplay is fantastic, and the characters have depth 
 and true emotions. 
  There is just so much you can do in Liberty City both online and offline. If you want to just kill 
 people and wreak havoc in Liberty City, you can do it online where it cost you nothing to die. 
 If you do it offline, it will cost you about $5,000. The online multiplayer is great too. At this 
 point I am really hoping for the music functionality like the XBOX 360 has. It would give me all 
 the reason in the world to play even more. 
  Everything about this game is fantastic all the way down to the nitty gritty detail. I give it 
 a 10 out of 10 and would do so again and again. Great work Rockstar and keep up the good work on 
 L. A. Noire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryjparker
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  REALLY! is GTA IV a joke? ok first you had GTA 1&2. they were awful, they were like a poor game 
 of pacman. GTA 3, was the first decent one. then you had vice city, were you had bikes and the 
 map was bigger. Then san Andreas came along. the map was gigantic. the story's was clever. then 
 there was Vice city story's & liberty city story's which were not as good as san Andreas, but was 
 alright. then 360's & ps3's came along. so evryone expected GTA IV to be good. what a big fat dissopointment. 
 nothing new, in fact evrything less. the map was half the size as san andraes! and whats with this 
 hot wire-ing car stuff, is that the only thing different, they covered everything realistic in 
 liberty city storys. how disappointment,. the storys barely vary. lol that rimes. anyway its kind 
 of repetitive with the constant, killing, and stealing. this is worse then halo 3. Dont get me 
 started on that. whats with all the publicity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkasarpota
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun... I admit that its very tough to control vehicles with sixaxis (you can 
 even swith it off) but it doesnt matter... I liked it a lot... but I dont know about you... So if you 
 want you can rent it!
  You can ride about any vehicle you see except jets: ( Thats right... no jets in this one... but it 
 doesnt matter because the multiplayer is what you will admire the most... It has a 16 player multiplayer 
 all around Liberty City... Playing this game at least once a year makes you feel... Special!!! The 
 learning curve is about 0-10 mins. and the city really looks like New York City and gets you alive 
 and into a mood of gaming... and it feels as if there are many types of games in this... eg. There 
 is shooting without auto-aim (you can turn auto-aim off as you like) , and there is racing in multiplayer 
 mode, and there is pool... And there are other activities to do like go to the Strip Club or to the 
 Bar or the Drama or Darts, Bowling, Restraunts etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WrightFlyer207A
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  While this addition to the GTA series has a "been here; done that" feel to it, it still retains 
 some play value.
  
  As with the other GTA games, the story mode allows you to pluck away at the missions at your own 
 pace (for the most part) , roam around, or just create total chaos.
  
  There's no pressure to get to 100% completion, and whether you desire to obtain it or not is completely 
 up to you. Once the story mode finishes, you've not yet finished the game, and still must take 
 out a few flying rats, do a few stunt jumps, etc. All in all, it takes quite a while to get to 
 100%, even if you're playing the game 24/7.
  
  The most desirable, and most valuable feature of the game is the new multiplayer, allowing you 
 to dominate other players from around the world. With quite a few different modes, the fun never 
 ends. A very basic list (does not include all modes) :
  
  - Deathmatch
  - Race
  - GTA Race
  - Mafyia Work
  - Car Jack City
  - Cops & Crooks
  - Free Mode
  
  There are 
 a few, minor irritations with multiplayer though, primarily the fact that should you get disconnected, 
 it sends you back to single player, taking forever to load. Another irritation is that you can't 
 just see a list of games, and pick one accordingly; instead, you're automatically placed in a game. 
 However, there is an invitation system in place, allowing other players to invite you (and vice 
 versa) to other games.
  
  All in all, I'd definitely buy this game, since it does have replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razgriz_101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok here goes 1st review so here we go. Do a lot of this sort of thing in Product design so its good 
 practice anyway on with the Review!
  
  As i will say GTA4 is an all around good game, but there are a few things that let it down. I will 
 go down each part of the game from graphics to presentation.
  
  
  Controls:7.5/10
  
  Ok heres the reason i put it at a 7.5 i thought the controls werent too great didnt really seem 
 to fit (standard) but the classic controls do make a diffrence, Cars handle realisticly due to the 
 Euphoria physics system which does make a diffrence but at times cars feel a tad floaty, also Helicopters 
 have been vastly improved, the letdown in the control system was the targeting system it was the 
 proverbial achilles heel to me. Trying to keep the L2 button held down 1/2 way was a tad bit hard 
 you would either have it pressed down to far so it auto locks, or not enough.
  
  
  Graphics:8/10
  
  The graphics are good but nothing out of this world compared to some other 
 games to offer on the market. RAGE does make the city feel a lot more alive compared to its predecessors 
 with its lighting and feeling. The stylistic approach of it was well directed and is done extremely 
 well, also car models are detailed down to the finest detail which is impressive since there are 
 a few games that lack this. The things that bring it down are blurry textures and the occasional 
 pop-in which can be a little annoying.
  
  
  
  Music and sound: 9/10
  
  Well i mostly listen to rock and punk so LCHC and LCRR (need correction?) were my two favourites. The 
 classic rock one had offerings like genesis and Black sabbath (dio era) which were extremely good, where 
 as LCHC has the likes of bad brains and Dropkick Murphys, Also the talk radio is extremely entertaining 
 especially WKTT the judge cracks me up every time its really well done
  
  On to the sounds of the city, no not the radio the sound from the wind to the noise of commuters 
 pressing their horn in anger that theres another traffic jam at the tolls. Everything is detailed 
 pedestrians phone one another you can here other peoples phones ringing, also car engines are greatly 
 improved some cars sound as grunty as they should be or the old scrap motors (sabre) sound old 
 and haggard and ready to brick it and never drive again, this adds to the feel of the city.
  
  
  Gameplay/Story:7/10
  
  This was a little bit of a letdown especially the mini-games 
 they become tiresome quickly and seem a little gimmicky. The bowling is easy once you know where 
 to aim you cracked it, you are able to get a strike every round. Which was a little bit like well 
 its too easy lets try something else.
  Getting drunk can play a major factor when you go out with some friends and is rather amusing watcing 
 Niko stumble around and eventually shout yellow car to hail a taxi and stumble over (due to euphoria 
 physics) is entertaining but becomes stale quick.
  Car driving is good and bad sometimes cars can feel floaty and unresponsive even though they are 
 sports cars, On the other hand helicopters are vastly improved over the other games they handle 
 feel responsive and can be ripped apart instead of just blowing up when they make contact with 
 an object.
  Only thing really missing is fixed wing aircraft but i got what i paid for.
  On to the story i would say it was nothing more than a decent plot, it felt as if they focused to 
 much on Niko before than Niko current. Not a major thing but some of the characters didnt seem to 
 fit and could be an utter pain especially some of the missions which were repetetive and seemed 
 the same concept over and over, drive here kill him stuff which wears thin after a few hours.
  
  
  
  Online:5/10
  
  This is the games achillies heel. It is a lag fest, and the choice 
 of game modes isnt stellar, if your not really a racer or a Dmer. Then free-roam SHOULD do the trick 
 but most of the time its a random DM with the lack of headsets.
  I have even had stats rollback something thats a major bug in R* online system which was annoying 
 since i was rank 4, Also the majority of games have been laggy.
  Due to numerous reasons i find it was a below average experience just because of a few bugs and 
 pretty much every game seeming to lag.
  
  
  
  Conclusion:
  (Total average score 7.3 rounded to 7.5)
  
  At the end of the day its a good game just needs 
 a few major tweaks especially with online needs a complete revamp.
  I do suggest renting it first, since its not everyones cup of tea, its a big jump from the totally 
 unrealistic san andreas but some things they added were good but they took away many good things 
 at the same time which compromised the game. Im not in a game for realism i have a life for that.
 
  If they brought back a few things like gambling, owning lots of properties and ammunation i feel 
 the game would have had an overall better feel.
  
  
  Rent/buy: rent first then decide, decision is entirely yours.
  
  
  
  (this review was written, any 
 opinion within the review are entirely my own, so dont PM me flaming me or anything due to you not 
 agreeing. All stuff contained in here is what i thought not yours.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakomel
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is nice but something is missing, what is that thing missing? Hmmmm, aha! The Thing 
 Missing About Grand theft auto 4 is the real world feature where the game will act like a real 
 world game, you can do anything you want like throw a tv out of a window, jump out of a window, kill 
 somebody on a scret place and the body won't even disapear but a few days later, the body will rot 
 because the ambulance haven't found the body yet and the bloo will remain there forever until the 
 Street Cleaner will clean it! Just Imagine Grand Theft Auto 4 if it has the real world feature! Well, I 
 hope Playsation Compnay joined gamespot or the Rockstar Games Company joined gamespot so they could 
 see this review and modify Grand Theft Auto Games a little!
  
  Well, Bye! 
  
  From: Drakomel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Single Player - Story makes it all perfect. But it is one funny story. Game has lots of cars added 
 to the game that hasn't been added from previous GTA games. Rockstar tried to make the cars handle 
 realisticly and somewhat it works. Every car handeles differently. The cars now have almost realistic 
 damage and the bullet holes don't just dissapear. The blood stains don't just dissapear and the 
 weapons sound more real now. Also your character acts and moves more realsticly now. The way he 
 runs and pushes ppl and says things is a lot more real now.
  Things that have been removed from GTA series are planes. There lots of planes at the airport but 
 we can't use them. Good thing we can still use the helicopters.
  Now when you go on a date with your girlfriend she will notice if you wear the same clothes or 
 not and most likely she won't like it.
  New things have been added to the game like Bowling, new restaurants, some show clubs and more.
 
  Also cool new feature has been added to the game. Now you don't have to just blind fire through 
 the sides of the car. Now you can just aim from the window of your car and shoot your target.
 
  Graphics for this time of game are absolutely beatiful. . . best they can be.
  
  Multiplayer - There a lot of different multiplayer modes. About 16 and some modes are up to 16 
 players. So sometimes it gets a little crazy. But if It's a lot of people and a lot of explosion 
 is going on or something like that then you might experience some frame rate issues. But It's not 
 that bad and it doesn't happen often.
  Somtimes you might experience some lag and if It's laggy then It's usually really bad. Because 
 you shoot a person and then somehow he's behind and kills you. But there aren't really many laggy 
 games. . . unless you have crappy internet.
  
  Overall - It's a great game and def worth $60. So if you get a chance to get the game then It's 
 totally a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of the Grand Theft Auto series, but I picked up GTA IV after it's steller 
 reviews. I must say that I was very impressed.
  
  The game tells the story of Nico Belic who comes to Liberty City to find the man that betrayed 
 him years earlier.
  
  The graphics are greatly improved over the previous entries and the voice acting is strong. There 
 are plenty of cars to steal and each handles a little differently.
  
  The shooting is done well and the characters are solid.
  
  Ultimately though, it is Liberty 
 City herself that makes this game as great as it is.
  
  Few video game settings have ever come alive the way LC has. The city is incredibly well designed 
 and you can drive from one end to the next without encountering a single load screen.
  
  I recommend driving around in the rain with "Perfect" by The Smashing Pumpkins playing on the radio. 
 It's awesome.
  
  GTA's staploes are still present. You can pick up hookers, listen to humorous radio stations and 
 run from police.
  
  No game is perfect and this one is no different.
  
  The missions were just ok and not particularly memorable, there was a freezing issue when the game 
 was first released and the spot that was supposed to keep your car sometimes didn't.
  
  Small gripes all. This was a really great game that most players will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  GTA was a revolution. There was more freedom than ever before. GTA 2, well, I think, It's not as 
 good as 1. GTA 3, well that was even a bigger revolution than the first one. After that, Vice city 
 was great, but only a GTA 3,5. San andreas was the best of us, but it was ugly as hell. NOW! GTA 
 IV has came out, even if it has smaller freedom, than San Andreas, but it has a much better story, 
 and much better characters. I mean, do you remember, GTA 3's main character? Who the **** was he? 
 He never speaks, he never thinks, he's just killing and killing. But GTA IV is simply amazing. 
 Great story, great gameplay, great sounds, voice acting, musics, great controll, perfect game.
 
  
  Graphics: At last, a nice GTA! 9/10
  
  Sounds: Perfect voice acting, great sound effects, and cool musics 10/10
  
  Controls: Perfect. 
 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Also. :D 10/10
  
  The Good: The whole game
  
  The bad: Sometimes a little lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craftieman05
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game that will take a while to beat.
  
  The overall gameplay in the game is not bad. It will take some time getting used to driving again. 
 The new physics I guess changed the way we drive and it is a little more realistic. The new cover 
 and aiming system for the most part work real well. You will at times take cover in a weird spot, 
 but that will happen in every game that this feature is in. Also your aiming thing when you try 
 to switch targets will sometimes go crazy and get someone that you are not trying to kill and not 
 trying to kill you. But not very often.
  
  The grapics were decent, not the best ever but it is a step up from previous games. The soudn was 
 good to.
  
  The new multiplayer feature for the most part was very enjoyable. I never did any of the racing 
 online because racing is my least favorite thing to do, but I did the others. The one I enjoyed 
 the most was the free mode, my least favorite was turf wars. I think the only reason I didn't like 
 it was becuase I was expecting it to be the same kinda ordeal as San Andreas.
  
  This game is a good game, don't get me wrong. It is not perfect and I don't think it is better 
 than San Andreas. I was really disappointed in the game.
  
  This game really doesn't promote exploring like the others did. There aren't really any hidden 
 packages, screw them damn birds I hated getting the cops after me every time I shot one, and no 
 rampages. Some of the fun stuff in the game have been taken out for some reason. I also didn't 
 like having them nagging friend. I didn't want to drive around becuase they would call, so I always 
 called a cab to avoid them. And that didn't always work. I missed really custimizing your character, 
 buying property, and garages. I did think the making your own choice was cool though.
  
  Hopefully in the next game they will have some hidden packages, rampages, and other small side 
 quest things in the next one. But other than my complaints The game was pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: need-for-speed
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is one of the most revolutionary game i ever played and others i believ so i hope there will 
 be another seria. The game recievd 400 million dollars in one week! Another 100 million dollars 
 in a month. I do believ there will be another seria of GTA for the hype of GTA 4, but becous of 
 the violens in the game the next serias may not apear. For the realistic of the game some normal 
 people began to kill other people and they said to the law that they were imataiting GTA 4 and 
 so in one country the game GTA 4 was banned. So there is a chance that there other serias will 
 be cancelled by the law and the GTA will end. But if RockStar lowers the violens levels in the 
 next seria the the game will certainly will be out. Or RockStar can go to the corts and get there 
 permission by force to create even a more violent game than the other serias of GTA if so that 
 happens they will make the game and the violens scails will go of the charts n multipul country 
 and RockStar will get millions of dollars and half of there made money will be given away for fines 
 that the game cozt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rothinzil
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a masterpiece, the fact that it can deliver on the enormously high expectations 
 should speak for itself. The first Grand Theft Auto on this generation is one huge leap forward.
 
  
  The size of Liberty City is truly impressive, and the activity that goes on inside the city makes 
 it come alive. Besides the size, the looks are also amazing and I'm still in disbelief how they 
 manage to run this game without having to suffer through annoying loading screens, it's superb.
 
  
  The greatest improvement besides the graphics is certainly the possibility to take cover behind 
 walls and makes it a lot easier to take out attacking bad guys. The auto-aim feature is godsend 
 and makes massive battles a lot more fun.
  
  The most addictive part of the game is the fact that you can hang out with friends you make in 
 the game, shooting some pool, bowling, throwing some darts, see a show or simply get wasted at 
 one of the many bars and clubs is great fun.
  
  Niko Bellic and the others characters in the game are very like-able, and you will enjoy both the 
 superb main storyline as well at the many side-quests. Truly impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Camo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 puts players in the shoes of immigrant, Niko Bellic, who has arrived in the 
 notorious Liberty City from Serbia. The game follows his steps in gaining wealth and solving "unfinished" 
 business'.
  
  I am going to review this game in different sections.
  
  Graphics:
  
  An immense improvement over Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. The water effects are life like, the 
 occasional rain feels real. Using the Euphoria engine, everything in the game reacts as it should 
 in real life. Gunshots are extremely detailed, especially on vehicles. Niko goes around with blood 
 stains after getting involved in heavy gunfights.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The guys in Rockstar have significantly improved the shooting mechanics from other games and perfected 
 it in GTA4. Players can now duck behind cover when in the middle of a gunfight to avoid damage. 
 From there, player are able to either blind-fire or pop their head out and shoot at enemies, though 
 there is little difference in doing either. A negative aspect of the gameplay in GTA4 is the sheer 
 skill needed to escape the police. All the player has to do is get out of the danger zone, and 
 lay low for a while, and soon the cops have a sudden case of amnesia and tend to their own business'. 
 The driving mechanics have been refined, that now handling a vehicle gives the exact effect of 
 handling a vehicle in real life.
  
  With the Euphoria engine, every element in GTA4 reacts to the situation at hand. If Niko starts 
 shooting at civilians, others will call for the police on their cell phones. Instead of walking 
 around like zombies, civilians change what they are doing every second.
  
  Story:
  
  Not much have changed in terms of storylines, as all GTA stories are the same.
  
  Shoot. Kill. 
 Hijack. Shoot.
  
  But this time around, the character in GTA4 have more human emotion to them compared to characters 
 from other games. Niko Bellic, the protagonist of GTA4, seems more human than the other lead characters 
 from previous Rockstar games.
  
  The downsides of GTA4 is that once you finish the game, there is nothing else to be done. Sure 
 the XBOX360 owners have Achievements, but after that there is nothing else. There are not many 
 cheat codes and mods that players can use to truly enjoy the game it was supposed to be played.
 
  
  Even though its an awesome game, its still best to just rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonePwn
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty good. The story never changes for example..."I come from Russia to make 
 a new life cousin!"
  In every single mission!
  
  Gameplay is pretty fun... for running around killing people, which is not as fun as San Andres, Its 
 not fun for MISSIONS! This game does not deserve a 10 at all! It deserves an 8 and nothing else! 
 There are not as many cheats to mess around with in this disappointing game! Its impossible to 
 use the helicopter and its not fun at all! after i got metal gear solid 4 (which does deserve a 
 10) i have not played this game since...
  
  There are few of Easter eggs (secrets) in this game... like the heart of liberty city, that weird 
 dancing worm, and that is about it... no fun... no fun at all...
  
  I have to admit... the game cover is pretty cool.... but it has nothing to do with the game! I hate 
 that you dont get any cool guns in the game!
  
  like i said... this game deserves an 8... which is not that bad... but not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Well this game starts off with Niko coming to America to earn some money. That's basically all 
 this game is about earning money to have a better life. Niko first starts with tasks from his cousin 
 Roman who sends him on a mission to meet someone, take them somewhere and then bring them back 
 home. For the first few hours of the game that's all you do and it gets boring really quick. 
 
  
  You meet new people as you do missions. Just about everyone you meet has a job for you to do for 
 them. That's how you make your money. You can even have a girlfriend in this game. Niko has to 
 be the dumbest person I have ever seen potrayed in a game because he does anything anyone tells 
 him to do. He goes around as a hit man for people and basically asks no questions just does the 
 job. 
  
  Most of the missions in this game are very repetitive and are just plan dull. There were some missions 
 I found to be some fun like the "Bank Job" and the Helicopter mission. There's also this sniping 
 mission where you scale this tall building and shoot people which I found to be quite fun. 
  
  There are about 98 main story missions and tons of other little side missions (which I found 
 to be lame) to do in the game. 
  
  What really ruined this game for me was the horrible controls in this game. The shooting mechanics 
 are terrible and the driving physics are terrible. Also the way Niko fights is just plain bad. 
 Bad gameplay can ruin the whole game and it did just that for me.
  
  There's also the multiplayer component in this game which has more then 10 different types to play 
 but with the bad controls in it it just ruined the whole experience to me.
  
  The game has some amazing production values as the shows you can go see and the radio stations 
 you can listen to I can tell alot of time went into that. But over all this game just left me disappointed 
 as I was exspecting more. The overall experience just wasn't fun to me and that's what games are 
 all about having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grindorf
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was a highly anticipated game but it didn't reach most of my expectations. 
 I like the rag-doll physics, specially when you get out of a car when it is running at high speeds 
 it can easily simulate what it would look like in terms of the realism. I really liked most of 
 the new features specially the new cellphone. The cellphone is a first for GTA, back then it was 
 a beeper/pager that rarely sent you messages about jobs, happenings, etc. The music featured in 
 GTAIV doesn't meet my expectations and if I wanted to listen to something 'hardcore', I could just 
 flip to the LCHC station DJ'd by some legendary punk band member but i mostly went either to the 
 Journey station or the Russian station (I think it was called Vladivodsky) . There are a lot of features 
 missing from the game that i think should've been kept; for Vehicle Customization I can tell that 
 they where thinking letting you customize your 2 wheelers, The current selection of clothing in 
 GTAIV is nothing compared to GTA: SA. The Missions are very repetitive; Most missions have you look 
 for someone and then shooting them or they have you on barely any car chases where you sometimes 
 end up killing the guy in the explosion or they sometimes give up and you have to beat them until 
 it says that you earned your money. Talking about money, I have nearly $900,000. GTAIV limits to 
 what you can do with the money supplied; in order to not have a surplus of money, when I have to 
 change from bloody clothing to a clean pair I just go to a Perseus or a Modo and then I buy clothing 
 I already have just because I have the money to do that. The majority of your money is spent on 
 health care, bribes, hoochies (trying to keep it clean) , strippers, and taxis. I think that a possible 
 update to the game can add places where you can actually buy a car. Another update they can make 
 is one for repetitive cars; When I am looking for a certain car i don't find it until I do some 
 searching, but when I do find it I see it all over the place... WTF!? The positive thing about this 
 game is multiplayer, but it gets very repetitive because some people look the same while others 
 have the same hat or shirt. To conclude this, i would like to say that GTAIV needs a very massive 
 update. THANKS FOR READING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _T_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Well you might have heard that its the worst of the series, But im here to tell you its not. I 
 admit it has a few things missing that made vice city and san andreas good but this is liberty 
 city.
  
  The lack of purchasable housing was a problem and maybe the car modding stuff but you all have 
 to understand something this is a realistic game. If you only made the money that you got in game 
 and bought the things u needed you might get around 500,000 dollars but the time you finished. 
 and buying a house with that would leave you with nothing. but like i said buying things is not 
 the problem.
  
  Lets talk about gameplay, **** smooth regardless what version your playing Ps3 xbox360 or the pc 
 version the cover system was a must have feature that they should have placed a long time ago, 
 if you find the cover system crappy and it dont work for you then your trying to hard and not looking 
 around you. it works at the closest possible wall or object in front of you or closest to Niko.
 
  
  The physics engine is one of the reasons I got this game its pure fun in a digital form eveything 
 works wonderful and there is very few problems with it so few in fact that there not worth mentioning. 
 The shooting and aiming system is the best to date, the over the shoulder view and lock on aiming 
 makes gunplay better. the fact you can move the ridicule around to different parts with out loosing 
 your target is a touch of perfection. The cell phone that allows you to access the all exclusive 
 multiplayer is a feature that makes the game feel like a real living city. if you dont like it 
 while **** around the city? use the sleep mode it prevents calls from coming in and pauses friendship 
 scores enjoy. Finally the story, a heart filled emotional roller coaster that leaves you wondering 
 if you could have done things different what would have happened to niko, you could feel the pain 
 of everything he had to do and that you forced him to do. if all the new gta game contained a character 
 as likeable as Niko or even if they just used him again the GTA series will get better and better 
 with each passing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LochLacksLuck
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  where do i start its such a great game. the characters are very well voiced and nicko grows on 
 you. there are lots of car varieties and some can go really, really fast (ie banshee, turismo etc.) 
 really great missions and the mobile phone helps the story along. the guns feel really realistic 
 and theres just something special about speeding down the street with 6 stars. there are two endings 
 that mix things up a bit no matter what road you choose. do yourself a favour and buy this game. 
 do it for Nicko, Jacob, Roman, Mallorie, Vlad, Dimitri, Faustin, Brucie, Dwayne, Playboy X, Packie, 
 Carmen, Carmalita, Kate and many more. if you dont own a PS3, XBOX 360, OR PC buy it just for this 
 game.
  GTA4 in a nutshell
  a great game that any PS3, XBOX 360, PC owner should have in there collection.
  
  Thanks for 
 reading my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aidara
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  GTA4 is better than the last one is because it had better graphics. if i told you that i didn't 
 enjoy playing GTA4 i would be laying i did enjoy playing it i just think that GTA3 was better because 
 you had lot more rides and you could sneak behind a person and killed him military stile (it is 
 when you use a knife and go behind a person and cut is neck quick and fast ) you could even do 
 that on the new GTA4 and i was kinder disappointed. another reason why GTA3 was better because 
 the main character was black and was from the hood and was a gangster (* i am playing about the 
 character being black to tell you the true i don't care but i am not playing the part about a gangster 
 it is more fun if it is a gangster ) . My last reason why i think GTA3 was better was because of 
 the sky diving. It was cool when in a mission he sky divided into other plane. i dont think that 
 GTA4 online playing was that cool i just played it one time and sold the game thats why i it 8/10 
 but i give GTA3 a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  The gameplay of gta4 is like no other. Running around, driving, flying, boating around a city never 
 gets boring.
  
  The aim and cover system has dramatically improved. 
  It is so detailed and realistic that you feel as though you're doing bad things to innocent people. 
 The design of the game is one of the best on the ps3.
  
  The controls are also improved, and much easier to use.
  
  With way more things to do, and 
 places to go, there is an endless list of things to do in the huge city of Liberty City.
  
  The main character is a funny one, perhaps the most lovable in the whole gta series. He makes the 
 game fun, and exciting.
  
  To me, the most amazing thing to do in the city is to take an helicopter and fly around for a bit 
 to take in the sights.
  After finished taking in the sights, drop him out of the helicopter to watch him fall a long distance 
 to the ground. You feel bad, but man, its worth it.
  
  GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azafirster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Picking up the game, i felt excited getting my hands on it. The hype for this game has been exponentially 
 ridiculous. The gamers crave it, the kids wants to play it (even if they don't meet the age requirement 
 to buy it) , the parents hate it, some lawyers want to put the game in a grave, the censorship boards 
 all have the easy job of putting it to a mature rating. I started playing it and man, i was blown 
 away.
  
  Basiclly i felt the game is actually a story and not a game. Just that we are living it. I was 
 tempted to actually play it through without any hint from anybody. But when i noticed that it had 
 some side mission that i had to complete in order for me to attain 100% completion, so had to resort 
 to help from friends.
  
  Playing on my own for the first time was a blast, because i didn't know what to expect from the 
 game. Loving it, loving it. Felt like i was on Brucie juice with a hint on shark testosterone.
 
  
  The game felt like i was living in a real world every time i turn on my PS3 and loading that disk. 
 The graphics of this game is incredible. Ok so maybe take away the trees and the occasional graphic 
 hiccup that i'm already use to playing the previous installment of GTA, you get a pretty awesome 
 looking game compared to some games thats on the market within the same genre. The details that 
 went into making the city as real as it gets is insane, i wonder how many months they spent on 
 detailing every place in New York just to make it a miniture Liberty City.
  
  The cars are just awesome, when it came to the No. 1 mission, the cars physics came in, its was 
 a blast. I love it how they made the bike rides entertaining and educational. Yes, i said educational, 
 with the bike ride, if you wait just a few seconds before riding off, Niko will put on a helmet 
 and the damage taken during bike crashes nearly halves accoring to severity. Rockstar, how about 
 doing something in the cars just like what you did for the bikes, maybe half the damage during 
 the car accident if the player waits a few second and niko puts on the safety belt.
  
  The weapons array was just like before, and its wasn't as easy to get the weapons as before, so 
 searching for it was more satisfiying.
  
  The characrters are great even to the pedestrian is a sight to watch them do abaout their business 
 and suddenly things just happen, a robbery, accident, and comments they pass at you as you pass 
 them by. The main character was great, but i still can't understand a thing Little Jacob and Badman 
 are saying till today. Man, i wish they put translation instead of subtittle for those two.
  
  Congrats Rockstar, Thank you rockstar, you made my day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethSOMT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the history of electronic entertainment, standards have also been made to be broken. 
 In the film industry, Citizen Kane (1941) redefined how to use a camera to properly record a movie. 
 The Godfather (1972) revolutionized how a classic "love" story can turn into sheer chaos (among 
 other things) . Blade Runner (1989) destroyed the dream of a perfect, "beautiful" future for mankind, 
 replacing it with a run-down dystopia.
  
  This is just what Grand Theft Auto 4 does to the video game industry. Through all the hype, this 
 game proved itself as a new standard for all open-world video games (if not all games in general) . 
 
  
  Pros:
  -The story mode will take any gamer a good 25-30 hours to beat.
  -The character development is outstanding. By the end of the game you will know the characters 
 like the back of your own hand. That said, Niko Bellic is an amazing character.
  -The shooting mechanics have drastically improved since previous games (which still ever good though) . 
 The ability to easily "take cover" adds an entirely new dimension to all gun fights.
  -Online play is a great addition. Cops n' Crooks is a ton of fun.
  - Beyond the story mode, there 
 is a ton to do in Liberty City, including the flying rats, along with other bonus missions.
  -Just exploring all of Liberty City can be quite entertaining.
  
  Cons:
  -The graphics are 
 nothing too special. Occasionally slow frame rates can really get annoying.
  -Brucie was kind of annoying.
  -I am trying to think of other things, but there isn't much at 
 all.
  
  Consensus:
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a great addition to an already great series. In more ways than one, this 
 game broke the laws. Through its tremendous story mode, outstanding open-world features, and multiplayer 
 capabilities, GTA4 is a game that will represent this generation of gaming for years to come.
 
  
  Not to mention, who can argue with $500 million in the first week?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeybt93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to be said about this game. I waited for this game to release for a lond time. The 
 hype for this game was too much to handle. I was so happy when this game finally went into my game 
 console. I was so excited about this game I bought special edition for both my PS3 and Xbox 360. 
 That was the first time I had ever done that for a video game.
  
  The camera angles in the game are of course great. There are no problems with the camera since 
 the camera is all user controlled.
  
  The load time in this game I feel is excellent. There are no load times when you enter a building 
 or cross into different cities. The load time between mission only takes a few seconds.
  
  The graphics are a big improvement. The older Grand Theft Auto games never worried much about graphics, 
 but you can tell they took time on this game. The graphics are great, but they aren't the best 
 out there. I've seen better.
  
  The storyline actually had some meat and potatoes to them. Rather than it being a game where you 
 kill people for money and that's it, they actually took the time to really give this game a background. 
 The storyline is what made this game so much different than the previous ones.
  
  The gameplay and controls are a great improvement. They finally give you the ability to cover behind 
 objects and the new target system works perfectly. I didn't find any flaws in the gameplay in this 
 game. I felt that the driving worked very smoothly.
  
  The hype was huge, and this game had a job to get done. They had to make one of the greatest games 
 ever in order to fulfill the hype this game had.
  
  The music was a good pace. They had country music to Russian, and everything in between. This game 
 had a big range of stations to choose from and had a wide selection of songs. I had gotten a lot 
 of songs from that game and put them on my computer.
  
  The online play was fun at first but got old quickly. I didn't play a single online match without 
 seeing major lagging. If they fixed the lag problem then the game might be worth playing online 
 a little bit more.
  
  The voice acting in this video game is top of the line. They may not have had high made actors 
 in this game, but what they got was so much more.
  
  This game had some new innovative ideas that fit well in this game. The first one would be the 
 game revolving around your cell phone. I think it was about time for a video to get more realistic 
 and have a cell phone play a huge part. The next innovation would be the internet. The internet 
 allows you to date people, buy stuff for your phone, receive and send emails, and have pointless 
 fun. Websites don't offer much fun, but are entertaining and creative with the way they are designed. 
 The game the innovative idea to allow you to make choices. There were points in the game where 
 you have to make a choice, and that choice would affect the rest of the game.
  
  The game gives enough replay value to play it a couple of times. You'd be better off replaying 
 the game than roaming the city all day. It is fun at first, but it begins to get old after a while.
 
  
  This is my lasting impression of the game. I feel as though the game did a great job of creating 
 a game that allowed hours of fun during the missions, and the game was fun shortly after. I just 
 feel that after you beat the game, there wasn't much to do and the game started to feel old. I 
 still think that Vice City is the best in the series, but that's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  At first I wasn't too sure about the area of the game. Sinse Liberty City has been used about four 
 times in eight games now. I knew the gameplay would be there, it always has been [ever sinse GTA 
 III and those GTA games that followed it] . But I was a little unhappy at the thought of it being 
 set in Liberty City, again.
  
  My unease about Liberty City was put to rest for good though as soon as I started playing the game. 
 The city is different from the versions of it from the past. You might think as you drive along: 
 ah that looks a bit like the part of GTA III version of the city. It does, but then again, it doesn't 
 as more has been added. A different design [almost] from the start.
  
  Take Salvatore's mansion in GTA III it is there in the third area of GTA IV [even though Sal isn't 
 in it himself] . You drive off the main road and along a dirt road through trees to a rundown boarded 
 up mansion house [a hint to GTA III maybe? me thinks so for as soon as you leave the main road 
 and hit the dirt road it makes you feel for a second that your in GTA III] . This is the same building 
 where you drop off a highjacked truck, then come back later to move the gear, only to be ambushed 
 by the Feds.
  
  The characters are all original in this one. And I for one hope that it keeps up. No one from the 
 past series should be in this new revamp of the series. Best to start afresh and have this game 
 and the ones after it all linked in some way [like what happened in previous titles in the series 
 stoyline] . I dont think there is a weakest character in the whole game. They all seem to fit really 
 well into the storyline.
  
  Best friend characters: Dwayne [for his backup ability] and Brucie [just for being Brucie] and 
 last but not least Little Jacob [a dialogue subtitles creators wet dream] .
  
  The clothing selection for the character wasn't up to much. Yes there was four shops or so to buy 
 stuff from, but over all I just stuck with the outfits you get during missions GTA III's outfit 
 in Playboy X's crib and the bucket lorry outfit. That's the garbage man outfit for those in the 
 US [the LSD Jacket] . They had no decent shades either. I wanted FBI type shades, they look cool, 
 not available. All that was there was shades that looked as if Dennis Taylor had designed them. 
 A little bit of effort into the clothing and shade selection in the next game, please, and thank 
 you.
  
  When I was waiting on this game coming out I caught the GTA fever again [well I never truly stopped 
 suffering from it] so I completed San Andreas twice in a row. As soon as I finished it the first 
 time, I just loaded it up again and went through it again. This was about two weeks or so before 
 GTA IV came out, as it took me about a week of solid gaming to finish SA each time [give or take 
 a day or two] . A nice way to kill time till this one arrived.
  
  The car handling was a bit messed up [to begin with anyway] . But through time I got used to it, 
 I do not prefer GTA IV's car handling to San Andreas and Vice City's car physics, theirs was better 
 IMO as you got into the groove of things with the cars from the start. It's only after a few hours 
 of playing GTA IV I got pretty decent with a car. I can now drive it as if I stole it [which is 
 more often than not] . 
  
  Now to the bad points:
  
  Bike handling - it's a nightmare. 
  
  There is no excuse for such dreadful bike physics. I 
 am glad there are only something like four bike missions in the game. Still, that's more missions 
 than there should be. I find myself seeking out a car rather than a bike during missions and inbetween 
 missions [unless a bike is a must] . In Vice City and San Andreas I more or less went for a bike 
 over cars, about eight times out of ten I did. Not now though. Rockstar really should work on fixing 
 the bike physics. They are dreadful. This is probably the only real flaw the game has that I can 
 find.
  
  Over all the game is an ambitious attempt from Rockstar. And one that pays off. There are flaws 
 in the game but they dont really take away from the overall atmosphere and enjoyment you'll find 
 when you play it. Not if you stick with it.
  
  For the next installment could we have some countryside in it. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullOfRage
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I always thought that nothing would beat GTA until GTA 2 came out, i thought that was the best 
 until GTA 3 came out and i was sure nothing would beat it, i even prefered it over San Andreas 
 and Vice City but i was wrong there was one game that was better and that is Grand Theft Auto 4.
 
  This game has everything you love about GTA and then the new things that you love even more. First 
 of all i must say that this game is a must have, why are you reading this review you should go 
 get this game RIGHT NOW.
  It is terrific the physics are so cool, when you hit someone with your car it looks so real and 
 cool, if you shoot someone in the leg they dont stand there or fall in the same way over and over 
 like the previous GTA's, they actually tumble, its cool, its funny, its almost scary how real they 
 act sometimes. The shooting is great and the fighting is terrific. The sound of the guns going 
 off really makes you feel like your apart of the action.
  
  I have heard people say that the graphics are a bit average for a next gen game but i think they 
 are awsome, the dents you get on the cars look real.
  this game is perfect apart from one or two very small things, 1. the burnouts you can do dont get 
 bigger and bigger, the smoke gets to a certain piont and stays there i want to smaoke out the whole 
 street and 2. I think there should be gangs again and i think you should be in control of your 
 own russian mafia or something. but these very minute problems are easily forgotten while you are 
 playing this second to none game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oioioi54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This might not be the perfect game, and it clearly isn't. It sure isnt the best game in history. 
 because in my opinion, it is impossible to make a game better the Zelda ocarina of time... maybe 
 even mathematically, scientifically impossible.. whatever... but saying that this game has ps2 graphics 
 is already something that u cant say. There is so much detail in it... in terms of graphics and 
 animation also..... you would have to spend a year to see everything in GTA IV's Liberty City; The 
 pedestrians look more alive than ever, buildings have never been so fun to jump from. And tell 
 if there is any other game which you are able to go up the statue of liberty and shoot people with 
 snipers. And i dont know why some people say it has bad multiplayer, since its one of the best 
 online experiences i ever had in a game, u just need to find something cool to do with your friends 
 around the city, which i dont really think its too hard to do so, given the size of this gorgeous 
 city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandymarsh
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is technically my second GTA game I've really took time off just to dive into 
 and complete (the first being the top-downed GTA2) . This is simply because I found myself having 
 a more difficult time with the other titles in the series. GTAIV, however, seems very much different. 
 
  
  The new cover system, together with lock-aiming makes taking out your enemies a whole lot easier. 
 The cops, too, makes things easier with the new search radius. Some may find this a turn-off, but 
 I found this as a deterrent for those annoying moments where you run precariously behind a wall 
 and get shot anyway.
  
  The graphics are something else. Sure, the "realism" colours are kinda drab, but you'll get used 
 to it. But the vehicle damage adds a fine touch to the game. Crash a car, you'll get dents. I love 
 it when your car explodes, and thank goodness flipping a car over doesn't blow the car up anymore.
 
  
  The story is rather deep. First glance shows you, "Bah. Just another protagonist out to kill people." 
 But Niko is all that and more. We find his uncertain past that unfolds as you play mission after 
 mission. The emotion showing with his every action. This, even until the end of the story.
  
  Mission-wise, it's all good. You can pick this game up rather quickly and complete the tasks 
 given. Make choices of who to kill. Drive like madman. Steal this, shoot that. Rob a bank. Escape 
 the NOoSE. Get back to Point A. Make friends, lose friends. It's all mashed-up very well in the 
 array of mission types.
  
  Once the story is over, hey! There's the Vigilante missions, the Most Wanted missions, Flying rats, 
 Stevie's cars! PLUS, oh man. Plus multiplayer mode. I found Cops and Crooks rather fun and Hangman's 
 NOOSE, too. It's time GTA had player to player interaction. I like to hang out in a Private Liberty 
 City for some good time.
  
  The only downside has to be the SIXAXIS functionality in-built for the game. It's rubbish. The 
 Up-side is that you don't have to use it at all. Score!
  
  Finally, GTA has always had a controversial reputation. You can drive drunk in the game. It's fun. 
 Just don't do it in real life. In fact, do NOTHING in the game in real life. And don't blame the 
 game for your misdemeanours. If you plan to shoot cops, seek help.
  
  That's the review! Now if you'll excuse me, I have 141 flying rats left to terminate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  This is my review of the 9th Grand Theft Auto game. 
  
  Graphics (10/10) 
  This series started as a top down pixely game and has become a 3D adventure that looks beautiful 
 on any TV.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  Jack a car, deliver a "package", go play bowling, kill some cops, have sex with a hooker, go on 
 dates and then "get lucky", watch TV, go to a strip club, you get my point right, it'll keep you 
 busy (but don't forget about missions.)
  
  Sound (10/10)
  Liberty City sounds like a living, breathing, New York City, and has everything to simulate life 
 in a major city. Then there's radio in cars, every channel has a superstar and a nobody with songs. 
 The news programs also prove to be funny.
  
  Replay Value (10/10)
  Once you beat the game, you try to finish the side missions, find stunt jumps and pigeons and live 
 the Liberty Life.
  
  Online Ability (7/10)
  The GTAIV Online mode proves to only be a basic copy of the game with different styles of games. 
 Personally, I'd stick to free mode or team based games.
  
  Overall (47/50)
  It comes to a 9.4, but I round up to a 9.5.
  
  GTAIV has all the stuff that a GTA4 fan wants 
 and more but the online is not as fun as SA. If you are planning on buying this game but already 
 have SA for PC, stick to that. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakuhray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This is a very emersive game, i loved all the previous GTA's and love this one as well. The city 
 is very realistic, you can even catch a cab to your destination. The story line is a lot of fun, 
 i watched every scene and really got into Niko's situation. My favorite mission was the bank heist, 
 funny cause that was my favorite mission in GTA: Vice City. The Cellular Phone is something i have 
 never seen used so smoothly in any other game. The only things i thought weren't all that great, 
 for one i think they took a step backwards from San Andreas when they decided to get rid of full 
 character customization (weapon mastery, fat/muscle, style, ect.) also not being able to buy real-estate 
 or generate revenue at your real-estate was something i thought would have made the game alot more 
 fun. But even without these things the game was alot of fun, although i haven't gotten to play 
 online yet. This game did grow on me after beating it three times it just got boring running around 
 killing people, i wish there were alot more missions to do so i could put in 100+ hours aha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: positivevibes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  ok, gta 4... its good... maybe even great.
  graphically its impressive for it to be in real time (shadows and the like)
  but seriously rockstar... 
 do you not have enough faith in your game to be honest and truthful about what gameplay elements 
 will be included?
  
  i seem to remember a seemingly never ending list of amazing things that you would be able to see 
 or do in Liberty City.
  abundant and diverse interiors and NPC's who actually go about a daily routine are a few among 
 the dump truck loads of lies that never came to light.
  it's like san andreas all over again. except now we actually got car washes (anyone else remember 
 that being promised in gta: sa?)
  they cut so many gameplay elements from the game and lied about things they were going to put in, 
 and infact were in the gameplay when it came to showing it to reviewers, yet when the game was 
 released those elements were missing. What happened to climbing telephone poles? yea it's pointless 
 and you'd probably do it once or twice, but still... why does rockstar need to hype up their "amazing" 
 "groundbreaking" "revolutionary" title?
  thats because rockstars filled with a bunch of marketing geniuses who know that it; s very simple 
 to lie in this industry, give a product that isn't what they promised, and see no legal recourse. 
 
  not only was it disappointing that they cut so many of the things they said they included, but 
 the glitches, both graphically and mechanically are sometimes too much to overlook, once again... 
 can i go back to san andreas? didn't rockstar learn anything? try spending more time on writing 
 a solid code instead of trying to make things bigger. 
  
  all in all, its an amazing game, hands down, and i'd have been even more amazed by it had i not 
 ruined it for myself by following every bit of information as it came out. But i like to know what 
 is to be in the game im looking forward to most, and its a let down when the things im expecting 
 have been pulled out from under me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piro_Blaster
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  It's a Superb game but not Perfect!!!
  A lot of features in the pass games are gone in GTA IV:
  There are less guns, you can't customize 
 your cars and the customize character is just weak.
  But GTA IV isn't just bad things, the combat sistem is just incredibel and the graphics are Perfect!!!
 
  I personali didn't like the story mode, I think the characters are great and voice acting spectacular 
 but the ending is just disappoiting either Roman or Kate dies I think there sould be a couple of 
 more missions before the last one.
  The soundtrack is very good for a lot of people but the only 4 songs I like is:
  "1979", "Tugg", 
 "The Seeker" and "I wanna be your dog", but I stille think that its a good soundtrack.
  I would advice to buy it, its not a 10.0 but I think is more of a 9.0 but it's still a very good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Why would the very first GTA to use a 3-D engine (GTA3) not receive a perfect 10 but this one did? 
 It's really more of the same with refined gameplay. Sure, there are HDTV quality graphics and a 
 new online mode, but did it deserve a perfect 10? Not really. 
  
  The best addition in this new GTA: It's been streamlined! Much like WoW did for the MMORPG genre, 
 GTA4 gets rid of much of the grind of previous GTA games. No longer are you required to drive across 
 the map just to save the game in your safe house. Missions are far easier to retry. Travel across 
 the map is easier than ever with taxi cabs, subways, and other forms of travel that allow you to 
 skip everything. 
  
  They also got rid of some of the RPG elements that felt like overkill in GTA San Andreas. Who really 
 cares if you can make your character fat or skinny? It's not an RPG, it's an action/adventure game 
 at its heart and I felt San Andreas took some of the character design elements too serious. I like 
 the ability to upgrade my character's clothes as he moves up in the criminal world, but I could 
 really care less for so many of the customization options that have grown larger as new GTA games 
 have been released.
  
  Speaking of moving up in the criminal world, one complaint I would have about this GTA release 
 is that I felt my hood remained 'smalltime' for a much longer period of the game than past GTA 
 installments. There's only so many Yugoslavian pimp stories I can stomach. And while I'm on THAT 
 topic, I have to admit, the cut scenes and characters are not as interesting as past GTA games. 
 Not bombs, but I think the best characters in GTA history are still in Vice City. 
  
  Online play is fun. It's very underrated because Rockstar picked the ridiculous cell phone system 
 to matchup online games. Online play should have been a separate option available on the start-up 
 screen with more matchmaking services available. There really are some cool online modes that involve 
 co-op and other forms of play but the clumsy system designed for GTA4 that forces you to enter 
 the singleplayer game and THEN pick up your character's cell phone to start an online match is 
 ridiculous. It's a shame that online play will probably be dead in a few months because GTA has 
 serious online potential. I don't know how Xbox handles it, because I only have the PS3 version, 
 but I would bet its fairly similar. 
  
  I think the music in this one is the worst of the bunch. A lot of original or lesser known artists, 
 some that surprised me and made me want to seek out the artist, but I would have liked more well-known 
 classics. The talk radio isn't as hilarious as past versions either.
  
  Frankly.... I'm not sure why Gamespot decided to make this one of their rare 10.0 games. I think 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 deserved it more than this one. GTA4 is still a terrific game, but more of the 
 same gameplay since the original GTA3 really started the criminal game craze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kane406
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This is an entertaining and fun game, however it is not in the same league as games such as Bioshock, 
 MGS4, Assassin's Creed, Twilight Princess, Halo 3 ect ... So it should not be rated as high as 
 (or higher than) these titles which offer much more in terms of entertainment and depth. It doesn't 
 even look like a Next-Gen game as far as visual appeal... More like a pretty PS2 game. 
  
  I had high expectations from the game going in to it, but I was sorely disappointed with what I 
 saw before me. The entire time I was playing the game I couldn't help but think "This game is in 
 the same league as MGS4?" Perhaps it was that high expectation alone that ruined the experience 
 for me, nevertheless, the game truly did not perform on the level it has been raised to.
  
  I like this game, but its over-rated... And I hate over-rated games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I heard people saying this was supposed to be the best game in the past ten years, I'm going to 
 have to disagree with that. Now, the game is good, very good, maybe even deserving of it's score, 
 although, I think a 9.5 will suffice, It's an incredible game for sure, but there are some things 
 that just aren't that great. For starters, the game is very slow starting in the story. I mean, 
 compare it to San Andreas for example, 45 minutes into San Andreas and you have betrayal and Family 
 getting locked up. GTAIV just doesn't deliver as grabbing as a story for me, maybe it's just my 
 taste, I don't know, but I'm giving it a 9.5 for it's awesome multiplayer, and pretty good story. 
 Don't get me wrong here, that doesn't mean I think the game is crap... because I don't, the game 
 is fantastic, San Andreas just really spoiled me for stories. Another thing and I just hate to 
 bring this up, but it was so much fun flying in airplanes on San Andreas... did we have to take 
 those out? I mean was it absolutely a must-go? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series have always been amazing, but this one stands out .
  
  You play the game as Niko Bellic, an illegal immigrant originary from Eastern Europe. Like all 
 the GTA games, you complete missions given you by a character, that tells you to go talk to another, 
 and so on. I wont spoil the game for you, but, storywise, and, dialogue''wise'', this game is supreme 
 !
  
  Now, there's a huge variety with vehicles, choppers and boats, all of them with different engine 
 power, with a different ... feel. All the textures, models, scenarios, lights, water effects, vehicles, 
 weapons, sound effects, blood, destruction textures, all of that is amazingly well done. Simply 
 put, it feels like a real world ! You can't ask for more. Try to hide behind a SUV in the middle 
 of a titanic shootout. The glass shatters, the bullets in the metal make gigantic sparkles jump 
 out, you ARE in a real battle.
  
  Gameplay wise, the Euphoria engine makes NPC and Niko's actions really realistic ( ^^ ) . You stumble 
 around when ran over swearing in Russian, you hit someone in the leg and there he goes around like 
 he's drunk, well, actually, its simple : You never know what is gonna happen. Euphoria rocks !
 
  
  The new cover system, and target system is also well done, it adds a bit of a tactical side to 
 fights, you can time well your fire bursts watching your enemies, and aim to the head, legs and 
 torso. Good job.
  
  The wanted system is still around, but to get away from the cops, you have this zone in your map 
 that you need to get out to lose the wanted level, wich gets bigger and bigger as you get more 
 stars. Nicely done.
  
  And, the friends system; people think it was only made to fill empty spaces, but no, its fun to 
 beat your, well, ''NPC'' friends in a dart, pool or bowling round. It also has its advantages besides 
 you beein happy : Your friends give you nice bonuses if you gain their trust, for example --SPOILER -- 
 Little Jacob gives you weapons for a cheaper price if he likes you =)
  
  Two things that also made the game better, are the taxis, that you can take paying a little amount 
 of money to get somewhere fast, and the GPS, that shows you the fastest way to your waypoint.
 
  
  Of course, there's a huge amount of details and things i didn't mention, like the use of Computers, 
 the prostitutes and strip club ( ooh yeah now you're gonna get it xD ) and so on, but, that would 
 be ruining your experience ! Its a game that really is worth its money, and you should play.
  
  And, remember, theres multiplayer, but only one thing i shall say - its really mindblowing 
 =) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_c4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto (GTA) is by far my favourite video game series of all time. I love open world 
 sandbox games and I'll never forget when i first played grand theft auto 3 and felt like "Wow I 
 can do anything."
  
  As the series progressed it felt like Rockstar was trying to find new innovative ways to get players 
 to have that same moment every time they released a new GTA.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, GTA IV awed me when i saw the amazing graphical detail, car damage, shading, 
 models etc. The city looks amazing and you feel like your in a living breathing world. But in a 
 big picture comparison, San Andreas is still my favourite GTA. Here's Why.
  
  In San Andreas:
  
  -You can fly planes
  -You can ride peddle bikes
  -You can recruit a 
 gang on turf you own
  -You can buy real estate (gives money a purpose)
  -You can become a pimp and get money from hookers eventually
  -You can get a jet pack
  -Your 
 character needs to eat and work out to stay healthy
  -You can parachute from tall falls
  -You can execute Manhunt style knife stealth kills
  
  This is just a list of things i really 
 miss in this most recent GTA. I'm positive we will see many more features in the next release (I 
 Hope) as this was the first GTA on this gen of consoles.
  
  All in all GTA IV is an amazing game. Online GTA is something i have been waiting for since GTA 
 3. I love the look, feel and sound of this game and i can't wait for the next one.
  
  I'm glad saints row 2 is getting a bit of lime light, I think it will cause Rockstar to really 
 step up there next game. Can't wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Gameboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is the best! There are a lot of realistic things about this game. Although the vehicle 
 handling is quite difficult, but once you play a lot, you can get use to it. The things I hate 
 about the game sre that you can escape the cops so easily (people in the game can help you clear 
 wanted) , the radio stations are so stupid, and that whenever you park your car it sometimes get 
 stolen or moves out of the parking spot so it disappears the next morning. Seriously It would have 
 been way better if there were garages near your house, then my sport cars wouldn't get stolen or 
 disappeared if it was moved from the parking spot. Oh and the missions are quite tough, I'm sure 
 you wouldn't pass them right away unless you had experience by playing the other old GTA games, 
 but for newbies, it could be hard. To conclude my review, all I have to say is GTA FANS MUST GET 
 THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DCCshadow-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  In your first playthrough gta4 is a brillant game the gameplay is good the driving is tricky at 
 first but when you get used to it its alot of fun and flyin through a car windscreen is fun a couple 
 of times but it does get annoying. The missions are fun but theres not much variety as most missions 
 will be u killing someone r following smeone in a car and then killing them but this is still quite 
 fun and youll have fun playin it but after you have completed it there is not much to do. the story 
 is good enough but its nothing special but the characters help the story alot as most of them are 
 quite entertaining and funny. the online play offers alot of gameplay modes and it is fun for a 
 while but it gets boring fast. gta is a good game that i would recommend playing but its not the 
 best game outthere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfan10
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  Let the controversy roll in as Rockstar releases the controversial and stunning Grand Theft Auto 
 IV. The game follows Niko Bellic and his adventures through a redesigned Liberty City, the worst 
 place in America.
  
  This GTA upgrades just about everything that was wrong with the past GTA's like the controls and 
 the graphics. Rockstar definately wanted to make the gamers happy and themselves too. 
  
  The gameplay in GTA 4 is similar to all the other GTAs. The same driving mechanics are here but 
 with different controls. No longer is it X for the gas. It is a very fitting R2. This works very 
 well and feels comfortable. The L2 button woks the brakes and R1 is emergency brakes. The analog 
 controls are the same here. The camera is also different in GTA 4. This time, instead of the camera 
 being centered directly behind the vehicle, it is off to the side more. Some other camera angles 
 have been altered too. Now the first person view, instead of seeing just the road, you now see 
 the hood of the car. This adds a new feel to the game. Another mechanic that is introduced here 
 is the way each car feels. You no longer can rely on the gas ti get you from point A to point B. 
 If you were to turn a sharp corner in this game, the car will spin out of control, you now need 
 to maneuver yourself with breaks for a nice comfortable turn. Overall, the driving feels really 
 good.
  
  The walking and shooting mechanics have changed for the better in this game. Everyone remember 
 the terrible aiming controls in the GTA 3 and GTA VC, they were clunky and unreliable. They tried 
 to upgrade it in San Andreas, and it worked for the most part. But now GTA 4 uses an over the shoulder 
 similar to Gears of War and Uncharted. Pushing down on the L2 button is auto aim which is good 
 for a quick and easy kill. A slight push on the L2 button though will gve you a manual aim, which 
 is good for players who are picky on what to aim for. The lock on though also lets you move the 
 crosshair over certain enemy body parts.
  
  The walking is enhanced with the use of the Euphoria engine. Now when you walk over a curb, the 
 character will react to the step up. If you don't step up all the way, one foot is on the curb 
 and the other in the street. This also goes for dead bodies too. One foot on the body and one on 
 the ground. Niko also has a different turning feel. He turns but still walks forward so it is a 
 little bit tighter but not much. Overall this is a great feel and will make exploration more fun. 
 Another addition to on foot is the ability to jump over most everything. Climb up a fire escape 
 and jump a huge fence.
  
  The pedestrians also have changed. No more 6 or 7 character models. There are numerous models and 
 all have different personalities. They react differently to you depending on wha you do. Also they 
 have schedules. They will read the paper, talk on cell phones, talk with each other, fight, yell, 
 smoke, jack cars, and sometimes kill one another. Also, if you kill someone and the pedestrians 
 see you, then they will most likely get on their cell phones and call the cops. This can also work 
 on them to, if they start to fight you, then you can call the cops on your cell phone. There is 
 a whole new level of interaction too. They will react differently depending on the situation they 
 are in.
  
  The cell phone is a welcome addition. You can store all your contacts in it, set dates, call people, 
 and customize it later. This also becomes useful to organize what is going on in the game. 
  
  Another new addition, the friend system. As the game progresses you unlock people that you 
 can hang with, go bowling, throw darts, get drunk, and go to the comedy theater and watch either 
 Ricky Gervais or Katt Williams (EVERYDAY I'M HUSTLIN') As you take them out more you unlock special 
 things like weapons dealer, free helicopter rides, free taxi rides, etc. This can get annoying 
 though, because by the end of the game, you will have so many friends that you won't know what 
 to do. They get angry and won't talk to you and this becomes hard to juggle. Overall it is fun 
 and rewarding.
  
  The soundtrack is definately not the best and is probably the lowest of all the soundtracks. There 
 are many great songs on this 200 song list, but most of them are unknown artists. I didn't know 
 that the Smashing Pumpkins are considered Classic Rock???!!!! The genres include: Rock, alternative, 
 hip hop, house, funk, talk radio, Russian, and classic hip hop. And Lazlow is back, dirtier than 
 ever.
  
  There is also a new cop system too. The stars are gone and now you have to get out of a circle 
 that gets bigger as you do worse crimes. This system is similar to Scarface. This is way better 
 over the star system. You can also avoid arrest by running before they cuff you.
  
  There is a story here too. The game revolves around Niko Belic and his coming to America in hopes 
 of a mansion and a better life. When he gets there though, his cousin, who lied, is in debt and 
 owes gangsters money. You progress working with the mafia, and such. This is the smarter and much 
 more in depth GTA story. It is over 90 missions long.
  
  Now that's out of the way, I have a few more things to mention.
  
  The online. Once you progress 
 far ebough, you unlock the internet. Here you can set up dates, buy stuff. get new ringtones, and 
 read the many parodies online (craplist. net) . There is even a website that tells you where stuff 
 is and where the secret characters are. But that is for you to find.
  
  The last thing is the police computer system. There is a database in every cop car that lets you 
 fins the most wanted criminals in Liberty City. This is your vigilante mission. It also has its 
 mission purposes. You will be given a persons name and you can searc them for they're criminal 
 record. This show how much detail they put in.
  
  Overall, this is the most mature and smartest GTA to date. The level of detail and the pur excellence 
 that Rockstar has given us. The graphics are AWESOME and dirt builds up on the cars. The only gripes 
 about the game are: bad soundtrack, few issues with aiming, and a few kinks in the friends system. 
 But this is a great game!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is a great game and I highly recommend buying this game if your a GTA fan like me. The game 
 has very nice new features like GPS system, going out with your friends, going on the games internet, 
 dating, and able to ride in a taxi cab any where you want to go in Liberty City and many more. 
 The graphics are great but sometimes you can see Nicko's mouth moving up and down and it doesn't 
 really look realistic but that's not a big deal. The sounds in the game is spectacular, it has 
 great voice acting. The controls are way better than any other GTA game. Sometimes in the game 
 you can choose to kill someone or have them live, but it doesn't really effect you in any way if 
 you kill them or let them live. The online multiplayer is ok. There is may different modes you 
 can play on like death match, team death match, racing, and GTA racing. The only good modes to 
 play (in my opinion) is racing, GTA racing, 4 player online missions, free roam, and party mode. 
 The other modes isn't really exciting because you don't really have to have skill to elimate enemies. 
 However, the game overall is a great game (besides that it's overrated) and like I said before 
 I recommend it to all GTA fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA_MGS_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the sixth entry in the storied free-roaming franchise. It ups the graphics, 
 presents a well-written tale of greed and torment, revamps the control scheme, and marks the debut 
 of online play in the GTA universe. What is ultimately an excellent game is marred by some technical 
 issues, and a step backwards from its predecessor, San Andreas.
  
  A Tale of Inner Torment
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV features one of the better written stories in 
 modern gaming. It's the story of a Slavic immigrant, Niko Bellic. Fresh off the boat, Niko finds 
 himself in Liberty City, his cousin, Roman, is the only friend he has. What begins as a reunion 
 of two cousins quickly turns into a tale of greed as Niko and his cousin struggle to rise from 
 the slums of Liberty City. Along the way, Niko will experience great betrayals, death, and tortuous 
 choices. Who should die? To kill or not to kill? These are just some of the dilemmas facing the 
 protagonist. As the story progresses, the player will learn much about Niko's past, and discover 
 what a tortured soul he is. The decisions Niko must make don't have a great outcome on the game 
 itself, but you really get a sense of the pure hell he's involved in as he makes some gut wrenching 
 choices. The story really falls just a bit short of perfection, as I felt the story fizzled out 
 during the latter fourth of the game. However, everyone's mileage will vary.
  
  The View of the Skyline
  
  How fitting that a game as epic as GTA IV is set in the most famous, 
 bustling city in the world. I'm talking the fictitious New York City, also known as Liberty City. 
 Rockstar has really gone above and beyond in rendering this gorgeous expanse of a city. Every street, 
 every building has been crafted with loving detail. The draw distance is fantastic, and the skyline 
 is visible from great distances away. Graphically speaking, my first drive through Times Square 
 may have been the most breathtaking moment I've ever experienced. 
  
  The characters and traffic animate extremely well, thanks to the new Euphoria Engine. The sheer 
 amount of activity taking place at any one time is simply mind numbing. Pedestrians fill the sidewalks, 
 while traffic congests the streets. People interact with each other, be it talking on cell phones, 
 fighting, ordering food from a vendor, or checking their rear view mirror. They react realistically 
 (and often hysterically) to anything out of the ordinary. Cars driving on sidewalks, gunshots, 
 repeated horn honkingthe list goes on and on. Liberty City really feels like a live interactive 
 city. Kudos to Rockstar for creating such a realistic, if satirical, environment.
  
  Unfortunately, a few bugs and glitches subdue the perfect fantasy. As the amount of activity onscreen 
 increases, so too does the chance that the frame rate will become unstable. It doesn't always happen, 
 but it really hampers the experience when it does. Secondly, there are instances where an unseen 
 item will become visibleright before you smack into it. Pop-ups aren't extremely common, but it 
 can be annoying if that object is a tree, and it causes an untimely death, during the latter part 
 of a particularly challenging mission. Finally, the game can completely crash on occasion. It doesn't 
 seem very prevalent, and in fact, I personally, never experienced such a crash, but it is real 
 and must be acknowledged. However, both Sony and Microsoft are working toward a crash free game, 
 and with downloadable patches in the future, this may become a non-issue.
  
  The Sounds of the City
  
  New York City is the most restless city in existence and, so too, 
 is Liberty City. The good folks at Rockstar have crammed an unprecedented amount of dialogue into 
 the game. People will react to your (and others) behavior. Bump into a pedestrian, and you're likely 
 to get a profanity laced tirade, while honking at a roadside hooker may yield a softer, more seductive 
 tone. All the while cars are honking, police sirens howling, and vendors are peddling their wares. 
 Sometimes you must simply stop and marvel at everything that is happening simultaneously. 
  
  Most of the voice acting in this game is top notch. On one end of the spectrum you have the 
 third-rate, forced voices of Final Fantasy X, on the other you have this game. I wouldn't call 
 it perfection, but you'd be hard pressed to find another game that delivers such consistent quality 
 in its dialogue. That attention to detail goes along way toward giving the story credence, and 
 embrangling the player into Niko's world.
  
  Of course, no GTA game would be complete without the radio stations, and GTA IV is chocked full 
 of them. There are 19 stations in all, 16 featuring both licensed and original tracks, with the 
 other 3 containing the satirical humor that has become the trademark of the series. While the game 
 does feature over 200 songs, this seems to be a low point for the series. I personally found this 
 soundtrack bland and uninspiring; it really lacked memorable tracks, especially compared to its 
 predecessors. Naturally, everyone has an array of different tastes, and personal preference will 
 be the determining factor here. I strongly recommend researching the game's track list if the music 
 is of importance in your buying decision. In the end, this represents a minor gripe, in an otherwise 
 masterful job in the game's audio department.
  
  Running the Streets Never Felt so Good
  
  A great looking game is only as successful as the precision of the gameplay it offers. Thankfully, 
 GTA IV plays incredibly well with only some minor imperfections. Many of the games mechanics remain 
 unchanged. Stealing a car and running will come naturally to GTA veterans. Both shooting and driving 
 have now been mapped to the right trigger. It allows for extra precision in that it acts as a gas 
 pedal; pushing it lightly will result in a cruising speed, while "flooring it" will accelerate 
 your vehicle to a more lightning fast pace. Driving is largely a balancing act, because the higher 
 the speed, the more difficult it is to maintain control. Try turning while going full speed and 
 you could spin around multiple times, smack into a telephone pole, or even flip the car. The game 
 really punishes wreckless driving (realistically) and forces the player to balance the risk and 
 reward of taking a turn at such a high speed.
  
  Rockstar has also revamped the gunplay. As many recent shooters have implemented effective cover 
 systems, so too has GTA IV. It becomes essential in the heat of a firefight to get behind cover 
 and methodically destroy your assailants. Failure to do so will often result in Niko's untimely 
 death, and ultimately the repeating of a mission. The pressure sensitive aiming system works really 
 well too. Pressing the trigger half way allows for a free aim system, increasing the precision 
 of your shots, while a full depression will allow you to target a specific enemy and open fire 
 at your leisure. It can be difficult to switch targets quickly, but it's not bad with some practice. 
 PS3 players even have the option to reload using the Sixaxis functionality of the PS3, however, 
 360 users will find no trouble reloading on the fly. The only real detriment is a sometimes uncooperative 
 camera. It doesn't always provide an optimum angle during a firefight or a run from the cops. It 
 will likely cause some frustrating deaths from time to time; however, it can be managed with practice. 
 Overall the combat controls really place you into the heat of the battle and allow for the most 
 immersive GTA game yet. 
  
  Many of the games mechanics are centered around the new cell phone. Though introduced first by 
 Saints Row, the phone does an excellent job of being a sort of hub for many of the games missions. 
 Throughout the game, various people will call you to do their dirty work, hang out, or leave you 
 a text message. It's also acts as a portal for the game's online multiplayer (more to come on that) . 
 While all of this is cool, unfortunately, you really cannot call anyone back, unless you are at 
 a point in the story that warrants it. It's minor, and yet I felt that this detail didn't mesh 
 with the effort and care that the rest of the game received.
  
  While GTA IV made some wonderful improvements to a slightly stale series, it didn't come without 
 sacrifice. Veterans of San Andreas will recall an almost RPG like stats system that allowed the 
 player to increase their skill in different areas of the game. Anything from driving skill to weapon 
 skills could be improved. As the game progressed, your driving skills improved, making handling 
 of the car easier, while continued use of a particular weapon would yield increased accuracy, faster 
 reloading, and for some weapons, the ability to dual-wield. Sadly, all of that has gone by the 
 wayside, and quite inexplicably so. It rewarded players for practicing particular skills and encouraged 
 more free-roaming and completion of side missions. Also gone is the ability to control your characters 
 fitness level. Player's were allowed to mold their character as they saw fit. Want to be a fat 
 criminal or a well-chiseled malefactor? That is no longer a choice afforded to the player. It really 
 represents a large step back in a series that thrives on evolution.
  
  
  
  Extras
  
  GTA IV is packed with extra activities that are both completely optional and fairly enjoyable. 
 You can surf a fictitious internet, and discover hilarity on the many fake sites. There are full 
 episodes of television shows made specifically for this game. Mini-games, such as darts, bowling, 
 or pool are available to partake in with in game friends and love interests. There are fifty stunt 
 jumps and 200 flying rats to kill for the completionists out there. The average player will take 
 between 25-40 hours of play to complete the story, while achieving 100% can last for weeks. With 
 two different endings available, many will traverse the trials and tribulations a second time, 
 and make all the opposite decisions, just to see the change in outcome. Coupled with the online 
 functionality, the replayability is very high.
  
  Veteran players may find this game slanted toward the easy end of the spectrum. You will undoubtedly 
 die a few times, and the camera will cause a few more, but the game is largely pretty easy. The 
 missions themselves can get quite repetitive, particularly in the latter half of the game. That's 
 not to say that there aren't some truly memorable endeavors; I just felt that more diversity in 
 mission types was essential. It also seems as if many missions offer less freedom of choice and 
 follow more of a scripted path than in the past. Many times you will be tasked with assassinating 
 a particular person, and find a way to exterminate them quickly. Unfortunately, if there is a pre-scripted 
 cutscene involving that character, then you will automatically fail the mission. It's really inexplicable 
 that such a problem would occur in this the sixth installment. The only purpose it serves is to 
 frustrate the player, and to artificially lengthen some missions.
  
  The Final Verdict
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game of epic proportions. The graphics are superb, the story is largely 
 phenomenal, the sounds are excellent and really bring the city to life, the controls are excellent, 
 and the online multiplayer is a blast. Some glitches, an anti-climactic ending, a somewhat weak 
 soundtrack, and the removal of some elements that made San Andreas great, keep the game from achieving 
 perfection. The level of gore, profanity, and violence make it essential to keep the game out of 
 a child's hands, but for those mature enough to digest the content, Grand Theft Auto IV is one 
 of the defining games that no player should miss. It's an expression of quality and sets a precedent 
 for modern gaming. Don't let it pass you by!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monetary
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Alright, when I completed this game 100% way back when, I decided to bestow a perfect 10/10 rating 
 on this behemoth: it had been one of the most exhilarating video game experiences of my life, and 
 I had to believe the hype.
  
  Flash-forward a few months later: I finally decided to buy COD4 and quickly became engulfed in 
 its intense online arena. Many hours later, I felt guilty that I had not touched my copy of GTA 
 IV in several weeks so I popped it in to see what the onliners were up to.
  
  I got sea-sick!!
  
  Spoiled by COD4's slick 60 fps presentation, GTA IV's jerky camera literally 
 made my stomach turn and I had to shut it off. Frame-rate jerkiness has been a issue plaguing the 
 GTA series since III back in '00. Back then, it was an acceptable compromise, since the sheer density 
 of the game more than made up for its jerky camera. Yet it's 2008, and a new generation: we need 
 smoother games Rockstar!!
  
  I give this game a revised rating of 9.5/10, and plead with Rockstar to fully capitalize on the 
 PS3's cell processor and blu-ray disc capacity the next time around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marud_9403
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game yet in the GTA series.
  In this one you are Niko Bellick. A russian witch came to Liberty City to escape his past and because 
 of all the things his cousin, Roman told him about. He soon found out that it was all a lie. Roman 
 had a gambling problem and owed some loan sharks some money. You are getting hung up in drug deals, 
 murders, car thefts and a lot more. For the first time in the series you can go online and play 
 with your friends. You can for example be part of a Car theft City game or kill each other or just 
 explore Liberty City. It's all up to you. You can also start a game yourself and invite your friends.
 
  If you are stuck in the game, you can drive around the city and look at the view. 
  It really should get the Game of the Year-award.
  So if you haven't bought the game yet. Do it. 
 It really is worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Milli-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Most people would disagree with the rating I gave this game, but that doesn't mean I didn't like 
 it, it was hilarious and very fun to play, I think it was worth waiting in line for for five hours, 
 but I just think they needed to bring back a few things from san andreas.
  The online mode is great, they really needed to add that to a GTA game to make it just that much 
 more fun, who doesn't want to go crazy wild in a big city with a bunch of friends, or hell maybe 
 even people you don't know!
  But, I really wish they would have kept a few things from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas!
  Such 
 as, but not limited to:
  -Weapons: They took out ALOT of weapons, I think there are only about 16 on this new game? I could 
 be wrong but very few in comparison to other Grand theft Auto games.
  -Car mods: A great addition they made to San Andreas that I wish they would have improved on this 
 game, but they didn't even have it!
  -Special things: Such as parachutes and jet packs, they cheap fun that they provided was awesome!
 
  -Car Detail: Although the graphics are much better than any other GTA game out, it still didn't 
 do much for their cars, it's all kind of the same stuff!
  
  Things I like, ALOT:
  -Better Graphics
  -More Realistic Driving
  -Online: But they really messed some things up online, 
 cars and bikes will just randomly dissapear when you are staring right at them!
  -Better Story
  -Harder to make money: No Casino : (
  -More jobs!
  -Friends you can come up 
 to on the street!
  -Cell phone: You can set up dates, and hang out with friends, phone is custumizable!
  
  All 
 and all, it's a great game, but they took out a bit too much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Having played many GTAs of the past, i was reluctant to play this purely because the franchise 
 hadn't evolved significantly over the past couple of years. GTA IV put my thoughts to rest. Here's 
 why
  
  GOOD: GTAIV redeems its one thorn-in-the-side awful quality of all the titles in the past: the 
 graphics don't look like the previous generation crap BUT ACTUALLY LOOK REALLY GOOD FOR CURRENT 
 GENERATION!!! Gameplay is refined for this outing (no more awkward aim-and-fire system) . The backdrop 
 setting is brought to life with a living, breathing, NYC city!!! Online modes are finally implemented 
 and are actually fun!! The storyline is actually interesting (a foreigner trying to survive in 
 a new country) ...
  
  BAD: ... However, to me the storyline was still the same thing (F*** this, F*** that, kill this 
 b****, bomb that etc) . The driving mechanics were sooooo swkward at first time play to point where 
 it was extremely fustrating (you get over it over time) . The "shooting your gun" system can still 
 be refined. 
  
  However, is it a perfect 10 like so many people have rated it? To be honest, when it comes down 
 to it, its more of the same thing without any real change to it... but then again, that's not really 
 a bad thing either :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack_haseo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  this is the best grand theft auto game EVER!
  
  this game provides what some other games didnt .
  true life , u can do what ever u like and where 
 ever u like.
  
  a lot of you noticed the part of taking the woman in a ride and doing the stuff with her ;) i think 
 that this game although it offered a lot but still no game is perfect. there is no training hall 
 or should i say GYM . not to mention that SAN ANDREAS has this feature, plus there is no place 
 to cut your hair and this is the most things that in my mind i say that it didnt make the game 
 perfect. although these 2 features has been planted on SAN ANDREAS game :D.
  
  but anyway this game has what it take to be the best grand theft auto EVER!!
  
  i think that 
 all of the fans of this kind of games should buy it!!. and i promise you will not regret it :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  really shines in its strengths such as, Flowing gameplay and as usual to a grand theft auto game 
 ... amazing lifespan. It doesnt take a genius to pick up Gta4 and suddenly become GTA natural and 
 its these strongpoints that appeal to me most of all..... And the hardcore violence bit of cause.
 
  
  The gamepaly is very satisfying from the exploding physics of a car blowing you away in all its 
 beauty to you pointing a gun at a civillian and blowing a hole in its head as its body goes limp 
 and blood pours out of it. The aiming is improved but its still tricky when getting shot to flick 
 from one enemy to another. The gamepaly is superb and once again from developers rockstar it has 
 produced a grand theft auto with sheer class.
  The game has no apparent weaknesses the only thing that i can put against this game is that it 
 is GTA with its weak aiming, hardcore violence and discrimination agsainst women but i ask the question 
 of Questions ..... Would you buy it without these things ? and the answer is HELL  
 game.................9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis_Branco
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  From far this is the best GTA game that I've ever played, when i first saw the game, the first 
 thing that came to my mind was, that's just another GTA, but then after playing a few missions 
 I really started to understand that this one was diferent, and not just now you can really feel 
 that the big Liberty City is alive, but because the story is so big and you never get the idea 
 that your playing just another mission based game, tou go one by one and then when you look back, 
 you get the feeling that you should go back and make it diferent. I totally recomend everybody 
 to play this one. 
  
  
  
  Luis_Branco 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkillGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  this game owns and i hope it wins the game of the year award this game is way better then metal 
 gear solid 4. gta4 has more freedom and is a long game to finish 100% metal gear solid takes like 
 20-25 hours thats how short it is and theres alot of cut scenes to. gta4 is much better then mgs4 
 and gta4 ios the best game ever you got to admit people that hate gta4 are probably people who 
 like mario, halo, gears of war or they not alowd to play it becfuz it to violent and there jeleous. 
 gta4 better win awards only good thing in mgs4 is that its good consol seller i love ps3 so its 
 helping ps3 grow but ilike gta4 wayyyyy better. im not saying mgs4 is bad but its over hyyped people 
 this is something i gonna tell yu GTA4 IS THE BEST GAME EVER. so goodjob rockstar games you impressed 
 me again well done you manage toiget10 and i hope you get the game awards. GTA4 OWNS!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  The GTA series has always been fun, whether it's killing innocents or stealing cars, it has always 
 entertained us in many ways. But we've always felt like something is missing. And that would be 
 realism. It's practically always impossible to play a game and not notice a glitch and the GTA 
 franchise usually has the most glitches but in Grand Theft Auto 4, everything feels more human-like 
 and far less video game like. That is the biggest improvement of the series and that will be brought 
 up later.
  
  First, I want to talk about the story. You are Niko Belick, a Russian smuggler trying to get away 
 from his past and eventually finds out that that's never gonna happen. You start off at a boat 
 yard where you meet your brother Roman, a drunk who works at a taxi station. Your first mission 
 is to simply drive to his place and from there on, you can start roaming Liberty City. That's right, 
 Liberty City has been brought back and amped up to fit the next-gen consoles. Everything is so 
 much detailed compared to the last time we saw Liberty City, which was in GTA3. But everything 
 seems to be depressing, mostly because of the city because it replicates New York. What I mean 
 by depressing is no style to it really.
  
  The gameplay is probably the best thing to the game. When you get hit by a car, you don't just 
 simply fall down and loose health like previous GTA games. This time you actually role over the 
 car or at least lean towards it like in real-life. And when somebody gets shot, they don't just 
 run away. They actually limp away realistically. I can go on and on but i'm sure you get the point 
 that i'm leading to. You also get a cell phone in the game, but this time it's actually interactive. 
 You can dial any number you want including 911 or anybody in your phonebook that you meet throughout 
 the story. Vigilante mission no longer exist... Or at least not in the way you know it. Now when 
 you hit the vigilante button, a menu comes up asking whether you would like to either enter a name 
 and locate the person you typed in, scan a photo and find the person in the photo, or simply locate 
 the nearest crime that you can go after. And once you get wanted, instead of having to look for 
 hovering stars hidden throughout the city, you simply escape the search perimeter that revolves 
 around the crime you've committed or the last spot you were seen at after the crime. The graphics 
 the game has have been revamped to again, fit the next-gen consoles. The lighting and texture to 
 almost everything looks so much better and life comparable. But more detail could be added to peoples 
 faces though.
  
  GTA4 also has an online mode that the previous GTA games didn't have. This online mode has a deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, free roam, ect. and all of them are fun in their own manner, just depends on what 
 you're looking for. You can also customize your online character with clothes and stuff you unlock 
 in the somewhat alternate story online. But even when you've done everything you can do several 
 times off or online, the game seems to get a bit repetitive and can get a bit boring after a good 
 weak or two.
  
  Overall GTA4 is a big jump from the last GTA game Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, but you basically 
 get the same package but on next-gen consoles. If you've been a fan of the GTA series, then this 
 is for you. But if you're new to it and are interested in getting this game, I would check out 
 the previous ones and see if that's your type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 29121994
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  When i put GTA4 in my PS3 i thought it would be the best game i had ever played. I started playing 
 the game and i wasn't all that impressed. I found the driving dodgy and the frame rate really bad. 
 My point here is, how can you have a game titled Grand Theft Auto where the cars are hard to actually 
 drive good. Along with the cars being really hard to drive good, the graphics weren't all that 
 good, the game lagged almost all the time and it just doesn't even seem to make sense if the graphics 
 aren't even that good. 
  The other thing that disappointed me was the way that all the activities you can do seem dull and 
 boring. I never really understood what people liked so much about it apart from being able to kill 
 people over and over which in the end you WILL get very sick of. 
  It's games like GTA4 that make me feel bad to trust the hype that the media and everyone gives 
 to games, i can't even trust game reviewers who i thought were the best but in the end they just 
 let me down really badly by overrating a game which at its core might seem ok but seems very much 
 unfinished and not so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilHomie995
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  "Perfect game!!!!!! Absolutely Amazing!!!!!!" 
  
  This 
 game is a great follow-up to Grand Theft Auto San Andreas.
  
  Graphics: 
 9.5
  
  Game 
 play: 10
  
  Sounds: 
 10
  
  Story: 10
  
 
  Replay value: High 
  
  Those 
 are my ratings to the game. This is the best in the series. Even better than Grand Theft Auto San 
 Andreas in many ways. The rag doll effect in Grand Theft Auto IV is better than the games before. 
 The graphics are better of course because it is in a next gen console. The stunts are more realistic 
 and better. You can do a full back flip. You can hide behind walls like gears of war. The story 
 is perfect and believable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  Best Feature: Classic open ended GTA gameplay and style. Great story and characters. Long game, 
 well worth the hefty $60 price tag. Fabulous presentation. THEY FINALLY FIXED THE GUNPLAY!
  
  Worst Feature: The social relationships become tiresome, even with the reward of special gifts 
 from friends. (Especially when you don't like certain people) Radio could be better (and repeat 
 less) .
  
  Now by now, I'm sure you've all at least played a "Grand Theft Auto" game. And as such, I'm sure 
 you know what you can generally expect from the series. A wide open city where your free to roam, 
 general criminal murder, mayhem and high production values. (with the exception of graphics)
  
  So "Grand Theft Auto IV" shouldn't be anything particularly new to any of you . That can be 
 a pitfall that a series that survives for as long as GTA has, (with at least 6 major releases) 
 can easily fall into. But Rockstar has always had the rare ability to dodge this pitfall for the 
 most part, as every major GTA release always manages to feel fresh, new and just as fun as the 
 previous installment. (Example: The gameplay difference between Vice City and San Andreas is staggering)
 
  
  How does the incredibly hyped current generation installment Grand Theft Auto 4 possibly differentiate 
 itself from it's predecessors? It does so in a couple of ways, the most obvious of which is the 
 all around more realistic tone and look of the game. While the previous GTA games were in a bit 
 of a humorous parody of a city based on real life metropolises, GTA4 goes for sheer Manhattan grit 
 and realism with the help of the power of the current generation crop of consoles. Everything looks 
 and feels convincing and every last visual detail is fleshed out. Paint peels from your car and 
 bullets make holes where they impact. Perhaps best of all, the goofy looking character animations 
 from the previous games are gone, Niko walks, runs, climbs, dives and shoots in a very convincing 
 way. That being said, the graphics are nice and aren't the usual shoddy mess the GTA games are, 
 but the PS3 is certainly capable of so much more, so GTA4 won't win any award for graphics. But 
 that's okay, the game is so large that I can understand why the visuals aren't of a Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 quality.
  
  But back to Niko. With the exception of Grand Theft Auto 3's silent protagonist and the faceless 
 men before him, GTA has always had entertaining lead characters. (My favorite before now, the Ray 
 Liotta voiced "doesn't take anyones s*** "Tommy Vercetti") And Niko is no exception to this. In 
 fact, he very well may be the best. He is the first with an actual fully fleshed out back story, 
 which is revealed bit by bit through conversations with his cousin Roman and others. This helps 
 you to understand your character more and more, and come to the whatever realization you want to 
 about him. This is a good way of taking the player and drawing him into the game as the character... and 
 not just someone playing the game. And let me say, it worked very well (perhaps too well, considering 
 that this game depressed a few days for me) on me. When I played this game... I ceased to be "AlucardsFate." 
 (Or whatever my real name is) I WAS NICO BELIC.
  
  Now, with such a main character at the helm of this game, you'd better have a good story to thrust 
 him into. There is a fantastic tale here for those who really get into it like me. It kinda drags 
 it's feet in the middle after you kill a certain someone and really set it off, but it picks up 
 a little later on when Nico and his companion's deeds start to show consequences. For better or 
 worse. And by the end, depending on what path you took, you may not like those consequences. My 
 endgame almost got some manly tears outta me, and afterwords I became a cold hearted killer... hell 
 bent on vengeance. (Again... I WAS NICO BELIC)
  
  Wait... I thought your always a cold hearted killer in GTA? Not quite. GTA4 offers you one option 
 in particular that none of its predecessors never did. It gives you the option to show some of 
 your foes mercy. This is an interesting little wrinkle to the GTA mold. If you get as into the 
 game as I did, you can really face off with your own moral center here. I. E. "This man is a drug 
 dealer... on his knees practically wetting himself swearing to reform... if you spare him." Potentially 
 he could reform... or continue peddling his vile poison on the streets... but more important then 
 that, "Who am I to decide who lives and dies?" (I think I heard "Rem Saverem's" voice in my head 
 a few times)
  
  Such things that provoke my own thought, I find irresistible in any game. But even more important 
 was how my decisions affected the world around Niko. From small stuff like running into other characters 
 you may have spared, and seeing how their life has since turned out or hearing about your exploits 
 on the news, all the way up to huge things like finally indulging that thirst for revenge, so sure 
 your doing the right thing... only to have one of the characters you really liked pay the price 
 for you actions. At one point this crushed me, if only more games took you for such brilliantly 
 written rides. Backed up with GTA's traditionally well acted and witty script, the plot is fantastic.
 
  
  Now from a gameplay perspective, on foot the only real difference from San Andreas aside from the 
 control being a little tighter, is the gunplay. Which thank God, is finally pretty solid. GTA's 
 gunplay has always ranged from acceptable (San Andreas) to crap. (GTA3) But some real work apparently 
 went into fixing it, and GTA4 has the best aiming system yet. While not perfect, it takes some 
 cues from Resident Evil 4 and goes to an over the shoulder perspective, only GTA4 gives you a semi-auto 
 aim. You can auto aim but still move your cross hair to shoot for vital areas. (Which enemies finally 
 react to when they are hit in say the leg...) You even have a button to take cover behind the nearest 
 object and you can blind fire or pop up from behind it to continue the fight. Again, it's not perfect, 
 as I sometimes found that Niko would pick the worst spot to duck behind. But all in all, the shooting 
 is dare I say... good? Bout time...
  
  Anyone playing GTA, drives around a lot of the time. The vehicle handling in GTA4 is quite a bit 
 different then your used to, gone is the super arcadey feel of the previous games. Instead, to 
 go with the new realistic environments, you have new more realistic handling. While it's not Gran 
 Turismo by any means, you now can't take a hairpin turn going full speed like you could in the 
 past. You actually have to apply your brake and accelerator (Located on the controller's shoulder 
 buttons now) somewhat strategically to get around at high speed. While offputting at first, I eventually 
 got used to it and was driving like a pro like I used to in the previous games.
  
  Now I've dumped a lot of praise on this game, richly deserved praise, but there is one thing that 
 I found bothersome about it. The social interaction features, while novel at first, as the game 
 goes on and you gather more and more friends, it can really start to wear thin. Imagine every time 
 you had some serious business to take care of... a friend wanted to hang out. Imagine it happening 
 constantly.
  
  Every time I walk out my door on my way to a mission (the meat of the game) someone is calling 
 me up, asking if I wanna go do something. (This can be anything from Bowling, eating to drinking... which 
 is extra fun driving home) While some of these characters have the benefit of special abilities 
 should they trust you enough, (Jacob gives you discounted prices on weapons... outta the back of 
 his car) some aren't so great. (Roman lending you his car... when you can walk outside and have 
 your pick of any car on the road... that makes sense)
  
  Near the end of the game it gets nuts, as your friends list grows and grows. (I swear if Packie 
 keeps calling me...) I just started ignoring everyone but Kate and Brucie. (Cause Brucie is F***ing 
 Awesome.... hanging out with him is a blast... he has the funniest conversations. And Kate has the 
 most thought provoking conversations with Niko... and some pretty funny ones if you get her drunk...)
 
  
  Aside from that little quirk, Grand Theft Auto 4 is amazing. I would recommend that everyone at 
 least give it a shot, even if this sorta thing isn't your bag. If you don't like it fine, but if 
 you let yourself into Niko's initially filthy shoes, you'll be grabbed by the grabbed by the tale, 
 which when paired with classic GTA style gameplay, raises the bar one more time. The only question 
 is where does Rockstar go now?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall_g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  So here it is, we get back to the Liberty City: luxury mansions, drugs dealers, weapon dealers, 
 girls with implants, all variety of vehicles and an excellent and intriguing history are more than 
 motivation to have this game.
  
  So here's my review:
  
  Story:
  
  The game tells us about an immigrant and also a veteran of the Bosnian War who, after persuasion 
 from his cousin Roman, comes to Liberty City to pursue the American Dream. After his arrival, Niko 
 quickly learns that Roman's tales of riches and luxury were lies, concealing Roman's struggles 
 with debt and gangsters. Niko aids Roman in his troubles while hoping to carve out a new life for 
 himself in the city. But Niko came for another reason, which is vengeance and in the mean time 
 he starts to work for it's own trying to survive making all kinds of dirty works like stealing, 
 killing and other kinds of works which is not at the law. In general it could be a simple that 
 is also extended to high level of complexity because the game presents also other people's lives 
 that is also interesting to watch and it makes you see the proximity with real life. And thanks 
 to an incredible voice acting and a superb script it can makes us more interesting on each cutscene. 
 
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  GTA4 is not only story, we were presented with some innovations with this new game, as the other 
 games we had only the part of driving and shooting , with some difference with San Andreas where 
 Rockstar also started with the socializing part and body's upgrade. Here on this new GTA being 
 a social person can be really rewarding, and it gives you advantages like: weapons, get free of 
 the wanted level, getting good cars, health booster, and much more stuff... 
  
  Not to mention with the activities you can also have with friends, like: pool, darts, strip clubs, 
 bars, restaurants, cabaret, comedy club, bowling... all this activities can make you to upgrade 
 your relationships with your friends and it's also quite entertaining as well. 
  
  But the real key of the GTA gameplay is the same with the other games series, you watch a cutscene 
 and then someone of this cutscene said that someone has done it wrong and you are needed to go 
 there and teach him a lesson. And then you get into a vehicle and teach him a lesson. After that 
 another cutscene is activated and the process repeats. Which is also the same with side missions, 
 but telling the difference between these side missions and the main ones is almost impossible. 
 
  
  And doing all these missions can make most of the weapons and vehicles available not to mention 
 and also the vehicle theft and races available from one of Niko's friends, but in the end the game 
 can become a little repetitive. More you advance on the game, more accomplishments Niko gets, but 
 making them all happy it can be really hard. The missions you can get it from the cell phone. With 
 this cell phone you can coordinate dates, receive special services, organize mission objectives 
 and it's also the gateway for the incredible multiplayer options, which leads me to the next point:
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  In here you can jump online and challenge other players and it can be very addictive with so much 
 options of gamemode. Since the deathmacth, races with all kinds of vehicles, cops and criminals 
 and other kinds of missions where theft and weapons are involved... and all you have to do is to 
 create a character and jump to the action. And this multiplayer mode is shocking people a lot and 
 it is one of the best multiplayer game mode I ever played so far.
  
  
  Now back to the general aspects of the gameplay:
  
  Now there was some kind of criticism with 
 the gameplay like shooting system that has been all ratified this time with the cover system, also 
 shooting and driving is not that hard and you can shoot and drive with targeting the shots with 
 the right analog stick and driving with the left. Driving it can take a little time to get used 
 when you drive a vehicle and make a turn and break... the vehicles in GTA don't like to turn when 
 they break, which can be a little annoying at first when you play race games, but eventually you 
 get used to that. And yes you can pick up hookers and go with her to a back alley, and the funny 
 thing about this game is watch the AI to react in different way when like the civilians walking 
 in the city or vehicles that has different ways to follow. Not to mention that the city itself 
 has no boundaries, you can go anywhere and do anything. The difficulty is just right where you 
 can fail a mission or just die, the missions are not hard and also not too easy, but it can make 
 you sweat sometimes, the wanted level has been modified as well, and we can easily get free by 
 getting out of the red circle . 
  
  General look:
  
  To me this is the most the accessible GTA ever made you can customize the character's look with 
 new outfits, glasses, shoes and hats. You cannot change your physical appearance like the San Andreas, 
 like: eating too much can make you fat or working out your body to be in good shape, but it still 
 has a good variety of options here. The most impressive of this game is the vast environment where 
 you can do anything at any time, not to mention the constant day and night cycles, the weather 
 change that can affect the the player sees the city, it's really beautiful and very close to reality. 
 Characters models look amazing with facial expression changes and excellent voice acting, the music 
 is awesome and as the other GTA series, Rockstar didn't let me disappointed with track list, they 
 managed to get some excellent songs and radio stations that can make us entertained while we are 
 on mission or not, it is very rewarding to listen. 
  
  The bad: There are some glitches here and there, some frame fluctuations as well, and some small 
 problems with the AI, but still there's no merciful game as this one. 
  
  
  In general look of this game, GTA4 is one of the best games for the next gen that can deliver on 
 the hype. However I must apologize for the fans, but my score goes for 9.5, because it's not a 
 perfect game but it's close to the perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about GTAIV that hasn't already been mentioned, yes it is what games should 
 be like; freedom, attention to detail, moments that make you smile, you really do care about the 
 characters and cheer when the bad guys tumble.
  
  Now for the but, there is nothing here that wasn't done in GTA: SA, in fact it even has the feeling 
 that there is actually less to do here than in previous versions. I enjoyed putting out fires, 
 I also enjoyed ferrying patients around San Andreas, Vice City et al.
  
  Don't get me wrong I love this game and my rating reflects this. I love the fact that you believe 
 that people are going about their daily lives while you walk among them which you never quite got 
 that feeling in previous iterations. 
  
  The game is technically superior to those previous versions but that is to be expected this is 
 after all the PS3 not the PS2.
  
  In this reviewer's opinion this game only tops GTAIII in terms of game play but falls short of 
 both Vice City and San Andreas.
  
  So while this game gets a 9 it doesn't come without it's criticisms, only in comparison to the 
 old games which kicked the phenomenon off. I would buy it over a thousand other games but can't 
 rate it higher than my all time favorites San Andreas and Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingu33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Theres some good stuff and some bad stuff. At some points, its an awesome game. I really like the 
 cut scenes. The music is great and so is the attention to detail throughout Liberty City. The graphics 
 are okay, but a little blocky for a next generation console game. The worst part about the game 
 was the extreme difficulty for some of the missions. You are forced to drive at extremely high 
 speeds, avoid road obstacles, avoid other vehicles and chase a red dot through a difficult map. 
 The red dot moves faster than you at times and is not bound by the same laws of physics as you 
 are. On top of that, you have to aim and shoot while all of this is going on. Although you can 
 get much better at this game with practice, some people don; t have the time for this. It would 
 have been a LOT better if the entire mission didn't have to be redone from the start. The absolute 
 worst part is all of the travel and legwork that goes into restarting a mission. It was just a 
 massive pain. Rather than enjoying the game like I should have, I was always worried "will the 
 next mission be the impossible one?" or "please, please don; t let this be a motorcycle one."
  Aside from the difficulty, there are other reasons why I can; t understand the through the roof 
 ratings. A lot of the mechanics are difficult to handle (too many buttons that do too many things) 
 which takes away from the otherwise natural feel of the game. Another thing was that at times it 
 was too difficult to see anything as a result of darkness. Also, the story was extremely repetetive, 
 just one mission after the other, and for the most part, they didn; t really tie in. Kill this guy..... he 
 took off in a car... chase him ... kill him.... bla bla bla bla......
  A lot of people will disagree with my "less than perfect" rating for this game but that's fine. 
 . Clealry a majority of people loved the game. I found it too difficult to enjoy. I don't like 
 doing things 10-20 times over again. I mean, it isn; t a horrible game, it's actually quite good, 
 and worth owning. It's just not deserving of all these high grades in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcnugget2256
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  GTA has to be one of the best sandbox games to own on the PS2 , PS3, or X-box 360, but GTA 4 has 
 to be the best out of all of them. You play as Niko Bellic, who has come to America because of 
 his cousin, Roman, and for revenge. Alot has changed since San andreas. For example, there are 
 a lot of new places to hang out. Bowling, Darts, Pool, Racing, and of course Online. There are 
 also others, like Burger shot. Internet cafe, Car wash, cluckin bell, ect. There is also a new 
 cover system that allows you to hide behind anything. The cell phone is also new. You can call 
 to set up dates, customize your ringtones and Wallpapers, call friends for special abilitys, jobs, 
 and it is also the gateway to Multiplayer. Overall, Grand theft auto is a great game either on 
 the PS3 or X-box 360. You need to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I first saw the trailer for it in April of 2007. It looked amazing, but I felt 
 as if it could very well disappoint. Flash forward to modern day, and this game is everything and 
 more.
  
  Niko Bellic, a Serbian immigrant with a criminal history comes to America in search of the American 
 dream. He finds his cousin Roman had been lying to him, and that he must return to his criminal 
 ways in order to survive.
  
  This game provides just about everything it promised with even more thrown in for good measure. 
 The graphics are above average with detail in areas you wouldn't expect. There are small gameplay 
 additions that make the game feel even more immersive and real, like being able to switch off your 
 car, or ride a trolley. The story and gameplay is absolutely spectacular, with a new cover story 
 and a chance to choose the outcome of certain characters. The game also added a new ragdoll physics 
 engine and advanced hit detection making the game even more of a blast to play. Shooting a man 
 in the arm or leg will cause him to grab at the wound, stumble in the shot direction, and even 
 occasionally provide feedback on the wound (ow my arm!!!) . There is also little more fun than causing 
 a drop from a height, whether its someone else, or Niko.
  
  Unfortunately, as much as the game focuses more on story and character as well as the little things, 
 there are some sacrifices that had to be made. There are less cars, missions, and overall space 
 in the game than in San Andreas (of course this might be a good thing as it allows increased detail 
 and better focus on the important matters) . There are slight technical issues that have plagued 
 every GTA since GTA III. Some aspects seem unfinished (Such as a cable car that is completely useless, 
 or very little accessory options) . When the game is over, there is significantly less to do and 
 less to explore. Gameplay tends to become repetitive in an effort to avoid cartoony unrealistic 
 objectives. With all the extra time during the delay, one thinks RockStar could have finished off 
 some of the more unfinished aspects.
  
  Don't let the negative aspects of the game deter you though. The game coould very well become game 
 of the year, and online is absolutely superb. You could very well spend over 100 hours playing 
 it, and since this is the next-gen equivalent of GTA III, we can only wait for the future downloads 
 and add-ons, ad well as the next gen San Andreas, which will be guaranteed to have everything here 
 as well as everything in San Andreas x10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kb8618
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  it looks like R* took a few steps forward as well as a several steps backwards, and at the end, 
 it somehow didn't feel like a true GTA game, so i probably wont spend months playing this game 
 like i did Vice City and San Andreas.
  
  Obviously they improved the graphics, handling and physics. It has a great story line, which can 
 be altered at some points. You can loose the wanted level at any level, which actually make chases 
 fun, and challenging. Stealing cars is more realistic because u can break into locked cars, although 
 not every parked car should be locked. 
  
  Unfortunately they also took several steps backwards, but could be fixed by dlc. Some of the things 
 missing that were in San Andreas or vice city: a parachute c'mon R* helicopter pilots need those 
 as well, cant hook up a trailer to a truck or airport tug, forklift doesn't lift, no tow trucks, 
 which would actually be good for the car theft missions (i loved hooking up 3 of those plus a car 
 and going super fast) . Small selection of clothing, i only found 2 pairs of glasses and that was 
 in the cheap store, cant customize cars or even pick the color, no sea life at all, but it is new 
 york so the only thing in that water would probably be dead bodies. No barber shop, i don't mind 
 that a tattoo place is missing cuz that wouldn't fit in, helicopter cant even get above empire 
 state building, cant rob stores, they could of put that if u eat to much u get fat, or if u exercise 
 u get thin, but not to the extent that u have to eat to maintain in that condition. No gas tank 
 cap to easily blow up cars and the remote detonated bombs that you could throw aren't in. There 
 is probably a few more things but cant think of them at the moment or haven't noticed it yet
  
  also, this is prob my TV, but when i look up at a helicopter, or if there are a lot of explosions 
 my tv looses the signal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  It seemed correct for gamespot to give GTA 4 a 10 but now when I think about it, It makes a 9.5. 
 Not much of a difference but the game was definately over-hyped. GTA 4 though is one of the best 
 games I have ever played. Usually I get fusterated when I loose or die but I cant help but laugh 
 out loud after seeing my fat butt get run over by a hybrid car or blown down the street after a 
 direct hit by an RPG. If they tried to make this game a real-life crime simulator, this game would 
 made me depressed. Instead, they created a colorfull game filled with social commentary and parodies 
 of the hundreds of things we do in our lifestyles.
  First, lets start out with the graphics, Outstanding. The colorful streets and the happy detailed 
 faces of Liberty City add to its realness. Also, the graphics arent broken and almost perfect, 
 except in multiplayer. What little glitches present in the game really stick out. Star Junction 
 must be the most entertaining area of Liberty City to visit. The funny advertisements and whole 
 scene of a busy city are stunning. It forces you to look up and around instead of blindly running 
 to your objectives. If you do though, there is a chance that you will be run over by a car.
  The details of the game are great also. The hundreds of unique buildings thoughout the city beg 
 you to explore the alleys only to encounter a sleeping hobo and some pedistrians. This is truly 
 a sick game but it is too fun to resist. Try hijacking a buss and running over a hundred people 
 before getting gun down by police. Every little scream and bump make you cringe untill you get 
 used to it. Virtually 100% of the citizens have a bad mouth and cuzz. They actually do it way too 
 much. Driving around a curve not soo perfectly and almost instantly a few people will scream ####ing 
 #### and start running away. Yet that is not all. The developing team decided to create their own 
 version of the internet with many parody websites like Burger Shot. Also you can even watch TV 
 and their parodies of commercials and shows like poker on television. Other new things have been 
 added like you can join strip clubs and pick up prostitutes.
  The game has all the usual features of GTA including body armor and health. Driving to all your 
 destinations except for helicopters and boats. Though there is a rag doll effect. With a direct 
 launch from an RPG to your chest expect you to end up dead twenty yards down the street with your 
 arms and legs twirling at the physics mercy. I did not get San Andreas but I have had the other 
 two GTA games. The ability to swim is a god send. It ticks me off so many times to accidently drive 
 off an island and drown in my car. Its sad to see your super tough idol drown ten feet off the 
 beach. You can only swim for a limited time though.
  Multiplay owns! It is the part of the game that makes up it most addicting features. There are 
 a number of modes you may join like free mode where you may walk around the entire city to explore 
 it, do some team activities like cop killing or just run around shooting each other in the face. 
 My favorite mode though it cops and crooks. Your team plays both roles during a game. There are 
 two rounds. One role is the cops who hunt down the crooks or kill the boss. Crooks make it to the 
 getaway vehicle or kill the cops.
  No matter how ausome the game is, it comes with it down sides. Even though its has more than a 
 hundred missions, what do you do when the game is done? Slowly drain your money account by dying 
 and paying 10,000 to the hospital? The multiplay can you keep you company but singleplay ends pretty 
 much there. You may try to the hunt down all the pigeons. There are 200 pigeons scattered around 
 the map. I have found a little more than 16. Who wants to spend their time running around the map 
 hunting down these pigeons slowly? Also, do to how the game works, lag during multiplay can have 
 various effects. Im not sure if I experianced them all. During one round in cops and crooks, the 
 boss stood still for several minutes. Despite drilling him with an mp5, it wouldnt move or drain 
 in health. 5 minutes later, when i was hunting down the boss's bodyguards, he was on the move agian. 
 Also, another strange effect is when in the beggining, you appear to be under the map paralyzed 
 only to reapear on street level. Additionaly, when you try to run other players over with a car 
 (the most fun way) , the lag will make it appear that you hit him. When you look back or start to 
 turn around, hes already up and shoots you in the face. That is just a little fusterating. 
  To join a multiplayer game, you need to join a lobby. In the lobby, the game hosts chooses the 
 game mode and other options. Unfortunettly, when the host is idling and does nothing, most of the 
 other players in the lobby fail to try to kick him. They just wait or do not know how to kick. 
 Also, when you try to join the game with the mode you want, the game host can just change the game 
 mode wasting your time. The game is great but it is not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemBoys46290
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  lets see the game is excellent great story with multiple story lines depending on the choices you 
 make. which makes the games replay value very high. its pretty much the same old formula but updated 
 you get a cell phone, you can date chics, and change your outfits. alot of the same vehicles which 
 have better control a couple new ones. the city is huge and the people are more in tune to whats 
 happening in the weather, what your doing and so on. the games controls work pretty well no real 
 problems in that area. the game is fun to play with all the crazy stuff you can do like get drunk 
 now thats funny try driving afterwards its almost impossible to drive straight down the road and 
 running from the police have fun with that. the online gang play or death match is fun and you 
 get to use your headsets definitely a plus. game is just awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dongalos
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Believe the hype? .... maybe
  
  initially gamespot gave it a 9.5 rating then took the rating down... and gave it a 10, people still 
 have screenshots if the original score online and bit of a controversy
  
  If you've played previous grand theft autos, this game is very similar but its got new technology 
 which I think enhances the gameplay experience, the duck and cover combat mechanics once you get 
 used to it, at first it felt weird like i was stuck to a wall
  
  My favourite is just walking up to random people on the street and challenging them to 1 vs 1 fist 
 fights... when they fall down or i fall down the Ragdoll effects are awesome you bump and hit objects 
 differently each time
  
  Single player story line, it started off good with your guy coming to America and trying to survive 
 BUT i really didn't like how easily Niko (the main character) would say yes to go kill anybody 
 for money...
  
  If the game had a better story line that actually gave you more choices to be good or bad in what 
 you did i think it would deserve the 10
  
  GOOD:
  + Improved graphics from previous grand theft autos
  + Ragdoll effects are pretty sweet
  + 
 So much detail put into this game, Radio Stations, INternet IN THE GAME with bunch of websites, 
 TV Stations in the game.... it's ridiculously awesome
  + Multiplayer! = awesome
  
  BAD:
  - Single player story line... not very interesting and left me feeling like a puppet having to follow 
 orders from everyone to progress the storyline to finish game
  - Some Frame rate dips when lots on screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaosKetchup
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  okay lets face it, we have all loved the GTA series for quite sometime, and with the release of 
 this new and improved game many were absolutely blown away... until the game was released. don't 
 get me wrong the game is absolutley gorgeos and has some of the coolest improvements the serires 
 has ever seen, including a huge improvement to the gameplay and wanted system, but somehow, this 
 game manages to prove that gameplay doesn't always mean that you have something fun to do. i more 
 often than less, find myself barreling out of helicopters just to see Niko go flying down a street 
 and slamming into cars (yup he's tough) but the game falls short as it fails to give the player 
 many things to do.
  
  the story is pretty good, and the missions aren't even that difficult, but eventually you'll grow 
 tiresome and just not care, it truly is fun, but not as fun as san andreas, in the end you might 
 find yourself relying on the multiplayer to keep yourself intertained. 
  
  The GTA games have always been famous for making the player become immersed in a certain depicted 
 society; this game really doesn't try to do that, the only time i felt i was actually experiencing 
 the mellow thrill of the big apple was when i was strolling downtown in Star Junction, Liberty 
 City's rendition of Times Square, at night listening to some jazz. it's also nice to just be walking 
 along and find a saxophone (?) player standing on the streets.
  
  all in all this game makes you want to play it, but once you do you'll have nothing to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series is probably the most popular series of gaming on all consoles. Gta4 
 (Grand Theft Auto Four) had to bring a modern look to it, with new characters and amazing cars, 
 and that's what it did! 
  
  Let's start with the character, Niko Bellic. Never in the Gta series has there been a illigal immigrant 
 from europe, and that's what this game brought. A great story line to the character, great clothing, 
 great personality and he was a hit with the ladies! The only really big downfall with Niko was 
 his running. It was unrealistic and lacked that sense of, i'm running from a cop, but i look like 
 a chicken running with no head! The fact that you needed to keep tapping the X button or another 
 button on the Xbox360, made it tiring and boring.
  
  The cars in Gta4 are amazing, i must say. You have a wide range to choose from, and hidden cars 
 you can find all over the city. It's really fun to smash up windows and nick police cars to get 
 a good ole chase. But really, do we till need pay and spray? I think bringing back old features 
 like that is good, but you won't really need it unless you have the cheat for the cops to divert 
 from you, otherwise, just go and steal the same car as a differant color, simple as that!
  
  The city needed a upgrade from the last Gta series, and Gta4 polished it off nicely, from a 
 staue with a beating heart in it to strip clubs and bowling alleys and pubs, and of course the 
 abandened theme park. The city adds a speck of magic into the game, and if they keep up these high 
 standards in the future Gta games, then they will continue to be the biggst games of all time!
 
  
  I rate this game 9.5 out of 10, only for a few reasons though. If i was you, i would go out and 
 buy this game as soon as possible, it's a amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Now unless you've been living under a rock you should know that Rockstars pride and joy, GTA, has 
 had a new installment, not including spin offs and handheld versions it is the 6th game in the 
 series, it is strangely named GTA IV. Anyway, this game was set to be one of the biggest of the 
 year, and everyone was excited about it, upon release magazines and websites began giving this 
 game huge scores, top of the line, masterpiece, all that and more. Jon Stewert even did a GTA IV 
 segment on the Daily Show, as well as Stephen Colbert on the Colbert Report and Conan O'Brien on 
 his show, I even think that Jay Leno and David Letterman did a segment on it as well, but only 
 two were really funny (Colbert and the Daily Show) . Anyway, the question the public really wanted 
 an answer to though was the hardest answer to find, "Does it live up to the hype?", now this game 
 had more hype than the new Batman movie so after playing through the game a few times I came to 
 the conclusion that it definetly was not as good as everyone said, not to say that the game was 
 bad, in fact it is one of the finer games I've played, but it's not a masterpiece by any means, 
 its fun and in some respects challenging, but there are problems, as always.
  
  Lets start with the Graphics and overall presentation of the game. Now Rockstar has never really 
 been known for dishing out the most dazzling of eyecandied pieces, but with the Next Gen theatre 
 of gaming in full swing (we may even be able to call it current gen soon) you'd expect a new look 
 and some shiny new visuals wouldn't you? And thats exactly what Rockstar gave us, a new look for 
 GTA. characters are very well presented with a nice smear of detail and some very well constructed 
 facial animations. Characters all look and feel like individuals and each also has they're own 
 distinct look and personality. Though the character graphics still fall short of keeping up with 
 standards, they are good, but they aren't prize winning. But fear not, Rockstar more than makes 
 up for the lacklustre character animations and rendering by gicing us the largest free sprawling 
 city in gaming. Liberty City: A seemingly comic book style version of a mix of MY, Chicago, LA 
 and any other city where crime has taken a strong root (not too say that these places are hubs 
 for crime) . Each section of the city carries with it a distinct flavour and you can immediately 
 tell what kind of people live there, wether it be the poor (often times illegal) immigrants living 
 in Hove Beach or the wealthy middle class of Alderny. This seems like a fantastic thing on the 
 outside, and for the most part it is, it does make sure that the city never becomes boring and 
 stale, the problem is it is too big. You will often times find yourself driving for 20 minutes 
 just to get to a store to buy yourself a suit and tie ensemble. The city is beautifully created 
 and is incredibly nice to look at, especially from helicopter, wether the extra hours of driving 
 across a freeway is worth it really depends on the person. The water effects do deserve a mention, 
 they're not Uncharted: Drakes Fortune style level of quality but it is still a good look, with 
 the sea properly reflecting the light as the sun rises and sets. The sound of the city is also very 
 well designed, each character is instantly memorable and recognisable, even though there are a 
 few characters who you probably won't be able to understand, e. g Little Jacob. Gone are the days 
 when you would walk down the street to the sounds of "Hi Guy" and "I'm off to water my garden friend", 
 now each AI has its own personality and conversations oaren't ever so 2D, it can be entertaining 
 to listen to some of the odder conversations that occur. The cars deserve an honourable mention, 
 I have never seen a car rendered with such attention to detail in a game before (excluding GT5) , 
 the best part of this is that the cars damage is exact to where and at what force it is hit, If 
 you scrape against another car it will come out with a long scratch along its side, If you smash 
 full force into a Bridge support the car will sport a massive dent in the exact place it hit, and 
 chances are you'll fly out the front window too, frustrating, but nice too look at. The presentation 
 of the game is done well, very well, better than most games in fact, but it isn't the main attraction 
 of this semi blockbuster.
  
  The Gameplay in GTAIV has always had its ups and downs, its always been fun, but its always lacked 
 a certain something. Rockstar manage to remedy many of the annoying quirks that have plagued the 
 past games, for starters there is now a good cover system , which helps a lot, though it does make 
 firefights incredibly easy. Cops no longer chase you for miles and miles, but instead only try 
 to find you out in small areas, which naturally get progressivly bigger as your star rating increases, 
 anyone who believes that it is now easy to avoid the LCPD should think again, because once you 
 get past 2 stars things get hairy. Gone are the tanks and marine CORP that came with the 5 star 
 rating, now the toughest you'll face are well armed SWAT troops in large black vans, and the incredibly 
 tough and powerful Assault Helicopters. Driving is now harder then ever as cars will often not 
 turn smoothly enough and you'll end smashing into something, I believe that some kind of drift 
 function should have been installed for tighter turns, also motorbikes seem to be frailer and harder 
 to manage then in past games, even the slightest bang will send you careening off into the distance, 
 but this doesn''t stop driving at 200 miles an hour down the freeway shooting people out of the 
 window any less fun, thankfully drive by's are easier thaen ever, and once you get them, you'll 
 wonder how you ever drove without chucking grenades out the window. Health is another annoying 
 part of this game, there simply isn't enough, understandably so with the new cover system, you'll 
 often find yourself barely making it through if there is minimal cover, luckily the devs put First 
 Aid kits at the best places possible, its as if they forsaw that at that point you'd desperetaly 
 need it. money is always an issue in GTAIV, though it fits in well with the story, not enough missions 
 pay enough money, especially later on when you desperetaly need the money for body armour and bullets. The 
 missions are all great fun, and they never get stale and dry as they are always well spread out, 
 there are never any two massive firefights or two races next to each other, the mission are well 
 dispersed and varied enouh to keep the game fun for most of the game, though towards the end it 
 simply becomes one firefight after another. Though many mission are just plain frustration, which 
 isn't what you need because many of the frustrating missions end up being the ones when you need 
 to really concentrate. There are only a few guns, they're all basics, rifle, shotgun, SMG, handgun, 
 Sniper, RPG, grenade and baseball bat. Each weapon has an alternate version except for the RPG, 
 sometimes it changes the use of the weapon completely for instance the alternative to an explosive 
 grenade is a Molotov cocktail which starts fires rather than simply blowing up. Others change next 
 to nothin, for example the M4 has good stopping power where as the AK47 has higher rate of fire. 
 I would have liked the ability to customise weapons with scopes, laser sights, and maybe even alternate 
 ammo, but this isn't a shooting game so it's to be expected. Socialising with friends is fun, in 
 that it is somethingof a minigame, though it is annoying at times, if they call you and you don't 
 feel like driving to pick them up, then their repect and likeness of you drops a lot. Character 
 customisation takes a back seat in this game, which is unfortunate, I personally liked the sheer 
 amount of customisation that you could have in GTA: San Andreas, except for the stupid Muscle/Fat 
 system. I understand that the devs wanted us to feel like Niko Bellic (main character) rather than 
 feel like we were our own character, but at least give us more then 3 clothing sotres, one of them 
 just sells golf shirts anyway. The gameplay in GTA IV is great, and should be comended, but there 
 are still litlle things that you can nitpick over, thats what I just did, other than that everything 
 is superb.
  
  The story of GTAIV is pretty shallow, but it's as deep as one can really get considering the context. 
 If you're a fan of crime stories this is a game for you, if you're a fan of complex and intriguing 
 tales, this is not for you. The story is simple, Niko Bellic a former soldier and hitman from a 
 country in Eastern Europe (I'm guessing Serbia or Bosnia) comes to America after spending 7 years 
 on a trade ship running from debt collectors, he goes to America to meet his cousin who moved to 
 America 10 years ago and who claims to be rich, naturally it is a lie and as it turns out his cousin, 
 Roman, is not doing too well and needs Niko's help, though Niko has other plans, Niko also came 
 too America upon hearing that the 2 other survivors from his unit had taken up residence in Liberty 
 City, and he wanted to find out which one betrayed him and his friends to the enemy. Eventually 
 Niko ends up in a bigger pond with his cousin and the jobs get more important and have more impact 
 on the city, this is my first spot of dissapointment because there really is no visual impact on 
 the city, in a map that massive surely one riot wouldn't go to waste. But it is very comfprting 
 and entertaining to hear your exploits being reported on the radio or the TV, and then have the 
 reporters blame it on the Taliban or Al-Queda. The story advances too quickly and you fast find 
 yourself being able to predict what comes next, thats not to say that the story isn't entertaining, 
 but I would have enjoyed an extra few hours put into the game to increase the level of the plot. 
 An interesting note is that you now have the ability to spare certain people, though it really 
 doesn't make adifference in the long run it does make them available to do random mission if you 
 come across them in the street. The story is good, but predictable, and in some ways too unbelivable, 
 I would have preferred if Rockstar had slowed everything down and added more detail to it. 
  
  As a quick side note I probably should mention how interesting and funny Rockstars sense of 
 humour is, they are exactly on the ball on so many levels it is unbelievable, I found myself cacking 
 myself laughing upon hearing what a certain racist shock jock had to say about Liberty Cities version 
 of the Statue of Liberty, even the manual is rife with political and social satire. Though one 
 cautionary word must be give, if you are at all oppossed to any form of rascism or any kind of 
 joke at another religions expense, then avoid this game. Everyone is a stereotype, and in my opinion 
 thats how Rockstar gets away with it, though personally I think they overdid the Jewish stereotype 
 and also the Jamaican stereotype, but thats just me.
  
  A solid game with many fantastic elements, it might not live up to the initial hype and might have 
 a few frustrating or "wtf?" like moments but this is still one of the better 2008 releases so far. 
 something that every gamer should have in his library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was so greatly exited for GTA 4, it was going to be the next gen counterpart of the wonderful 
 series we all love dearly, and when it recieved phenomenal sucsess in reviews, gaining many 10/10 
 reviews I was expecting something so good I would have more fun with it than I did with the previous 
 GTA games, something I thought would be next to impossible, especially after GTA: SA. Sadly, that 
 was not the case, the further I progressed with the game the more I disliked it, missing things 
 that the previous GTA games included. An extensive amount of charecter customastion from GTA: SA 
 for example, or the Wide array of 'heavy' weapons introduced in GTA: Vice City. And not only that, 
 but the game seemed to lack the lasting appeal of the previous games, I managed to complete this 
 100% within the time I even finished the story of GTA: SA. It might just be me but lasting appeal 
 was the one thing I loved the most about the previous GTA games, and when the game lacks all of 
 the fun features added throught the previous GTA games it just didn't last as long. Now don't get 
 me wrong, GTA 4 is a brilliant game, it has a great story that keeps you attatched to the charecter, 
 has an improvement on combat that was something the series needed desperately (It was not worth 
 the sacrifice of some of the other features the previous games had that I mentioned though) , a 
 huge city with a brilliant level of detail that made the city feel so much more alive than the 
 previous games (again, something that the series needed desperately but was not worth the sacrifice 
 of other features) . The multiplayer was also good, but I preffered that offered in a good shooter, 
 racing game or fighter. Overall, GTA 4 is a great game that you should definitley buy if you enjoy 
 this type of game and haven't already, but don't set your expectations too high because you will 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laplace985
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  This would have been a great game if it wasnt for the extremely dull story. In my opinion italians 
 are extremely enertaining in movies but come off as boring lead characters in video games. San 
 andreas is a much better game with a hell of lot more to do. Plus it had a better and more entertaining 
 story. I was hoping niko would become a more entertaining character as the story progressed but 
 he never did. Multiplayer is a lot more fun than the actual game. Overall taketwo is an awesome 
 company that sincerely cares more about their fanbase than their stockholders unlike that other 
 brand (easports) and this is another good game that reflects that  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shizmonke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  Gta 4 is probably the most highly anticipated game of the year. With the game being out for almost 
 3 months it has shattered sales records and has received massive critical acclaim. With good reason 
 to, because very few games can fully live up to the hype they deliver, but rest assured Gta 4 does. 
 Let me start by saying that Gta 4 hugely improves upon its predecessors making it the best game 
 of the series.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are awesome when considered that this is a sandbox game which really cant 
 be held up to the standards of other games. The aspect of the graphics that really shine through 
 (no pun intended) is the lighting. The lighting is just flat out amazing. When you step outside 
 in the game you almost feel like the light is actually shining in your eyes. One of the most technically 
 amazing things in this game is the explosions. There is nothing more satisfying than taking your 
 rpg to a cop car and watching it explode into sheer awesomeness. Now with all these good graphics 
 in such a open world you cant expect it to be perfect because its not, but the problems are only 
 minor and barley hinder the game play. These problems are a few frame rate issues, but this is 
 due to fact that the game mainly runs at 60 fps and when it drops down to 30 fps (which still isn't 
 bad) you can tell. The other issue is some minor clipping issues, but both of these problems can 
 be easily overlooked.
  
  Sound: The Gta series has always been known for its amazing soundtrack. This one is no different 
 Rockstar is amazing at selecting music that sets the mood of there game. The sound effects in this 
 game really set the city off making it feel alive and breathing. Examples of this are screaming 
 pedestrians, honking horns, and powerful sounding guns.
  
  Gameplay: Now the gameplay is what has really made this game so much better than the gta games 
 before it. Rockstar has added quite a lot to enhance the gameplay. The major improvement is the 
 combat. They went with an over the shoulder view this time which works rather well. You can free 
 aim or you can lock on. While this has vastly improved the combat its not perfect. While the lock 
 on works you have the usual problem with lock on targeting. Prioritising. sometimes it just doesn't 
 lock on to the enemy who is the most threat to you. Now to remedy that you can use the free aim, 
 but this is also a little flawed. I noticed the aiming to be a little to jerky (for lack of a better 
 term) , and it also feels really akward and hard to use at close range. One of the new additions 
 to the combat is the cover system. Which works extremley well. You can take cover behind almost 
 anything in all of Liberty City. Which in itself is a true feat. Now with any cover system there 
 is a certain stickiness to them, but not nearly as bad as Gears of War. The driving has also been 
 changed. Its now more realistic than arcade like which can be a love it or hate it thing. Although 
 the content has been reduced when compared to San Andreas its all been refined. They went for quality 
 or quantity. As for the Multi player I am so impressed with what they did. It has 15 modes and 
 you can use all of liberty city. Almost every aspect from the single player has been carried over. 
 Meaning cops, pedestrains, traffic, all except the story line. All in all the gameplay is amazing. 
 It cant be held up to games that only focuse on 1 aspect because its when all these things come 
 together that this game becomes great.
  
  Fun Factor: Now this is what gta is known for, just being a overall fun game with limitless things 
 to do. Gta 4 still has that and more. Everything in this game has just been fine tuned and the 
 level of detail in this game is absolutly amazing, and the story has been completely rethought 
 and it makes it great. no longer do you get a charater who is just a total meat head but you actually 
 feel a connection with Niko.
  
  In conslusion, this game is just an outstanding game it really shows why gta is the king of sandbox 
 games, and why its going to stay like that for years to come.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Funfactor: 10
  
  Final Score: 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motohuih
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series is one of the best series' ever made. Each and every game gets better 
 and better. From GTA 3 to San Andreas. After a long break, GTA decides to make its debut on the 
 360 and PS3. It does a spectacular job entertaining you. This game makes things you never dreamed 
 of be true. From going on a motorboat to driving a helicopter. You can even watch TV. There is 
 so much detail. It seems like there is no limit. You can start a fire and call the fire department 
 to rescue. You can practically do anything. Story mode is even better. Having such a great story, 
 the gameplay is extremely fun with the stunning graphics. The thing that makes story mode even 
 better is that you have two different endings depending on which path you go. So playing this game 
 once is not enough. The online mode is also very exciting. I see no flaw in this game, and I doubt 
 anyone else would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AranJatt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has loads of new additions to the gameplay that covers up alot of its problems. 
 One is the cover system in which a player is able to duck or hide behind walls / bricks / fences 
 , anything to stop bullets from hitting the main character Niko.
  The story starts with Nikolai Bellic an immigrant from Eastern Europe who comes to America to achieve 
 his dreams. He Then realises and finds out thats his dreams were still distant. To achieve his 
 goals , he is forced to play dirty by killing old foes and work mates etc etc.
  Its a long story which covers 30 hours of gameplay.
  It is an interesting story and the best 
 thing about this is that the story is not linear , yes , it has more that one endings. I will not 
 say anything else about it as it would contain spoilers that will ruin your enjoyment of playing 
 the game.
  Like all the GTA , its a sandbox freeroaming kind of world and can do anything.
  AI have been improved.
  Graphics have increased positive by alot.
  There are less choices of 
 vehicles and guns , it kind of made me angry at first but you'll get over it.
  It is an excellent game that deserves a 10/10.
  GTA overall is a good game. 
  
  Graphics...... 
 9/10
  Sound..............9/10
  Controls..........9/10
  Gameplay........9.5/10
  Overall..............10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: szokone
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Nico Bellic is my best character in games fo far :) . How could I not like him. 
 I like physics in this game, music, dialogs and total mayhem that I do. I really like to kill pigeons 
 it's much better than collecting packages. This game is worth it's prize they've done much improvements 
 since the san andreas. City is living, everybody is doing different things until I kill them :) 
 I always liked the driving style in GTA series cars are reacting just right. It's my first game 
 that i both with my ps3 system and i'll never stop playing it until the gta5. This is the game 
 that forced me to buy ps3. And last thing this game isn't appropriate for children, it's violent, 
 and it has a strong language. I don't know what to say more just this - rockstar your game is the 
 best game ever :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRfRESh14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  The is good, but it isnt what it got. that game is crazy dont get me wrong. the missions are all 
 the same go into a warehouse or abandon building and you shoot like 50 guys. then get a package 
 and leave the place while cops are chasing you. dont get me wrong the game is crazy its got its 
 missions that are crazy, but the majority of the missions are like what i said. then also you get 
 no garage to hold those nice cars. my opinion is that this game deserves a 9.5. Grand Theft Auto 
 is a great game, but not the best game ever it couldve been better. they shouldve held it for longer. 
 i love the game but its just the missions that bother me and i just wanted every body to read this 
 and say that hey that true about Grand Theft Auto 4. oh yeah 1 more thing the Russian accent is 
 not real hes Russian with a good American talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I'm going to break this one down into a couple parts...
  
  Gameplay: Almost flawless. The only time I really had any complaints about the control system (that 
 was their fault) was with the cover mechanics. Sometimes Niko would move from one cover to another 
 instead of leaving cover... not a big deal, but it was a little annoying sometimes. Other than 
 that, the control scheme was put together pretty good, although I would recommend using the Standard 
 control setup, because I think it will make it easier to aim & shoot while driving.
  
  The missions are awesome, and the new replay feature makes things a lot easier if you end up dying. 
 The only thing that can get a little frustrating with that is that some of the missions are a lot 
 longer, so if you get 15 minutes into a mission and die, you have to start from the beginning... 
 they don't give you a checkpoint partway through it. But I suppose that's ok too.
  
  Graphics: The attention to detail is just amazing. Tires pop, and then you get 2 lines from the 
 wheels with sparks and everything. You get actual bullet holes in cars. When you run into people, 
 you get blood on the car. There are a couple little hiccups every once in a while with the graphics, 
 and that's the only reason I couldn't give this game a perfect 10.
  
  Multiplayer: Finally they put one of these in a GTA... and it just makes sense. Well made.
  
 
  Overall: This one gives you a few more choices than you've had in the past, which makes the gameplay 
 experience feel more personal. The characters are better developed, so you really can start to 
 like some of them more than others, which will influence your decisions. Amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZinPhyo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  On April 29th, 2008, the world came to see the best that Rockstar could offer, GTA 4.
  
  I didn't expect it to get a 10 and when several gaming websites gave it a 10, I wondered why. The 
 classic GTA formula could only get around 9.5.
  
  However, when I played it, I realized that this was very different from San Andreas.
  
  The 
 game features an improved and more realistic combat system, ability to destroy objects in the environment 
 and a way better car damage system, where the car will actually crumple instead of just the parts 
 being damaged.
  
  It also has a awesome storyline and significant characters. The wanted level system is a bit like 
 in Scarface where you have to escape from the flashing zone in order to get rid of the stars. The 
 military vehicles have been removed probably because they're way too fake.
  
  However, the drawbacks being not able to customize you car & character as much as in San Andreas. 
 There are also just a fraction of the vehicles and weapons of those in SA.
  
  But still, the good points can easily outweigh the bad ones and as a result of this, this is still 
 an almost flawless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divpoint
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto has always pushed boundaries. The good:
  Environment
  Characters (NIKO is a solid character)
  
  The Bad:
  Not enough stuff to get into trouble.
 
  I miss the army
  Miss the clans or gangs
  Can't get the whole US NAVY after me.
  To easy to get away from cops.
  The attack chopper was disappointing. I WANT MASSIVE ROCKETS.
 
  
  
  I must say I liked the city with its HUGE size. The story line kept me playing for the most part 
 . . but.
  
  I felt as though there were some misses and this game was NOT a 10. First I started to wonder why 
 there wasn't a way to make the game harder. I know the missions can be difficult but I miss the 
 old GTAs where going into the wrong turf meant you were a target. Again great environment as the 
 city did feel alive but I judge games on Longevity and this game seemed to fail me on that. I thought 
 the online would carry me through for months but it wasn't as solid as I hoped. Keep up the good 
 work Take Two. .AND FOR GOD SAKE DON'T BECOME AN EA FRANCHISE. .NOOO00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Singh-Iz-King
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome. after a while though, it gets repetitive. it's not AAAA material, 
 but it certainly is AAA. you start off getting off of a boat coming from Easter Europe. you meet 
 up with a cousin name Roman. you drive the car back to your appartment. throughout the game you 
 will meet other friendly and deadly fellers. one includes a jamiacan guy that you cannot even understand. 
 
  The multiplayer is also pretty freakin awesome. you can do tdm, dm, etc. you grab weapons and shoot 
 the living crap out of stuff.
  I also like the new car driving system even though it's practically impossible to handbrake at 
 a fast speed while keeping the car under control like you could in San Andreas. I haven't quite 
 made my mind up yet about the way you lose the cops I'm feeling it's just a little easier to lose 
 them than in recent games. I enjoy the way you die in this one to like in San Andreas you can take 
 on the world but in this you hardly get to 4 stars before you are dead. Also the ability to cover 
 is great this was a brilliant addition to a GTA game. So basically this game is worth getting, 
 well it's GTA you have to give it a try as we love this series so much, hope you all enjoy it and 
 your day, I must go now as I have to get ready for work lo
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 the best game i have ever played on the ps3 other than call of duty 4 or metal gear solid 
 4. i would recament this game for any person who likes the other games in the series this game 
 changed cents the other games like grand theft auto 3, vice city, san anderas, and vice city stories........ 
 defentinotle a game for little kids or immercher kids a lot of bad words and alot of 
 
  if you got the money u sude go and get it and if u got ur ps3 hooked up to the internet u can 
 add me my name is SlipknotRocker00 there is 2 zeros not o`s thanks just got to tell me ur  
 sifer ( SlipknotRocker00) later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  After the gradual rise in the quality of GTA series, I was expecting GTA 4 to blow up the safe. 
 Instead I was deeply disappointed. In my opinion, it was a step backwards into the sea of avaregeness. 
 Sure the looks are good, but nothing else is new. Its all GTA 3 all over again. Maybe we will start 
 rising upwards again like in GTA 3 -  Vice City -  San Andreas. 
  
  There are some new things in the game that will keep you entertained. For example, going for a 
 drink and then trying to drive back home totally drunk. Its funny for the first few times, but 
 it quickly becomes boring. The game contains lots of possibilities for fun events and playing this 
 game I became to truly wish there was a way to record your gameplay to show it off to your friends. 
 
  
  Especially the Online mode makes you want to see replays of certain events. For example, me and 
 some other player were dueling with bikes in a real medieval tournament style. We headed towards 
 each other guns blazing, only to pass each other nearly unscratched. Then we went for another, 
 but this time we collided to each other head-on. After getting our bloody characters up from the 
 asfalt we started shooting each other on the walk. He got me first, but I was having so much fun 
 I didnt care anymore. But then something happened that caused me to nearly die out laughing. As 
 he was basking in glory of killing me, someone drove him over with a fast car from the side. It 
 looked like it came straight from the Scary Movie ending. 
  
  Got sidetracked a little there. Anyway GTA 4 is at its best when playing missions that have a lot 
 of interesting and different tasks, which are somewhat better than in previous GTAs, but yet it 
 didnt keep me hooked into the game. I still havent completed the game, but I dont really care, 
 since i dont think the game can surprise me anymore. It has become a boring sandbox mayhem game 
 for me now. In my opinion, San Andreas is still the best GTA there is. GTA 4 is not by any means 
 bad game, but everything new it presents is fun only for a second and the rest is same old, done 
 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkeh
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is undoubtedly the next-gen GTA. It has graphics that make your eyes water and some ear popping 
 radio stations with the great GTA comedy twist as they are well known for...
  
  The plot on the game is really good and immersive. I didn't want to put the damn thing down! I 
 played the game 10 hours straight when I first played it! The way the game lets you choose when 
 and when not to do the missions is great and it holds some very good features. The internet is 
 one of those worthy of mention which is a pretty decent addition. However I do feel they could 
 quite easily add more content for the internet Cafe's.
  
  I have fully completed the storyline and all the side missions on this game. It was great fun doing 
 that but what do you do when you finish? I now find myself not really bothered in playing it at 
 all (i havnt touched it for at least 3 weeks now) . The problem with this little number is through 
 all its glossy graphics, super sounds and awesome story plots lies little content and playability. 
 Theres only so many times you can load it up just to have a shoot out with the police until it 
 gets boring. There are key features from other GTA games that they could have easily added to uphold 
 the playability and truely create a classic. Vice city's businesses, San Andreas' gangs etc, etc.
 
  
  A disappointing finish to a truely brilliant storyline. I feel this game has let itself down after 
 the story. I just really struggle to see a point in playing it...
  
  I still rate it highly however because the story and initial gameplay realy is a corker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adonymous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV (PS3)
  
  The long awaited GTA sequel is finally here. Grand Theft Auto IV puts you in the shoes of Niko 
 Bellic, an Eastern European immigrant trying to get ahead in Liberty City. With promises of cars, 
 money, women from his cousin Roman, Niko is quite disappointed when he arrives to find out that 
 it was all a lie. And that's when the story starts off. As any GTA game you can expect a great 
 set of unique characters, superb voice acting, hilarious dialogue, and an amazing soundtrack. And 
 GTA IV is short of none. The dialogue is witty as ever, although the f-bomb is dropped many times 
 at scenically inappropriate times. The soundtrack has a lot of variety ranging from hip-hop, to 
 rock, to latino music, and even russian stations. There are new talk show stations which should 
 keep you entertained for hours. The story is all fine and dandy, but does the latest GTA stay true 
 to the GTA formula and deliver amazing gameplay?
  Yes and No. GTA IV's gameplay is very similar to past GTA's, but this time it is more realistic, 
 and dare I say less fun. The car physics have gotten an overhaul, for better or worse, and will 
 take time adjusting to. Niko is also a very slow character compared to CJ in GTA San Andreas. Even 
 while driving a car the game seems to move slowly. Gun play has been improved, an a new cover system 
 introduced, which makes the game more interesting, and the system works well most of time. Niko 
 can use almost anything as a cover, and so can his enemies, which makes for some interesting battles. 
 The hand-to-hand combat is also improved, but still isn't that great. One major thing that you 
 will find lacking in GTA IV compared to its predecessors is the lack of mini-games. No more Ambulance, 
 Firefighter, Robberies missions. No more character customization (except for a small variety of 
 different clothes) , and a major thing, GTA: San Andreas had a great RPG type system in which the 
 main character got better when he repeated certain behaviors, in GTA IV this system is nowhere 
 to be found. Compared to past GTA's, GTA IV is lacking in extra curricular activities, but the 
 city does feel more alive. The AI is improved, except for the police, which are as stupid as ever, 
 which is a bummer. The new police system is a welcome change though. Overall as much as the gameplay 
 has been improved, it has also been greatly downgraded.
  Overall the game is good. It lacks much of what previous GTA's had but innovates in some areas, 
 the addition of multiplayer is both a blessing and a curse, as you'll probably spend more time 
 trying to connect to a game instead of playing it. The graphics are good, the animations are superb, 
 but the gameplay isn't as great as I hoped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is simply awesome. after a while though, it gets repetitive. it's not AAAA material, 
 but it certainly is AAA. you start off getting off of a boat coming from Easter Europe. you meet 
 up with a cousin name Roman. you drive the car back to your appartment. throughout the game you 
 will meet other friendly and deadly fellers. one includes a jamiacan guy that you cannot even understand. 
 
  
  the controls go will, with the r2 button used for shooting and driving. you can sprint, hop over 
 stuff, reload, etc. the gfx are not to great sometimes, but for a game this immense, they're pretty 
 damn good. if you on the bridge looking at liberty city, it sure looks good. 
  
  the multiplayer is also pretty freakin awesome. you can do tdm, dm, etc. you grab weapons and shoot 
 the living crap out of stuff.
  
  
  over this game is a 9.2/10, but since this is in .5 increments, 9/10.
  
  -.5 for repetitiveness, 
 -.3 for gfx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisNeal1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  (Small Spoilers) This is simply an awesome game, it has a GTA feeling to it, but this game isn't 
 as good as I had hoped. The story to this one I thought was awful basically you were lied to by 
 your cousin, he's in debt with some thugs you hrlp and then work for anyone who pays, so to me 
 the storyline wasn't too good, like it weren't really getting anywhere, Niko was just getting rich. 
 Some other things I disliked about this game was some of the things we have seen in previous GTA 
 games but where missed out of this one, this includes of Car Customization, Purchasing Properties, 
 Bicycles, The Stats (from San Andreas) , Ability To Fly Aeroplanes, The Schools (from San Andreas) , 
 Casino's & probably a lot more these are just the things that I have noticed, but because it's 
 missing all these things it does not make this game awful. The game os still good, the best thing 
 for me about this game is the huge improvement on the graphics, like every car you drive it looks 
 like the portrait of a real car, also the enviroment looks amazing. I also like the new car driving 
 system even though it's practically impossible to handbrake at a fast speed while keeping the car 
 under control like you could in San Andreas. I haven't quite made my mind up yet about the way 
 you lose the cops I'm feeling it's just a little easier to lose them than in recent games. I enjoy 
 the way you die in this one to like in San Andreas you can take on the world but in this you hardly 
 get to 4 stars before you are dead. Also the ability to cover is great this was a brilliant addition 
 to a GTA game. So basically this game is worth getting, well it's GTA you have to give it a try 
 as we love this series so much, hope you all enjoy it and your day, I must go now as I have to 
 get ready for work lol : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadrote
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  That's basically all i have to say about GTA IV. I had a great hype about the game, and i had to 
 admit that it disappointed me in some ways. I missed the great variety of activities that GTA: SA 
 had, and I felt that the missions were pretty the same in most cases. But in the end I realized 
 how amazing was the work with this game, and especially with the city. I can't stop driving by 
 it being amazed with the details. The other thing that I love is the incredible lightning and how 
 it has influence on everything. At night the city looks so peaceful while you look it from the 
 top of the Empire State Building. But actually I prefer to see it during daylight so I can appreciate 
 the solid game engine that supports all that stuff together. It also features a huge multi-player 
 with any kind of city restriction. You can go everywhere with your on-line friends, just like in 
 the one player mode.
  
  Sorry about my English ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawelS_99
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is the newest game from Rockstar, and the you could say the best too.
  GTA4 isn't a game that you play for a couple days then never play it again, it's a game that gets 
 funner as you play more and more, because of the graphics, the gameplay, the missions, and everything 
 down to the last detail.
  
  You start off as Niko Bellic, an immigrant off a boat from Europe, to seek fame and fortune in 
 Liberty City with his cousin Roman Bellic. Liberty City is made off of New York City but with only 
 4 boroughs, these boroughs are Broker ( Brooklyn ) , Dukes ( Queens ) , Bohan ( The Bronx ) , and 
 Algonquin ( Manhatten ) . Another thing they did with the city is Alderney ( Northen New Jersey) . 
 Places in the city like Central Park are called Middle Park in the game to still make it feel like 
 a GTA game. Same with the Empire State Building ( Rotterdam Tower ) , Times Square, ( Star Junction 
 ) . 
  
  Graphically this game is amazing, but sometimes glitches can come, the glitches are when you can't 
 see Niko up close, but if you get used to them it won't be a problem.
  
  The missions are really fun, each mission with it's own way of fun. Eg. One mission you have to 
 be in a helicopter, with Manny Escuela, another character, and use an RPG to shoot down another 
 helicopter, pretty awesome eh.
  
  The weapons in this game are awesome too. Eg. One weapon set, includes an AK-47, Desert Eagle, 
 RPG, MP5 and weapons among those kinds. But even if a weapon isn't your favourite I'm sure it will 
 be after shooting somebody in the eye. 
  
  In GTA4 the controls are pretty straight forward. R2 is to shoot, L2 to aim ,L1 is to pick up items 
 such as bricks to throw them at people, and R1 is to enter and exit cover. In a car R2 is to accelerate, 
 L2 is to brake and to drive backwards, L1 is to do a drive-by, and R1 is to handbrake. The thing 
 about the controls is that Rockstar made them so good. You can walk up to a car jump and time it 
 to get hit by it and go flying a mile the other way. Another cool thing is that when you shoot 
 somebody in a car there face falls on the horn and its honks. Also when your driving 200 mph and 
 you hit another car you go flying through the windshield. All these mini details make the game 
 awesome. Also an exciting new feature in this game is the cellphone which is accessed by pressing 
 up. You can also access online play using the cellphone. 
  
  
  
  Online play in GTA4 is really, really solid, you can play with up to 16 people and there are lots 
 of game modes like Deathmatch, which is everyone for themselves, Team Deathmatch, where two equal 
 teams battle against each other using what ever they can find, Freemode, where you can do whatever 
 you want, from swimming, to killing each other and everything in between, and so many more.
  
  When your bored in the city there is much you can do besides killing people. You can go see 
 the Statue of Happiness ( Statue of Liberty ) , shop in Star Juction ( Times Square ) , take a helicopter 
 tour, bowl at Memory Lanes, laugh your head off at Split Sides, have a lap dance from Honkers, 
 eat at Burger Shot and Cluckin' Bell, and much more.
  
  So if your into GTA games or not, this is a must-own for all PS3 owners.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlympicFlex101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  This is one crazy game, and you've missed too much if you didn't get it yet. In a matter of weeks, 
 you'll be living the American dream with Niko Belic, but that money doesnt come easy, so I encourage 
 you to get this game and find out. Single Player is the best. Playing Online with pals or strangers 
 is always a good time to kick some a$$ or hang hang out in a heli or sniper people from the roof 
 tops... From the graphics to the story, to the people getting pissed off at you on the streets, 
 there is never a dull moment. Next stop, Vice  
 ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? 
 ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? 
 ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????????????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  I am GTA series fan, I loved the other GTA games as well as this one. But I expected to see more 
 than I saw. I am not saying don't get this game I am saying there are bad things in the game as 
 there are great things. so, the game isn't perfect. The game could be perfect if it was at least 
 just like GTA San Andreas with a good graphics. You gonna like GTA IV the first few days but not 
 for along time as the other GTA games. If you wanna get it, it is your choice. If you don't want 
 to get it, you won't miss a thing.
  
  The Goods:
  - Big realistic City.
  - Using the mobile phone "good feature helped the game to be great"
  - Realistic character and 
 people.
  - well made 3D cars.
  - High quality textures and sounds.
  - Multiplayer.
  - Having relationships.
  There is alot...
  ---------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bads:
  - There is no enough people in the big city. you don't see a crowded place or even more than 4 
 people walking on the street.
  - The main character movements is slow "punching, jumping.....".
  - The story isn't good enough.
 
  There is alot...
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Thanks for reading.
  NewOwn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luislb88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  
  Seriously. Tons of fun. Great missions. Yadda yadda yadda. Im not even going to pretend I know 
 everything good about this game. Im just going to let you know the difference between this game 
 and San Andreas. First off, you won't ever have to have your kids ask why are those girls faces 
 in those guys' crotch ever again. Rockstar finally got the point and classied up the joint. Theres 
 still lots of sex and violence but its not in a ghetto fabulous kind of way that only appeals to 
 wannabe gangsters living off of government cheese, hoping rap will someday rescue them from poverty, 
 and getting blown is safe sex because condoms cost dolla bills, yo! Not that Im racist but I didnt 
 think being a black protagonist running around the city with a gun in a wife beater helped the 
 african american cause. I lived through the Watts riots. I think the game belittled black people. 
 And its players. Thats why I gave it a 3 and gamespot kicked me off for saying that blowjobs dont 
 belong in games. So Kudos to Rockstar for swallowing the bitter pill of conformity and made the 
 game they should have years ago. With that said, I love the amount of awesome music, I love the 
 graphics, the story mode that actually makes you date the woman before she screams, "You're so 
 wonderful!" (thank you, I try.) and the ability to create a city where I can get lost in just whacking 
 relgious nut jobs in the head and running off. If you like what you heard then do what all us robots 
 did and buy the game week 1. If you have some individuality in you, then buy it tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  well here we are back at another grand theft auto.
  to begin this review i must say honestly that gamespot review was overrated, grand theft auto IV 
 is amazing, no doubt about that but it is far to deserve a 10.
  well so lets begin with the bad points to explain that:
  
  the biggest bad thing about grand 
 theft auto IV is that rockstar took of some really great stuff that we could check in san andreas.
 
  one thing is true, tooking of the possibility to be strong, fat etc was a good choice since that 
 seems to bother a lot.
  but took of stuff like jumping with parachute, be able to be pilot of airplanes, buy houses and 
 steal houses.
  all those stuff should be in grand theft auto IV since they were all great.
  and the other bad point is some missions that seems to be too much alike.
  there are thousand 
 of missions that is just about geting a car and killing someone at a subway station or something 
 like that.
  
  but now lets talk about the good point, there are a lot indeed.
  liberty city does feel alive, the radio station, tv, comedy shows etc..
  it is pretty amazing 
 and even when you kill someone you can here the news about it in the radio! (only targets of missions 
 of course)
  the graphics are stunning and the draw distance is easily the best ever seen.
  and the new possibility to be able to choice wheter to kill or not some characters during the campaing 
 helps to make its story even more great.
  the addition of the cellphone and internet with email system really help a lot.
  and the greatest 
 thing about the game is the new multiplayer support.
  i have to say, playing grand theft auto IV online is AWESOME, there are a lot of funs modes like 
 the old and hardcore deathmatch or more complex stuff like the mafia team jobs.
  it is a really amazing multiplayer game.
  
  well concluding grand theft auto IV is a great 
 game, and the new multiplayer makes it a must play and at honestly a must buy.
  be sure to check it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Seriously. Tons of fun. Great missions. Yadda yadda yadda. Im not even going to pretend I know 
 everything good about this game. Im just going to let you know the difference between this game 
 and San Andreas. First off, you won't ever have to have your kids ask why are those girls faces 
 in those guys' crotch ever again. Rockstar finally got the point and classied up the joint. Theres 
 still lots of sex and violence but its not in a ghetto fabulous kind of way that only appeals to 
 wannabe gangsters living off of government cheese, hoping rap will someday rescue them from poverty, 
 and getting blown is safe sex because condoms cost dolla bills, yo! Not that Im racist but I didnt 
 think being a black protagonist running around the city with a gun in a wife beater helped the 
 african american cause. I lived through the Watts riots. I think the game belittled black people. 
 And its players. Thats why I gave it a 3 and gamespot kicked me off for saying that blowjobs dont 
 belong in games. So Kudos to Rockstar for swallowing the bitter pill of conformity and made the 
 game they should have years ago. With that said, I love the amount of awesome music, I love the 
 graphics, the story mode that actually makes you date the woman before she screams, "You're so 
 wonderful!" (thank you, I try.) and the ability to create a city where I can get lost in just whacking 
 relgious nut jobs in the head and running off. If you like what you heard then do what all us robots 
 did and buy the game week 1. If you have some individuality in you, then buy it tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazpen90
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Amazing...... vehicles looks reality and the city looks exactly like New York the best 
 bit about grand theft auto is the liberty statue its cool that they brought that into the game.
 
  
  GAME PLAY: Good missions not as good as they were in san Andreas but in san Andreas the story was 
 change every time but on Grand Theft Auto 4 the story is the same through out all the game.
  
  ON LINE: The on line is great lot of different type of games and you can do all sort of stuff 
 in free roam like hang around with your mates and get chase by cops and gang battles.
  
  
  SOUND: Its great a lot of swearing that's makes is cool and the sound of the ocean is really 
 good but they could improve the sound a bit like they make some cars sound like Ferrari when the 
 car is only a small wrecked up thing lol. But otherwise brilliant could not be better.
  
  I would recommend you people to get this game straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhonen84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I was never a huge fan of the Grand Theft Auto franchise, I played them all but never finished 
 any of them and eventually after the excitement of stealing cars and running random people over 
 faded away I got bored easily and eventually put the game away for good. I guess what originally 
 attracted me to the game is the free-roaming ability and the huge world you can explore. 
  So when the next GTA came out for PS3 I wasn't freaking out like some people where. Even though 
 the game looked better it still seemed the same to me and I felt I would get bored of it like the 
 others. 
  One day I eventually picked it up at my local video rental store only because there was nothing 
 else to rent. I had to convince myself to get it. lol. So I got home and popped the game into my 
 console and I have been playing it ever since. I have the say I'm glad my assumptions where wrong 
 and I am really enjoying the game. One of the main reasons why I keep playing are the characters, 
 I like the fact that everyone has an accent and barely speak proper english. It really gives the 
 game a sense of reality, no one sounds the same which give the character unique traits and make 
 you interested in the storyline. I haven't finished it yet, but so far the story is good and the 
 characters really keep it going. 
  The graphics look pretty good, considering the size of the world. I do notice manyy technical errors 
 when I play, sometimes the environment would take longer to complete and you would notice windows 
 on buildings suddenly appearing as you approach them. These techinal errors don't happen all the 
 time and they don't interfere with the actual game so it's forgivable, for now. The environemnt 
 is huge and the details are the icing on the cake. Sometimes when I don't feel like doing the missions 
 for progress the story I just cruise around admiring the environment and exploring new areas. 
 
  In conclusion it's a really good game. It's not perfect, like the Gamespot score, but it's definetly 
 close to it. A definetly good rent and buy for people who want to complete the storyline. Either 
 way a must pick-up for all PS3 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear3391
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't normally take time to write reviews but I had to write a quick one for this. I have played 
 all the GTAs & I must say that this is my favorite. Its all the little extras that make the game. 
 You have to play it to fully enjoy the little extras. For example if you drive to fast & hit something 
 solid, you go flying out the windshield. Car jack (or heli) someone & sometimes they hold on when 
 you drive/fly off. Watching someone hold on to your chopper then fall off when your a mile up is 
 just amazing. Shoot someone in the face when they are driving & they slump forward & the horn will 
 sound. Blow a car up & the bodies stay in the car, or sometimes they get out & run around on fire. 
 Injured people will try to run away but fall down & bleed out.
  
  There is so much stuff it would take for ever. Its still the same old GTA but with a lot , A LOT 
 of cool extras. Its the little things in life that make it great. Just like this game. I have to 
 mention one mission. Its called THREE LEAF CLOVER & its from Patrick. Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series was always loved by gamers and admired the great story and gameplay. 
 The ultimate Grand Theft Auto game is here and its on the most rivaled consoles ever on the Playstation 
 3 and The Xbox 360. The game is played in Libery city and as you saw from screenshots Liberty city 
 literaly changed. It's not without some flaws, but GTAIV is the best GTA there will possibly be. 
 One of the many things that set GTAIV apart from its predecessors is Liberty City which looks like 
 a more gangster city than previous GTA titlels. Liberty's diverse population believably attempts 
 to go about its daily business but noone nows that gangster wars and criminals are around the city 
 stealing a taking out peaple. New abilities in Niko's arsenal include scaling fences and walls 
 anywhere jumping things destroying cars windows and highjack massive trucks. 
  
  Good: Awsome story , Liberty city feels more realistic., Multiplayer mode lets you play across 
 the city with others and cause toal mayhem. funny radio and tv shows. controls are far better.
 
  
  overall this game beats all the others but youl get a bit annoyed after you done every thing in 
 the city 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sekiam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of the Grand Theft Auto series, namely because of the lack of reality, 
 substance and characters, which GTA IV delivers in truckloads.
  Let's start with the graphics: Greatly detailed, with a few bugs here and there, but with some 
 things that are eye-candy, for example: let's say, when you run someone over (don't try it in real 
 life) , the part of the car that hit the person now has an additional paintjob, if you know what 
 I mean; also in the car topic where the car takes a hit is where it gets a "wound"; the facial 
 expressions actually express a lot more than the words! And etc. etc.
  Now for the sound: The sound isn't what really sticks out in the game, not at all, I actually was 
 pretty disappointed with the radio stations, since I'm a Metal/Grunge fan, a thirst the radio stations 
 didn't quench. The voice acting though, now that is some good stuff.
  Finally, but by no ways less important, the gameplay: Ahhh, where should I start..... oh yeah! 
 What about driving? Driving in GTA got some minor, yet cool, upgrades, for example now you drive 
 with the left and right triggers, for acceleration and braking, oh and by the way, see those cars 
 on the streets, now you can navigate at the same speed as them instead of having to hit and release 
 the accelerate buttons like in previous GTAs, that's because the triggers are sensitive, which 
 provides more reality to driving. Speaking of driving reality, now when stealing cars, you have 
 to smash the windows (in case of a car) and hotwire the vehicle! Cool, huh?
  Next up is the action, and damn, is it great in this game... the shooting is now much better than 
 in the prequels, first off, you can now take cover and shoot from the cover, pretty much similar 
 to games like Uncharted.
  Another huge feature in GTA IV is having your own personal, customizable, awesome cell-phone! Oh 
 yeah, you can call your friends, ask them to go throw some darts, play bowling, see a show (erotic 
 too, ehehe) and get drunk! 
  Not much to talk about gameplay-wise... oh yeah! You may have noticed, I haven't talked about the 
 story, that's because I don't want to spoil it for you, because you will like, promise. (Dang, 
 this is one long review...)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game was fun. I didn't like the soundtrack / radio stations as much as the other ones (ie. 
 Vice City, Liberty City Stories, Vice City Stories) and it took a while to get into it but it is 
 a great game anyway. I did really like the fact that you had to make decisions in the game and 
 it lead up to one of two possible endings. The graphics and game play / physics were outstanding. 
 All together I think it may be a little overhyped since the PS3 seems to be strapped for decent 
 games right now but it is still a great game and I would recommend it to anyone (over 18) that 
 enjoys the genre or liked the previous titles in the series. For the next one I'd like to see a 
 new city (not one of the ones from any of the previous games) and better radio stations. I was 
 also surprised that this one didn't let you listen to your own music in the game since both systems 
 have plenty of space for mp3 files. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  After the excitement wears out, the game shows it's true colours. It's an incredibly well put together 
 game, very well thought out, but if you compare it with San Andreas, the previous installment, 
 you can easily notice that in certain areas the game went backwards.... 
  
  I'd start with the negative stuff. 
  
  - Too many "learning" missions. The first 2 hours of 
 the game is basically just a tutorial. The plot is going and it's good, but what you acutally have 
 to do is very little. 
  
  - The city while is pretty nice, I definitely do miss the amazing sceneries and locations San Andreas 
 had. The desert, countryside, mountains.... now it's just back to a city again.
  
  - Better variety. Near the end all of the missions are basically the same. And they are very difficult 
 too... unfortunately.
  
  And that's about it. Not alot, and they are not major, but it definitely does affect the gaming 
 experience. Now onto what got better:
  
  - The physics. Thanks to euphoria phsysics engine. The car physics are more realistic than before, 
 along with the damage models. Pedestrian physics are breathetakingly realistic. Just try running 
 over a few and you'll realize!
  
  - The graphics. Bit blurry, bit jaggy, but.... once you realize the amount of detail in the game 
 you will also realize how sweet it looks. Unlike the previous GTA's, GTA4 goes for realism a hundred 
 percent instead of cartoony looks.
  
  - The characters. I found the characters in the previous GTA games to be a bit.... shallow. Forgettable. 
 Uncool. Especially the main ones. But Niko is great! He's easy to relate to. And the main characters 
 are great too. 
  
  - The plot. The plot itself isn't that breathetaking, but things like the dialouge and certain 
 moments are outstanding. It feels alot like a movie... a great one. 
  
  - Online. While it's nothing that you'll be playing for months, it's a fun little break from the 
 main game. Good to just kill stress, and there are plenty of game modes to choose from . Creative 
 ones.
  
  In general, the attention paid to details is amazing. The moment I realized that is when I failed 
 a mission, restarted it and the dialouge was different! Yes, there are multiple dialouges in the 
 game. Amazing. 
  
  Overall, the game feels more mature, more sophisticated, but if you strip the game to it's core, 
 and that means you look at the gameplay and the scenery, you realize not much has changed. Small 
 improvements, but then again, on many areas..... a step or two backwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  The fact I was a GTA nut led me to buy this game at midnight of opening day. Yes I was the first 
 nut there with PSP in hand (in case I got bored) and a pillow in case I fell asleep. I didn't want 
 to lay my head on hard marble floor of the mall.
  So I bought it along with 2 Dual-shock 3 controlers because a gamer of my caliber has to have his 
 rumble... oooooooo Vibrations.... neway back to the review. 
  So GTA 4, you start out as Niko Belic who just came to America and doesn't speak Americanese to 
 well. But that quickly changes after the third mission where then he speaks nothing but American. 
 I say American instead of English because in America, we reformed English into the crap it is today. 
 Anywhos, Niko is out to find a couple of people who, he hath heard, lived in Liberty City. It's 
 all fine and good in theory, but lets remember, theory is a dangerous thing in which can collapse 
 on itself like a fat man thats eating a large cake on a stool thats held up by toothpicks. 
  
  I like it how Rockstar encorperated a RPG notion into the game, in which it requires more than 
 one save. But the choices it gives you come at bad times. I absolutely hated when I had to chose 
 on how I wanted the game to end. I either helped the guy I hated or killed him. Sounded simple 
 right? but as a gamer, it drove me nuts. the ment I had to make two saves, take up more of my HDD 
 and go back and do BOTH mission. Time consuming and a money waster because not only did I have 
 to go out and buy more Red Bull because I ran out, but I wasted GAS!! GAH!!! By the way, I like 
 it how that at the gas stations, the prices were actually ACCURATE!!! OMG WTF!!! Anways....
  
  So it has glistening graphics, stunning controls, except the aiming controls but I don't want 
 to go there... I'm out of doughnuts. Overall a pretty good game that's really a keeper. 
  
  The major thing I have to, I mean ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO wack Rockstar upside the head about is that 
 it had NO characters from the old games. What I'm talking about is that if you look in San Andreas, 
 you say Catilina and the Silent dude head for Liberty City. Cool. You had Ken Rosenburg and Salvatore 
 Leone. But with GTA4... NOONE!!! WTF!!! Rockstar, have you gone mainstream with this? I mean sure, 
 GTA4 is like nothing else out there, but come on. Humor me, if you're going to make GTA5 (which 
 they better) , they should AT LEAST have Niko or someother dude from GTA4 in the game.
  
  While Rockstar is at looking for new ideas, hwy not add more realism to the cars. Like, oh say... YOU 
 CAN RUN OUT OF GAS!?! that would be authentic. You're in the middle of a cop chase and you run 
 out of gas. Just like in real life. Would actually encourage 12 year olds who do play these games 
 NOT TO TRY THIS! That and if you get arrested to many times, you get put on death row and executed. 
 Mind you, a chance to escape, but if you get executed, game over. Just an idea from a nut.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosoni
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  Story
  The main character of the game is Niko Belic, immigrant from ex Yu (Croatia or Serbia) who came 
 in America to his cousin Roman. Niko run away from war and war memories and came to find his American 
 dream.
  The story is great, cut scenes are beautiful (there is over of 200 cut scenes) . I suggest you not 
 to skip them, because they are part of the game that you need to watch, and they are not boring 
 and too long for a second, they are well done... perfect.
  The story has everything what one great movie should have. Story follows Niko in his life in America. 
 Niko must do a lot of different jobs and he must to co-operate with a lot of different people to 
 survive and take a piece of American dream. In the same time it is a crime story, love story and 
 a human warm story.
  
  Liberty City
  The town is so great and detailed, and on ever step you see how much effort is made in creating 
 it. City is very big, with a lot of beautiful location and you can spent days and days and you 
 will still have a lot to explore. When you playing the game there is not a lot of time do watch 
 the City because you are too concentrate on the game, but if you will seeking for flying rats you 
 will see the masterpiece of the details.
  During gameplay, the weather conditions are changed (sunshine, rain, day, night...) ... Beautiful.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Story has 94 missions, with alternative ending and you will need about 100 hours to finish them 
 all. Missions are different, there are car missions, sniper missions, bike missions, sneaking missions... 
 I mean there are so many different and original tasks and you will enjoy playing them. There is 
 a lot of very hard missions, and there is no checkpoints but it is possible to beat them all without 
 cheats, and I suggest you to try to do that because than you will fill real gaming experience, 
 and you will understand why you need money. If you play with cheats, the game will be great too, 
 but less tensely.
  
  Unlockables
  There is so many things to do, expect story and you will probably need at least 300 hours of playing 
 to get 100% of the game. I finished all missions and start to seeking for flying rats and I must 
 say it is a very interesting part where you will discover all the greatness of Liberty City.
  
  Graphic
  The best GTA graphic ever.
  
  On-line
  I didn't play on-line a lot, because 
 the game is very long, but things I saw seems very interesting. You can create your own character 
 and choose between different on-line modes. The access to on-line is made through mobile phone 
 and it is very smooth.
  
  Controls
  The controls are not perfect, and you will probably need between 10 - 20 hours of gameplay to use 
 to them. 
  Camera movement is very annoying and I don't like those automatic centre of camera. 
  Cars are 
 very hard to control until you get used to them, and you will suffer a lot of crashes until you 
 learn to control the vehicles. My advice to you is to try to manipulate in the same time with brake 
 and hand brake while cornering because it's very hard to hit the corner only with hand brake. 
 
  
  Overall
  This is one of the best crime story ever made on console and I'm very happy to have a privilege 
 to play this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dago4Life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  the funny cheats. they took to much stuff out like gambleing, quads, jets, less cheats , parachuting, 
 cant go under water, stats have been takeing of.... where is all that, it was all in san an dreas 
 which if had better graphics would be better then gta4. but gta4 is still a great game and def 
 reccomend it. the story for the game is great i think that they could probuley make this into a 
 great movie and be a blockbuster hit. the funnest thing about this game has to be getting into 
 a hummer and smashing cop cars and throwing granades out the window. right now i think that saints 
 row 2 might be better then this game is they have good cheats jets and other great stuff i hope 
 that if gta makes another game that they will have all the same stuff that they did in san an dreas 
 and maybe even better the thing that i miss the most out of gta4 is the jets and customizeing your 
 car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  I'll be short . GTA4 is an incredible achievement . The graphics, the physics, the shadows, the 
 gameplay . It's almost as perfect as it can be . You can read the whole thing about these feats 
 in the official review of course so I'll skip to the most important part, namely, how good is it 
 really ? 
  You play as Nico Bellic, a former soldier of an Eastern European country immigrated to Liberty 
 City to live the American Dream . Of course things go wrong really soon and see Mr Bellic becoming 
 the most wanted fella in the entire city , both by cops AND criminals . 
  The city is real . It sometimes feels as if you're walking around in a MMORPG instead of a single 
 player game . People yell at you, yell at each other, rob each other, kill each other . You name 
 it , it happens in Liberty City . The city is dynamic with a day-night cycle and various weather 
 effects like fog or rain . Each time you play you discover a new thing . Every single spot in the 
 city has a heart of its own, and no corridor, building, fountain, street or highway is the same 
 . It's a shame that all this potential goes unused in many areas, but more on that later . 
  I could go on spending pages of cool features about how real Liberty City is . But I say everything 
 when I tell you that my mother was thinking she was watching REAL television instead of a videogame 
 . 
  Technically the game gets 10 of out of 10 . For a gameworld this big everything goes quite smooth 
 . Yeah, buildings pop in occasionally but way less than previous games . Also, you can walk in 
 and out of buildings without any loading times at all . When cruising around at full speed, the 
 frame rate drops but it still manages to keep things playable . The engine is really powerful and 
 proves its "next-gen" quality at all times . 
  so far , so good , GTA4 has all ingredients to make a perfect dish . What has Rockstar done with 
 this ingredients ? For most part, everything is quite okay . GTA4 is a sandbox game, where the 
 player isn't held by his hand and can do most things the way he/she sees fit . This means that 
 the main story can be left aside at most times to let the player enjoy various side missions or 
 quests to do in-between . However, there isn't that many stuff to do in between, and many of the 
 side missions become quite boring as they are all a bit samey . Most of the time you're stealing 
 cars or shooting people . There's also some racing to be done and minigames to be played . These 
 minigames include bowling, pool and darts and are a lot of fun to play . Unfortunately, these games 
 are linked to (girl) friends you meet throughout the game and they invite you at the worst possible 
 times to play them . You can always call off these "dates" but you'll miss a lot of interesting 
 conversations and features this way . 
  The main game itself has the repetition problem too . Most missions involve shooting the bad guys 
 in either a building or a car chase . There isn't much variety but the background story and screenplay 
 is fantabulous . I really laughed a lot during conversations, but in all, you don't become that 
 attached to the characters , save Nico himself and his cousin . 
  After a while, you'll have tons of dollars waiting to be spend, but there's no way to spend them, 
 which is a bit of a shame in a city like this . 
  In the past, GTA games have always had their fanbase and part 4 isn't an exception . Never liked 
 GTA ? Chances are that you won't like this one either . Been a fan before ? You'll like GTA4 too, 
 but find it a few steps back from San Andreas in terms of variety and options . No longer can you 
 upgrade your character with more health, better driving and stuff . Nico is Nico and apart from 
 some clothing, there's no RPG elements being involved at all . 
  Last but not least there's multiplayer . This really adds a lot to the game . For the first time 
 16 players can battle it out in 16 different play modes . Some are more fun than others, but in 
 all, I really enjoyed multiplayer (especially Cops and Crooks) . 
  The final verdict then... GTA4 is a bit of a double edged sword . All ingredients are here to make 
 the world's most fabulous dish, and in a lot of ways, GTA4 is the biggest achievement in gaming 
 history ever made . But unfortunately a lot of potential goes unused . Maybe we were expecting 
 too much . I spend more than 60 hours in the game after all, which is an incredible amount of value 
 . But honest is honest . The game isn't perfect... just very, very good !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mberkholz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  120% content. the story might be shorter than in previous games, but still, until you have heard 
 all the radio stations' nonsense, browsed through all the weird knowledge the in-game internet 
 offers and driven around and enjoyed every corner of the huge city, it takes time.
  multiplayer adds a total new dimension and is a great back to the roots thing like we had in GTA2 
 on the PC.
  driving of course could always be better, but if you want to handle your wheel precisely get a 
 steering wheel and Gran Turismo.
  humor is the nuts, as always, Rock Star provides rock solid fun scenes and your main character 
 has some punch line he throws out there more often than not.
  the beauty of it is that a PC version - if ever coming will take some time and now I am forced 
 to play it on my PS3. San Andreas was a different story, I started it on my PS2 but played the 
 whole 100% game on my PC because it looked better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosuchsol
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The game was definitely enjoyable, but got a bit repetitive after a while. I haven't played the 
 GTA series since the original game, but I wasn't surprised to see that the language and themes 
 were even more gratitous than they previously were. It certainly pushes the envelope of what's 
 acceptable in games. I was even a little surprised that they allowed the hookers do what they do 
 and be so animated with it. I can't give it a 10 b/c I couldn't stay with the game through to the 
 end. It needs to be put down for a few weeks then started again. That or I have ADD. In the end, 
 I do think it was a great game, good graphics, and a great follow up to the original. The story 
 surpassed the original GTA3. I think I would have liked to mix it up a little bit more. It got 
 a little boring to go on killing sprees when you could just hang out close to your crib. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullsfan914
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Well Grand Theft Auto 4 is a very good game. But i don't think it has been all hyped up to be. 
 A lot of little things that were in other GTA games have been taken out of GTA4 for no reason that 
 I see. For example, In GTA San Andreas there were bicycles and you can swim under water. In GTA4 
 you can not do any of these things. It made the game different and I don't see the reason why they 
 took it out. And also the game seems pretty repetitive. Every mission is just go and kill someone 
 then run away from the cops. But i think that the gameplay and the story mode makes up for some 
 of the flaws. So I still give this game a 9 out of 10. If I had never played a GTA game before 
 I would probobly give it a 8 out of 10 or something near that. One other thing I like about this 
 game is that you get to make decisions throughout the game and you pretty much decide who you side 
 with and who you will kill and not. This option is'nt all the time. But when you have the option 
 it's unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samajk07
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  People may be saying it's great and the best of the series, but it doesn't offer what the other 
 games did; Replay ability. Although it starts off weak with seemingly bad driving controls (Which 
 later Evolve into the best driving of all 4 games) , it Grows into a super fun game, but after the 
 story mode is completed dies down into a boring, Trade backable for $50 mess. It starts off reasonably 
 well and at it's peak is very fun. However There are a lot of filler missions, which are also extremely 
 easy. This provides a pointless story with too easy missions which with the inclusion of cheats 
 activated by the mobile phone a pointless and boring mess. All reviewers by giving this game a 
 10 are just reinforcing a bad game.
  
  Don't let this review stop you from buying the game as you will enjoy for about 30-60 hours before 
 realizing how ridiculously pointless and boring some missions are.
  
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Videogames are the new form of story-telling. When done correctly, they can engage the viewer into 
 a world that is usually better than their own. Even with all the controversy surrounding the series, 
 Grand Theft Auto has always done a great job in connecting the player with the characters, storylines 
 and environments. The open play gives players essentially the controls to do things at their own 
 pace. Yes, you will have to do some mandatory tasks to open up the entire 'world'. Once you've 
 done that, nothing holds you back from non-stop enjoyment.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV doesn't build on the III canon and offer the gamer an entire country to play 
 with, but rather takes us back to the city that started all the hype: Liberty City. The people 
 behind the game decided to give us a city with so much to offer and so much detail that you will 
 forget about the fact that San Andreas gave us an entire state to play with. The Burroughs that 
 makes up Liberty City are all extremely well developed with plenty of places to see and things 
 to do. Feel like getting something to eat, you're not too far from a variety of eateries including 
 hot dog vendors at various street corners. Want to play pool, darts or even bowling? You've got 
 options. Heck, just want to sit back, relax and have a laugh, drop by the comedy club where Katt 
 Williams is performing live. You might not be able to buy property, but you have so many other 
 things at your disposal make up for that.
  
  The GTA III canon of games all had great and engaging storylines. You had your basic story, based 
 on getting back at those who 'screwed' you over and along the way, you meet up with people who 
 you at first trusted but later had to 'take care of' later on, or those who you thought were 'slime 
 balls' but were there when you needed them the most. GTA IV is no different. This time, instead 
 of playing as an American, we get the opportunity to play as immigrant Niko Bellic, a former soldier 
 who fought during the Bosnian Civil War during the mid-90s. Niko has had some problems back home 
 in the Balkans and made the decision to come to America after reading the great stories he heard 
 from his cousin, Roman. While we're led to believe that his reasons to come to America were to 
 'Live the American Dream' we slowly realize that Niko is there for revenge. 
  
  Not wanting to go into too much detail, during Niko's service in Bosnia, something went wrong and 
 people he cared for died. He feels that the person who back-stabbed his unit is hiding in Liberty 
 City and he wants to find them. The goal in the game is to find this person, but it won't be easy 
 for an Illegal immigrant with no money and a cousin who told grand stories of success, but actually 
 owes more than he has. This is why Niko needs to be-friend various people and essentially become 
 a goon-for-hire in order to get those with power to help him find the person he is looking for. 
 
  
  Niko is not your stereotypical main character. He's not American and doesn't connect to the average 
 American. You need to understand the fact that he is different to understand his actions. If you 
 accept him as a foreigner and his manners, or the fact that he tends to be very accepting of people, 
 you will turn to love him for what he is. There are some great moments where we see just how difficult 
 it can be for someone who doesn't speak American English to understand the slang of the area.
 
  
  While all the characters you interact with in the game are all extremely unique and well-done, 
 the storyline does tend to drag on a bit. This may understandable since anyone would have to do 
 a lot of hard work to get to that ultimate goal. The 'main' objective for Niko slowly becomes the 
 sub-plot and his ultimate finale deals with an entirely different issue and character. This is 
 common with the GTA III canon, but this could have been a great opportunity for RockStar to do 
 things a bit differently and surprise us. While the levels are great, there are some that just 
 don't make sense as to why Niko would agree to do them. One particular mission, which is also probably 
 the best mission ever made (an homage to the film Heat) , really wasn't necessary for Niko to take 
 part of but was an pleasure to play. The game also puts us into situations where decisions must 
 be made and those choices will affect the game later down the road. These are nice because it forces 
 the gamer to make a tough decision. What is impressive is that other characters react differently 
 depending on the choices you make.
  
  With GTA IV entering the HD era, the graphics and sound in the game are absolutely incredible. 
 Everything from the cars, buildings and people are all extremely well detailed. The pedestrians 
 might not look super crisp, they still look good enough that you may at times just want to stand 
 at a busy corner and admire the scenery. The graphics are great, but it's the dynamic lighting 
 that most people will talk about. The natural lighting changes as time goes by. Play at noon in 
 game, and it's extremely bright; play at 2 am, and it will be awfully difficult to do anything 
 in any dark environments. This can be frustrating at times, especially with some levels where you 
 need to see where you're going, but it is extremely realistic. It actually ended up hurting my 
 enjoyment of the finale as I finished it late in the evening (in game time) .
  
  The sound is also really good. While being of Serbian Decent and fluent in the language, I was 
 disappointed with the accents of the actors who spoke in Serbo-Croatian, both their Slavic speeches 
 and even the attempt at the English accents of a foreigner. It wasn't bad enough that it dampened 
 the story but sometimes I wish foreign actors were used instead of American based ones. Other than 
 that, the characters deliver their lines well and you really feel like you're watching a Gangster 
 Movie. The sounds of the cars, the street noise and everything else that adds to the ambiance of 
 the game are extremely top-notch and make all the environments extremely believable. The music 
 in the game continues the great tradition of the previous series with dozens of great tunes and 
 something for everyone; Jazz, Russian, Rock, Hip-Hop and Reggae just to mention a few. Also, the 
 great talk-radio stations are there as well.
  
  GTA IV is absolutely stunning and I loved it. Yes, it is frustrating at times, but games are supposed 
 to be challenging, it is why we play them. The main storyline should take the average gamer 30-40 
 hours to complete, but the amount of extra content available at your finger tips doubles the playtime. 
 Because of what the game has to offer, no one can fault you at wanting to take some time away from 
 the story to watch some TV (in game) , clean up the streets (helping the police to rid the city 
 of its other criminals) , dating a potential future wife (or ex-wife) or playing the absolutely 
 enjoyable multiplayer mode, there is something for everyone.
  
  We might not have gotten double the size of San Andreas, but we did get a Grand Theft Auto game 
 that does satisfy the fan of the series. There are problems in the lighting and some glitches will 
 appear here and there, but it is never to the point that you give up. If you're not a fan of the 
 series, I really feel that this could change that since Niko and the supporting staff is really 
 well-done with not a bad or out of place character in the bunch. The game does take some time before 
 you hit the really juicy parts, but once you start to have fun, you won't want to stop. Like GTA 
 III before it, this will force other game companies to copy its success and will change the face 
 of gaming in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klique-Klaque
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I havent really picked up a Grand Theft Auto game since GTA: Vice City and that was when i was 
 in 8th grade and it was all the hype..... but in actuality I played it but I never really liked 
 and just couldnt get into it.... but this game is really tight it had me hooked for hours the storyline, 
 gameplay, graphics EVERYTHING IS on point!! I was thinkin about trading it in later once i had 
 bought it but i think im bout to keep it..... FO LIFE!! HAHAHHAHAHAHHAHAA!!!!
  
  The main character (Niko) he is the most agile and has the most moves out of all the GTA he can 
 climb walls and jump over fences..... if i didnt know anybetter i would have almost said i was playing 
 Assassins Creed hahahhaha.... not really but kinda close tho HAHAHAH!!!
  
  But yea really the only problem i had with GTA Vice City was that it just never really kept my 
 attention but with GTAIV you WILL be HOOKED FOR A GOOD MINUTE!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Most of the people knew that Saint's Row will not be as great as GTA series and that's true. The 
 king of the free roaming games came back to the throne and here it is!
  
  Hello again Liberty City we can say becasue in GTA IV we came back to the city of Statue of Happnines, 
 yes happines hehe. We play as Niko Bellic, he's from Eastern Europe and he is a ex-soldier. The 
 story begins when Niko came to Liberty City by ship to meet his cousin Roman. Niko thought that 
 Roman is rich but his cousin lied. Roman isn't rich, he doesn't have sport cars and anything like 
 that. He runs a small cab service. I think that the story is well done and it's really interesting. 
 Niko is more emotional person than other GTA characters. He talks about his past when he was a 
 soldier, he saw many dead people, war changed him that's for sure. Roman is a funny guy and he 
 needs a help from Niko very often.
  Just like the other GTA games GTA IV is very long and we have variety of cool missions to complete. 
 We will meet lots of interesting people. We can also complete some side missions like vigilante 
 or we can take tasks from our friends, cell phone will surely help us. By cell phone we can invite 
 someone to the gentelmans club (striptiz) for example. There are lots of things to do in Liberty 
 City when we are not on the mission. Niko can play bowling, 8-ball, darts, gentelmans club ( :) 
 ) , there are cabaret clubs, we can get drunk in the local bar (the best drinking is with Roman 
 :) ) . The effect when we are drunk is cool, the world is blurry and if we get to the car then police 
 will surely chase us. What is important that Liberty City looks really realistic. It's dirty in 
 some places, there are traffic jams in rush hours, we can see that the whole city is LIVING and 
 BREATHING, people's reactions are also more realistic. Of course there are shops with clothes, 
 with food (Burger shot, Cluckin Bell) and of course a gun shop hehe where are lots of awesome guns, 
 from AK-47, M-16 to pistols, shotguns andthe monster ROCKET LAUNCHER hehe. 
  There are also internet cafes where Niko can make a date with some pretty girl for example. From 
 there we are able to download music and wallpapers to our cell phone in the game!
  There are many great things about this game really. Unfortunately the city isn't as huge as San 
 Andreas but main character Niko is better than CJ.
  We will also find may superb cars in Liberty City but it depends on which district we are. 
  
 The graphics in GTA IV is really good. Finally Rockstar did something about it. The character models 
 look really good, cars are shining in the sun and when it's raining. The environment looks better 
 than in Saint' Row for example, Liberty at night is amazing, Rockstar made a huge step forward 
 (huraaaaay! :) ) . The light especially at night is looking great and the sun rises, sunsets are 
 fantastic! 
  
  The music is awesome it's not as gorgeous as it was in Vice City (love Vice City, Tommy Vercetti 
 RULES :) ) but it still is amazing. There are plenty of radio stations so everyone will surely 
 find something what he likes. My favourites are Liberty Rock radio, Vladivostok and Brocker. The 
 vocie acting is well done.
  
  Overall GTA IV is a huge success and every fan of the series and fan of the free roaming game should 
 play it. There so much really awesome things to do in Liberty and Nico is a great character. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is an amazing game and highly addictive game. PLAY IT, PLAY IT, PLAY IT!!! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I bought the Special Edition and I was very pleased with my purchase. 
 Its a nice box, book, bag and soundtrack.
  
  I Niko is a great Character, like me you may have had your doubt when you first heard about him 
 but trust me he is great. Very funny and a character with a whole lot of depth, I thoroughly enjoyed 
 playing through his story.
  
  The Story is also pretty good, I think I prefer the storys from the old games but was still a good 
 story to follow.
  
  Graphics were a little bit below what I was expecting. Dont get me wrong they are pretty good but 
 its not what Im used to playing other games. Cant expect it though because of how big the game 
 is, they are much better than SA graphics, theres also a great deal of detail which is nice.
  
  I loved the single player, I played it non-stop until I got 100% and I enjoyed every singe 
 aspect of it.
  
  Online is where this game falls imo, im not sure what it is but I just dont find it very enjoyable, 
 on top of that it keeps failing on me so I dont play it very much.
  
  I will be playing a little bit online and Im looking forward to get the DLC.
  
  Overall a fantastic 
 single player game with a shabby online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironlightsaber
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  The GTA series returns to it's roots in this title. 
  
  The story is great, the characters well defined, the visuals stunning and the game play is incredible. 
 All the great elements of the GTA series are here and done better than any previous title. 
  
  The controls have been improved, especially the gun fighting controls that suffered somewhat 
 in the past. The new controls are simple, effective and make game playing an enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Some were upset that there was no jet-packs or free base jumping off of buildings/cliffs or being 
 able to fly passenger jets, but those things would just be silly in this down to earth, gritty 
 and realistic game. I am glad to see them missing as well as having to buy property like in past 
 titles.
  
  I hope the next installment follows the path laid out in the PS2 versions and we get as realistic 
 and gritty game of Vice City and then San Andreas.
  
  Well done Rock Star. Well done. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: y-doc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is structured similarly to previous games in the series. The core gameplay 
 consists of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, affording the player a large, 
 open environment in which to move around. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, 
 running, swimming, climbing and jumping, as well as utilising weapons and basic hand-to-hand combat. 
 Players can steal and drive a variety of vehicles, including automobiles, boats, helicopters, and 
 motorcycles.
  
  The open, non-linear environment allows players to explore and choose how they wish to play the 
 game. Although storyline missions are necessary to progress through the game and unlock certain 
 parts of the map and content, they are not required, as players can complete them at their own 
 leisure. When not taking on a storyline mission, players can free-roam. However, creating havoc 
 can attract unwanted and potentially fatal attention from the authorities. The more chaos caused, 
 the stronger the response: police patrols handle minor infractions such as attacking people, using 
 a firearm in public, grand theft auto, homicide, etc. whereas helicopter support teams; the FIB 
 (Federal Investigation Bureau) , based on FBI; and an elite counter-terrorism and law enforcement 
 team, N. O. O. S. E. (National Office Of Security Enforcement) replacing the military seen in previous 
 renditions of the series, respond to higher wanted levels.
  
  It is possible to have multiple active missions, due to the fact that some missions will run over 
 the course of several days and will require the player to wait for further instructions, etc. The 
 player can also partake in a variety of optional side missions. For the first time in the series, 
 Grand Theft Auto IV features "morality choices" at several points throughout the game, in which 
 the player is forced to choose between killing a character or sparing their life or killing one 
 of two characters. The game has two different endings, which are determined by decisions made by 
 the player throughout and at the end of the game. Each choice affects the final missions the player 
 can partake, and the fate of some characters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4.... Finally after a months of waiting and anticipation, its here and better than we ever 
 imagined. When i put the game in the graphics were just stunning compared to the previous gta games 
 and any other next gen title. But graphics aside lets begin to talk about gameplay. Never before 
 has a game played the way this one does. You actually feel as though you are niko in this game. 
 You may not be able to work out and change your body but you can still change clothes and eat but 
 has no effect on your weight. The story is by far the best of the gta series because it feels like 
 your playing a character in a movie. You kind of get attached to the characters in game so it makes 
 your decisions tough when you have to choose their fate. which is one of the new gameplay features 
 gta 4 has. To get into detail about it first off you do missions for people as you did in the previous 
 gta's but now in this game once they have gone too far you have to make decisions to kill people 
 that stand in your way or let them live. These decisions do have an effect on how the game will 
 turn out but some don't. Enough about that dont want to get too much into all the details about 
 it. But a few other things that you can do is the basic stealing cars, killing people, and just 
 running around having sex with hookers which can be fun when you are bored. But along with killing 
 people in this game it has become alot more fun because of the aiming system. It has improved so 
 much from the previous games because you can actually control what your shooting at. And whatever 
 part of the body you hit thats the part that will hurt them so if you shoot somone in the leg they 
 will limp and fall down. Another new feature is cover system. Just about anything that has a surface 
 you can take cover behind. which makes combat alot more fun and realistic. An example is whenever 
 you get out of your car you can open the door and hide behind it and blindfire. Not to go on forever 
 about the awesome gameplay but it is the thing that stands out mostly to me. The cars handle a 
 bit more realistic which can be difficult to get a hang of but hours playing the game you surely 
 will. And the last thing i want to talk about is the multi player. It is new to gta and surprisingly 
 very fun to play with your friends. With game modes like cops and crooks which pretty much explains 
 itself and of course team deathmatch. This game will change the way people look at games from now 
 on. It has set the bar so high for future game. It is the best game ever made. I gave it a 10/10 
 and it doesn't deserve any less. I don't recommend getting this. Im telling you to get this! Now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartheijt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Gamespotmembers,
  
  I have played many GTA's even the flat 2-D versions. GTA London (PC) , GTA (GBC) , GTA 3 (PS2) , GTA 
 Vice City (PS2) , GTA San Andreas (PS2) , GTA Vice City Stories (PSP) , GTA Liberty City Stories (PSP, 
 PS2) . So I can say that I am quite a GTA killer. 
  
  I'll start by telling somthing about the graphics, Gameplay, than the music, the Story and than 
 a conclusion. 
  
  The graphics are quite good. Better than every GTA I have seen before. The graphics are still "GTA-isch" 
 but in my opinion the graphics are much more grown up than before. But the graphics are still not 
 as good as Assasin's Creed and MGS4. 
  
  The city really looks alive. People are walking around buying hotdogs, play some music and call 
 with their mobilephones. Cars are parked at the side of the road. In the small alleys there is 
 a lot of trash and dubsters. It just feel like a real city. 
  
  The caracters are niceley detailed and have real mimic on their faceses. The people that walk on 
 the street are a little bit less detailed but this is not annoying. 
  
  The buildings are quite nice detailed. They have a shiny finish over their windows wich looks great. 
 At night the windows give light, so the city realy looks alive. The neon light as an example in 
 "times Square" really have a nice glow on the streets. The streets also really looks nice. they 
 have a nice texture. When it rains the streets begin to shine. They shine like in Need for Speed 
 underground 1. Maybe a bit to much but it looks good. 
  
  Than the sun is really making a circle. So every minute of the day you play the shadows are difirent. 
 Which I think is really cool. A really next generation feature. 
  
  The gameplay is still great! They added some extra features like you can take cover behind walls 
 and boxes. The shooting mechanism has changed a little. Now you can steer in auto-aim so you can 
 give headshots. 
  
  The controls feel just right. The aiming the shooting, the driving controls etc.
  
  The guns 
 feel nice. From a desert eagle to an AK-47 they all have their own characteristic abilities. Short 
 range/ longrange, accurate/ or all over the place. Everyone finds a fiew guns in this game that 
 he/she likes.
  
  They changed the car/motorcycle driving. The cars handels a bit better but I dislike that you cant 
 perform such good E-break corners any more. If you drive a car it is not a big problem but with 
 a motorcycle the E-break was in GTA San Andreas THE WAY to drive fast corners. And now you mus 
 take a corner much more carefully. As an argument you can say that the gameplay now is more realistic 
 than in GTA SA so I will leave it up to you. But moreover the game just feels right. 
  
  There are a lot of difirent radio stations wich you can listen to in GTA IV. From classic to jazz 
 to Techno electric music. There is some music for everyone. But I also would like to play my own 
 music from my HDD, but that is not possible. 
  
  The sound in the streets is good, you hear people talking and hear cars driving, the city really 
 feels alive. The difirend cars sound diferent. Some engines sound realistic and good the other 
 is bad, so between some cars there is a uge diferance. If you are in a tunnel or under a bridge 
 your car sounds like it has an echo. That is one of the little details that makes a game not good 
 but perfect. 
  
  The guns all have a diferent sound while shooting. They all sound quite realistic. Indoor they 
 sound diferent than outdoor wich is good. 
  
  The story is verry GTA-isch. Niko Belic the main character comes from Europe to the US to find 
 a better life, and find the people who killed his familie and friends back in the days. Than you 
 work yourself up by the mafia and other criminal families. You have to kill, rob, kidnap and lot 
 more. The variations in the missions is good. There are a lot of diffirent things you can do. 
 
  
  Although the game looks good and plays well I felt like i was something missing. In GTA SA you 
 had the airplanes, wich I really liked. The Liberty City was not really my city, I liked Vice City 
 more although it was smaller. Everyting is good about this game, it is a real GTA! Got to have 
 this? YES, OFCOURSE!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  You arrive in America as Nico Bellic. Working for your cousin Roman, who owns a taxi cab service. 
 
  
  The best thing about GTA4 is that you can break in and steal any vehicle within 5 seconds. The 
 only problem is that the police will be after you even if none are around. The way that works is 
 when you do something against the law a circle on your radar appears you must escape that circle.
 
  
  Depending on what you did the bigger (or smaller) the cirlcle will be. The dumb part is even if 
 you escape the circle you have to wait 5 seconds before you lose them. If there are alot of cops 
 after you. You can jump into a pay and spray where you instantely lose them. Your car gets paintd 
 and fixed. As long as they do not see you enter it.
  
  When you first start the game, it is a melee game. You first start using weapons when working for 
 little jacob. You will work for multiple people. Some of the people you wrok for will trun on you. 
 When wroking for Dimitri you unlock a gunstore where you can go and buy weapons and ammo.
  
  There is also a online service. Where you can recive and send emails and set up dates on internet 
 dating services. You will go through many apartments, and infront of the appartments is a space 
 where you can park your vehicle and it will be saved.
  
  The weapons are not that realistic. When you reload the assualt rifle all your charcter does is 
 cock it he dosent change the clip
  
  The multiplayer was a dissapointment. It's hard to find a match sometimes and it is a stupid lobby 
 setup. On a team deathmatch you will be lucky to find an opponent. But the races are the best you 
 can race any vehivle you can think of!
  
  Over all GTA4 is the best in series with a expansive SP and a slightely disspaoing MP. You should 
 atleast rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robobie
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  GTA IV on the PS3 and Xbox 360 has to be the best game I have ever played. It has everything you 
 could want. Great graphics, great story and great multiplayer. 
  
  First off. Controls. The controls are very good. They are your basic third person shooter controls. 
 R2 and L2 to shoot. Analogs to walk and aim. And the face buttons to run, jump and perform actions 
 such as entering cars. The controls are basic but easy to use.
  
  Graphics next and they are brilliant. Characters and explosions look great. The town of liberty 
 city looks amazing. The town looks simply amazing at night time. You could just fly around checking 
 out the sights.
  
  The sound are excellent. From the sound of guns to cars to people in the streets talking to each 
 other. The sounds are great. You know you are in trouble when you hear the whirle of a rocket launcher 
 coming towards you. Also characters sound great. Usually a European accent would annoy me but not 
 Niko's. The game also has a great soundtrack. Lazlo is back again and with he brings more comedy. 
 Also famous artists such as Kayne west, stevie nicks and Ne-yo can be heard on the in car radio.
 
  
  You will run into many characters in GTA IV from small time crooks to mafia dons. Each one of them 
 is very convincing. There are alot of hard choices you will have to make in the game such as who 
 to kill, should you spare them and money or revenge. I have many times felt bad about killing citizens 
 in the game because the people seem so real.
  
  Liberty city is the most real city you will ever experience in a game. People walking down the 
 streets will stop and talk to each other. Cops will arrest people other than you. And there are 
 plenty of buildings for you to enter. Police helicopters will fly around the city looking for trouble. 
 The people in the city will respond to things such as the weather, explosions or police sirens. 
 Their are hundreds of conversation to be heard by people on the streets of liberty city. I have 
 never heard the same one twice. You will not find a game with a more realistic setting.
  
  The multiplayer side of the game is amazing. Games online are just crazy. You will see the most 
 crazy things happening there. Like are car flying up a ramp and hitting a helicopter into a building 
 to a helicopter chopping of the the back of another helicopter. Seriously I have been in a four 
 way helicopter match over the airport. There are also many ways to customise the match you are 
 in from turning of the cops to allowing only rocket launchers to be used. There are many modes 
 such as race, deathmatch and cops vs robbers. Or you can just play free mode and do whatever you 
 want. The online mode is enough fun to buy the game for alone.
  
  GTA IV is a game that everyone should play at least once in there lives. This game is very important 
 to me. It is the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odin2019
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much new with this GTA game. It pretty much just gives you the same old same old with 
 new graphics. This time it comes with online play well what a joke and I can't believe so many 
 sites said the online of GTA4 would keep you busy for months on end biggest load of BS I've heard 
 in awhile. 
  
  Graphics - Anyway the graphics of the game are pretty good and I'm happy with the way the game 
 looks as far as that goes.
  
  Story - The story has some characters that you will get to know and I think the game does better 
 on this part because after you play the game awhile you feel as though you know some of the characters 
 which is done better than past GTA games. The story is pretty much just like every other GTA story 
 where you climb the ranks in the criminal world and you do jobs that kill people and hunt people 
 down. Not much new as far as the story goes except you get to meet different people in GTA4 than 
 past GTA games.
  
  Sounds - The sounds in the game are pretty good. The guns sounds are fine along with several other 
 things. The characters voices are pretty good when they talk and it sounds just like every other 
 GTA game. The songs are about what you would expect in a GTA game where a good song comes up every 
 now and then on the radio but most of the songs are no big deal and neither is the radio for that 
 matter. If you want loads of music just plug in your laptop right beside the tv and go to a radio 
 station online and listen to that while you drive in the game. The radio station was a huge add 
 on with the first GTA game but times have changed and its no longer that big of a deal.
  
  
  Controls - are pretty much pretty similar to past GTA games. The cars can be kind of hard to 
 control at times and I think some of the cars are too hard to drive. I think they over did the 
 controls on lots of the cars because if your not in a sports car you won't be able to maneuver 
 all that well. As for the bikes those maneuver pretty well and I like driving those the best. Another 
 thing that is different with the controls from past GTA games is the ability to hide behind something 
 and shoot. Meanwhile this does work ok its not as great it sounds and its not as great as say how 
 well metal gear gets it done so don't expect too great of a cover system with the game.
  
  Improvements - include the cover system, online mode, new physics when you crash, new things happen 
 when you go to break into a car, you can check out a cops computer but there isn't much to see, 
 you can go online in computers in the game but no big woop its like looking at ads, the game has 
 a cell phone which can be used to contact people but it doesn't make that much of a difference 
 in the game if any at all and thats about it.
  
  Fun factor - The game is fun for a few hours and it was interesting to check out the online play 
 to only end up with disappointment. You go do what you do in GTA games which is hit people on the 
 streets and kill them, hit cops and run from them at that high star level, check out the city and 
 see what there is to see, and go on missions which are pretty much exactly the same missions as 
 were in past GTA games. Now this game didn't last me a long time and I got bored quite easily because 
 it is very similar to past GTA games. If you have never played a GTA game before you will probably 
 think this game is great but if you have played a GTA game before this there isn't much new here 
 that is brought to the table that you have not played in past GTA games. Also, some things have 
 been taken out of GTA4 from GTSA like buying property and you can't fly planes in the game. Also, 
 GTA4 isn't near as big as SA. 
  
  Lasting Appeal - The game gets old quick if you have played past GTA games. Its only lasted me 
 a few hours and I don't go back and play it.
  
  
  Extra Stuff that could of been in the game - I say the game is about a 7.5 to an 8 and an 8 would 
 be generous. There is so much more that could of been included to make this game great but it just 
 was not put in the game. I would of liked changes in the seasons to experience snow and fall. I 
 would of liked to have been able to have entered more buildings but you can only enter about the 
 same amount of buildings as past gta games. I would of thought the online would of been much more 
 fun but you spend half if not most your time online driving around the city looking for the other 
 team and thats not much fun. I would of thought people would look and act different on the streets 
 than past GTA games but there really isn't a difference as far as that goes. I was hoping that 
 the missions would be much more different and would bring about different things to do but they 
 don't. I was hoping that the game would let you make different choices in the game and this would 
 lead to several different endings and I was hoping that based on your choices that people in different 
 parts of the city would act differently towards you like if you did something really bad in a certain 
 part of the city people would be afraid of you or would try to kill you. I would of liked to of 
 entered different occupations and go on missions. Like as a cop you can become swat and go on different 
 missions as the swat like drug bust and what not. I would of thought there would be many different 
 paths you could take leading to many different endings. You could either become the ultimate bad 
 guy or the ultimate good guy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeyminime
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Good Graphics, Some Good Humor but very little in it. i have not played it much, got rather bored 
 of it. I have to say that SanAndreas came 1st, Vice City 2nd and GTA 4 came 3rd. I did not find 
 much in it. it looked good but like they took everything from san andreas out of it. tattoos, tones 
 of clothes, car mods, tones of guns, houses to buy, other out side missions like cops, fire fighter, 
 ambulance, pizza, PCJ playground and the millions of packages, tags, photos, oysters, horse shoes, 
 tones of cars, planes. also were is the army, tanks and hunter. its like what on earth, big let 
 down. i do hope they bring it all back because many people found it a disopointment, the multiplayer 
 was the only best thing about it. Oblivion and MGS4 is alot better than gta 4 even though MGS4 
 has a very short story line. If they dont bring it all back, i and many other people may say.... This 
 is the end of GTA : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  "With more sights, shows, restaurants, bars, museums, shopping and borderline psychopaths than 
 you can shake a shotgun at, there is no place quite like Liberty City. Where else can you get sworn 
 at by a senior citizen, accosted by a crack head, propositioned by a prostitute, and strip-searched 
 by a police officer, all before breakfast? Discover the history, culture and diversity that make 
 a booming metropolis the capital of the world, at least according to the over-caffeinated locals. 
 We encourage you to explore Liberty City's four boroughs and it's islands, each with it's own distinct 
 atmosphere and personality. There is always something for everyone." (Rockstar Games)
  
  The storytelling in the GTA franchise hasn't always been the greatest in the industry, although 
 it has improved this time around. In Grand Theft Auto 4 you play the role of Niko Bellic, an immigrant 
 from Eastern Europe and a veteran of the Bosnian wars. He has been lured to Liberty City by his 
 cousin's tales of wealth and prosperity along with the chance of a fresh start. Things once again 
 get off to the usual GTA start as you start working for gangs and criminals to earn a little extra 
 cash. You go through the paces eventually making your way up the ladder as is tradition in the 
 series. The story itself is about thirty hours long, but the bulk of your time will be spent going 
 postal. Along with the main story there are also side missions, and hidden secrets throughout the 
 city. This is a game that you could play for hours and hours once the story is completed. Some 
 plot twists you can see coming, while other you may not. In the end though it's a great story and 
 you can really get involved in the characters and their trials.
  
  The gameplay is why many gamers love this series and it hasn't changed much at all. This can also 
 be said for the missions. Taking down rival gangs, performing hits, or taking part in car chases 
 have all stayed the same since GTA 3 and still remain fresh. That said Liberty City is barely recognizable 
 from the GTA 3 rendition. This is also true with some of the gangs you will be working for. Besides 
 a few missions here and there with the mafia many of the families from GTA 3 aren't even mentioned. 
 Sindakos, Columbian Cartel and the Triads don't even play a role in this game. Instead the game 
 centers around the Russian mafia, the Irish and to a smaller extent the Italian mafia. One of the 
 disappointing things is there are no country environments. The playable area itself is actually 
 smaller than that of San Andreas but there is no wasted space. Still the game could have been better 
 off with a healthy balance of rural and urban environments. Niko can do things that some of the 
 previous protagonists could not. He can scale walls and other obstacles, along with a much improved 
 gunplay system. The cover system has greatly improved the combat in the game and it will actually 
 feel like your in a real shootout. Throughout the game you will also be presented with morality 
 decisions. You can either kill or let a criminal go effecting your respect and sometimes the plot 
 itself. There are once again a great variety of vehicles. Driving down Star Junction at break neck 
 speeds or trying to outrun the cops are still very fun. Another new feature added to the game is 
 the internet. Although not that important it play a big role in a lot of the side missions and 
 internet dating. The police system is also slightly changed as they may seem a bit easier to avoid. 
 Your GPS system will show you locations of the LCPD and you can easily avoid them and loose your 
 wanted level. That said loosing them can still be tough, especially when you hit the three star 
 range. The online in the game can host up to sixteen players in a variety of match types. This 
 is a first for the series and its surprising that online can work so well with a series like this. 
 You can chose from death matches, to team battles to even races. Overall the gameplay in GTA 4 
 is essentially the same as in previous installments. Not to say this is a bad thing because we 
 all know why we play Grand Theft Auto.
  
  Liberty City is very recognizable to the modern day New York City. You'll be taken through four 
 main areas. Broker representing Brooklyn, Queens is Dukes, Algonquin representing Manhattan and 
 Alderney representing New Jersey. Many New York landmarks are also present in the game with different 
 names. Central Park, Statue of Liberty, Empire State Building, Chrysler Building, and the Brooklyn 
 bridge to name a few. The city itself is more real than ever. This can be attributed to the great 
 graphics and detail that went into the city along with the people themselves. There are many more 
 character models and you won't see two of the same people walking together like in previous installments. 
 The visuals in Grand Theft Auto 4 are not the best to grave the PS3 or the 360 but they are still 
 great. To render such a huge area without any load times between areas is a daunting task and the 
 city looks great. The city has many little details scattered throughout it that make the overall 
 city feel more real. Again the visuals in the GTA series haven't been at the top of the pack but 
 no other game has come so close to rendering a living breathing city like they have.
  
  The radio is as good as ever once again produced by Lazlow and Dan Houser. There are a total of 
 18 radio stations spanning from talk shows, to rock and pop stations and to reggae. The music in 
 this game is not as mainstream as in previous games. Although there are over 200 licensed songs, 
 the most ever in a video game, most of them are obscure. That's not per say a bad thing because 
 they fit well within the game and the culture of New York City. The same can be said with the voice 
 acting. In the past actors such as James Woods and Samuel L. Jackson played roles but in this installment 
 there are no big names. This helps you better understand the characters as you won't be associating 
 them with the voice actor themselves.
  
  Grand Theft Auto, in my opinion, has become the most important franchise in the video game industry. 
 Although the series has been mired with controversy the games have always stood out as some of 
 the best of their time. This is no exception with Grand Theft Auto 4 and if you've ever loved the 
 series before you best return to Liberty City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glennjr1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  GTA IV. Your name precedes you. I have played all of the GTA games. I am going to be completely 
 honest... this game is a letdown. That doesn't goes to say that it doesn't have any good points (it 
 certainly does) . But when you play something as grand as San Andreas, anything less will leave 
 you feeling unfulfilled. How is it less when it is on the PS3 you ask? Ahhh young grasshopper, 
 let the guru explain it to you.
  
  Let's start with presentation. I have read plenty of reviews (user and professional) expressing 
 their love for an actual story in this game. Now that I think back, that was actually the main 
 reason I decided to pick this up so fast. I put it in my PS3. I play through the game, and let 
 me tell you... the story is nowhere near Oscar quality (as IGN put it) . I'm not saying that it is 
 completely horrible... I'm just saying it's decent. But all the hype has gone too many people's 
 heads and, consequently, they are only looking for reasons to like the game. Not me. The story 
 starts out pretty good as you are Niko Bellic and you have come for revenge. Now the problem here 
 is that your last mission is not getting the revenge (this is NOT a spoiler) . So the whole revenge 
 deal will be settled one way or the other and you'll be left with a nice amount of missions to 
 complete afterwards. This leads me to my next point. On most of these missions, Niko always explains 
 to his "boss" that he is only doing this certain mission for the money. That's understandable when 
 I first get to Liberty City, but by the middle of the game, I have more than enough money. So that 
 excuse gets redundant, and annoying. One final note on the story... the final mission is so anti-climatic 
 that I actually did not know that I was doing the final mission. In past GTA's, you knew you were 
 on the final mission because it was so catastrophic. You knew your adventure was coming to an end. 
 In this GTA, I finished the story saying "WTF that's it?!" They tried for the dramatic angle in 
 storytelling, but it simply does not work here. Other things like navigating music channels are 
 the same. The phone was a nice touch ( especially with the cheat feature) .
  
  With that being said, let's move on to the graphics. Is it pretty? Yes, young grasshopper. This 
 game is very pretty. Gone are the days of what I like to call "sticky fingaz." You can now see 
 each finger. Actually the movements on this game are very fluid. I think was the major way Rockstar 
 outdid San Andreas. Seeing the city at night is great. But in reality, I don't play this game to 
 drive around and look at the fake NYC. But don't get me wrong, I must say the graphical quality 
 is excellent in this game. 
  
  The sound has some good points, but there is something that really had me going"WTF?"the radio 
 stations. I listen to all music. That being said, there are certain genres that I listen to more 
 than others.. hip hop (real hip hop by the way) , jazz, and R&B. Now I must say the jazz station was 
 near perfect. In fact, it was what I listened to the most. The R&B was pretty good as well, but 
 the hip hop was straight up crap. I don't know who put that playlist together, but they could at 
 least put more than 1 song that was actually played on the radio. In San Andreas I could just ride 
 listening to the rap station and loving nearly every song on there because it was a hit back in 
 the 90's. I found myself just turning off the radio station and putting on my iTunes if I ever 
 wanted to listen to hip hop. The music really put me in the experience. Not so on this GTA. On 
 the other hand, the voice acting is really good. Niko and the gang display a nice amount of emotion, 
 but as I said before, at one point you just keep hearing "I'm doing it for the money" or "Does 
 it pay well?" That makes you become detached from the character because it seems that's all he 
 cares about towards the end. The only time he didn't care about the money was when the revenge 
 issue was being solved and the anti-climatic final mission.
  
  Now to the meaty part of the game, the gameplay. Many say the city is "alive." I tend to agree. 
 You go along the road and you can see many things happening such as a carjacking, or even pepole 
 on the run from the cops. But what I care about most are the missions and how I look doing those 
 missions. This is what I mean by leaving the game disappointed. The missions are so boring it surprises 
 me how some got in this game. We could get some kind of mission to break the monotony of "get in 
 car, chase this person, kill them, escape from the cops." The missions are just lackluster... plain 
 and simple. I'm not asking for them to put insanely hard missions in the game, just to do something 
 different. As for what you can do when not doing a mission, it's pretty decent, but not on par 
 with San Andreas. I like the fact that you can go out with friends to play darts, go bowling, or 
 have fun in a strip club. I also love the comedy club (adding Katt Williams was a nice touch for 
 Rockstar) . What I don't like is that these things get boring... fast (I don't care about watching 
 t. v. inside a t. v.!!) . It got to the point where I just ignored my friends and went back to the 
 missions. You don't need those extra perks from your friends anyway. Now there is always the option 
 of doing all those extra things like collecting 100 pieces of x, but I simply will not try doing 
 that because it's pretty much a waste of time (unless you are on some dedicated mission to get 
 100% and for that, I salute you) . The suits in GTA IV are nice, but the clothes they offer that 
 are non-business are just ugly. There is also a smaller selection of vehicles and weapons for the 
 game, which is a letdown. I loved the huge variety of ways to murk someone in San Andreas. The 
 online play is pretty good. Lag was not an issue here. But there's nothing that's going to make 
 you say" Wow, I need to play this online more than (insert whatever you play online the most) ." 
 So it's good, but it doesn't offer all that much that's different.
  
  All in all, this game is between decent and good. Not outstanding and perfect. Which is why I am 
 disappointed. I expected this to outdo San Andreas on every front except maybe size ( since this 
 is relatively new hardware) . I mean, that's what a sequel is supposed to do right? Instead, Rockstar 
 showed me just how great a game San Andreas was for the PS2. I hope they get it right next time. 
 You know, this actually makes me want to try Saints Row 2 when it comes out (and that's saying a 
 lot since I'm a HUGE GTA fan) . It's time for someone there to innovate, because this game leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  I just finished the storyline - about 55 hours to complete. Ended up with 68% complete, so there 
 is still a lot of side missions I could go back and finish up, but I never will. I've had enough 
 of this game. They should have cut out about 1/2 the missions and added some more fun things to 
 do or places to explore.
  
  Even after 55+ hours, the controls never felt right to me. The vehicle controls were a mixed bag 
 - car was ok, motorcycle sucked, and the best was the helicopter of all things. The on-foot controls 
 were the worst. I know it's a big step forward from previous GTA's, but it still sucks. Your guy 
 looks like he is running around with a stick up his you know what, and he is constantly getting 
 stuck on things, or going into the wrong cover. Nothing like trying to throw a grenade and have 
 it fall to your feet instead, while your seemingly 80 year old guy tries to shuffle out of the 
 way and gets blown up to restart the entire mission - including the BORING DRIVING!!! UGH!!! (Yah, 
 I know you can take a taxi, but not all the time)
  
  And the final mission just serves to highlight all the on-foot control problems there is with the 
 game - I mean why does my guy still move like a tank? I felt like i was playing tank commander 
 on my atari 2600 when walking around! Yuck!
  
  In Summary - Fun game, but way too much filler and bad controls. I would have been happier with 
 a much shorter game, with some more fun things to do. Also I hated the motorcycle missions - way 
 too frustrating to be any fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Now let me start by saying that yes i am a fan of the series and have loved every other game in 
 this series and do not particularly hate this one, its still a good game but when compared to some 
 other games out there in the current generation it feels somewhat lacking in execution.
  
  I will compare then, GTA3 was a great step from its predecessors successfully making the jump from 
 2d to 3d and pulling off a great game while its at it (something that sonic still dreams about) 
 and Vice city i still consider to be the crowning achievement in the franchise with its great theme 
 and execution, but GTA4 feels lazy in just going back to the same location of GTA3 and not adding 
 a great deal of new stuff to the gameplay while its at it, basically what i am saying is that it 
 feels last gen with pretty graphics.
  
  Compare it to MGS4, a game that also doesnt feel like a great leap, but look at the difference 
 of execution in design between the two, MGS4 feels fresh and polished, while GTA4 feels rushed 
 and glitchy... could have been so much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  it will surely take you to another world which will probably make u forget reality so try not to 
 go outside after playing. personally i didn't think it would live up to d great hype!! but it surely 
 did. it's a game some people will love it like hell and some not so much... the visuals are ausumn 
 which i think need not be described much ( and i didn't find any glitches !!!) ... anywayz the gameplay 
 rockz.... but it willl take some time to get used to the new fight control system... but u will love 
 it later in the game for sure.... niko's a really humorous protagonist ...... and really kind too... which 
 makes it easy for him to get friends and girlfriends... well anyway the city is ausumn and really 
 really huge!!!!! i think it's impossible to know the whole place.... but the cab helps in knowing 
 places though.... but the best way to experience the city is at night by flying around the whole 
 place with a helicopter... it's a seen u will never forget... u won't ever blink ur eyes while doing 
 that !!! the game is created by a genius!!! and yea the ps3 version is better than d 360 cause i 
 played on both... well i don't want create a spoiler and say everything... not many flaws as you 
 would except BUT U WON'T PROBABLY SAY IT'S A PERFECT GAME FOR SOME REASON (PROBABLY BECAUSE U PLAYED 
 MGS 4) .. ANYWAYZ IF UR A SANDBOX ADVENTURE LOVER U WOULD BE NUTS NOT TO GIVE THIS GAME A TRY!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the Grand Theft Auto games have been great, San andreas and so on have been some of the best 
 games in the world. But, i think that there was so much hype for this game, that it's not as good 
 as people think it is. The missions are cool and the storyline is great, but once your done with 
 the missions, it's kinda boring. I finished the game in 6 days and i thought it was great. But 
 looking back at the game, San Andreas is better. They have minimized custimization and gotten rid 
 of flying planes and other kool things, which is a bummer. But they wanted to get rid of some things 
 and make a small map, compared to San Andreas to get better visual effects. They have done that. 
 Overall, i think the game is good, but once you have finished, you might as well put it away. Graphics 
 are to be admired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  http://thesupergamers. smfforfree4. com/
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: IV is proberly the best GTA game yet, most things have been improved since the 
 last Grand Theft Auto games. In GTA: IV you play as Niko Balic, a recent european imegrent sucked 
 in to going to Liberty City by his cousen claiming he had a mansion, sports cars and the ladies. 
 But when Niko gets of the boat he realises the truth, the mansion is just an old apartment, the 
 sports cars are taxi cabs and the ladies are prostitutes.
  
  First of all, the first main thing that has been improved is the graphics. Everthing has a great 
 detail to it from the buildings to the characters, the graphics no longer look so cartoony like 
 in past games. The same goes with the physics of this game, In past games when you shot someone 
 it would be cartoony, however in GTA: IV when you shoot someone the victim will wimper away in pain 
 before they get up.
  
  The enviroment now has distructable elements in it, for example when you are in a heavy firefight 
 with your foes the enviroment around were the firefight is taking place will get damaged, if you 
 shoot an RPG into a concreat wall the wall will be left with a chunk taken out of it, the covour 
 and shooting system has been improved as you can now hide behind objects to avoid being shot.
 
  
  The car physics are now more realistic, now you can't just floor it around a corner as fast as 
 you can in a car you have to acturally slow down around corners before eventurally speeding up 
 again.
  
  The mission structure has gorne back to basic, that may sound like a let down to some but in most 
 part you will have to use different tactics to pass some missions. In some missions you will have 
 to make dissisions on weather or not you kill or save someone or you may have two people and you 
 have a choice to kill one or the other, one may be helpfull for you further down the line were 
 another may be compleatly useless to you. Everything you do has it's advantages ind disadvantages.
 
  
  The characters are well disigned, it is like every character has emotions. Niko has feelings and 
 when something bad happens to someone close to him he will be worried and you can tell that what 
 he says in his dialogue. If someone has been kidnapped, Niko will sound angry in his voice.
  The cutsceen dialogue is also funny and well done, ingame dialogue when you fail a mission the 
 character you worked for has different lines they say so if you fail the mission again and again, 
 that particular character will say a different line again and again.
  
  The music in GTA: IV is nothing different then other GTA's, the music sets the feel and vibe in 
 the time and setting of this game.
  
  Like in past GTA games, this ones filled with many funny real-life spoofs and eastereggs, for example, 
 the statue of Liberty is the statue of happyness, the metalife building is getalife just to name 
 a couple.
  
  With that all said, this game certainly ain't perfect, there are a few bugs in the game were characters 
 don't do what they are supposed to do, there are glitches which also effect the enviroment of the 
 game. But this game gets a 10 purly on the basis of what said above, the negatives don't really 
 have an impact.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  http://thesupergamers. smfforfree4. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentui
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was SO GOOD I decide to buy it. BOY OH BOY I never knew I would get bored so fast. I 
 have to admit it looks and plays REALLY GOOD. but like I said after playing it hour after hour 
 after hour it gets boring. Online is fun..... really fun. The best mode IMO is free mode or whatever 
 it is called. Online is the only thing that can keep this game alive. While others might flame 
 to to the pit of fire by hitting on the Thumbs down button (I could care less) This game deserves 
 a 9 or a 9.3 at the least. After a while you feel like you are doing the same thing. I have played 
 GTA for about 10 years now. My first was GTA2 for PS1 and I still have it. I still think GTA 4 
 is a great game dont get me wrong. It is just been there done that all over again.... for the 6th 
 time. But putting aside all that it is the best in the series and the story is well organized. 
 I just cant wait to see what Rockstar has up their sleves in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendead
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  First thought:
  
  First thing I must say is that GTAIV isn't the game I expected. I was suprised that, how many problems 
 and mistakes it has. BUT, I do not say that it's BAD, It's a good game, worth playing BUT AGAIN, 
 not worth for this money.
  
  
  Story:
  
  The story in the beginning looked awesome, everything was perfect. Roman, the funny cousin, Vlad, 
 Roman's boss (I think) ,... the game looked perfect. No problems. (Spoilers) When I killed Vlad and 
 when Niko explaines, why he's in Liberty City, It was becoming very interesting. But when playing 
 through many mission, it wasn't very exciting story. Spoilers Overall: Story is in some way good, 
 in some way bad. Actually, there are many stories in this game. (Dimitri's revenge, finding Darko, 
 helping Roman in his life,...)
  
  
  Missions:
  
  Missions are simple. They aren't full of stir and movement, but they are normally simple. At the 
 beginning of the game, it was normal as in any GTA game: pickup that guy, chase that guy, shoot 
 that guy,... normal missions for training, but in GTA IV, these kind of missions are all through 
 the whole game. And that is bad. Well, maybe there are 2 or 3 missions different, but all others 
 are killing a target, picking up and driving a person, or chasing a person. THAT'S IT. No Other 
 city like in San Andreas (GTAIII Liberty City) , no stealh mission (I was very disappointed in this) ,... simple 
 missions the whole game.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is good. It's kinda stupid, that you need to hold a button to run normally. If you don't, 
 you just walk slowly. Nothing wrong with it, just it get difficult, when police is chasing you. 
 The fight system is the best compared in other GTA games. Different animations, different tricks, 
 and nice oponnent's respond on your attack. Shooting isn't very hard, it's actually very good (auto 
 lock-on or off) and I don't have any problems with it.
  
  
  Police:
  
  Police is in some way good and bad.
  Good: They are much more smarter than before.
  Bad: You 
 can see them on your radar. That's good, but also bad. (No suprises behind the corners, you know 
 where to run,...) And it's even harder to get away. (If you have 3 or 4 starts) it's almost impossible.
 
  
  
  Radio:
  
  The radio is... incomplete. As I noticed, there were some issuses with it. Same songs every few 
 minutes. (I'm serious) There is a nice comeback from GTAIII and VC: Lazlow is with us again. And 
 this time, it's on the streets, doing his show. I heard him once, getting in the taxi. Hehe. But, 
 I don't enjoy the shows and radio as I did in GTAIII, VC and SA. Because the music choice is lame.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Ofcourse SOME people are playing GTA IV, just because of graphics and psyhics. And that's bad. 
 Very bad.
  The graphics ofcourse are great, water is just perfect, and models are good too. Rockstar really 
 worked on this.
  Psyhics are amazing. GTA IV has a new psyhics engine Euphoria, which is awesome. Check it out on 
 google.
  
  
  New features:
  
  These new features are interesting, but lame. Like killing 200 birds in the city. Sounds interesting 
 and exciting. But when you play the game, it's a real pain in the ass. Birds are everywhere: on 
 the streets, roof tops, backalleys, on bridges, under the bridges, in places, where you can't get 
 without helicopter,... and even worser is, that when you kill all the birds, you get NOTHING. NOTHING. 
 It's the same with stunt jumps. NOTHING. But there are new features like comedy show, television (you 
 can actually switch the programs) ,...
  
  
  Overall:
  Good game must have a good gameplay, good graphics, good psyhics, good story, and everything else. 
 GTA IV fails here. IMO Rockstar worked TOO MUCH on graphics and new features, that they forgot 
 about the main part. (story, gameplay,...)
  
  Buy GTA IV just if you want to complete the GTA series or you're new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkiller012
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Good:
  - Liberty City do looks alive
  - Incredible story with awesome side missions
  - Multiplayer is superb
  - Some parts are funny via radio, shows, actions, television, etc.
 
  - Great shooting system with covering too
  - The core gameplay never gets tired
  - Cell phone idea and computer is genius
  
  Bad:
  - Sometimes you may encounter glitches
 
  - Previous GTA owners may find the game as the same
  - Not much customization of the character
  - You may notice the same cars on the road when you're 
 or not driving.
  
  
  As you might know, Grand Theft Auto IV was supposed to be released at October 16, 2007 (Hoorah 
 that was my birthday) But I'm talking about that now. Rockstar postponed GTA IV to April 29, 2008 
 which make people wait some more. But they were releasing trailers and screenshots of how GTA IV 
 is gonna be like.
  The story focused on Niko Bellic, an immigrant from Eastern Europe came from an boat to find "The 
 American Dream" and his cousin Roman told that he had cars, money, mansions, girls, all those stuffs 
 until all of those were all lies. Instead he finds trouble with some of Roman's so called "friends" 
 and it becomes the whole point of the story. Not only that, Niko also hope to find the person who 
 betrayed him and his friends for money during the past. But I won't spoiled the rest, you gotta 
 find out by purchasing the game and playing it to the end.
  GTA IV is a great game, and is highly recommended for people who NEVER or played a LITTLE of Grand 
 Theft Auto (III, Vice City, and San Andreas,) meaning you just tried it out. It is a great value 
 with great storyline and incredible multiplayer. There are many things you can do after the story 
 finished. You can try get to 100%, call friends to go drinking and such, or just jack cars and 
 blow the $%^#! out of it. GTA IV have some new features such as an covering system that you can 
 hide behind the walls to avoid getting hit that much, getting drunk, toll booth to make it more 
 realistic, and also the wanted level. It's just like from Scarface: The World is Yours that when 
 you get busted, you gotta get away from an certain range to be cleared but some gamers define it 
 as "too easy to get away." I don't think it is easy, just medium. There are more features but that 
 is all I have to say. 
  So yea.... it is a great game and is highly recommended for the value and well... mostly everything 
 of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guljigit92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Compared to other GTA title this one is skinner having much less to do. For instance not being 
 able to change the body and skills of the character to suit your taste. But it makes up for it 
 by having the best story by far in the series and giving depth to the main characters. For example 
 Niko he is a nice guy that can make friends just by going to so KFC but is a gun for hire. Another 
 nice thing is the online which is quite fun at times. Of course the online has some serious problems 
 such as giving people way to much power over how the game works. The problem being people having 
 control of how much people are in each time. In short you need some good people that know the rules 
 to having a proper death match or even a regular free for all match. In addition the graphics are 
 better than the previous but bad compared to present titles with the fact it has the biggest and 
 most amount of gliches on both 360 and PS3 (but the city is bigger and beggest in sandbox history 
 in my opinion) . Lastly its sound by far its strongest point with it having dozons of radio sations. 
 Lastly lastly is the gameplay which went through a major makeover with a full new cover system 
 and the fact you can shoot freely inside the car. Overall its overated (but still great) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdmatt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  What does the American dream mean today?
  For Niko Bellic fresh off the boat from Europe, it is the hope he can escape from his past. For 
 his cousin, Roman, it is the vision that together they can find fortune in Liberty City, gateway 
 to the land of opportunity. As they slip into debt and get dragged into a criminal underworld by 
 a series of shysters, thieves and sociopaths, they discover that the reality is very different 
 from the dream in a city that money and status, and is heaven for those who have them and a living 
 nightmare for those who don't.
  
  
  You are Niko Bellic, a former Russian military man, who comes to Liberty City for his cousin Roman, 
 and in hope to find the man that betrayed him back in Russia.
  But all isn't as easy as it seems, as you soon find out that your cousin is in serious debt to 
 some very powerful people, which of course Roman forgot to mention.
  Niko and his "slightly" overweight cousin must do all they can to pay off he debts, even if that 
 means getting their hands dirty along the way.
  
  One of the first things you will notice is how huge Liberty City really is, but it isn't just the 
 size and looks of GTA IV that make it a masterful game, it is the incredible amount of detail, 
 and heart-stopping gameplay.
  
  
  The attention to detail that is in GTA IV is phenomenal, and no game has ever had this much detail 
 in it, Liberty City truly feels alive and breathing, and is a sight to behold. Countless times 
 I have noticed small things such as one time I was driving by a police officer who has pulled over 
 a car, the cop opened the bonnet, the slowly walked up to the window with is gun aiming at the 
 driver, only to be run over by another speeding car that was being chased. It is these little things 
 that help make GTA IV such a truly incredible game.
  
  Grand Theft Auto titles in the past have always been average shooters, average racers etc. But 
 all those things put together made a fantastic sandbox game, and all had nice extras. But in GTA 
 IV everything has been improved dramatically. The new cover system helps create epic shootouts 
 be it with Police, gangsters or even some random pedestrians, where as in previous versions you 
 were able to run through each level, picking off enemies as you saw fit. The driving system has 
 also improved, and now it actually requires some skill to be able to drive successfully, or you 
 may find yourself flying out through the windshield. The enemy AI is vastly improved, with enemies 
 taking advantage of the new cover system as well, which again, helps create intense shootouts.
 
  The wanted level system is also improved, with instead of you just having to go to Pay 'n' Spray, 
 you have to get out of a circle on the map without being seen by the cops, the higher wanted level 
 you obtain, the bigger the circle becomes. Pay 'n' Spray still exists, but it only helps you lose 
 your wanted level if there are no cops around your position.
  
  
  GTA IV looks absolutely stunning, especially if you go for a helicopter ride during the night. 
 You may occasionally notice a small frame rate problem, which can occur where there is a lot going 
 on. You may also notice a bit of the blur effect during some cut-scenes, but this is just so the 
 game can run smoothly without anything holding it back. But those things will not decrease the 
 fun on GTA IV in any way. Grand Theft Auto IV also has the best water effects I have ever seen, 
 with rain being heaver in some parts, while lighter in others. One thing that impressed me a lot 
 was that there are next to no load times except when you turn it on each time and a short loading 
 time before each mission. But other than that, you are free to roam the city with absolutely no 
 load times to speak of.
  
  Now time to move onto Multiplayer. You have your classic modes such as Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, 
 but Rockstar have added some interesting and fun new modes for you and your friends to enjoy. 
 
  The different modes go from Cops 'n' Crooks, where there are two teams, the cops and the crooks 
 (hence the title) , and the aim of the game is for the crooks to escape while the cops have to try 
 and catch the crooks at any means necessary, to modes like Free Roam where you ad your friends 
 (assuming you have any) can just cruise the city and do whatever you want to do. But I will try 
 and not reveal too much. Up to 16 players over the whole of Liberty City is a true technical feat, 
 one that no other game has come close to.
  
  
  The songs are meant to be well known in America, but if you are an Aussie, you may have a hard 
 time finding a song that you have actually heard.
  
  Pedestrians no longer have random conversations, they still talk to each other, but now the conversations 
 actually make sense.
  
  The pedestrians are also a lot smarter now; when it rains they pull out their umbrellas, or run 
 for cover if they don't have one. Every pedestrian is doing something, be it reading a newspaper, 
 drinking a coffee, or talking to someone over the mobile, which is very impressive.
  It is like they are all going about their day as usual, and their plans only change if Niko starts 
 shooting or driving recklessly.
  
  
  Never has a game had so much detail, never has a game has so many things to do in it, and never 
 has a game felt so alive as Grand Theft Auto IV does. Grand Theft Auto IV is the game to have in 
 2008, and possibly even this generation. Grand Theft Auto IV is the only true next-gen game, with 
 it pushing all the limits, and breaking new boundaries. Overall Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that 
 everyone should play at least once, it has lived up to expectations and more, which isn't an easy 
 thing to accomplish. And I haven't mentioned everything, like the new in-game Internet, which can 
 keep you entertained for hours on end and much more, but to go into everything would take far too 
 long. Grand Theft Auto IV so far is looking like it will easily be the game of the year in 2008, 
 and I highly recommend you play it.
  
  
  Presentation: 10
  
  Graphics: 9.8
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Gameplay: 9.7
  
  Multiplayer: 9.0
  
  Lasting Appeal: 10
  
  Overall: 
 9.9 [ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Usually when "Grand Theft Auto" comes out, it takes a good week or two for the initial "WOW!" factor 
 to wear off. I purposely put off reviewing this until I had completed the entire game, because 
 by then I knew I'd have some time to take it all in and form a more objective opinion.
  
  First of all, early criticisms included accusations that the game was "too short." Yes, perhaps 
 - if you rush through it over the course of a caffeine-enhanced weekend. For those of us with modest 
 social lives and jobs who can't devote 12 hours a day to a video game, it'll take a while. I played 
 about 35 hours before beating the "basic" single player missions - and I say "basic" because there's 
 a lot more to do in the game once you've completed the main structure. I can still get in a cop 
 car and chase down criminals if I want to, or perform assassinations, or find all the stunt jumps, 
 or street race cars. It's quite limitless.
  
  But anyway, like I said - it took about 35 hours to beat the main structure of gameplay, which 
 translated into a solid two weeks. It may be a tad bit shorter than "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" 
 but I had so much fun I wasn't counting.
  
  The pros of the game are: better graphics, more realistic graphics engine and physics, better on-foot 
 fighting/gunplay controls, more attention paid to the storyline and characters, and an overall 
 more expansive universe.
  
  The downsides are: even though the controls for fighting are better, they still need drastic improvement; 
 the whole "duck/dodge" thing is quite lame and doesn't work half the time. If you lock onto someone 
 and try to lock onto somebody else instead, it doesn't work correctly - or fast enough. Sometimes 
 during missions I'd try to lock onto the villain and end up locking onto a pedestrian further away. 
 The "free aim" pressure sensitivity is also confusing.
  
  I do think there's a bit of contrivance towards the end of the game as well. I won't put any spoilers 
 in, but suffice to say you're playing a fairly ruthless thug who has a heart compared to past GTA 
 characters but nonetheless has no qualms with kidnapping a girl and referring to her in derogatory 
 terms, or killing countless people, but is then expected to show more depth towards the end for 
 a female character that is underdeveloped to begin with. I can understand what they were TRYING 
 to do and I admire that, but they should have expanded the relationship between Nico and Kate before 
 attempting to pull that off. Nico ends up coming across as something of a self-absorbed person 
 at the end, because you have to wonder if the motivation for revenge is really because he cared 
 about this other person or whether it's just because he wants to prove to himself that he has room 
 to care about someone.
  
  Really, though, that's the only fault. The overall mechanics of the plot and the expansiveness 
 of it all is cinematic and deeper than any other GTA game.
  
  The physics are far better than previous games which has caused some people to complain because 
 they can't flip their cars a hundred times and keep driving, but I liked it. Liberty City is totally 
 revamped and looks and feels like a real, living city - it's amazing. The attention to detail is 
 quite impressive - non-characters walking down the street just start smoking cigarettes or drinking 
 coffee. Sometimes as you pass by someone too fast they'll drop their bag of groceries or stumble 
 over. I can't wait to see what a GTA game will look like in ten years' time.
  
  Too much has already been said about this game for me to add anything new or insightful, really, 
 but I will end this by saying I disagree that it's "by far" the best game of the series. I love 
 it about as much as I loved "Vice City," which was probably my favourite. It's hard to compare 
 them because each has their strengths. I didn't like San Andreas quite as much as Vice City but 
 even "San Andreas" had the benefit of planes and skydiving and bicycles which have been removed 
 from GTA IV. But basically I think this fits in well with the others; it has enough advancements 
 to be truly "fresh" while still providing the same dark humour and basic gameplay attributes of 
 previous games. It's a solid addition to an already excellent franchise and just a lot of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start off by saying that I really did enjoy this game, but not as much as grand theft 
 auto san andreas. I seamed like in san andreas there was so much more you could do (ride bikes, work 
 out, eat, fly planes ect.) This is still a very good grand theft auto though. The graphics are very 
 good one of the best on the ps3! BUT graphics don't make a video game. The gameplay was good but 
 not what I expected, I expected to have a game like san andreas with out the planes, but they will 
 put something more cool in then planes but I was disappointed. The sound is like every other grand 
 theft auto the guns sound real and the voice acting is very well done. I didnt really like the 
 radio because It wasn't based in a certin year so there wasnt a lot of songs I could relate to. 
 The fram rate is perfect its not jumpy and building are not just randomly poping up anymore so 
 thats good. The online is very good I really enjoy playing on there 16 player online and the fact 
 that you can go all through liberity city is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuKkU
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the new installment of the great and famous GTA series. The first Next-Gen 
 installment of the series looks simply beautiful and has great multiplayer but not as good as San 
 Andreas because they took out alot of stuff from the last game.
  
  The Story of GTAIV is by far the best in the series. You play as Niko Bellic a immigrant from a 
 unknown European nation. He has been haunted for years by a certain something. When he hears this 
 certain something is in the great American city Liberty City he then calls his cousin Roman who 
 has been dying for Niko to come live with him. Your cousin Roman is in a lot of debt so you must 
 save your cousin from this debt and all the other traitorous people of the mob and find this certain 
 something.
  
  The Characters of GTAIV are also the best in the series. You main character Niko Bellic is the 
 best main character yet. He lives everyday plagued by something that happened in the past but still 
 he lives on to find this certain something. He also has that unique humor that all GTAIV main characters 
 have. Also all the other characters have there own unique personality some are funny some want 
 there life to end and some well lets just say fruity. Overall the Story and Characters are great.
 
  
  Now lets get to the gameplay. The gameplay of GTAIV is still super fun but they took out a lot 
 of things that were great in San Andreas. Ill get to that later but for now lets talk about the 
 good things. Lets first start off with the basic controls. The new aiming mechanics is well welcomed 
 now if you shot the leg you will fall down if you shot the arm you can't use the arm. It is well 
 welcomed and very great. There are also new covering mechanics you can now do gears of wars style 
 covering. You can duck behind anything in the game. A car, a wall, a mail box, even a big pole. 
 This new covering mechanic make gun battles easier. Also the new physics and car physics are great. 
 The car physics make it seem like your driving in a real car almost like a racing game the turns 
 are harder to do and if you hit something going real fast you will go out the windshield. Also 
 the regular physics are really great if you get ran over by a car you will go on the side of the 
 car then flip just like real life. You also can't do unrealistic things like the earlier games. 
 There is also a new cop system. Instead of just getting stars and just getting to a pay n spray 
 to lose the stars there is now a new system. When a star comes a circle on the mini map will appear. 
 You must escape this circle and wait awhile then the cops will forget about you. The more stars 
 you get the more the circle will get bigger and the harder it will to get away. This new cop system 
 is way cooler and better.
  
  Now that were done with the controls lets go onto the main content. There are tons of things you 
 can do in GTAIV. Lets start off with the main story missions. The story missions are all great. 
 Each one brings something new to the board which is what the GTA series always does. Each one is 
 great and different. Some range from robbing a bank then being chased by the cops throughout the 
 city to just driving a dead body to dump it. Each one is very fun. You can also make choices throughout 
 the game that affects how the story will go on later on. Most of the choices revolves around either 
 killing the dude or not killing the dude. Only one choice really affects the way the story will 
 come out in the end so this part is kind of a letdown. Now onto the optional missions. Once again 
 the vigilante missions come back and are better then ever but here comes another flaw. They took 
 out missions that have been in every GTA game the paramedic missions and the fire truck missions 
 and even the taxi missions. This may seem like a small flaw but this is like a kind of thing that 
 has to be in the game. You get a cell phone in the game too. This cell phone is very important 
 in both optional and story missions. In story it advances the story and in the optional missions 
 you can arrange dates with your girlfriend or even call your friend to just hang out. The activities 
 you can do ranges from bowling to shoot some pool to the strip club to the bar. There are also 
 many other activities you can do with your friends. The game isn't too hard not as hard as previous 
 grand theft autos which is a welcomed addition because the game will still give you a challenge 
 but not make it seem impossible.
  
  There are also tiny little things like meeting small characters on the side of the road and help 
 them out or doing little jobs for one of your friends. You can also do races which is great with 
 the new car physics. There is also an internet caf where you can make dates on dating websites 
 or go to the many funny websites. There are also many other small things you can do but if I mention 
 them all this review will never end. The most fun to be had in GTAIV is just causing pointless 
 mayhem. Just killing pedestrians or cops it has always been fun and always will be. Now onto the 
 flaws. The reason why I say that San Andrea was better is because they took out so many things 
 just to put online and beautiful graphics in the game. Some of the great stuff they took out were 
 of course the paramedic, fire truck, and the taxi missions. Also one of my favorite parts of San 
 Andreas the food and muscle system. I loved that in the last game but they had to take it out. 
 I love to make my guy super muscular and quench is hunger in the last game but they took that out. 
 They also took out many of the different attires your guy can wear now they only have a few set 
 of clothes. They also took out many other small things but I won't mention them all or once again 
 this review will never end.
  
  Now onto the part everyone has been waiting for the online. You must be thinking how does online 
 work in a GTA game. Well it works by doing super fun modes. All the modes are well done and they 
 are all fun. You can have up to 16 people in a match. There are a total of 15 multiplayer modes 
 which includes deathmatch and team deathmatch and even races. Also some cool different modes that 
 you have never seen in a multiplayer game before. Cops N' Crooks is where your split into 2 teams 
 one is the cops and the other is the crooks the cops must capture the crooks and the crooks must 
 escape the cops. A very fun mode indeed. There is also a free mode which you just mess around with 
 no score or nothing that alone is fun. Every mode in the GTAIV is great. Now onto the lag. The 
 PS3 version has some connection issues sometimes but now a patch was released a few weeks ago and 
 now that happens only once in a while which is great so you don't have to worry about lag in GTAIV. 
 Overall the gameplay in GTAIV is great.
  
  The graphics in GTAIV are simply breathtaking. The world is huge not as big as San Andreas but 
 still its huge and every single place in Liberty City is filled and doesn't have the dead space 
 that San Andreas had. You know the wasteland and that huge country side. The graphics are truly 
 next-gen and this is why they had to take out a lot of things that were in San Andreas. Overall 
 the graphics in GTAIV is simply beautiful
  
  The sound in GTAIV is okay. All the sound effects are great. Like a gunshot sounds like a real 
 gunshot. The crashes sound like a real crash. Also all the voice acting is well done so don't worry 
 about annoying voices in this game. Now let me bring you to the downside of the sound. The soundtrack 
 is simply horrible. I mean with so many radio stations you think that they would have some good 
 music. There are only about 5 songs in the game I like out of like 30 to 40. They could have done 
 a better job on the soundtrack like the other GTA games but they couldn't bring it together for 
 this game. Overall the sound for GTAIV is okay.
  
  The value is GTAIV is very good which is no surprise. The single player alone will probably never 
 get boring and then with the online it's just so fun that I know for a fact will never get boring. 
 Overall the value of GTAIV is simply amazing
  
  Overall Grand Theft Auto IV is a almost perfect game but taking out many of the feature of San 
 Andreas was a big letdown for me. That doesn't mean don't pick up this game. You should pick up 
 this game right away if you don't already have it. I give Grand Theft Auto IV a 9 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurlyburlycurly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This is a brilliant game. If you don't own it buy it now! It's that good. Everything about it, 
 from the insanely detailed city of New York to the fun missions (that kidnapping! Man just brilliance!) 
 to the updated gun mechanics and driving mechanics make this one of next gen's best games.
  
  The story starts out smple. But- after a slow start of meeting some major characters- becomes 
 the good owl over the top rpics of other gta's. You play Niko Bellick, an Eastern European coming 
 to Liberty city for the better life style promised to him by his couisn. It's a great story. Bringing 
 some of the best characters in the series. From the nigh un-understandable Jacob to Packy the Irish 
 loon all characters are brilliant.
  
  The missions are equally brilliant. But I wont ruin them, they are to be experienced, not spioled, 
 But the developers decision to let you make choices is one of genious. Some of the choices are 
 heart breaking and you'll really feel like a part of the game doing it! 
  
  Online is brilliant and addictive. But i find the games are always very small. Maybe i need some 
 friends to play against!
  
  But, for all this goodness. I feel that San Andreas has more replayability. Don't ask why. It just 
 does. I still feel the ich to return to Fierro than Dukes. And thats my only complaint. Which shows 
 how great this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is in some ways one of the most impressive games ever released. The graphics and scale of 
 the city are astounding. The new gameplay mechanics, such as the entirely new combat system and 
 things like the internet and mobile phones, are all fantastic and welcome additions to the GTA 
 universe. Niko Bellic is also a great lead character, and the new storyline that gives you choices 
 every now and then that decide your outcome are also awesome.
  But this GTA isnt free of flaws. My biggest problem with GTA 4 is the variety in missions. There 
 are a lot of missions to get on with, and these alone will take you around the 10 hour mark to 
 complete at least. This is all fine, but the lack of change in the missions is the issue. Most 
 of the missions in GTA 4 are simple go here, kill bunch of guys, leave in one piece type affairs. 
 I found myself wanting to do something other than shoot up a bunch of guys over and over again. 
 When you look at San Andreas and the variety in missions and gameplay that it has to offer, you 
 wonder why GTA 4 doesnt have the same thing.
  Another issue is that there isnt as much to do in this GTA as previous outings. In fact, at some 
 points it feels like the game has taken a step back wth its lack of content. What im talking about 
 is things to do once youve finished the storyline. There are races, pigeons to kill and... thats 
 about it (if you dont include multiplayer, which isnt that good anyway) . GTA 4 doesnt have that 
 same daunting feeling that San Andreas had where you feel like theres so much to do that you may 
 just explode.
  I also felt that there were a few lost oppurtunities with the city and what it had to offer. There 
 are so many awesome landmarks that could have been used as set pieces for amazing missions. For 
 example, the Statue of Happiness could have been used in a mission where the statue was teeming 
 with snipers and you had to reach the top while sniping bad guys yourself? Or the totally unused 
 theme park (this itself could have had at least a couple minigames) could have had a mission where 
 you had to survive being shot at while riding the rollercoaster or something similar. I just felt 
 like the missions did not have the same amount of creativity and imagination that previous GTA's 
 had, and that the city kind of went to waste.
  Still, this is one of my favourite games for the PS3 as its still awesomely fun to run around the 
 universe that Rockstar has created. Definetely worth a buy, just dont expect it to be the 10/10 
 game that everyone seems to think it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poodle_hat
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : Grand Theft Auto IV for the PS3 is a great looking game. Its really a good feeling shooting 
 someone down or running them over as it looks so real. Rockstar did a great job of making Liberty 
 City look so damn fine.
  
  Story : I dont focus much on the story, but i will say its intriguing.
  
  Gameplay : I don't 
 understand why taking the things that were fun in SA (Parachuting, Hydras, tanks, just to name 
 a few things..) and replace them with .. well.. err.. not so exciting things.. ( bowling, helicopters, 
 darts...)
  While they still can be fun its nothing like getting in a jet, fliying to the highest building 
 in SA, spawning a tank and driving right off the edge. But don't you worry, as there is still heaps 
 of things to keep you occupied whilst staying in Liberty City, like jumping of the empire state 
 building and watching as Niko splats on the ground, going to strip clubs, hookers, rampaging and 
 much more.
  
  Overall : A great game overall, but i feel they could of made it alot better, although it still 
 is a fun, great looking game you should definitely try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillster316
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft Auto 4 is probably the best playstation 3 game that ive played to date. But something 
 about that game just didnt really live up to all the hype it was getting. In my opinion this game 
 for sure did not deserve at 10. It just did not have enough replay value as its predecessors especially 
 San Andreas. 
  
  The game itself is fantastic graphics were amazing, shooting mechanics were also wonderfully done. 
 The police for once weren't as stupid as they were in previous games so it was much harder to get 
 away from the cops. The amount of cars was pretty amazing though you didnt have an option to customize 
 which i was really disappointed in.
  
  The story itself was a good story if you were into the whole revenge story. For me i really didnt 
 like it and i quickly got bored of it half way through the game.
  
  Overall Grand Theft Auto is a must buy if you are a fan of the series just dont over hype it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spamchild1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  GTA...... they've always been fun since the very first game, and since they became more 3-d they've 
 become even more so. This game is no exception, it offers alot to do and a large space to do it 
 in. The visuals and the audio are both fantastic, characters really come alive, however this game 
 is NOT perfect. Let me say that again.... this game..... GTA IV.... is NOT perfect. 
  
  Allow me to explain, the combat system is decent, but thats all it is... decent. The targetting 
 can be kinda glitchy and turning is slow. As far as the vehicles, I was a little dissapointed, 
 not in the variety, (because they did a fantastic job with that) but in the way they handle. Sometimes, 
 even when driving very slowly, it is difficult to take turns on many cars, even motorcycles. This 
 seems kind of awkward and gets kind of annoying. It's not a game buster it just is sort of lame. 
 I'd say the only other thing that is worth complaining about is when you fail a mission, you have 
 to do the ENTIRE mission over again. This can get very taxing as sometimes you need to get in a 
 car, drive to another island, pick up a new car, go to your destination, only to be shot a few 
 times and killed before you can turn around.
  
  Again, I complain here, but the game itself is very fun and there are seemingly infinite things 
 to do. Sometimes when missions and minigames start to get old, just go save the game and start 
 destroying things, the way GTA was meant to be played. This game does not dissapoint on many levels 
 and can be enjoyed by all. One more thing before this review is over. The online play... it's mediocre 
 if you ask me. Nothing really new. I've played a few games on it and I just wasn't impressed, the 
 story mode is more fun for the most part.
  
  Overall this game is great but by no means perfect. I recommend it!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nice_Guy_
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  There are a few spoilers in this review so be warned. This game has great graphics sound effects 
 game play etc. First I will give you the bad things about the game there isn't that much clothing, 
 that many types of transportation, missions, and if you really like playing games until you beat 
 them, I would recommend not playing it like that but I would recommend taking it easy and not only 
 do missions such as that you mess around and stuff. Now the good things about this game are that 
 the graphics, sound effects, game play, etc.
  Now the story line is short but you are most likely to enjoy it very much. Not only that this game 
 is really fun although you may have a hard time doing things such as missions that you may need 
 to use cheats to pass them I myself have had to use cheats in some missions. Another problem is 
 that you may have a hard time finding places such as places that you can go into cars, strip clubs 
 and finding prostitutes if there are any because I have not found any. I would recommend this game 
 to any one who wants to play a fun game. This game also has a multi-player feature which is also 
 very fun to play. Now other than some minimum to minor flaws this game is very good, fun and addictive. 
 I hope you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Yep i went out to launch and picked this game up it was so exciting after all the wait and hype 
 and look at what i got this is a waste. Your probaly wondering why i hate this game besides everyone 
 else this is not a perfect game oor even close why, well to start off the gameplay does not feel 
 right or sinked to controller and there are lots of glitches in the gameplay as well, and people 
 are probaly thininking well your playing on the ps3 version but guess what i played the other vesion 
 to and same thing happend. 
  
  I really dont have much to say except i dont like it i mean the plot does not make sence at all 
 and the aiming is basicly clunky and out of sink. The game has u do the gta staples of completing 
 missions and it is just as boring as the last 2 if not more. Im also gonna state this game has 
 tons of problems and glitches when driving so it iss very annoying. 
  
  Ok maybe im being to hard on it its multiplayer was pretty good and kept me playing for a little 
 wile but still dont buy into the hype and dont buy this game. So yeah i hate this game dont take 
 it personal or anything gta fanboys so yeah most disapointment of hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  although i am a big fan of gta seris and have played every game (including the 2 D versions also) , 
 i will not blindly give this game 10/10 rating. after playing the game game for so long time i 
 have found out that although the game has superb graphics and good game play, cool cars etc etc, 
 the game lacks in interesting story.
  the missions are not as challenging as gta-sa. also i somehow liked the big and huge area of gta-sa.
 
  u will not find and draw backs in the game as in sounds, or graphics, gameplay or any other thing, 
 and on the first look u will really be impressed by the game. there is no harm in playing the game 
 too as this is not bad at all. but oif u compare it with gta-sa and it loses its charm. theer was 
 a lot to do in that game which this game lacks. 
  in this game they have mainly focussed on killing people. niko works as a hired through out the 
 game which makes the game little boring after sometime as we dont have anything new to do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game1Master
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Eight hours into "Grand Theft Auto IV" , I've stolen 17 cars, run over 20 people and killed another 
 15 (some of whom had it coming) . I've shaken down a couple of store owners and beaten up an old 
 lady. I've driven while drunk and, perhaps worse, while talking on a cell phone.
  
  I've also bowled and played pool. I've listened to some really cool tunes and watched a surprisingly 
 lame standup routine by Ricky Gervais. I met a nice young lady and took her out to dinner. I bought 
 some new clothes and got my car washed.
  
  I haven't murdered any prostitutes or engaged in any graphic sex acts. (Although, for the record, 
 there's a very brief, non-interactive S&M scene right at the beginning of the game - which almost 
 serves as a warning that this isn't "Pokemon.")
  
  And the violence has been relatively tame: Certainly, the number of bodies dropped per hour is 
 less than in the last two Oscar-winning best pictures, "No Country for Old Men" and "The Departed."
 
  
  Still, protests are inevitable, because any game that puts the player in the shoes of a criminal 
 is bound to be seen as perverse. It's hard to argue with critics who find the "Grand Theft Auto" 
 games immoral, because the developers at Rockstar Games seem to revel in their nihilism.
  
  I've attacked Rockstar in the past for such cynical, ultraviolent games as "Manhunt 2," but I'd 
 never argue that they don't have the right to publish them.
  
  Just so we're clear, "Grand Theft Auto IV" is not for the kids. It's rated "M" for mature, so people 
 under 17 shouldn't be able to buy it. It has lots of blood, some nudity and a nearly constant stream 
 of filthy language. And it's very entertaining.
  
  It's the story of Niko Bellic, an Eastern European who's just arrived in America. As soon as he 
 lands in Liberty City (which looks an awful lot like New York) , he's greeted by his cousin Roman, 
 who's been in America for 10 years.
  
  Roman has lured Niko with promises of glamour and riches, but all he really has to offer is a dilapidated 
 apartment and a crummy job at a car service.
  
  Niko and Roman's relationship is initially played for laughs; they reminded me of the Festrunk 
 brothers, the "wild and crazy guys" from the early days of NBC's "Saturday Night Live." But things 
 quickly take a darker turn when Nico shows up for work, only to end up running errands for a low-level 
 crime boss.
  
  Niko also has another motive for coming to America besides trying to strike it rich, and I don't 
 think it's giving away too much to say the plot escalates into a revenge drama.
  
  So far, I've found the plot to be the most compelling element of "GTA IV," which I couldn't have 
 said about previous games in the series. I really care about what happens to Niko, so much that 
 I wish Rockstar had sent me a cheat sheet so I could get to the plot points a little more quickly.
 
  
  Meanwhile, I'm enjoying the scenery. Not surprisingly, given the souped-up graphics of the Xbox 
 360 and the PlayStation 3, this is by far the best-looking of the "GTA" games. What took me aback 
 was just how well it evokes New York City, from the glittering skyline of Manhattan (here called 
 "Algonquin") to the trash-strewn elevated-train platforms of the outer boroughs.
  
  The sidewalks are filled with hustlers, hookers, dealers, junkies, wiseguys, mooks and even some 
 law-abiding citizens, and none of them are shy about letting their opinions be heard.
  
  It may be a little exaggerated - I've never had a burger joint cashier tell me, "Enjoy your meal, 
 fatso" - but just a little.
  
  The overwhelming sprawl of Liberty City does have one big drawback: It can take a long time to 
 drive from one job to the next. Fortunately, you do have a diverse menu of radio stations to listen 
 to, whether you like talk, rock, jazz or funk.
  
  The soundtrack has about 200 well-chosen songs, with talent ranging from David Bowie and The Who 
 to the Russian punk band Leningrad.
  
  The other drawback to Rockstar's otherwise laudable ambition is that none of the many individual 
 gameplay elements are particularly distinguished. Hand-to-hand fighting is awkward, while gunfights 
 are just a little better. (Rockstar has made aiming and shooting quite a bit easier this time around.)
 
  
  Among the variety of bonus games, I kind of enjoyed shooting pool but found the bowling lackluster.
 
  
  Of course, "GTA" is mostly about driving, and Rockstar has made some big improvements. You always 
 have access to a GPS-like device that shows you the best route to your target. You can choose between 
 several different camera angles, although I pretty much stuck with viewing the road from Nico's 
 point of view. And the car damage feels more realistic; you can only plow into so many Jersey walls 
 before your performance starts to suffer.
  
  Rockstar doesn't pull off everything it tries to do. There are certainly better fighting, shooting 
 and yes, bowling games out there. If all you care about is high-speed urban driving, there's always 
 "Burnout Paradise."
  
  But if you want all of that, along with a dose of satire and a fascinating story (at least for 
 the eight hours I've seen so far) , you won't want to miss "GTA IV." You're unlikely to find a more 
 ambitious game this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmedo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  As a massive fan of the GTA series, i bought and played this game with sky high expectations, and 
 99% of them were satisfied. The graphics, the gunplay, the driving, the physics, the everything 
 in this game is just utterly brilliant, especially the story. If anyone is a bit 'iffy' with GTA 
 IV, but love the rest of the series do yourself a favour and buy it, i can guarantee you will not 
 regret it. Instead of going into an indepth review of the game, ill just break it down into what 
 i do and dont like, and hopefully you can use it as a guide to help make your purchasing decision 
 - 
  
  THE GOOD
  -The Graphics:
  The graphics in GTA IV, are utterly brilliant (despite a few texture quirks) . The shading, textures, 
 lighting, just everything looks really nice and detailed.
  
  -The Music:
  The soundtrack is really good, definately has something for everybody.
  Although custom soundtracks 
 would be nice...
  
  -The Story:
  The storyline is nice and tight and really well told. Almost like watching a movie
  
  
  THE 
 BAD
  Ok instead of bullet points for this, ill do it in a sentence. The one and ONLY thing i dont like 
 most about GTA IV, is having to hang out with people. Like COME ON, its sooo annoying (i KNOW you 
 can turn the phone off its not the point) and it restricts exploring freedom and such, creates 
 such a dissapointment.
  
  
  In summary, GTA IV definately IS the best in the series. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametoy3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I think that on a whole its a great game on graphics alone. But after 2 - 6 hours you begin to 
 imagine it could be better. The core game play is boring and enhanced by visual effects to balance 
 it out. The things taken out from San Andreas have limited its ability to be played again and who 
 would want to with a character like Niko. He is boring. Has no friends and lacks the personality 
 that passed characters had. I enjoyed wearing an afro having tattoos and even the often grainy 
 graphics. To say a game is perfect is way over the top and in all i regret forking out the cash 
 for a game that was not worth buying. Perfect graphics but hollow and bad character personalities 
 mean you never truelly generate a relationship with the characters which means long term playing. 
 Rent it first because in a week you will be bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Well, my first GTA game was the one for the PSX and it was hard and not as fun because you had 
 that stupid birds view, but when the 3d games came out this franchise became the best of open world 
 games.
  
  GTA4, makes a really good introduction on the criminal business and it also delivers some realistic 
 and fun environments as well as some deep and sad monets in the story mode. The graphics are top, 
 but they dont quite look like some of the games we have seen, i understand that its a big game 
 and they cant make everything super polished because of space, but PS3 has enough space to make 
 the graphics better, the xbox not so much. 
  
  I dont really like the online part of this game, its too wild and theres really no point unless 
 you complete the game 100%, and it takes a while.
  
  I wish they had more stunts and more collectible things around the city, it also is too big, i 
 spent most of the time getting from point A to point B and less time in the shooting, it takes 
 more time to get to places than to do the mission, basically all you do is drive, run and do what 
 ever to get across the city, im not saying is bad its just repetitive and takes a while.
  
  Other than that this game is great, rock star games did a great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil_2468
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Wow, GTA has changed A LOT! I never expected GTA 4 to be SO different. It's SO much better than 
 GTA San Andreas.
  
  It has spectacular graphics and an awesome and VERY realistic gameplay you CANNOT compare with 
 its predecessors. The sound effects are awesome as well.
  
  The controls aren't so similar and they require getting a little used to, plus driving cars aren't 
 very easy, even for those other video game wheelmen out there. You're gonna have to put your driving 
 skills at 110% to master all the vehicles' handling.
  
  I haven't played GTA 4 a lot, I only tried it out at a friend's house, so I don't know everything 
 about this game, but I'm sure you still steal boats and probably airplanes too, but THOSE AIRPLANES 
 ARE SO EFFING BIG!!! I haven't tried stealing any of them... yet! And watch out, when you enter 
 the airport, the police go crazy!
  
  Otherwise, this is by far THE BEST GTA game made since GTA San Andreas, no questions asked! GTA 
 has NEVER looked so good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Dont really know why it didint hit me at all..
  Im at last mission, and i just dont want to play it right now..
  I have played all other Gta: s 
 trough (not first) and they have always hit me like hammer or Metal gear solid. Just loved them 
 all..
  There is pretty much story in this game, which is pretty good. But i liked San Andreas story more. 
 Shooting is much better than before.
  Most important: Driving..... That i did enjoy but still missed something. All radiostations stinks 
 big time! Just full of shi...
  And what the hell happend?
  At San Andreas you can full customize your charachter, but now you can get some loser clothes and 
 no hairstyle at all!
  At San Andreas you can fly with Jet Pack and with Jet Plane, now you can fly at chopper (OMG) .
 
  I didint really care about other people who walked on streets...
  THIS WAS NOT WHAT I WAITED SO LONG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maverin1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV re visits Liberty City, the same corrupt city that you roam around in Grand 
 Theft Auto III. You play as Niko Bellic, an immigrant hoping for a new life in America with his 
 rich cousin Roman. After arriving in America Niko soon finds out that his cousin is really a poor 
 man living in a dump apartment with his own share of big problems.
  Aside from finding out that Roman's promises are all lies it goes pretty good at first. That is 
 until you find out that Roman owes a lot of money to a lot of bad men, and of course running your 
 cousin around the city turns into taking care of his problems. Your first problem in the land of 
 opportunity is paying of your cousin's debts, requiring you to do another man's dirty work. This 
 eventually involves you killing a man, something Niko vowed never to do in America. One thing leads 
 to another and you find yourself killing Roman's problem and landing yourself into a world of crime.
 
  Liberty city is possibly the largest city of all the games. It also throws a lot at you allowing 
 you to experience more than just the story line. If you find your self tired of working then why 
 not take a helicopter tour around the city or go on a mindless killing spree? Or you can just drive 
 around the city in a shiny sports car.
  Speaking of cars the game's realism has been greatly improved. For example there is no more zipping 
 around corners, if you don't break you'll find out soon enough what hitting a brick wall is like. 
 To add to the fun you'll find a lot more cars this time around including a brand new Corvette, 
 I mean Coquette. But along with adding vehicles they have also taken them.
  Hopefully you haven't gotten too used to taking to the skies in a jumbo jet or flying around in 
 your very own jet pack because you won't find them anymore. Although helicopters do make an appearance 
 even though there aren't many. You will still find a selection of boats to zoom around in.
  Among some of the city's pastimes you'll find bowling, darts, racing, dating, and other things 
 to keep you busy between the missions. The game also takes away a lot of what was loved in San 
 Andreas. Don't expect to be sky diving or pimping your cars, or going to car shows. You can still 
 store your cars in front of your numerous apartments but it really serves no purpose seeing as 
 you can easily find the cars on the streets and there is no reason to keep a car since you can't 
 so anything to it.
  You have a wide selection of cars to choose from and you can take anything you see. Locked cars 
 no longer limit you from taking them for a joy ride. You can simply break the window, hot wire 
 it and it's yours. And if you don't like broken windows it's something you'll have to get used 
 to because people in Liberty City don't believe in opening and closing them.
  Now of course we can't forget about weapons. You only get basic weapons so no flame-throwers or 
 chain guns. To be specific you have your choice of a knife, baseball bat, two pistols, two SMGs, 
 two assault rifles, two sniper rifles, and molotovs or grenades. Shooting from cars has also been 
 re done. 
  Since the camera doesn't work like it did in previous titles neither does shooting. The in-vehicle 
 camera works by moving the right analog stick just like on foot. Allowing you to shoot anywhere 
 you want while in a car, in front, beside, behind, anywhere. And you're not limited to a SMG, for 
 the first time you can actually throw grenade out your window and blow up other drivers.
  Of course I can't skip the multiplayer. When I first heard of it I couldn't stop thinking of how 
 dumb it had to be, but I was wrong. Just like how you can do anything in single player you can 
 do anything in multiplayer including racing, death match, co-op missions, organized crimes, or 
 just running around the city with a friend and blowing people up.
  The game is huge and if you get it you ill have hours and hours of fun. It's definitely a buy. 
 Don't let your self miss out on a great game. Sadly that's it, time for the final verdict.
  
  Goods- Huge city to enjoy, tons of missions, tons of pastimes, great cast, and the best story 
 line yet.
  
  Bads- Some minor glitches, sometimes gun fights can be tricky with the cover system, and lastly, 
 though it's a great game it's really just a watered down version of San Andreas
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon376
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is hands down one of the best gaming experiences I ever had. I have been a gamer for a long 
 time and this will stand out as a classic in my book. This game reminds me of watching my favorite 
 mob movie only I get to make the choices that change the plot! I just recently completed the story 
 part of the game and I have a total of 45 hrs invested. I was more entertained in those 45 hrs 
 than any movie i have watched. 
  The graphics also really impressed me considering how big the city was. I liked how the cars all 
 handled and accelerated differently. I also think the crash physics and damage inflicted on the 
 cars was more realistic than i have ever seen in a video game. The music and voice acting also 
 blew me away and I really felt that I was part of the game. 
  In closing I would like to say that this game was definitely worth the wait because it is almost 
 perfect. The bar has been raised very high for future video games. This is by far the most addictive 
 game I have ever played Great job rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mic_Raki
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The storyline really pulls you in and it is very enjoyable to play the single player. Graphics 
 are pretty good and have come a long way since GTA 3. Hand to hand combat is alot better now aswell 
 with the ability to counter but the enemy also fights hard making it abit more challanging. A very 
 good new point in GTA 4 is the ability to hide behind objects and fire over the top but the enemy 
 will also do the same making shootouts more interesting. The relationships in the game get abit 
 anoying when everyone is asking you to go eat or watever when you want to do missions, this then 
 gives you negitive relationship points with that person if you decline their invitation. People 
 have been saying that vechiles are hard to drive but personally i found them fine after about an 
 hour of gaming. The cell phone is a great adition to the game so you can take pictures and call 
 people to go out or prank call the cops or watever you wanna do. The multiplayer is definetly a 
 highlight, there are so many different multiplayer options and modes. I would definetly recomend 
 getting this game as it is the best i have played since COD4. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Are you serious? Everyone saying "oh it's stupid bla bla" you've obviously never seen a good game 
 if it slapped you in the face and punched you in the nuts. Come on, whats better than driving a 
 car and flying out ofter smashing into a building, or getting a rocket launcher and blowing people 
 up like rag-dolls? I think this game is under rated because gees, play the game. You guys probably... haha... pro 
 ba bly.... anyway don't like this game because you've never played it or you're parents won't l3t 
 y0u buy 1t. I have nothing else to say so I'll say this, drugs are bad, mkay. Don't do drugs.... 
 and if you drink don't drive kids, especially you Hulio. Always "go safe when you have buiseness"
 
  
  I mean I don't have much of a brain, but whatevers working knows that this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovedbzgames
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  having played all the grand theft auto's to date, Grand theft Auto IV was an exciting prospect, 
 full to fulfill gaming dreams, or so i thought. The talk of the town is how fantastic the new gta 
 is when its not better than there previous games.
  
  there is afew new elements of game play such as the ability to get drunk, and different style for 
 entering cars, yet this gets boring and repetitive quickly, also the main character Niko carries 
 a mobile phone, this is exciting at first then gets extremely boring.
  
  if you've played the other grand theft auto's don't even bother about getting this, apart from 
 a different storyline the game is the same, theres nothing fantastic about it, the songs on the 
 radio in the other games have been fantastic with some classic songs, yet the new grand theft auto 
 every radio station is frustrating, if you are expecting to hear some great songs to download you 
 are sadly mistaken. the handling of the cars is also frustrating, grand theft auto is possibly 
 the most overated game of all time, everyone only gives it good reviews because of the name and 
 success of the series.
  
  Gta IV is a terrible letdown to a fantastic series, after the good establishment of grand theft 
 auto san andreas, Gta iv is a waste of time and money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PStringa
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  We all know the GTA series and what they are known for. If for some reason you don't and I'm wrong 
 them basically their famous simply for breaking the rules of what games should consist of. GTA 
 was one of the the first open-world game's which allowed the player to do what they want when they 
 want - or not as the case may be. 
  
  GTAIV has got all that plus at certain points in the game the players has to choose the fate of 
 a target, determining future missions. This, although it doesn't add a spectacular impact on the 
 game, does give it you a small feeling of controlling the course of the game and writing a different 
 story to everyone else's. 
  
  The story is very good in my eyes because it differs from the previous few. Basically Nikko (you) 
 has come to America (the land of the free) to start a better life, nice aye...? Well no not exactly 
 because he has also come to seek revenge on a certain somebody! I'm not going to go through the 
 story because I don't like spoilers myself and also because I don't want to type it all out, so 
 finish the game to experience the story yourself.
  
  The graphics are great, especially when compared to previous versions and the fact that Manhattan 
 is completely re-made adds a very realistic feel to the game. Details not only with the textures 
 but small things such as people getting things out of their car and workmen digging etc. all give 
 the feeling that your in a real living, breathing city. Only a few minor glitches but nothing to 
 really worry about. 
  
  The sound in the game is fantastic as well, along side the visuals again adds depth to your surroundings. 
 The radio stations are excellent, like in all GTA's too.
  
  Gameplay is much improved with the new lock-on system and being able to duck-n-hide, using cars 
 and walls to hide behind. Fighting also feels much more robust and less dopey like the other games. 
 
  
  Finally criticisms! My first major criticism is the multiplayer modes, the lobbies feels deserted 
 and the match making problems as well as the host migration system make it near impossible to play. 
 Once you are in a game however, there is much fun to be had. I am aware though that a new patch 
 has recently been released to fix these issues but I haven't played it since then and so can't 
 comment on that. Another criticism is of the extras in the game. In San Andreas, if you ever felt 
 like taking a moment to just chill and play around in the city, you could go play pool, work-out 
 in the gym, eat and watch your player get fat - or thin, build attributes, buy clothes and jewellery 
 etc. Most of this is gone in GTAIV and apart from maybe going to a strip club, getting a prostitute 
 or getting drunk - there isn't much to do. Basically I enjoyed the RPG-element San Andreas had 
 and miss it in this game.
  
  Overall a great game and a must buy.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is another installment in everyone's bloody, sex-filled and drugged up game 
 series. Grand Theft Auto IV is an upgrade in graphics, gameplay, and practically every other area 
 where previous GTAs lacked.
  
  Story
  -------
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, an immigrant coming to America to meet his cousin who tells Niko he is 
 rich. Niko learns that Roman, his cousin, is in fact quite poor. Niko then starts to work for his 
 cousin to help himself get money, and in time, meets new people who he will do dangerous missions 
 for. Mr. Bellic isn't afriad to die, as he says, he "has nothing to lose". The story is told in 
 amazing cutscenes that include superb voice acting, and many funny moments. Niko is the most lovable 
 character in the GTA series, as he is just a bad ass.
  
  The Story receives a 10/10.
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  
  The Graphics are simply stunning. You will be blown away at how 
 solid the framerate is despite all the crap going on around you. The animations are outstanding, 
 and every single thing is incredibly detailed, from garbage cans to water.
  
  10 out of freaking 10.
  
  Gameplay
  --------------
  
  The game will have you do missions, 
 like in previous GTA games. These missions are usally killing people, raiding places, escorting 
 people, or delivering something. The AI (Artificial Intelligence) is not stupid either, so don't 
 expect to run and gun your way through missions. You'll need to use the new Cover system. Niko 
 can take cover behind almost any object or against walls with the R1 button. From there, he can 
 peek out to lock on and fire, or blind fire, where he will only stick his arm out but not be able 
 to lock on. Unlike previous games in the series, you'll use an over the shoulder view when aiming, 
 similar to Gears of War or Resident Evil 4. You'll be able to lock on to foes and see their health. 
 The new system works great, and should make combat much easier. Niko is able to reload his guns 
 with the press of the O button, even in the midst of a gunfight. You can switch weapons at any 
 time with the D-Pad. You'll also have a minimap to indicate where the enemies are, and where Niko 
 is. This minimap will also work as a GPS system when you're driving. It will give you a path to 
 follow to reach your destination. This helps a lot, and will make sure you don't get lost. You 
 have a cellphone too, and can use it to call friends to go out bowling, eating, drinking, or seeing 
 a show. You can also go on dates. If you're good friends with certain people, they will help you 
 out in their own unique way. When Niko is low on health, he can find a hotdog / burger stand or 
 go to any fast food place to get some food which heals him back to full. Niko can jack moving cars, 
 take a taxi to any destination, drive boats, helicopters, and bikes. You're also allowed to run 
 around and do what you want... You're free to run around with an AK-47 and shoot up everyone you 
 see. However, the police will be after you fast. The more crimes you commit, the higher your wanted 
 level is. One star means only a few police will be after you, two stars means more will be after 
 you and they begin to shoot, 3 stars means even more police and they start sending choppers out, 
 and so on. When you have a wanted level, your minimap will have a large flashing blue and red circle 
 that increases in size the higher your wanted level is. You need to drive out of that circle and 
 keep out of the police's sight for a few seconds until they leave you alone and drive off, changing 
 your wanted level back to 0. You can also drive into a Pay n spray, which will completely repaint 
 your car and add a new engine, making sure the police don't look for you. The only problem is it 
 costs money, and you can't be seen by the police while driving into it.
  
  The gameplay earns another solid 10.
  
  Music
  --------
  
  GTA4 has a rather interesting 
 soundtrack... Some of the songs are quite crap, while others are lovable and will have you rushing 
 to iTunes to purchase them. Thanks to GTA4, I found an amazing song that I listen to once a day 
 now. But many of the radio stations have a lot of mediocre songs, whereas the previous GTAs (Except 
 for GTA3) had much better.
  
  9.8 / 10
  
  Multiplayer
  -------------
  
  The multiplayer is online only. There are different game modes for multiplayer, such as street 
 racing, free roam, or team deathmatch. While it's fun with strangers, you'll most likely wish you 
 had friends to play with if you don't. Also, the PS3 version of GTA4 has strange problems with 
 Online multiplayer... Sometimes it doesn't work, sometimes it's laggy, and other times you just 
 keep disconnecting. But it's still a very fun experience to screw around online.
  
  9.7 / 10
  
  Summary
  ------------
  
  In the end, GTA4 is an amazing game that anybody, 
 and I mean anybody, who has a 360 or PS3 should own. If you don't have this wonder, you must go 
 out right now and pay for it. It'll be worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  In this game, as you may know, you play as Niko Bellic an immigrant, trying to make to the top. 
 You start with nothing, and do little jobs for people, 'til you get higher in the food chain, such 
 as doing jobs for the mafia. Along the way, people close to you die, betray you, and much more. 
 The gameplay itself is awesome. You can do the fun missions and engage in some siick fire fights, 
 start a genocide, and/or steal cars, boats, and helicopters. I personally found the missions most 
 fun. Atop the stellar game-play, the game has an awesome sound track and some excellent voice acting. 
 The graphics are also very good considering they are all rendered in a HUGE city-universe. The 
 online is swell as well. You and a friend and/or a stranger have the whole map to kill each other. 
 So.. I'm not usually into this kind of game. but i think no matter who you are this game's compelling 
 story line, great game-play, and beautifully rendered city can keep you hooked from start to end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablich
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Ok I'll start my review by saying that I'm really disappointed with this GTA game. Why, you ask? 
 then let me tell you.
  
  First of all the gameplay isn't that bad the first few hours but after you've played it for 2 hours 
 or more it starts to get boring as hell!.
  
  This game is missing a lot of things that made other GTA's awesome. For starters forget about using 
 airplanes, tuning your cars, riding a bike, grafitti, robbing houses, eating because you need it, 
 getting fat, getting strong, getting skinny, changing your hair-do, learning new moves, going to 
 the gym, etc.
  
  The only new thing you'll find in this gta is a cell phone in which you'll store the numbers of 
 your friends and enemies and that doesn't make up for anything, everytime you call somebody to 
 go do something like playing darts or go bowling you ALWAYS, AAALWAYS have a 1 hour time limit 
 to get to them and if you don't get there in time they always complain, this goes for the girls 
 you date also.
  
  To make it worse the game is terribly easy, you'll only find that only like 5 missions are hard, 
 and the stupid thing about killing the pigeons is horribly boring.
  
  To make it quick this GTA is missing a lot of the things that made other gta games awesome, I really 
 suggest you rent it first to check it out, because I can't stop feeling like somebody stole 64 
 dollars from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Not much new things in GTA 4 and you do not get a "wow!" feeling when you first enter the game. 
 The graphics are great, but can be much better.. tho PS3 is not that old so I do not Blame R* for 
 it.
  
  The city life in GTA 4 is much better, but again it can be better. For example how people look 
 and so on. Still more alive and thats a great thing.
  
  Vehicles in this game are looking great and work just fine. Tho I miss some more nice looking cars 
 and why so many HD Bikes and not Sport? But thats me, I like Sport Bikes more then HD. I also miss 
 the option to change your cars like you had in GTA SA. In GTA 4 you must search for special cars 
 and most of them are very rare and thats just pi$$ me off.
  
  How are the Police in this game then? Well they are very stupid in this one and a little too easy 
 to handle. And thats makes it less fun. Why they made them like this I don't know.
  
  You can also use the internet in this game... it's great with new stuff but it feels a little pointless 
 in this game right now. Maybe if they add more options for it, then it might be better and more 
 fun.
  
  In GTA 4 you can date girls. It's fun the first time, but later it just feels pointless. Sure from 
 some you get Bonus...
  
  Action in this game is fun and looking great. Still I miss some weapons and sometimes it's way 
 too easy.
  
  The story is great, but I hate the character... so damn ugly. 
  
  I also don't like that I can't control him when he talks to people. For example when on dates or 
 when you run into people on the street that needs help. Here I like to have control to say Yes 
 or No and so on.
  
  GTA 4 is not the best in the serie, it feels like it miss a lot of things. But again it's not a 
 bad game. Still fun and lot's of jokes and freedom. The radio is not that good like in the rest 
 by the way.
  
  And I must say, the game is from 18 years old but it's too easy and I wounder if they made it for 
 12 years old players...
  
  I give GTA 4 8 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 is a free world game from rockstar. 
  
  Short story: Worth a buy becuase of all the stuff you can do, alot of time can be wasted playing 
 it. Its worth a buy but i don't suggest you do. Rent or somthing
  
  In GTA4 you play as Niko a unique and complex character. He has come to America to see his cousin 
 and escape his past. going to visit people on the map advances the brilant story, which is sadly 
 accompany by poor game play. Where you drive over some where kill some people and repeat.
  
  GAMEPLAY: the gamplay feels cheap. It seems like a giant minigame. The shooting couldn't not 
 stand on its own, compared to uncharted, gears or somthing like that it falls short, by hundreds 
 of miles. The driving is also poor. It balances between being too realistic and not being realistic 
 enough, compared to something like motorstorm or GTP its worthless. And the driving just isn't 
 fun. The open world doesn't make up for the short comings in gamplay besides compared to Elder 
 scrolls it sucks. The variety is really irelivant because none work. The basic idea of this game 
 is killing inocent people which is stupid murder is not fun.
  
  Graphics: Okay not bad not great
  
  Story: The story is brillant, its the is easily comparable 
 to Oscar quality movies. i won't go into detail but believe me its truly deep and... well awesom. 
 
  
  Pros: Oscar quality story, Oscar quality voice acting, Driving drunk is fun very fun, some what 
 fun game play, its long, cool online
  Cons: Mini game quality gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_giac
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright let me first tell you guys that this is easily the best GTA game released to date.
  
  1. Story: One of the best stories in a game... ever. if you think GTA games lack story, think 
 again this games story is equal if not more entertaining than scarface and the like. Just try it.
 
  
  2. Gameplay: Holy Shat, i have over 100 hours logged on the single player alone, believe me when 
 i say that its almost impossible to run out of things to do in liberty city. even when you've 100% 
 the game like yours truly.
  
  3. Multiplayer: Just when u think you think it cant possibly get any better the multiplayer shows 
 up and let me tell you it shows up strong, this is almost as addicting as stuff like cod4, GT5, 
 its just good fun. especially with friends.
  
  4. Graphics/Sountrack/: Top notch my friends.
  
  5. My Final Verdict Much like most owners 
 of this game is Run to the nearest gamestop and buy this.
  
  Hope I helped
  
  PSN: chadt33 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jyallahhh
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  "Ah, GTA4. Why did you have to end? You were so much fun. I'll miss you Niko Bellic."
  
  These were my first thoughts when I closed the book on the final mission of Grand Theft Auto IV. 
 I felt lost. Like a friend was going away. All those hours I put into finishing this game. How 
 I wanted to see the end of the road, to see what it would be like. Then, it was there, and I felt 
 lost. Not that the ending did not quench my thirst. It was perfect. Yet, I wanted more. And that's 
 what I love about this game. But let me move on, I'm sure all of you are tired of my babbling......
 
  
  The gameplay. First off, Niko moves brilliantly. He is quick, smooth, and athletic. You never feel 
 like you are driving a big rig like in similar games. And he moves quickly into and between cover, 
 so you want take any unnecessary fire. Secondly, the gunplay was brilliant. I never felt restricted. 
 Just softly push L2 down, scan for your choice target, mash the button down, and pepper the enemy. 
 Simple, but brilliant. And, finally, the driving. Though I would sometimes find myself running 
 into everything in sight, that was more the fault of my horrible driving skills then anything wrong 
 with the controls. Cars felt a little too loose, but that's a minor complaint. Helicopters are 
 just as they should be- it's nearly impossible to get them to do what you want. 
  
  The story. While the story is simply centered around Niko doing jobs for his "friends", you will 
 occasionally get something special. There is a good balance of assassinations, outright firefights, 
 and driving sequences. You never feel like any of the missions are impossible. If you fail the 
 first time, try another path. Go stealthy. Go all out. It's your choice. All in all, the story 
 is great, and uses it's great characters perfectly.
  
  And speaking of the characters.... All of the characters in GTA4 are absolutely brilliant. There's 
 Roman, always looking on the bright side of things and making things sound better than they really 
 are. There's Little Jacob, your Jamaican buddy who is constantly smoking something and tends to 
 love the word "I". And Packie, another favorite, who you will meet later on in the game and will 
 have an impact on several missions. All in all, the dialogue is typically nasty, with a good bit 
 of humor in it. Right now, I have an urge to spoil your game by giving you some of these guys' 
 best lines, but I'll let you hear them from the characters themselves.
  
  I can honestly say that GTA4 is the best game I have ever played. Niko is an incredibly likeable 
 guy, and gets along with everyone. I'm sure you'll grow to like him too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  i don't know the hell anybody would rate this game perfect. this game had so many flaws. the cars 
 didn't control very good. the missions get boring too quick. the city isnt very bright. the colors 
 are dull. i mean you couldnt even ride a bicycle on this one. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is 
 much better then the newer one. i didnt believe all this hype about gta4. and now that i played 
 this game. lol, i don't see anything at all. i'm not saying this game is horrible. i mean it's 
 okay. i mean it's grand theft auto. im just saying this game was far from perfect. the grahpics 
 were pretty good. the story was okay. Niko Bellic pretty much kicks ass. and is the best grand 
 theft auto character in all the series. you better give the man his money or else. either way this 
 was a pretty good game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsof2808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  In comparison to San Andreas, which is the closest we can compare, It doesn't take 7 months to 
 get 100%, There aren't a billion things to do. The Storyline people of today can relate to, rather 
 than playing the past, as Tony Montana or Snoop Dogg . . . I just finished this morning. And the 
 addition of the cell phones and the cabs were genius, it must have saved med me 100 hours of getting 
 around. And it was a bit too easy. 
  
  I just don't understand why I earned so much money when there was nothing to buy!! PLEASE FIX THAT. 
 I did 100 missions to earn money and ended up with $750,000 but couldn't spend it on anything. 
 At least in San And. you could buy mad property and collect rent, you remember. That is the only 
 way GTA went backwards or just made money a non-factor. Still they created a beast of a game. Now 
 I would really appreciate it if Rock Star could create another Bully game or pull another rabbit 
 out of the hat as you seem to usually do. . . I'll be watching and waiting, and I'm sure you all 
 will too . . . Boston Reppin, Go Celtics . . .Thank you RockStar, Again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csqwared
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is possibly the most anticipated game to come out for several years. Whether 
 your a fan of the series or not this game probably has you looking at it, and for good reason to. 
 
  
  In terms of graphics it is not exactly the best game out there, people say that it isn't fair to 
 compare it to other games like Uncharted: Drake's Fortune because of the huge city the game must 
 maintain while still holding graphics. I however disagree with this, graphics are graphics any 
 way you put it. They are better then last-gen graphics by a fair amount, but not quite up to next-gen 
 graphics yet. It can sometimes take a while to load up the textures, and character models aren't 
 as great as they could be.
  
  Game play is an area that Rockstar clearly wanted to excel in, and they really have improved since 
 San Andreas. The aiming system has been revamped, and a new cover system has been added. Though 
 the cover system feels a bit unnecessary, it can work if you are willing to put forth the effort 
 to use it. The arsenal of weapons is somewhat lacking, but it gets you by. Also a cellphone has 
 been added which is your gateway to several havens such as calling up friends to hang out, going 
 to the online multilayer, and receiving text messages for missions. It feels a bit empty though 
 ,and it seems as though it could have a few more features.
  
  The story is kind of like all previous GTA games, go out, steal a car, kill a guy, get chased off, 
 escape. It's a great formula, but it does tend to get old. Just like previous GTA games it has 
 those crazy missions that you wish you could play again, but your to lazy to go all the way through 
 the story to get back to. The addition of a replay mission button on your cellphone is a nice addition, 
 but it still kind of lacks in usability. Overall the story is kind of dry, but it can get you through 
 a few weeks if your willing to put down the time to play through it.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a great game, and it has a vast city to roam around in. If your a fan of 
 the series you should really pick this one up, if not then you should at least give it the benefit 
 of the doubt and rent it. If your looking for a graphically stunning game then this isn't for you, 
 but if your looking for some fun game play, and a fairly good story then you should go pick this 
 up right away.
  
  Overall it is definitely worth the payment, and it will hold you over it for a fair amount of time, 
 most likely not with it's online, but for the great game play, and fun environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronicMike
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  GTA is back and better then ever. Playing as an immigrant from Russia that wants to live the American 
 Dream just realized that America isn't sweet as it sounds to be. 
  
  Graphics - Amazing graphics. Everything is so nicely detailed, I don't recall seeing the same person 
 on the sidewalk more then once and everything is just astonishing. No timeframing issues either. 
 
  
  Sound - Great music hits on the radio. I love house music, and the electro station had everything 
 that I wanted + plus more. All the sounds in the game makes you feel like you're actually there. 
 From the sounds of the car, to the sound of the rain and screaming pedestrians running away from 
 you're hazardous driving - it just doens't get better.
  
  Controls - Now here is where I have a problem. I don't have any problems with the running or shooting, 
 but the driving is where it killed me. It took me atleast an hour to get the hang of the driving, 
 as each car has their own feel of driving. Once you get used to it, it still feels uncomfortable. 
 Have fun doing the races.
  
  Gameplay - Rockstar, if you can read this, do NOT ever put multiplayer in GTA ever again. Please. 
 Unless it's only to do missions with you're buds. Every playlist that they put into the game for 
 online was just horrible. It was extremely boring, extremely repetitive and I just flat out got 
 bored after the first match. And yes, I was playing with my friends.
  
  Single player, however was great. However, I got extremely frustrated that I had to side missions 
 for people who really didn't have anything to do with the storyline. I felt like I was everyone's 
 personal (female dog) in this game. It got me frustrated. But oh well, GTA is all about stealing 
 cars and creating havoc, right?
  
  Replay - Eh, I got bored after playing it for a few weeks. I haven't really touched it recently 
 at all. Once you beat the single player there is really no reason to turn the game back on. It's 
 a one time thrill - that's it.
  
  All in all, it's a great game if you're a new player to the GTA field. If you've been a GTA fan 
 for over the years, like me, you will be dissapointed at some points in the game, but it's still 
 an enjoyable experience. I would consider renting it before purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryanbuffinton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of those games that comes along once in a blue moon and lives up to the hype and 
 gives people their moneys worth. So many games are busts these days, or they simply don't have 
 any replay value and therefore only warrant a rent and not a buy. This game is about as close as 
 it comes for me to a perfect game. 
  
  Some of the missions are longer than others and contain several parts to them. I would have liked 
 to have seen more checkpoints during the longer missions, so you wouldn't have to start all over 
 from the very beginning. Fantastic game, dangerously addictive, and well worth the wait. This is 
 my type of game... open world, no time limits, interactive, and lots of destruction. Funny, good 
 story, great memorable characters, and an open world like never before. It took me longer to figure 
 my way around Liberty City than it did to figure my around Tampa when I moved here. Great multiplayer 
 as well. I can't wait to see what they come up with for the next game in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATTUWEBI
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto IV (GTA 4) i think in grand theft auto iv the people always praise the game because 
 grand theft auto does not have any defects 
  Gran Theft Auto always the best series that give you the fun and great (take and raid in grand 
 theft auto cities) vice city , san andreas and liberty city 
  what things i will talk about in this game
  the graphics , the intelligent control , the big 
 city or the great story (the story changed the game to MAN'S LIFE not like the aother games)
  grand theft auto have many things feel you like a real life exampel the phone there is messeges 
 arraive to niko's phone from his friends
  there is importent thing had improved in this game the weapons 
  especialy the aim it very comfortable
 
  finally i think if you still don't have this game i advice you to buy it 
  note : my languege it is not good so if there any wrong in gramar please
  forgive me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonsoalegre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Like a lot of people... i was expecting more of this game. The game is good... you can fun the 
 first 20 minutes, but then... you realize that you play the same formula. The same missions over 
 and over again... persecute people, runaway with the cars and pick somebody. 
  
  However, the IA is better and the panoramic graphics are great (but the details from the people 
 are still bad... specially the face) . 
  
  Some movements look so unreal and the storyline is a little bit interesting. It seems that the 
 main objective of the game is to make it long with the same... 
  
  A good thing of the game is the use of the arms... the first person shooter is better form others 
 GTA. The control of the personage is a little more practitioner, considering than there are some 
 new functions.
  
  The 10 points game has to be a revolutionary game from the ps3... like the grand theft auto in 
 ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calum92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  While everyone is freaking out over the latest installment in the Grand Theft Auto series, they 
 seem to have forgotten what the series is. Sure it has anew engine and its pretty and you can do 
 missions tll the end of time, but the type of game that made the series what it is is gone. I can 
 make a decent sized list of whats gone easily. First, no garages, no property to buy, no cars to 
 buy, no planes (not even a dodo) , pathetic vigilante missions. the lose of all these features makes 
 this game to linear. You end just trying to complete the never ending repetitive storyline then 
 once that's over you do nothing else to occupy you except for hidden packages and such. Also the 
 little in game jokes and such have been lackluster to say the least, sure there's a chuckle hear 
 and there but nothing like the previous games in the series. It looks as though they toned the 
 game down from the crap Rockstars been getting lately. Besides looks this game is a complete letdown 
 from San Andreas. Its almost as much of a letdown to me as Halo2. It matches up to, a complete 
 letdown of a storyline and single player game with a outstanding multiplayer. except halo2's multiplayer 
 out does Grand Theft Auto 4 easily. As a standalone game acceptable as a Grand Theft Auto utter 
 letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  What is the American dream? For some, it's having a loving family, for others it's having their 
 hobby as a career, for some it's having money, for some, it's having women, for me, it's playing 
 Grand Theft Auto IV.
  
  Now, that GTA series has always been at the top of the sandbox action genre, but looking upon GTA 
 IV as the best sandbox action title, is actually underestimating its excellence. Grand Theft Auto 
 IV not only meets the expectations tied to it, but it separates itself from that line by a fare 
 margin.
  
  The immense level of detail is a big effort by the developer. This generation of consoles has given 
 them the opportunity to do amazing things, and it definitely shows heavily right when you put the 
 disc in. You'll automatically notice the huge increase in the game's visual quality. Character 
 models are heavily detailed, and they have recognizable faces, unlike characters from past installments 
 (cough Carl Johnson cough) . Facial animations are impressive, with very well done lip syncing and 
 full body animations. In fact, Liberty City is home to thousands, if not millions of individuals. 
 And I mean individuals, not character models. In a group of 200 people, you'd be hard pressed to 
 find two people that look alike. Something like this has never been seen in any game before. Assassin's 
 Creed is the only other game with this many people that I can think of, but there was maybe 20 
 character models in the game. Every street in the huge city has its own name, and even after you've 
 beaten the game, you'll still have to rely on the navigation system every car has, just to get 
 around. Liberty City is absolutely huge. It's about the same size as the entire state of San Andreas, 
 only with more congestion, and it's a much more dynamic, 3 dimensional area with tons more people. 
 Every building, back alley, and street is just as detailed as the last, and even though there are 
 plenty of jagged edges, it's nothing to complain about. If the jaggies bother you, just drive a 
 boat at night, and drop a grenade. You'll die, but it's the most beautfiul thing ever seen in a 
 game. The game runs smooth, and pop in is kept to a minimum. It's not the best looking game this 
 generation, but it is the deepest and most detailed. Nice weather effects, too.
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, a man who's trying to achieve the American dream. The mansion his cousin 
 tells him he'll be living in is actually a hellhole roach infested apartment, and very soon, they 
 get into debt, and people want them dead. There's plenty of uncertainty, betrayal, and killing. 
 This is the best story not only in a GTA game, but it's the best story so far this year. It's a 
 gritty, dark look at the criminal underworld, and the horrible souls that are connected to it. 
 The game has you make certain decisions, that have a big effect on the overall outcome of the story. 
 The story is just as detailed as the city, and it's incredible. As a movie, it's good enough to 
 get at least a nomination. As a game, it's just pure action drama, and that's incredible.
  
  Shooting has been vastly improved from the past. The controls have been changed for the better, 
 and the game feels much more like a third person shooter than it ever has. Holding down the left 
 trigger sends you into aiming mode, the right analog aims your reticle, and the right trigger shoots 
 the bad guys. It works very well, although it can get a bit clunky at times. Although it isn't 
 yet perfected, it's actually enjoyable for the first time in the series. There's a new cover system, 
 that is often vital to your survival during firefights. R1 or RB places you against any object, 
 whether a car, or a wall, or anything else. It does work well, although sometimes the controls 
 aren't responsive enough, and you'll feel like the least agile person on the planet. It's more 
 of a tactical thing, other than a run n gun thing, and if you look at it like that, it works well. 
 Enemy AI isn't the best, but at least it exists (cough Ballas cough) . Enemies take cover, just 
 like you, and they won't randomly pop up and down, or run across the open as long as you're there. 
 Shooting is a much more enjoyable experience.
  
  Hand to hand combat is improved, in some ways. There are more buttons for different moves, such 
 as a kick to the skull, but the controls are unresponsive and clunky, and once you get your first 
 gun, you'll undoubtedly avoid it. At least it shows off the cool physics system.
  
  Speaking of the physics system, it's really good. You'll have countless hours of fun running over 
 people, and watching them react to every piece of geometry in the city. They'll bounce off your 
 windshield, get thrown around under your car, it's awesome. Everything just reacts so excellently 
 to the world, it really gives the game a much needed gritty sense of realism.
  
  Driving mechanics are one of the best parts of the game. The cars aren't exactly realistic, but 
 it's as close as its ever been. Tires wear down, cars don't turn when they brake. It really just 
 feels like nothing you've driven before. Car models are all well detailed, with excellent reflections, 
 and impressive damage modelling. Grand Theft Auto is called that for a reason, and the reason is 
 one to be proud of.
  
  The script is very well written and clever. Every character's voice suits them perfectly. The lines 
 are funny when they need to be, and serious when crap starts up. Radio stations aren't the best 
 in terms of talk shows (cough K Chat cough) , but soundtrack is by far the best. My favorite station 
 for songs was Radio Broker, but I wouldn't decline if forced to listen to another station. The 
 city's ambient noise is incredible, just like a real city. Citizens talk on their phones, with 
 each other, order food at vendors, talk to themselves, etc. You just need to play the game for 
 5 minutes to see it all.
  
  The game takes about 30 hours to complete, with huge replay value, considering the branching story. 
 When you feel done with it, there is 16 player MP. There are several game modes, like Cops n Crooks, 
 Hangman's Noose, Races, or just Free Mode. This is like 2 player in San Andreas, only with 16 people 
 with headsets. You could spend 50 hours without getting bored. All of Liberty City is the map. 
 It is very functional, especially with the very shooter oriented controls.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is the first game to ever have a realistic city, filled with detail, and still 
 be a functional, sublime action game with near great physics, a gripping tale, and the best value 
 you'll find for $60. It's the first game I've ever given a 10 out of 10. I don't expect to give 
 out any for a long time, but you never know. What I do know now, is that if you don't already have 
 GTA IV, you should pick it up. You shouldn't have even read this review, you wasted your time. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game I have played in years. It's an obvious nominee for GOTY. 
 The guys at Rockstar are ingenious.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syk0_k03r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has a pretty good singleplayer experience
  even though it is a COMPLETE DEVOLUTION OF GTA... they made some stuff fun, 
  the europhia engine 
 is a great addition, because its realistic.
  
  so you have have more fun running down peds, smashing your car, shooting, stunts, and just hurting 
 yourself.
  
  the downsides of that are... the amount of side mission taken away, way less vehicles than san 
 andreas, way less weapons than even vice city, and the story line is probably my least favorite, 
 because it is so easy, and repetitive...
  
  with all of this it would have scored a 9 or a 9.5
  
  what drops it down... would be multiplayer
 
  its multiplayer is DISASTROUS
  DOWNRIGHT ABYSMAL
  SO BAD IT CAN ONLY GET BETTER
  
  1. it has extreme lag 99% of the time, ive never had a clean game  :@
  
  2. constanly getting 
 dropped from games makes it hard to finish a game
  
  3. bad matchmaking system (2-3 player games most of the time)
  
  4. it has alot of mediocre 
 gametypes, that you would only play once
  
  5. the lobby is terrible, same with the booting system
  
  6. lots of glitches that are extremely 
 annoying
  
  this happens to all my friends and me
  
  you can be like me, and open all UDP and TCP ports T2 said
  AND GET NO RESULT...
  
  so just 
 to sum up the multiplayer, it either has repetitive game types, mediocre game types, or unplayable 
 game types 
  
  FOR YOUR INFORMATION... THESE PROBLEMS ARE ON BOTH SYSTEMS FANBOYS... IVE PLAYED BOTH 
  
  THE 
 MULTIPLAYER IS SO BAD THE GAME WOULD BE BETTER OFF WITHOUT IT
  
  if your looking for a fun online game... DONT GET THIS GAME
  otherwise, if your looking for a 
 nice singleplayer experience
  GET IT ASAP
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: football_legend
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2001, the world experienced a new type of game. It's a game that couldn't be categorized 
 (as there was nothing similar) at the time. It was a game that was a blend of everything that was 
 out now, with one new addition. freedom to do whatever you want, how you want, when you want, that 
 came to be known as Grand Theft Auto III, or GTA 3 for short. GTA III created the "sandbox" genre, 
 such a genre in which the key gameplay is "freedom". GTA games allowed you to play as an antihero 
 in fictional city based on real life, with unprecedented freedom, humor on mocking the American 
 culture of that specific era, radio station boasting terrific soundtracks, humorous DJs, memorable 
 downright weird companions, lots of weapons.; and of course to hi-jack vehicles to get where you 
 want as fast as possible. GTA III spawned 2 main sequels, Vice City and San Andreas. Both improved 
 on what made GTA III tick and expanded in both depth and quality, although the core gameplay and 
 engine remained the same, it was not a "true sequel".
  
  However, it was not until April 29th of 2008, we got a true sequel to the GTA III, appropriately 
 titled Grand Theft Auto IV. The game may not look like another revolution of the series like GTA 
 III, but rather an evolution. But.. as soon as you put your foot down on Liberty City (no relation 
 to the Liberty City of the first game) , you'll know"things have changed".
  
  There are just so many stuff you can talk about in GTA IV, you can't list them all, and simply 
 you can't. I'll try my best to be as detailed as possible. Asbelieve me, the world of Liberty 
 City is unlike anything you've ever seen in a videogame.
  
  You put on the boots of Niko Bellic, Eastern European former military personnel who wants to escape 
 his horrific past, and what better way to start a new life than America? After all his cousin Roman 
 sent countless letters and emails of how he made it big. Niko upon the request of his cousin arrived 
 in Liberty City, only to find out that his cousin was in serious debt, the sports car he promised 
 was a mere taxi cab and girls he was living around were just posters. Welcome to Liberty City.. where 
 dreams are shattered
  
  The previous games in the entry didn't feature any original captivating storyline, heck. The storyline 
 of GTA was always been the weak link of the otherwise, a strong franchise; and because of this, 
 many people didn't even finish the story missions, also add the fact that how awful the shooting 
 mechanics were and how you were punished when you died.
  
  Thankfully. all those problems are fixed and improved so much that, now it's literally became the 
 part of the franchise's story. 
  
  The game borrows some of the best elements of third person shooters in the market, specifically 
 Gears of War. The game employs cover system and over the shoulder view while shooting, not unlike 
 Gears of War. The game has also a new semi-auto aim function. Holding down the L2/Left Trigger 
 button goes to auto-aim mode, and slowly moving the right analog stick you can target specific 
 parts of the body, like the legs or going for the head. Holding the L2/Left Trigger half-way engages 
 the in manual shooting, good for targeting explosive barrels and tires. Previous GTAs had been 
 criticized for the lack of shooting from car, well that is fixed in this installment as well. While 
 the game is still all about grand theft auto, stealing vehicles this time around is riskier than 
 ever before, as police are almost everywhere and now you need to kick out drivers who are "unwilling" 
 to lend you their vehicle and sometimes requiring you to break the glass of cars which are parked 
 and hot wiring it to start, during which anything can happen. That's why it's sometimes best to 
 go by the taxi, new to the franchise. You can whistle for the taxi using the L1/Left Bumper and 
 go anywhere designated in your GPS by you. While you are in the Taxi, you can tell the driver to 
 switch the tunes and look out of the window and enjoy the living breathing world of Liberty City, 
 you can tell him to put the pedal to the medal or you can pay him double the money for quick transport 
 (teleport) , it comes especially handy when you want to retry your missions. 
  GTA IV is a much more realistic than the previous GTAs, while it still has some arcade flavor to 
 it, but it's definitely darker than before. The cars physics are much more realistic with real 
 weight to them, the way Niko walks and places one of his feet on a higher level is very realistic, 
 the animation never seams to break, mostly due to the fact that, other than the cut scenes, nothing 
 is pre-canned animation. The game uses a new type of simulated animation technology called Euphoria, 
 which is unexplainable until you see it with your own eyes, because of this; no two animations 
 or "accidents" are the same.
  
  Now integral part of game play is your cell phone, it's the central hub for communication. Now 
 not only you can receive phone calls as before, but you can call your contacts as well, you can 
 for example, ask your gf on a date, call your cousin for a good game of bowling or get drunk (which 
 is really entertaining and fun, especially to drive) or you can call an underground arms dealer 
 for a car loaded with weapons. Its best, though not necessary to keep good relationship with your 
 friends or gfs, as they often come up with their own perks. Oh yeah, just so you are wondering, 
 it does not include any hot coffee scenes.
  
  The story is far more human this time, unlike previous GTAs, its not but coming to the town and 
 taking over, it's all about survival. And the way Niko behaves and talks, he will instantly be 
 a very likeable character surrounded by a full cast of interesting characters, like his cousin 
 Roman.
  As the game takes place in modern times, so with it comes things which we use everyday, like the 
 internet. Yes, GTA IV has its very own interweb, with surprising debt to it, from blogs, emails 
 to online dating service. There are also usable TVs in the game with good amount of programming, 
 some of them are really funny and amazing, you'd wish they aired it real-life. Like the previous 
 GTAs, the radio stations are back with new DJs. The soundtrack in the radios covers almost all 
 the modern genres, so there is bound to be something you'll like, although the quality of selection 
 is still not on par with Vice City, it had to be said, than again, its mostly to blame the modern 
 era for its diverse genre. There is also a load of cool min-games, which are almost as good as 
 games on their right, like bowling, darts, pool. There is even live comedy shows you can attend 
 or watch in the TV.
  
  The graphics is vastly improved with much detailed textures, new realistic lighting that produces 
 great shadows and changes realistically as the day progresses and night falls. When you fly high, 
 the city is undistinguishable from New York City. The character models and animation are as detailed 
 as ever. From artistic point of view, the developers at Rockstar North did an amazing job to capture 
 the look and feel of New York City.
  
  The sound is on par with graphics. Backed up by solid soundtrack, the game is also superb in the 
 other areas as well. Just stand your character for a minute, close your eyes, and just with the 
 sound, you can picture what is going around you, provided you have a 5.1 sound system of course.
 
  The game has also immense replayablity, so when you game finishes. You can go for the 100% completion, 
 acquiring you to do things like killing all 200 pigeons/ "flying rats", making all the unique jumps, 
 etc. You can also play the story again, as it never gets old and try to take different paths in 
 the game to see what is the outcome (there is a degree of decision making in the game, like who 
 to kill or not, though not as deep as Mass Effect) . Or a very popular practice is to just mindlessly 
 cause chaos with your RPG.
  
  Or you can hop onto the multiplayer. There are loads of modes to choose from and most of them are 
 pretty unique and fun. While the game has some multiplayer issues when launched on the PS3 version, 
 the latest patch as of writing for PS3 (1.02) fixes most of them, and I personally didn't experience 
 any problems until then. You can also check various stats at Rockstar online stat tracking website, 
 called Rockstar social club, here you can also preview the track marked in the game and buy digital 
 download from Amazon.
  
  Both the PS3 and 360 versions are amazing, this can hardly be said as a lazy port for PS3 (Xbox 
 360 was the lead platform for the game) . Ironically, in some cases the PS3 version tops because 
 of its Initial 8 min installation prior to starting he game for the first time. Because of this, 
 less data have to be streamed from the optical disc, and so when you are driving at high-speed, 
 the pop-up, yea its still there, not a big issue on the PS3 version compared to the 360 version, 
 as on some of the 360s with older Disc Drives, the read speed cannot always keep up and a result, 
 you'll sometimes find a car or a wall suddenly pop in before you can react. While most new 360 
 models (my friend) , don't have much of a difference.
  
  Well there you have it, it's the longest review I've ever done, by a long shot, but this game deserves 
 it. I still left a lot of details about the game, this game is epic huge. You will soon realize 
 that, all the small things which happen in the world of GTA IV merge and form a much bigger picture 
 which really sucks you in the game. There is simply no immersive game than GTA IVperhaps GTA 
 V?
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaratha
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  FInished playing through GTAIV and have to say game is very impressive but lacks the small things 
 that made San Andreas and Vice City such great games. GTAIV has the most polished story and indepth 
 characters, and the introduction of friends and the mobile phone are great additions. GTAIV simply 
 can't get a perfect score because it's missing so many small things. What happened to tanks, flying 
 planes, ambulance missions, taxi missions, fire truck missions, random vehicle missions, buying 
 properties? All these small things were in San Andreas and Vice City and were what helped make 
 those two games so great. Sometimes the small things can make the difference, and in this case, 
 it has. In a way, this game is simply GTA III with improved graphics and a few minor additions. 
 Hopefully the downloadable content will remedy some of these problems, but otherwise game is highly 
 recommended but below quality of San Andreas and Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  If you are a first time player or you have played all the GTA games, you will love this game. You 
 are basically free to do whatever you please. You can go up to random people and shotgun them, 
 or drive-by shoot everyone outside the Empire State Building. You will have to do missions at some 
 point but most are fun and easy to do. The game lives up to all of its hype and it deserves all 
 the awards and honors it got. You play as Miko, a Russian ( I'm guessing) that comes to America 
 for a '"fresh start". As you will learn quickly he was likely in trouble back in Russia. The online 
 is alright but i doubt that a lot of people play it because of the stury that you can do again 
 and again. You will even at some points have a chance to kill or save characters in the game. Even 
 the endding you get to choose what to do. You can either get revenge or deal with one of the characters 
 (I'm not saying who.) I have completed the game and it was truly the most fun I had out of any 
 game in the GTA series and is the best game out now! 
  
  Verdict: Buy it right now if you don't already have it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rachetandplank
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  GTA has been a much loved game from the start because people have always wanted to blow up cars 
 or just hit somebody for no reason. I think GTA IV brings this in perfectly to the next generation. 
 Well worth 35 i cant stop playing and i dont think i ever will. Also added into this game is the 
 online... which has also worked perfectly with 16 game modes and being able to make a character 
 i think this game will go a long way and for a long time.
  
  Now for the bad parts, one thing i have noticed alot is the small glitches that do add up and sometimesmake 
 thegame hard to play. Also sometimes the realism of this game can get in the way to such as just 
 running down to pick up an ROG when a car comes flying in and smacks you flying. Secondly when 
 you are going full speed a bike when you hit a fence you come off of ther bike sometimes when you 
 hit a fence full speed he doesnt fall off but if you go at a very slow speed and hit a fence you 
 fall off.
  
  But al around a good game, this should be in any X360, ps3 owners collection of great games.
 
  
  
  
  - timmy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOOGIE55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the story of Niko Bellic who is an immigrant from Europe and has just arrived 
 in Liberty City. He and his cousin Roman strive to make a living in the city after Roman's business 
 is destroyed. Niko learns the way of the new country and makes money by doing crimes for other 
 people.
  
  PROS: *Great Story *Excellent Graphics *Highly Improved Gameplay *Good Cover System *Outstanding 
 Variety Of Vehicles *Several Side Missions/Objectives *Fun Multiplayer *Creatively Designed City 
 *Excellently Designed Missions *The Cell Phone *Police Chases Are More Realistic 
  
  CONS: *Slightly Difficult Car Driving *Sometimes Annoying Aiming Mechanics *Friendly AI Isn't Very 
 Good *Poor Online Servers *Not Being Able To Enter A Club/Bar *Some Occasional Bugs
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is for the most part an excellent game but is in some minor ways flawed, Keeping 
 it away from perfect. What I really hate though, is the fact that I can't join any multiplayer 
 games and if I do, it immediately kicks me back out! Pisses me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto four, is in my opinion the best Grand theft Game of all, I am excited to see if 
 there will be more because they just get better all the time. any who time to let you know my opinion 
 of this game... I Do not have any other opinion of this game then It is Bad, I mean that in a good 
 way. Its a ten a TEN!!!
  This game has a great story of what it would be like to be an illegal immigrant just getting off 
 the boat wanting all the Glamor that is betrayed from American television. Nikko is going to get 
 it. And If you Choose to before or after you Beat the story, you have an entire city to explore 
 and wreak havoc upon whom and where you please. Steal, Kill, Race, Etc... any law you have ever 
 wanted to break you probably can in this game, without no jail time... Which is good because then 
 you would not be able to play Grand theft auto until you got out, odds are though if you were doing 
 what nikko does you wont be getting out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaos08
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Well to start out i would like to say that i was immediately impressed with the graphics of GTA 
 4, the cars, the characters and especially the fire and explosions are a big improvement from San 
 Andreas. This game has an awesome storyline in which many cases you get to make decision's on what 
 you want to do or what you feel is right, this is an awesome addition to this game. The new cell 
 phone is also very nice because its easy to use and you can get new ringtones and backgrounds for 
 it. In addition to all the great stuff so far one of the coolest features of the new GTA is that 
 you can call friends and girlfriends up and hang out with them, your girlfriends notice the clothes 
 you are wearing, the car you are driving, and they are usually very picky about where you take 
 them. The vehicle GPS is also a nice improvement, it clearly marks the road you need to take to 
 reach your destination faster. And on a final note the ability to take cover behind objects is 
 finally added to GTA, this took me some time to get used to but now that i am it makes shootouts 
 a lot easier. Overall this game definitely lived up to the hype, i have no complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeis-net
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  There is WAY to much hype around this game. It is a good game, it is "nearly" as good as Vice City, 
 but the reviews have rushed to call it perfect when it is far from this.
  
  While the graphics are good, on the PS3 there are many graphical bugs, with doors flashing white 
 before the textures render (mostly in the safe houses after loading) . The game occasionally stutters 
 (which at top speed leads to spectacular crashes) . Also on a 1080p 37" TV from ~7 foot away, you 
 can not read the text messages or see the radar (mobile is too small, although eased when you get 
 the colour mobile) .
  
  Also the whole aim of earning money (the reward for your missions) is pointless as there is nothing 
 to spend the money on. No safe houses for sale in this game. I am about 50% through the game with 
 $350,000 to spend and the only thing to buy are flak jackets costing $500. 
  
  Also the driving does not seem quite as much fun as in earlier games, cars seem more "stable" less 
 likely to roll (I am sure you could roll cars in vice city) .
  
  Add to this the lack of weapons at safe houses and very limited use of online potential (internet 
 radio for ever changing content perhaps?) , and clingy NPC's it is good but far from perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1177
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  o my gosh, i never knew how much things u can do in just one video game, i mean come on this game 
 is just a must have for anyone who wants play fun
  i never killed so many pedestrians in my life and it never got any funner then this
  the story 
 is alright but i just love killing people with my rocket launcher, my machine gun and my bat, its 
 just soooooo much fun that i cant get off my ps3 and i'll just kill random people all night long, 
 sorry that sounds bad but its just too fun man
  this game was the greatest comeback since the best crime game of all which was grand theft auto 
 san andreas
  if you dont have this game for your console, what are you doing?
  go pick it up now and have the fun of ur life infront of your television
  and then i will shoot 
 a rocket at you online
  i have one world left to say
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destazio
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game ever for the ps3. it totally is worth $60 bucks. (surprised it dont 
 cost any more but happy) ;) i spend hours on this game its addictive but in a good way. sleep who 
 needs sleep when u got this. my favorite part is the explosions and the freedom to do whatever 
 u want to anybody anytime. i love killing my story friends and my multiplayer friends (even when 
 im on "their" side SORRY GUYS ) : ( but i love the story and i was surprised when at the end (wont 
 go to deep here) when kate died that was really sad and surprising. this gamed has a variety of 
 stuff to do (or destroy) such as racing, flying helicopters, going into the statue of liberty and 
 finding the indestructible "item" in there (get the game) , dumping and dating girls, bowling, 8-ball, 
 restaurants, getting drunks with friends (in the game) ;) , and other stuff. so if yur looking for 
 a $60 worth game get dont rent but GET gta4 unless yur a pacifist. so my raiting 20/10. dont like 
 the rating BIG DEAL lol jk seriously though get the game!!!!!! :) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koopz14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Great Game best game i've played in years (thats until MGS4 came out of course lol) but good game 
 great gameplay control, great story and the multiplayer is a good addition too in case u get bored 
 of the game go blast da whole network with your own GTA character GTA is so real i sometimes just 
 walk around to see events happen in the game. Civilians fight when their cars crashed eachother. 
 And this time Niko isnt the only getting arrested. I sometimes punch someone when the cop isnt 
 looking, then i run near a cop. Of course the guy i punched would chase me so he can punch me, 
 but 1 second after he does, "Put your hands up" the cop arrests him. Reality. The graphics are 
 amazing and so is the sound. The length is very long, even though i didn't beat it, im on my way 
 to it. Sometimes the storyline can be offtrack but almost all gta games are like. (Seriously getting 
 missions from so many different people, how can all the story tie up to eachother) . Anyhow i recommend 
 this game to any people because this is one awesome game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  as stated, this is by far the best gta EVER, and certainly in my top 5 games ever.
  
  the story. nothing short of amazing. gta III started the main wave of the gta hype with great gameply 
 and great story. vice city added features, and san andreas was more for just having fun and it 
 was a bit out there. this gta takes the game to a very realistic point. blood splatters on the 
 cars when u hit someone, u cant go flying off a motorcycle for 3 miles and only lose 1 health point, 
 and u go flying thru windshields when u hit something hard enough! granted they took out the cab 
 and firetruck missions, but come on, how much did u actually do that. vigilante is there, but in 
 different style. instead of going thru levels of mass criminals, u go into a police computer and 
 u can either hunt down each islands most wanted, or view current crimes and take them down. features 
 are in abundance, but like i said, its been taken to a more realistic standpoint, meaning no tanks 
 and other bits of nonsense (granted they were fun as hell, but realism overcomes it) .
  
  the replayability is not all there. u do have to make some decisions thru the game, but the only 
 decisions that REALLY matter come at the end, so with the use of multiple save files, u can go 
 thru both alternate endings easily without replaying the whole game. this seems kinda cheating, 
 but the story has such an emotional impact, it will really lose its touch the second time around 
 and may leave u a bit bored. but that first time around, wow, just wow.
  
  the multiplayer is nice addition, but it feels like it was tacked on just for the sake of having 
 multiplayer. still fun for when u beat the game tho.
  
  what im trying to say, if u like video games, buy this game, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Over 500 reviews have been written by Gamespot members about this game, so I'm just going to tell 
 you what I miss about GTA III, Vice City, and San Andreas that I really wish they would have included 
 in GTA 4.
  
  GTA III - Well, okay, this game has everything in GTA III plus more.
  
  Vice City - I miss the fantastic 80's soundtrack and cohesive theme to the game, drug dealing out 
 of an ice cream truck, and the plethora of very interesting properties to buy. In GTA IV, you don't 
 don't buy properties, but sometimes you inherit them from vanquished enemies. The ability to play 
 a custom soundtrack.
  
  San Andreas - I miss airplanes, parachutes, countryside, three different cities. I miss driving 
 school. I miss the pizza delivery missions. I miss the bicycles. I miss the awesome music soundtrack. 
 The ability to make a custom soundtrack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  It takes an awful lot for me to spend extended periods of time playing games. I tend to pick at 
 them, putting in a few hours a day over a week while doing other things in between. So, when GTA 
 4's game-time stat read 35 hours after just three days and my eyes were blood-shot it was obvious 
 that this was not your average video game - not even your average great video game. After more 
 than 40 hours Rockstar's most ambitious game to date was over and left me wondering if I'll ever 
 be able to look at 'normal' video games in the same way again.
  
  Starting GTA 4 for the first time, it was hard to know what to expect. I knew you played as Niko 
 Belic, an ex-military guy from Eastern Europe, that the game is set in Liberty City and that Rockstar 
 had worked on sorting out many of the issues in previous GTAs, but beyond that I came to the game 
 pretty fresh. As to be expected, the opening moments drip with quality, the kind you'd expect to 
 see in the latest $200 million blockbuster movie. In the office the whole gang had gathered to 
 watch the opening moments. "That's so cool" was said more than once in the first five minutes - 
 before the game had even given me the controls - and it's a phrase that became increasingly common 
 - joined by big grins - over the course of the game.
  
  Things start off unexpectedly slowly. Early missions revolve around helping out your cousin Roman, 
 who runs a taxi cab business. It's here that you'll get to grips with the ins and outs of GTA 4, 
 including the new waypoint system for navigation (in-game GPS) , your mobile phone (essentially 
 your link to all your contacts in the game) , the new combat system and the way missions work. Of 
 course, you'll likely go off the rails, experimenting with the new physics system by ramming innocent 
 pedestrians with your car or inflicting enough damage to cause your car to explode. It's all very 
 next-gen and far too easy to waste hours of your life on.
  
  You'll also come into contact with Liberty City's finest, the LCPD. The wanted system has seen 
 some changes over previous GTAs, making chases all the more entertaining. Do something naughty, 
 like reverse into a patrolling police car, and you'll have a one-star wanted level. The cop will 
 start a pursuit, staying on you as long as he has you in his sights. Get outside the relatively 
 small search zone for a short period of time and the search will be called off, but things can 
 get a lot worse. Once you get up to a three-star wanted level (shoot a cop or go on a blood-thirsty 
 rampage) things aren't so easy, with helicopters giving the cops an eye in the sky. Just hope you 
 never have to see the dreaded level six.
  
  Cars in GTA 4 all handle very differently, as do the bikes. Larger vehicles are pretty sluggish 
 and don't take to power-sliding around corners all that well, while sportier cars have an almost 
 arcade racer feel, ideal for nipping about the busier roads in Liberty City. The motorbikes are 
 the most nimble though, weaving in and out of traffic with relative ease. It's easy to get a little 
 too confident though. In a car a high-speed head-on collision can see Niko fly through the windscreen, 
 but do the same on a bike and you're guaranteed to be eating tarmac, and whatever else your lifeless 
 body careers into as it flies through the air. Helicopters and boats also make an appearance later 
 on in the game, both offering a far more peaceful form of travel.
  
  As deadly as vehicles can be - you can even manually aim a weapon while driving - it's on-foot 
 where you'll do most damage. With a target lock-on and free-aim system the game has most gamers 
 covered, although it's not quite perfect. In confined spaces the camera can get a little lost and 
 the new cover system occasionally locks you to the wrong piece of scenery. Trying to balance free-roaming 
 gameplay and solid shooter controls can't be easy, but Rockstar has done an excellent job. To begin 
 with you'll be limited to your fists and a baseball bat, but soon you'll have access to a pistol, 
 then automatic rifles, sniper rifles, grenades, molotovs and RPGs - lots given to you for certain 
 missions, but also available at the numerous gun stores in the city.
  
  As great as these core elements of GTA 4 are, it's the characters that steal the show and make 
 the game truly special. Niko's cousin Roman is without doubt one of the most charismatic and likeable 
 characters ever seen in a video game, and it's Niko's relationship with him - and his love of family 
 in general - that underpins the storyline. You're never too far from the introduction of a new 
 face and for the first time in GTA history Rockstar has absolutely nailed the mix of comedy and 
 drama - helped by some brilliant voice acting and facial animation. Rather than one scene feeling 
 at odds to another, they play off each other wonderfully, immersing you into the story as you grow 
 to like or dislike the characters - sometimes even determining their fate.
  
  As a 40-hour game for most average gamers you might expect the action to let up a little, but if 
 anything there's always too much to do. Aside from the brilliant and increasingly dramatic story 
 missions there's an abundance of side missions: those given out by the key characters which in 
 turn allow you to call in favours; dating, including certain perks; mini-games such as bowling, 
 darts and pool; getting drunk and wandering around the city in an inebriated state; a working GTA 
 4 internet service with email, purchasable ring-tones, internet dating and news; and more.
  
  The problem is that you just won't want to stray from the core story missions - they're that 
 good. A realistic city in which you can fire weapons and drive vehicles might sound like a recipe 
 for lots of repetition, but that's just not the case. Although you do carry out missions that are 
 similar, the variety is incredible and often unique in how you personally play them out. One moment 
 you might be taking down managers in a strip club and the next you're robbing a Bank and escaping 
 Heat-style - a mission that must go down as one of the greatest in GTA history.
  
  Liberty City is a brilliant game world. We've had other games that have claimed to be set in real 
 worlds, but nothing has come close to this. The map is split into so many different areas and suburbs 
 that it's hard to understand how Rockstar ever managed to get this game out onto store shelves. 
 The level of detail is just staggering. Whereas San Andreas featured numerous relatively empty 
 'filler' areas, there's nothing but quality in GTA 4. The city is full of people too, getting on 
 with their lives, getting into fights with each other, talking on their phones and generally acting 
 real. Of course, they're not real, and do display some signs of stupidity - most often in their 
 quite ridiculously slow and poor driving - but any casual observers will be blown away by what 
 they see.
  
  Moving from the quieter areas you begin in to the more densely populated areas of the city is a 
 great game moment in itself. Having played for hours in a poor neighbourhood, only to drive down 
 a glitzy road surrounded by neon signs and billboards, with traffic congestion mimicking that seen 
 in New York, is a sight to behold. The sense of moving up in the world isn't laid out on a plate 
 as it is in previous GTA games; in GTA 4 you'll just slowly realise that you're in a better part 
 of town, living in a better apartment, dressing in better clothes and earning money more readily. 
 It's not an instant thing, and works in conjunction with the storyline, with the bigger fishes 
 appearing as your profile is raised.
  
  Production values are through the roof all over GTA 4, with both versions being about the best 
 you'll see on each console. The day/night cycle creates some unbelievable lighting and the weather 
 effects set mood in certain scenes that will likely change if you need to replay a mission. Quite 
 randomly during one particularly morbid mission the weather turned for the worse, and the sky was 
 filled with thunder and lightning. Some players are likely to never experience the mission the 
 same way, but for that moment it echoed the mood perfectly. Praise for the visuals could go on 
 forever, covering the sublime explosions and resulting carnage to the way characters react to being 
 shot in different body parts.
  
  Equally superb is the audio work, which has most definitely raised the bar for video games. The 
 in-game soundtrack is colossal and varied, and voice work for once really is of Hollywood standard. 
 These are 100% believable characters no matter how extroverted they might be. Rockstar could have 
 released the game in hour-long chunks and it would have been rated up there with the likes of The 
 Sopranos as classic slices of cutting drama. The comical radio talk shows and the hilarious TV 
 shows (viewable from your apartment) are also worth of praise - we'd even pay for more shows released 
 via DLC.
  
  GTA 4 most definitely lives up to the hype surrounding it and will certainly go down as a defining 
 game of this console generation, but it's not perfect. Visual blemishes such as pop-up and a sluggish 
 frame rate plagued previous GTAs, and while nowhere near as bad in GTA 4 these problems are still 
 present. The game puts a visually pleasing blur on distant objects, so your view of the city is 
 still incredible, but as you speed along certain things do pop into view. During the most intense 
 moments the frame rate also takes a dive, but these two complaints aren't enough to prevent GTA 
 4 from being one of the most technically impressive games ever released.
  
  A problem of more concern is the lack of mid-mission checkpoints. How much this bothers you will 
 be a personal thing, but no matter how long a mission might be, failure at any point will result 
 in you having to start from the beginning. Considering many missions require a lengthy cross-city 
 drive before the action starts, doing this numerous times can be frustrating. You can often take 
 a taxi or one of Roman's cars to your destination, saving some time, but it's a shame Rockstar 
 didn't provide a solution for what could have been a non-issue.
  
  Slight problems aside, no-one old enough to play GTA 4 should pass it up. It's certainly a mature 
 experience - in tone, violence and language - but that actually makes it even more unique. For 
 all the controversy that Rockstar generates, GTA 4 has moved video games on to a point that most 
 developers just won't be able to compete with. We all knew GTA 4 would be a great game and sell 
 millions of copies, but I didn't expect it to shame pretty much every other game I've played this 
 generation.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphic: 10
  Sound: 10
  Overall: 10
  
  
  The good:
  
  - A mature story
  - Tonnes of variety
  - Incredible presentation
  - Unbelievably 
 large
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - 16 people on multiplayer is kinda small for a big city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carneyfolk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, GTA4 is a fun, expansive, and generally well thought out game. However, aside 
 from the updated graphics and character models there really isnt much new to this game. 
  
  The graphics are stunning, the cityscape is lush and vibrant and feels like a real city. These 
 feelings last until you get to the player models, which now look like last gen models, compared 
 to the models from previous last gen games looking like ps1 models. I was very disappointed with 
 the character models.
  
  The character is likable, but the story is uninspired rehash of previous GTA games. Criminals want 
 you to run jobs... the exact same 3 types of jobs. For how many missions there are, i would have 
 hoped for a little more variety.
  
  The game controls are solid and combat is definately better then in previous iterations of the 
 series. The voice acting was good for some, tolerable for others. 
  
  As a whole, i was left wanting for a little bit more then what i got. I finished the game, but 
 it will collect dust on my shelf, it was fun while it lasted, but it is over. I was expecting so 
 much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I never got into the last Grand Theft Auto games, not because they weren't fun, probably just becuase 
 they were unattractive looking and there stories were well written but hard to get interested in, 
 for me anyway, but Grand Theft Auto 4 is such an improvement from GTA3 series. The GTA3 series' 
 graphics, even for the PS2 were s**t, GTA4 has great looking grahpics with incredible attention 
 to detail not only in the textures but in the level design as well, an amazing damage system for 
 the cars, and the car sounds are really good, but the gun shots still sound like firecrackers. 
 As always, there's great voice acting and a compelling story, after which you will still have plenty 
 to do.
  filler filler filler filler filler
  filler filler filler filler filler
  filler filler filler filler filler
  filler filler filler filler filler
  filler filler filler 
 filler filler
  Looking back at the 32 hours of well wasted life that i put into completing the story and the 20 
 MINUTE LONG CREDITS, I realized I had just finished the best game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  I bought a PS3 in preparation for MGS4 and GTA4 came bundled with it which I wasn't complaining 
 about. I read various reviews about the game and thought that for the most part it was hype as 
 I hadn't enjoyed the previous GTA games.
  
  The graphics and overall look of the game is very impressive. Liberty City actually looks like 
 a real city with real people living there. However, in some of the cut scenes the graphics don't 
 look quite so great but thats a minor point really. The story itself is very engaging I quickly 
 progressed through it at first until some of later more difficult missions which a couple of attempts. 
 I also liked the parts of the story where you can make decisions yourself and they have actual 
 consequences in terms of the story later. This is the first GTA where I actually liked the character 
 I was playing so I guess I enjoyed the game more.
  
  The multiplayer element of game is great and adds longevity to the game. I haven't tried the racing 
 mode because my driving is pathetic (I usually have to change cars about 3 times when driving across 
 the city) but all the other modes are very enjoyable although the controls do feels sluggish.
 
  
  Overall I would say that GTA4 is a brilliant game that certainly lived up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfarhan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is undoubtey the best open-world game available!!!!!!!!!!! If you're over 18 then u must 
 play it no matter what because it's a game that lets you do all the things that you probably shouldn't 
 do. you can kill people, rob cars, drive helicopters, make friendly/ or sexual relations with people 
 u meet throughout th game, bust up wanted crimnals, get drunk, and visiting strip clubs and besides 
 all the new features (Such as your cellphone which lets you arrange appointments with others, bowling, 
 dating Etc.) you'll get improved graphics, and ,of course, a superb online -multiplayer (with 15 
 modes!!!!!!!!!) . My only dissapointments in this game was that you weren't able to swim underwater, 
 visit a tatoo tailor or barber, and last but no least driving planes. These game is defintley a 
 great one and one that deserves making you buy a whole console for it !!!!!!!!!! PLease don't miss 
 out on this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Like all GTA fans I myself could'nt wait for this title to finally come out. I even waited in the 
 midnight release line for 2 hours to get this in my console at 12:30 Am for a few hours of gliss.
 
  
  Graphics: It is here where i feel that rockstar could have taken all 3 steps forward but instead 
 took them and stepped back a foot. I admit the visuals look fantastic, But for a next generation 
 title i was very dissapointed that it wasnt in HD native. I understand the reasons to keep frame 
 rate up and if they needed more time i would have waited to get the better frame rates with out 
 taking away native HD. Dont get me wrong here they delayed the game to try to correct this its 
 just imo they should have taken more time and finished it. because of this i give the graphics 
 a solid 8.5
  
  Storyline:
  I personally loved the storyline and of all the GTA games this is the one that really makes total 
 sense and when you finish the game its complete. i also love the way they make each charactor involved 
 through out the game. I give the storyline a 10.
  
  Sound:
  Voice acting is just awsome. the normal every day city sounds make you feel like you are in the 
 big city. the sound effects are riht on and the radio stations are more to date then the latter 
 titles Sound rates a 10
  
  Game play: her we go again with 3 steps ahead and one big step behind. I fisrt must say that the 
 game play has improved alot compared to earlier titlesbut, the IA is way to easy this game and 
 the missions seem to even easier. I also missed alot of what i love the most of GTA San like the 
 eating to regain life even though it is in this game it isnt as important. the lack of no use for 
 all this money other then buying guns. I missed beeing able to purchase my safe houses and find 
 packages to gain weapons from my safe houses. I also miss the fire missions. the pidgion thing 
 is ok but no real rewards for taking the 4-5 hours tracking them down other then to get the 100 
 percent. I alos love the npc missions add some cool and strange story elements to the game. i also 
 find the constant wining and dining of your friends very repetitive and always at the wrong times. 
 in the middle of a mission and ramon calls for you to go get drunk and if you refuse you loose 
 favor percentage from it. I also find the cops even more lame they seemed more challenging in earlier 
 titles and here they seem more like a memery then a obstical to remove. now the cell phone is plain 
 just awsome and i appreciat the concept. With all this in mind i hope you understand my reasons 
 for the 3 steps forward one step back. I regretable rate gameplay an 8
  
  Online: For GTA's first attempt at online play i have to give them the thumbs up they offer many 
 maps and really cool modes and for me online is the bomb. i rate it a solid 9.5
  
  Final tally 9.2 I know a lot of players think this is a 10 and with the pressure and the hype i 
 even feel it maybe a 10 but when you add up the pros and cons it just doesnt add up to a 10 and 
 i am sure many of you will tear me up with the thumbs but i really only write what i really feel 
 about a game. I also played this game 2 times to make sure i got it right 1 time on PS3 anbd ! 
 time on the 360. I admitt that both systems look great and i agree with the pros that the ps3 is 
 slightly better and i repeat slightly better. I also agree that the online is better on live not 
 because sony doesnt have it its because there is more players on live and live has had 10 years 
 to get it right as with sony 2years is a great start but we will see in another 2 years how it 
 shapes up as sony is really now making a great effort to get its userbase that same online feeling 
 as its compitition has with live. I really reccomend this game to all action adventure gamers and 
 even all gamers period it is rare that a game offers this good of a game and even rarer is that 
 is a must own title. I would have gladly paid a 100 bucks for this game and with the 70-85 hours 
 of game play i had to complete to 100% on each system was well worth every minute of it. I bid 
 you all great gaming and now i am off to continue to play this years second must have title MGS4 
 and as of now 3 acts into it i am totally impressed to put it mildly.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellKid_PT
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  What else can i say? Buy GTA IV and play it you too will be stunned cause its amazing.
  
  First of all the game is just like a movie. each cutscene is just like a movie
  and talking about 
 cinematography, the game is the best ever made, many director's tried to mix the colors yellow 
 and green to New York City but failed, congrats to Rockstar's directors for that because they made 
 it very very well.
  
  Gameplay is... i cant describe just cant stop playing and playing and i bet all of who tried it 
 suffer this same problem.
  
  Sound is, as all GTA's, great. The voices and the accent of all characters is something that never 
 disappointed in all the GTA games so far.
  
  Graphics are awesome completely realistic.
  
  One thing i miss is bikes as they made on version of LA (san andreas) .
  
  
  I guess nothing 
 else to say just get the best game of all times and play it have fun with it...
  
  KID 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detrun
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Grand Theft Auto IV that hasn't already been said about it before! It is awesome! 
 It is the game of the year! It will blow you away! It will take you to the edge and push you off! 
 I love it! I purchased this game for my PS3 before I even bought the system itself. I waited over 
 a month! When I finally played the game itself, I was in awe! Let me go into detail about what 
 I liked about the game . 
  
  Story - I am not a spoiler; let's just say that it is mostly indie level progression but all the 
 same a blockbuster! 
  
  Multiplayer - Is the "new hotness", it has to be played to truly be believed. Just think about 
 all the times you wanted to do it on all the old GTA games and you will be glad that good things 
 come to those that wait.
  
  Controls - I found the controls to be a little sensitive at first, but I was just so anxious to 
 play the game that I was heavy handed. Overall I found the controls very productive. It felt weird 
 to use R2 to accelerate and shoot and L2 to break and aim. But the game let's you go to classic 
 controls which was veyr welcome.
  
  Graphics - This is the next gen GTA! I mean it is no MGS4 but it more then holds its own. Unless 
 you are feeling very nostalgic; you may never be able to look at the prior games the same again.
 
  
  Sound - It is a living breathing world! More so the the attempts of the past. This is a city that 
 truly never sleeps. And the characters in it are a living testament to that. The music can be heard 
 from each individual car, cell phones ring form various pedestrian on the move, more conversations 
 then ever can be heard.
  
  Replayability - This game is a gem! Even with surefire future installments on the way in the next 
 3-5 years; this is a game that will last. The city, characters, and design of the game will never 
 truly feel dated. The multiplayer will keep you coming back for more. Even when you think you have 
 seen and done it all, you haven't!
  
  What the heck are still reading this review for?! Please go out and do yourself a favor and buy 
 this game. Don't tease yourself with a rental; buy it! It will prove itself time and time again 
 that it is the game that keeps on giving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Lets get to it, WOW ! They've done a terrific job of bringing Liberty City to life. No matter where 
 you're at, you can just look around and see the entire city breathing with life. This is the game 
 we've all been waiting to see out of Rockstar. Its all its cracked up to be so here's my breakdown 
 review.
  
  
  Graphics = Im going to say mind blowing at times, But there has been occasions where I think there 
 could have been improvements. For the most part its picture perfect though.
  
  
  Controls = Very familiar if you're a GTA veteran. The new locking system is a welcome change to 
 the stiff controls of the games past.
  
  
  Story = Rags to attempting riches. You kinda want to see Nikko make his way up the food chain right 
 from the get. Keep in mind that the story changes based on your decisions too.
  
  
  Multiplayer = My oh my what have we been missing for years! The online really shines with all sorts 
 of different variations. All in a humongous city to boot!
  
  
  Replay value = With multiple endings based on the choices you make you're sure to wanna run through 
 it again. The multiplayer aspect will have you coming back for more too.
  
  
  Sound = The city itself is a living breathing thing all in its own, with all the gunshots, ranting, 
 and gossip you'd expect from a real city. The soundtrack on the radio stations are mediocre if 
 you ask me this time around though.
  
  
  Overall value = Whether you own the PS3 or the 360 you have to own this game. This series is often 
 imitated but never duplicated. Every time they release a new GTA they raise the bar for other sandbox 
 games. This one is no different. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieD1962
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Peter Travers has given GTA IV 3.5 of 4 stars in a very well written, must read review. Says it 
 is better than anything he has seen at the multiplex so far this summer except maybe Iron Man. 
 I have subscribed to Rolling Stone since I was 12 in 1974 (God I am getting old) and have never 
 seen this before! For awhile RS was doing video game reviews but they stopped that over a year 
 ago or so.
  
  I have played GTA since its inception on the PC. Then watching it growing up on the various consoles 
 and watching it get better and better. It has been amazing how much GTA has evolved over the years. 
 
  
  When I first started playing the game I had the most fun finding the tank and blowing up everything 
 in sight and crushing the cops. That horrible top down view and 2D graphics evolving to the stunning 
 work of art that GTA IV is now. What a ride it has been playing all the various versions.
  
  I am a sucker for collector or box sets on DVD's or games so I got the special edition with 
 the lock box, keychain, book, duffle bag and sound track and LOVE IT! The lock box is almost identical 
 to the saftey deposit box I have at the bank.
  
  Well time to settle in for the next 400 hours or so and corrupt myself, again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cage00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is all I expected it to be. I have played all the GTA games except the original top perspective 
 ones. GTA4 has all the content and amazing story line of the ones before with some new editions 
 to the mix. The targeting system has been upgraded for the better although sometimes it can be 
 a little hairy but still greatly improved from before. The car handling is more realistic this 
 time around. Some people say they don't like it but I personally think it was done perfectly. There's 
 nothing like skidding around a corner at speed sideways. This adds a level of realism never seen 
 before in a GTA game. The people of Liberty City react to what's going on around them and seem 
 to be on about their everyday lives. The new police grid also adds more realism to the game although 
 I found it a little easier to elude them than in previous games. Also the phone calls from your 
 friends do get a little annoying considering they always call when you are in the middle of a mission 
 and declining makes your relationship go down. Sometimes when you are driving stuff will pop up 
 out of nowhere but this rarely happens. These problems barely make a difference in the whole experience 
 but are worth noting. The story line is voiced superbly. The story itself is excellent. Overall 
 this GTA is well worth the 10 hours it takes to beat. One of my most favorite games to be introduced 
 on next gen platforms to date. Well worth the extra wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omalogus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a game people have been waiting since the final showdown in San Andreas ended. 
 It was hyped to be and was the biggest game launch in history. The question is though, did it live 
 up to the hype. In many ways it did but in some very key sections it didin't.
  First off I must say that gta 4 has some of the greatest enviroment visuals in a game to date. 
 The light that engulfs the city is never the same and the whole city feels very alive. There's 
 always something to do weather it be the main storylne, side missions, or the insanely awesome 
 online mode. The new shooting mechanics are great and take a little getting used but are a fun 
 new addition when you do. Instead of just running around now you have to take cover and are able 
 to aim a lot more efficiently weather it be for head shots or something else. The boating and helicopter 
 riding are amazing giving the detail to the city and the missions are action packed in fun.
  With all these great things it lacks one very important thing, variety. Although there is a variety 
 of things to do the missions seem to get very repetative and don't introduce you to enough of the 
 different things to do in Liberty City. They involve usually a car chase, or getting into a building 
 and blasting a bunch of people whereas San Andreas went from gang fights, to paratrooping, fighting 
 on planes, shooting it up in casinoes, and even using a fighter jet to take out enemies.
  All this said Grand Theft Auto 4 is an amazing game and definitely should be a must buy for any 
 action gamer or previous GTA fan. Just don't expect it to be the best Grand Theft Auto in series, 
 San Andreas holds that by a long shot.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  When I saw the reviews all over the internet on this game I rushed out to pick it up for the ps3. 
 When I first booted the game up I was hit with a 10 minute download which is only on the ps3 version 
 this is supposed to decrease load times but every other time you start up the game I noticed that 
 you can't skip the intro so I was a little disappointed by this. This was just one of the few flaws 
 I found in this game. The game play has improved so much since San Andreas it feels like an entirely 
 new game. I've played all the previous GTAs and I felt the game play in each one was the same so 
 it got a little repetitive but this game has changed that. The gun control is perfect and it is 
 so much fun to just go around shooting people and getting chased by cops. The story is ok too I 
 mean it could use some work but there are so many characters that you meet that there will have 
 to be someone that you like. The only problem with the single player mode is lack of customization. 
 There's a very small variety of clothes that Niko can wear so you will probably get tired of his 
 look quickly. Other than that though the developers really payed attention to even the smallest 
 details like the fake ads you will see on billboards while your driving around liberty city as 
 well as the radio and tv stations that you will probably spend a lot of time with in the game. 
 Online play is a huge part of the game because its so much fun. There are a variety of game modes 
 like deathmatch or cops and crooks but there are also team based missions that you can do like 
 hangman's NOOSE which is an escort mission where your being chased by hundreds of cops. Also there's 
 a ranking system online which goes by $ that you collect in every online match. On the ps3 version 
 there's a star next to your name with a number inside that indicates your rank. There are 10 ranks 
 in the game and with each rank you go up you get new clothes to dress up your online character 
 in even a zombie costume which is exclusive to the ps3 version. Unfortunately I feel like after 
 you get to rank 6 all of the clothes you get from ranking up aren't worth it because they're basically 
 clothes that you had previously unlocked in different colors so in the next installment of GTA 
 I'm hoping the developers will correct this issue. 
  
  Overall I'm giving GTA4 a 9.5 out of 10 because it is one of the most memorable games I've played 
 since Zelda Ocarina of Time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpman_Z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Few games have the hype to live up to that GTA4 does. That being said, let's dive right into what 
 they did WRONG.
  
  1. The cell phone calls - they're annoying and having to constantly babysit characters on dates 
 is boring and tedious. There's nothing like being on the other side of town when one of these loudmouths 
 gives you a ring. You have to speed all the way across town (usually within a minute) to pick them 
 up just for them to whine and complain about you being late. FAIL!
  
  2. The story only has a few memorable characters. Most of them are annoying. Also the betrayals, 
 plot twists, and story conventions of the GTA universe have become very cliche over the years. 
 
  
  3. The game has a bunch of glitches. AI companions that do the stupidest possible maneuvers, mission 
 objectives that get hung up for little apparent reason, and the occasional GPS system screw-up 
 can all be frustrating in heated moments of the game.
  
  As for what they did right, well... they got most of it right! Don't expect anything radically 
 new or exciting from the genre. The driving is slower, the cops are easily evaded, and the missions 
 are the same old drek that Rockstar has been dragging around since the PS2 GTA3. But it's still 
 fun! If you're like me, and you play the game for the missions alone, then there's a lot in store 
 for you here. 
  
  Thankfully gone are the Sim-like elements of San Andreas. The graphics look amazing compared to 
 prior installments. This game is like the last franchise on earth to adopt ragdoll physics which 
 is always a laugh. Optional story elements are a welcome addition. In some cases, you decide the 
 outcome of the characters.
  
  If you liked GTA before, you will enjoy this, but I can't help but wonder if Next Gen is dumbing 
 everything down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanslacher54
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 improves so much on things in past Grand Theft Auto games that we didn't know 
 that a game could be this good. Better drive-bys, missions, graphics, and targeting system is just 
 a small list of improvements. It has different outcomes and endings, so make the right choices. 
 It also has a new way to get away from the cops. The driving is more realistic so you won't be 
 able to turn a corner at 100 mph. The cops are smarter than ever before. If you shoot just one 
 person, a pedestrian will probably call 911. The cops will be there in a flash, so you better run! 
 The graphics are amazing. If you shoot a bullet at your car, you will see the bullet mark that 
 it left. Also, if you are driving and you get in a bad car accident, you will probaly go flying 
 through the windshield. Do yourself a favor and buy Grand Theft Auto 4 now! What are you waiting 
 for? Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I didn't want to give this game a 10. I really didn't. I'm one of those people that is very weary 
 of hype. I've seen so many games get higher scores then they deserve simply based on hype. Furthermore, 
 GTA IV has a few issues that I wish were fixed/changed. But when it came down to give it a score, 
 I simply could not give it anything less then a 10. Why? Video games should be measured by the 
 amount of fun/entertainment/value they give the video game player. 
  
  Quite honestly, this game was (and still is) a complete blast. I was never bored. Sometimes I got 
 frustrated, but it was that good kind of frustrated (I'M GOING TO PASS THIS MISSION IF IT TAKES 
 ME ALL NIGHT!) and not the bad kind of frustrated (I DON'T FEEL LIKE PLAYING THIS GAME ANYMORE 
 BUT I'M GOING TO PUSH THROUGH IT SO I CAN BEAT IT) . 
  
  The graphics are superbly detailed. Liberty City is detailed and feels so vibrant. The game has 
 tons of memorable characters. The game is so full of things to do, that I can honestly say that 
 if it was the only game I had to play for the next year, I'd be perfectly fine with that. The humor 
 and dialogue is great. The story is well above average. The music is great. 
  
  Basically I can go on and on telling you how everything was great. As for the issues that I had, 
 here they are:
  1) There is some screen tearing, however if the devs used Vsync then the frame-rate would drop 
 so it's not too big of a deal.
  2) Missions need checkpoints so that you don't have to repeat mundane driving from point a to point 
 b segments over and over.
  3) The missions start to feel a tad bit generic near the end, however this again is not a big deal 
 because the game is long, so I look at the more generic missions as more of a bonus as they could 
 easily not be there and the game would still be sufficiently long enough.
  4) I wish driving was a bit more sharp.
  
  Other then those small things this game is absolutely 
 awesome. I'm giving it a 10 because it really is one of the best games I have ever played and is 
 already easily on my list of top 10 games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disappearingact
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  All in all, GTA4 is a great game for those of you who like the sandbox styled games. As i mentioned 
 above it puts the euphoria engine to good use. The game visually looks very good on both HD televisions 
 and traditional televisions. It controls very good and makes good use of audio. Although, I feel 
 the game is very repetitive like the previous titles. The AI in the game can be very difficult 
 to play with. The online concept works pretty good to an extent and, like the previous grand theft 
 autos there are visual glitches. Theres also been complaints from other players that the game can 
 become very dark at night time, i can see there point but the game is still very much playable. 
 In previous GTA's there was usually a big cut scene which let you know when you reached a new island. 
 I actually wasn't aware i unlocked any islands until my friend told me i was on the final one, 
 so it can be a little confusing.
  
  Basically, GTA fans will love this game as it is PROBABLY the best one to date. Not too big and 
 too small, brilliant audio work and visuals and great mechs. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Im not going to bore any one with a long preachy review. there are tons of those. I'll just add 
 my 2 cents that this game is a must have. Its alot of fun to play. Lots to do and see. The story 
 is great with enough twist to keep you guessing a little but not so thick as to be hard to follow. 
 the graphics are good but far from great. i supose with so much going on in such a huge world thay 
 have to go for more of a quantity over quality in graphics though i look at other big world games 
 like oblivion and do not see that compramise. o well im sure there is a resone as this game does 
 not feel rushed of half arsed.
  
  the gun fighting system is a little simple and dated feeling but far from unplayble. in fact im 
 sure some people prefer it. My only real grip is that i would have preferd more varity in the cars 
 and most important the way the cars drive ect. you basicly have 4 or 5 cars in what seems like 
 a class. and all the cars in that class seem to drive just alike. of course this game is not GT5p 
 but still driveing is a LARGE part of the gameplay. i mean it is called grand theft AUTO. just 
 a little more in depth car phisics would have been nice but as even what we have is a improvement 
 to what came before. And whats there does feel good and solid. im not going to take off my score 
 for that as there will always be something in any game i will feel could have been better.
  
  The sound is great. lots of chatter on the street and of course the radio stations are awsome. 
 lots of varity. the TV shows are funny the first time threw but thay are not nearly the varity 
 of the radio stations. in fact i dout any one would have cared if thay had been cut from the game. 
 the missions are usualy fairly simple go here, kill this guy fair but still every now and then you 
 get something a little differnt. 
  At any rate get this game its a AAA for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play-ME-Rob01
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  There is just to much to say about this game meaning that it's unable to fit all of the posotive 
 feedback in! There's just soo much good stuuf - great character design, characer development, mission 
 design, the Liberty City area is just sweet and the RPG is just imense + so much more!
  
  Niko Bellic is an imegrant from Russia, staying with his cousin Roman (wh won't stop phoning you 
 to ask if you want to go bowling, drinking eating.........) . Niko then meets a whole array of characters 
 such as Malrie, Dimitri, Packie, Elizabetha, Dwayne, Playboy X, Francis......... this list just 
 never stops. The great thing about these characters is that they're all different, imaginative, 
 have great storys' and all kick butt!
  
  Missions' are just great as all missions are different, they don't bore you, it's just not all 
 shoot-em-up and they keep you intrigued in the game, wanting you to find out what happens in the 
 next chapter!
  
  One of my favourite bits is using the police helicopter cheat and flying to the airport - do it 
 and you'll get some funny reactions! Also, shooting people in the back with the shotgun is great!
 
  
  This review aint that good, but buy it. it deserves youre' top shelf! It deserves to be held in 
 lovng arms! It deserves to be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scianix-Black
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series has a long history of ups as well as down (cough-hot coffee-cough) , 
 but none of it has slowed this behemoth of a franchise down.
  
  Rockstar enters the scene with it's fourth run at the crime-spree action genre since it first broke 
 into the three-dimensional realm.
  
  And boy, what an entrance.
  
  This may be the very first GTA game to fully deserve the "M for Mature" rating. Our little baby's 
 all grown up.
  
  GTA IV is the FIRST Grand Theft Auto game to feature a very mature story. Not one about gang banging 
 or testosterone filled drug dealers, but about escaping one's past.
  
  As Niko Bellic steps off the boat to the very drunk greeting of his cousin, Roman Bellic, you know 
 that you're in for a treat. From start to finish, this game is a moral adventure. Many people have 
 criticized this game, saying that it doesn't deserve the 10 that it has merited, but I disagree.
 
  
  Those players fail to realize that Rockstar was going for realism this time around, rather than 
 childish mischief. It seems that Rockstar decided to aim this game towards the "Mature" audience 
 this time around, while still trying to appeal to those who just love to blow stuff up, which works 
 well.
  
  Everything is beautiful. The people, the cars, the streets, the boats, the city. Little minute 
 details here and there will have you "Wow!"ing at every turn.
  
  The combat is also fun, but I'll admit, the cover system doesn't fair to well indoors, as it's 
 sometimes hard to get Niko to cover against the wall you want him to. Still, only a minor annoyance. 
 
  
  As for the online, I think it's lacking something. It's good, but not great. There's just something 
 it's missing, but all this time, I haven't been able to put my finger on what it was. I'll be honest, 
 I do get bored of it after a while, but I've played through the single player almost twice now.
 
  
  This game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newgames128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Everything about Grand Theft Auto 4 screams ambitious. Yet upon the first elements of gameplay 
 encountered, you immediately are re-familiarized with the series' biggest shortcoming, the sloppy 
 controls (aside from the improved targeting system, which can still be somewhat quirky, mostly 
 during indoor shootouts) . Everything else about the game has been stepped up to rare heights that 
 few other games achieve, but the second you get into a car, climb a ladder, fight someone hand 
 to hand, you can't help but feel a bit of a let down. It's not game killing by any means and is 
 certainly easy enough to adjust to, but there's really no excuse for the almost digressive performance 
 of how the game controls. For example, driving feels like you're on an ice rink until you learn 
 how to compensate for it. It's forgivable for a game this massive in scale though, considering 
 how much else it gets right. 
  The campaign length could've also been cut in half and it would've been perfect, as the missions 
 become tedious at about that point in the story, testing all but the most hardcore GTA players' 
 levels of patience. Few games can match the amount of detail poured into this title though, and 
 considering that once the main story is over and you are only about 50% complete, it proves itself 
 to be one of the most value-added games put to a disc in recent years. Obviously a must play for 
 anyone who's enjoyed a previous GTA, and well worth checking out for everyone else who is at least 
 curious as to how an open world game should be made. This one deserves most of the hype it's gotten, 
 and that's saying quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimension4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  GTA-IV has set the record for most sales in it's launch week and the most money ever made by a 
 video game. it also has 10.0's across the board including gamespot and IGN whcih havent rated a 
 10 on games in over a decade. now i will give you my take on how real this hype is.
  
  pro's:
  this compared to past GTA games this one has made a big step on animations and graphics, 
 even physics. the realism is way more realistic then before. the cellphone works well in this game 
 and the wanted system has made a big step. it's great to have a search area to escape instead of 
 just driving till the cops are gone. getting wanted is more realistic also since you need to be 
 seen, even peds will call the cops. with multiplayer we have our free roam feature which is great 
 for just hangin with friends and doing ranom things
  
  con's
  graphics are below the standards of modern games which gamespots older rating system wouldnt give 
 this game a 10 on that condition. now the controls are a little off. in single player you need 
 to hit sprint to just jog and that is a bad thing when your thumb is needed for the RS to manage 
 manual aim. it slows down the pace alot and it's anoying. you are sprinting and then a phone call 
 comes while you are pressing X and you automatically pick it up and get stopped from running. the 
 manual aim is flawed, it has no aim assist which isnt the worst but the sensitivity is bad. i could 
 play other games and follow a target with ease. the hit detection is bad also. in other games the 
 bullets hit, this game the shots have a range limit. last alot of old features from past games 
 are gone
  
  that sums it up. a very good game but the controls are off and the shooting mechanics are terrible 
 in this game. the visuals are below the standards of most games and alot of old things are missing. 
 with these in mind i cant give this a 10 but it is close
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ame3030
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  First off, Grand theft auto 4 is a game with so many different options if amazing. Look at all 
 the possibilities: pool, darts, comedy club, ect. It's ridiculous. The game does a great job of 
 sucking you in to the story. You're going to liberty city to forget your past, and meet your cousin 
 roman and his so called mansion, and most of all to live the American dream. 
  
  At first I could not stop playing this game, the missions, the cell phone everything was just so 
 new and unique. Also the game looked so beautiful I felt like I was a part of the city. But after 
 a while the excitement wore off. It just got old. Do a mission; go on a date, by some new clothes, 
 repeat. I mean I should have rented it wore off on me so quick. This game somehow got me so wrapped 
 up in it, but then let me down. Sure there will be many people who disagree with me (and I respect 
 that) but I bet there are people out there who have the same point of view. The missions were great, 
 until having done so many they all started to feel the same. And then there's the cop chases. What 
 Happened!? This used to be one of my favorite parts of the game now it's so easy, get out of the 
 circle, hide for a bit, then your safe. Come on, where is the army coming in with the tanks, the 
 cops smashing you into the wall to stop you and setting up blockades everywhere. Another thing 
 I was very disappointed in was the customization in the game. In san andreas there were so many 
 possibilities how to make your character. And now there are just clothes. 
  
  Overall I love the GTA series, but this time they let me down (get MGS 4,10. out of10 for sure.)
 
  
  Thank you 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathan-Hale
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 in my opinion is the best game in the series. With an amazing plot that takes you back to 
 liberty city where you think you're going to meet a rich cousin and live happily ever after. Wrong, 
 instead you have a poor cousin and have to work hard to get money, and in Niko's opinion his job 
 is fast and easy. Over 80 missions to have fun on and a wonderful online. This game is not about 
 racibut racing in the game is a whole lotta fun and is a must to try it out.
  
  However i must say that i was disappointed that some things were in San Andreas and not in Gta 
 4. For example in GTA 4 you cant fix up your ride with nitrous, decals, or even fly planes anymore, 
 i missed flying the big jumbo jet that was locked up inside of the hanger at las venturas... and 
 u cant even ride in fast jets. But other than that this game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magg93
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  United States, Canada, 
  Mexico, Panama, 
  Haiti, Jamaica, Peru; 
  Republic Dominican, 
  Cuba, Carribean, 
  Greenland, El Salvador too. 
  
  Puerto Rico, Columbia, 
 
  Venezuela, 
  Honduras, Guyana, and still; 
  Guatemala, Bolivia, 
  then Argentina, 
  and Ecuador, Chile, Brazil. 
  
  Costa Rica, Belize, 
  Nicaragua, Bermuda, 
  Bahamas, Tobago, 
 San Juan; 
  Paraguay, Uruguay, 
  Suriname, and 
  French Guiana, Barbados, and Guam. 
  
  Norway, and Sweden, 
  and Iceland, and Finland, 
  and Germany now one piece; 
  Switzerland, 
 Austria, 
  Czechoslovakia, 
  Italy, Turkey, and Greece. 
  
  Poland, Romania, 
  Scotland, Albania, 
  Ireland, Russia, Oman; 
  Bulgaria, Saudi Arabia, 
  Hungary, 
  Cyprus, 
 Iraq, and Iran. 
  
  There's Syria, Lebanon, 
  Israel, Jordan, 
  both Yemens, Kuwait, and Bahrain, 
  the Netherlands, Luxembourg, 
  Belgium, and Portugal, 
 
  France, England, Denmark, and Spain. 
  
  India, Pakistan, 
  Burma, Afghanistan, 
  Thailand, Nepal, and Bhutan; 
  Kampuchea, Malaysia, 
  then Bangladesh, Asia, 
  and China, 
 Korea, Japan. 
  
  Mongolia, Laos, 
  and Tibet, Indonesia, 
  the Philippine Islands, Taiwan; 
  Sri Lanka, New Guinea, 
  Sumatra, New Zealand, 
  then Borneo, 
 and Vietnam. 
  
  Tunisia, Morocco, 
  Uganda, Angola, 
  Zimbabwe, Djibouti, Botswana; 
  Mozambique, Zambia, 
  Swaziland, Gambia, 
  Guinea, Algeria, 
 Ghana. 
  
  Burundi, Lesotho, 
  and Malawi, Togo, 
  The Spanish Sahara is gone; 
  Niger, Nigeria, 
  Chad, and Liberia, 
  Egypt, Benin, and Gabon. 
  
  Tanzania, Somalia, 
 
  Kenya, and Mali, 
  Sierra Leone, and Algier; 
  Dahomey, Namibia, 
  Senegal, Libya, 
  Cameroon, Congo, Zaire. 
  
  Ethiopia, Guinea_ 
  Bissau, Madagascar, 
 
  Rwanda, Mahore [?] , and Cayman; 
  Hong Kong, Abu Dhabi, 
  Qatar, Yugoslavia, 
  Crete, Mauritania, 
  then Transylvania, 
  Monaco, Liechtenstein, 
  Malta, and Palestine, 
 
  Fiji, Australia, Sudan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about this game, first of all its overhyped. I think its awesome but it does 
 it different and too realistic then the gta's before. Its an awesome experience worthy of everyone, 
 but a real GTA fan should not expect too much.
  
  The graphics:
  
  One word: amazing. The graphics look so realistic and next-gen that you should be amazed, no matter 
 what. The character detail to the city at night, it looks awesome. The little flaws here and there 
 will not ruin it by a long shot but the graphics are awesome.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay it revolutionary, its still a sandbox game ofcourse but its too realistic and there 
 is not too much GTA in it in my opinion. But its still awesome and if you never played a GTA then 
 you wont miss the old skool and you will simply be amazed by the action and the pace.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Grand theft auto 4 is an awesome experience but it does things different then 
 the previous GTA and is more realistic. However its the best GTA and its another awesome musthave 
 for every ps3 or 360 owner. The graphics, sound, gameplay and awesome voice overs make it an experience 
 wich you wont soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mba41025
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Hi My name is Lachlan
  Grand theft auto 4 on ps3 is awsome. It is awsome the new things you can do like catch taxi cabs, 
 the cellphone and much more. The strip club is awsome. I dont have a ps3 yet but I will soon. What 
 I have read the ps3 version is awsome. The dating system is awsome on the internet. Your cousin 
 roman helps alot. But the chracter you are is Niko belic. A russian. There are tons of missions 
 to do in GTA4. The new thing is awsome which is the internet. You ca dump girls look upi cars and 
 get emails. They arr all awsome things you can do. I look forward to the multiplayer online system. 
 You can customize your chracter so much. In the story mode you can buy clothes. Go eating, Entertainment 
 and much more. It is great. GTA4 city which is librity city stories isnt as big as san andreas. 
 But GTA4's city has something going on everywhere. Which is awsome. If you need help you should 
 get the game guide. I have the game guide. It will help you a whole lot more. And you can make 
 the game go longer. The story mode goes for 30 hours. But if you are not in a hurry you can make 
 it a whole lot longer. I am going to do that. But I got to say this is the best game ever and always 
 will be. This is so freckin awsome. I defiently reccomend this game and h=get the ps3. It is much 
 better.
  Thanks for reading Lachlan
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard there was going to be a GTA IV, I really couldn't wait to get my hands on it. 
 A couple months before its (definite final of April 29th) set release date, I went out and bought 
 GTA III, since I hadn't played it, before; I was that excited about getting it.
  
  Actually playing GTA IV struck a sense of greatness into me; the first thing that took me back 
 a mile was the graphics; they are utterly brilliant. I remember taking a ride around Liberty, the 
 first time I started the game, because I was really taken by the graphics. Cars had been given 
 a practical complete work-over, and everything looked so clean and smooth; I fell in love when 
 I saw the Infernus and the hailed return of the Sabre GT, along with the addition of other muscle 
 cars, such as the Dukes.
  
  The characters were great, as well. Some people found Niko hard to adjust to, because of his accent, 
 but I thought it was a brilliant change for the series, and even more so, the way the game panned 
 out, later on. As with all GTA characters, there were some "love 'em, hate 'em" types thrown in 
 there, but would it be GTA without them? I'll leave that to your imaginations.
  
  There were all the little additions into the game, that made the experience fresh, as well, such 
 as being able to hail and play passenger in a cab, break into a car, when its locked, (which other 
 GTA games forced you to find another car) and the detail on damage and blood splatter. Speaking 
 of damage, I was really happy to see that they had removed being able to blow up your car, then 
 it tips over, as well as taking engine damage from crashing on the front end, when the engine to 
 the car is in the back. (the Bus and Trashmaster are effective tanks, because of this)
  
  Although there are the odd little things in GTA IV missing, that were in Rockstar's earlier GTA 
 titles, such as the Fire engine missions, Ambulance missions and, to an extent, the Cab driving, 
 (which I think they should have expanded to later-game, as well as early) it is still a brilliant 
 game, and has quite a nice storyline to carry it along. The fact that you could also interact with 
 your phone was another of those brilliant additions that was a nice touch.
  
  Although they included an Internet Cafe into the game, it wasn't really that inspiring, and could 
 have had a fair bit of added material to it, such as being able to purchase (rather test & run) 
 cars, like in one of the missions, and adding other extra content would have been brilliant, to 
 really make it stand out, but nonetheless, it is a nice addition, and shows how far GTA has actually 
 come.
  
  Being able to hack police computers, however, was a great addition, allowing you to select vigilante 
 missions to take out gangs, stop a thief, or splatter a car jackers' brains all over the dashboard.
 
  
  Police detection was brilliant, too; I really enjoyed the lengthy police chases that sometimes 
 ensued, due to the fact that you're having a difficult time evading them on 5 stars. At 3, I managed 
 to evade them in a Trashmaster, in some random twist of hilarity, but don't go thinking that'll 
 work for you.
  
  One thing I was a little disappointed in was the soundtracks they had included in the game. Being 
 a really modern-based game, I was expecting some really great songs to be on there, but generally 
 only found a few that I actually liked, while listening through them. However, no one can base 
 a game on its soundtrack, alone. Custom music would also have been nice to see, in GTA IV, as it 
 had made a dbut in the PSP-bound GTA games, but again, its just the small things, there. It doesn't 
 take away from the game, itself.
  
  One very welcome addition I believe is great is being able to take cover, rather than having to 
 makeshift cover, and pop out, when you want to fire, like with in other GTA titles. GTA IV brought 
 the games a step further, allowing you to fire around corners, over having to nip in and out with 
 each shot; it complimented the multiplayer brilliantly.
  
  Speaking of multiplayer, it was a nice little addition to the games; allowing you to reap havoc 
 on the unsuspecting Liberty City with a friend, take on little missions, and take on other players 
 in death matches. Although a nice addition; accompanied with a customisable character, with more 
 choices, as you go up ranks, I'd have to say it is a great inclusion to the game, however, very 
 tricky to maintain your ranking, as I've witnessed a loss of rankings, sometimes, when returning 
 to play online, again. That's probably one of the biggest problems, since you could go through 
 a whole $50,000 (not real cash, kids) to gain a new rank, just to lose it, the next time you play.
 
  
  However, even with its little quirks, and the possibility of multiplayer not exactly being a strong 
 point in GTA IV, the overall game is quite spectacular, and a lot better being experienced, than 
 being shown to you by a friend, or reading about on a site or in a magazine, so my advice to whoever 
 reads this is to; if you haven't already, go out and purchase this game. If you really like the 
 previous GTA games, you'll love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The new GTA is by far one of the best games I have ever played. Firstly, the games enviroment "Liberty 
 City" is absolutely huge and complex. There are just so many different things you can do while 
 playing GTA...... Aside from the missions from other GTA's, there are also heaps of side missions 
 (drug delivery, vigilante, street races ect...) and they also seem to fit into a much tighter story 
 line. I have spent hours just roaming the streets, exploring, meanwhile running into "random characters" 
 (missions picked up by bumping into someone in the street.) The mini games have also made a change 
 for the better. Now, bowling, darts, pool, and even cabaret shows are availible for dates/hanging 
 out with friends. The online play is also amazing, so many games, teams, deathmatch, street reacing... it's 
 all there. My oppinion... BUY IT!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I've completed the storyline for GTA4, witnessing both endings. I'm not sure if I'll ever get the 
 100% due to laziness (~80% currently) , so I figured that I might as well make a review for it.
 
  
  Story: The story was pretty awesome. The story itself is not something that would interest me as 
 much as the storyline of Vice City, but Niko was so well defined (as well as the supporting and 
 minor characters) that the story far exceeds previous Grand Theft Autos. Liberty City is given 
 so much life. Through the use of the internet, the radio, and just hearing people carry out conversations 
 (although they disperse once you get too close) , the city seems so alive. The internet provides 
 a nice spoof of the actual internet, full of bloggers, dating sites, excessively patriotic people, 
 flamers, news, etc. The radio provides ads, music, and just plain stupid/funny stuff. Although 
 the missions go buy rather quickly, if you dont explore the city, you are missing out on a lot.
 
  10/10
  
  Gameplay/Controls: First off, the health system, although a little weird at first, is pretty much 
 identical to previous GTA iterations. Health is depleted at a fairly reasonable rate, but I think 
 Niko could survive some of the falls he attempts by sacrificing his legs instead of falling on 
 his head (Headshot by the swings is strangely entertaining) . The in game map is pretty nice, but 
 I do wish that they put on markers that would stay up until the user took it off themselves (as 
 well as the current ones) . This would make it easier when trying to hunt pigeons and attempt jumps. 
 Missions seem to be much more manageable than previous GTAs (I'd get very frustrated with previous 
 games and often resorted to cheating) , with the exception of the end missions (that give misleading 
 directions) . Controls are much better in this game, but I sometimes find myself still having trouble 
 with the half trigger bit. The aiming system is great, as well as taking cover. Combat could do 
 with some work, or perhaps Niko isn't meant for hand to hand combat (1 on 1 is cake, but more than 
 one enemy poses a problem) . Also, driving had a learning curve but once I got the hang of it.... its 
 a major improvement over previous GTAs.
  10/10
  
  Content: Ok. So this isn't something I usually put in reviews, but I figure GTA4 needs it. First 
 off, the game is missing oh so much from San Andreas and even Vice City and 3. The game doesn't 
 have character building (which made me happy) . It doesn't let you buy places and businesses (something 
 that makes sense with Niko's "I'm poor" attitude) . It doesn't have a parachute to explore jumping 
 off helicopters or high buildings (I miss this one) . It also does not have gang wars (which makes 
 sense) . The game, however, has an overhauled version of San Andreas dating system, that I found 
 enjoyable (but I do miss the DDR button pressing moments) . The friend system is fine, but I do 
 hate how turning down a friends request automatically warrants a thumbs down (why are they so whiny?) 
 as well as being late makes the likability percentage go down (why only one hour??? It takes more 
 than that to travel the whole city (if I dont want to take the taxi) . The friends system could 
 have done with some tweaks. The cell phone is a wonderful tool. Its customizable and keeps everyone 
 in contact (unless I turn it off :P) . I do wish that the cell phone's camera could save to the 
 hard drive or something tho. The cell phone also has the fun multiplayer gameplay. Multiplayer 
 is great, but not perfect. Still, it provides many different games to play. Something that I noticed 
 was missing, and that bugged me the most, was the silencer for the pistol or any gun for that matter. 
 How do I go about killing pigeons (or people) when I have no silent weapon (short of a melee) ? 
 C'mon....
  9/10
  
  Graphics: I'm impressed with the graphics as a GTA game, but considering that it is on a HD console 
 with the ability of reading off a 50 GB Blu-ray disc plus hard drive space, it just does not cut 
 it. Although resolution doesnt define graphics quality (proven, since Xbox360 has higher resolution 
 than PS3 but looks "inferior") I'd still have wished for a nicer looking game. I, of course, blame 
 Microsoft for paying off Rockstar and making the once Sony time-exclusive focused on the 360. This 
 made the PS3 a second priority (but it turned out alright) and made them use only DVD storage. 
 Lets hope GTA5 does better? Frame rates suffer from time to time (I notice them once in a while, 
 especially when explosions are present) but are not as bad as I would expect from a seamless world 
 without loadtimes. These dont really fit in the category, but oh well... Popin is still somewhat 
 bothersome... as its bad to look behind while driving at high speed as when you look forward again 
 (sometimes) a car will appear and BAM! The redundancy of cars bothers me quite a bit, as the Sultan 
 RS is only found in one place (that Im aware of) , but once you drive it, ~1/5 cars you see are 
 Sultan RS's. Some areas stay true to the cars present, but for the most part it depends on what 
 you're driving (not as bad as previous GTAs tho) . I must admit, however, GTA animation shows some 
 believable character facial expressions, if you look.
  8/10
  
  Sound: With the radio providing an overwhelming selection of stations, plus the television providing 
 a great parody of actual tv, as well as the overwhelming conversations civilians have (as well 
 as solo cellphone conversations) . The in game thunder makes me jump with the boom my speakers provide 
 as well as the dualshock3. The dialogue carried out in cutscenes and such have quite a bit of emotion 
 and the voice actors seem pretty talented. Explosions sound amazing (as well as look nice) . Guns 
 and cars each have a distinct sound and are quite lifelike. The only annoyance I had with sound 
 was when Niko said "I'm gonna rip your f***ing heart out!" in battle. Not only is this line rather.... dark... but 
 its said in such a way that I thought it was un-Niko-like. At least it wasn't said very often.
 
  10/10
  
  Tilt: I really liked the game and wasn't disappointed when I bought it on April 29th. Although 
 I liked GTA3, Vice City, and San Andreas, I would have to say that GTA4 is my favorite. I liked 
 it so much, I'm raising the tilt to 50.
  50/50
  
  97/100
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 4 puts you in the shoes of Niko Bellic, a russian imagrant who is in search of 
 the american dream and for a particular person. But instead gets himself caught up in criminal 
 activity.
  And so once again the player will be able to steal and drive cars, motor bikes boats and helicopters 
 and also get to use a variety of weapons including M4 machine guns, uzis, combat pistols, baseball 
 bats and shotguns. Its a shame though that rockstar have taken out chainsaws and swords etc which 
 all of the previous Grand theft autos had. Not only that but they have also taken out planes and 
 jets.
  The ability to use all Vehicles and weapons might have made GTA4 a slight improvement.
  On the 
 other hand the graphics are amazing.
  The ability to being to crouch and lean against walls is a huge improvement and certainly helps 
 when in a fire fight.
  And of course then we come to the mobile phone which is unique in its on way. Being able to download 
 ringtones and wallpapers from the in game internet is so realistic. And being able to use the phone 
 to get texts and ring friends to go out with for a meal or an acitivity in the game or to recieve 
 missions is so creative and so close to real life.
  The only problem with this game for me is that there is so many things to do like completing all 
 the story missions, going out with your girl friend or friends in the game, shooting all 200 flying 
 rats and finding all the stunt jumps etc to get 100% is so frustrating
  I recommend a Strategy guide for anyone attempting to get 100%.
  And for some reason I feel bored 
 of it.
  Even though the radio station is fantastic but driving to a location, then killing someone or some 
 people, then chasing after the one who gets away over and over again (or anything similar) really 
 takes up too much of your time- especially if you fail or die, or begin being chased by the police 
 which makes you feel so pi**sed off. All though if you do fail a mission at least you can replay 
 it straight away thanks to your mobile.
  My overall rating was going to be a 10 but its not quite threre for me.
  so its a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenkenshin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  GTAIV manages to entertain in just about every way you could want from a game. It's an experience 
 where you can enjoy mini-games such as playing pool or throwing darts, to going to a strip club 
 or watching a theater show with your in-game friends acquired along the way. The humor throughout 
 the game is always worth watching, whether it be through the TV at your place, the dialogue from 
 friends, or from the radio in any of the vehicles you use to get around. Your options in this game 
 are limitless, within a very large, lively city environment to explore and get to know. There's 
 very few people that wouldn't like this considering how many different things you can do at any 
 time, however the very strong adult-oriented content is not for kids or sensitive adults. It certainly 
 doesn't feel like they held back at all here regarding the language or content, but it always feels 
 right within the context of the game. If mature content offends you, then this might not be for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaydeep12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is one awesome game. It has so much detail slapped into it, but there are also 
 some very small problems.
  
  Personally, I would give GTA 4 9.8 out of 10, but Gamespot changed there rating system last year. 
 GTA has a lot of depth in the game like "decisions." GTA has moments in the story where you have 
 a decision to make which will change the game itself like the ending.
  
  Every inch of the map has full detail like the civilians, water and even buildings. You can see 
 the buildings from different ends of the map, unlike San Andreas or previous GTA's where the buildings 
 or objects pop up.
  
  The game also added new features that keep you playing it. In GTA, you get a cellphone which allows 
 you to make calls or access online multiplayer. The cellphone helps you call friends and girlfriends. 
 Once you call a person that is your friend, you can select and activity to do with that person 
 like drinking or darts. From here you build relationships with people. Once your relationship is 
 high enough, you unlock special abilities from your friends.
  
  GTA is almost perfect but there are some things I believe reduce the 10/10 rating. 
  For starters, 
 after beating the story there isn't much to do. You have a few options, go for 100%, play online, 
 or mess around. There isn't player customization like in San Andreas, you can't get a haircut, 
 you can't customize a car or even change your appearance. There aren't many options for you to 
 do.
  Then there are a few glitches. If you drive really really fast for a bit, the detail of the map 
 vanishes and then pops back up.
  
  In the end, GTA 4 is a phenomenal game and everyone should at least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowansben
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a great game. But with great I don't mean perfect. I will give the pros and cons of this 
 game:
  Pros:
  -Interesting story
  -Great characters (specially Niko, Roman and Packie)
  -Great music
  -The city looks beautiful
  -It's not short
  -Online gameplay
  
  Cons:
 
  -It's very easy
  -Driving sometimes it's annoying
  -You can't buy properties
  
  Well, that's pretty much about the game. It's a great game so if you have money and want to spend 
 it on a game buy this. Nevertheless I think that San Andreas had a lot more variety than this one. 
 The fact that you can't buy properties or you can't change your aspect (cut your hair, go to the 
 gym, get fat... all things that you can do in San Andreas) really dissapointed me about the game. 
 But anyway buy this game. For the great story, the great characters and of course, the great online 
 mutliplayer gameplay. You won't regret it. But don't expect the great variety that San Andreas 
 had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadoc81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  I was eagerly anticipating the launch of this game as I've been a fan of the franchise since the 
 very beginning. From the original GTA, GTA2 and then onto GTA III, Vice City and San Andreas I 
 was hooked. 
  
  Then this came along. I'm not entirely sure what to make of it, though, is it a step forward or 
 a step backwards? The truth is it's a bit of both. The graphics are (mostly) polished and detailed, 
 the vehicle handling is much more realistic and the general populace of Liberty City seem more 
 real; they walk around talking into mobile phones, smoking cigarettes, sitting on park benches, 
 it's much better than the older GTAs when they just walked down the street for very litte reason. 
 There are a total of, I think, about 90 missions in the main story plus numerous side missions 
 including assassination missions, drug dealing missions, Police vigilante missions and missions 
 given by "random characters" who appear on your radar from time to time, and I should add there 
 is an achievement for meeting all of them. Another handy feature is the mobile phone; if you fail 
 a mission, you immediately get sent a text asking you if you want to try again. This is great because 
 it means you don't have to go trudging all the way back to the mission giver and sit through a 
 cutscene again. If you die, you keep your weapons when you respawn back at the hospital although 
 you do lose your weapons if you get arrested and respawn back at the nearest police station. Little 
 things like this are great improvements, plus there's more I don't really have space for in this 
 review. 
  
  But, despite all this, there are problems. Out of the 90 missions, I'd say there's about 6 or 7 
 different types of missions that get repeated endlessly over the course of the game. It all basically 
 amounts to chases in different types of vehicles or standard warehouse shootouts and because of 
 this the missions get repetitive, samey and predictable quite quickly, especially when you consider 
 that all you need is an assault rifle and body armour and most of the missions are far too easy 
 anyway. I understand that Rockstar have tried to make GTA more realistic this time around and they 
 have, it's just nothing like as much fun somehow. In my opinion, there are far too many motorbike 
 chases. The bane of GTA games, I had to do 4 across GTA: Vice City and GTA: San Andreas combined 
 but I had done 7 in this game alone by about 3/4 of the way through; it does get repetitive and 
 annoying given how bad the motorbike handling is and, if you fall off or crash, you've basically 
 failed instantly. I am currently stuck at the final mission and, in true GTA fashion, the earlier 
 part of the game is far too easy and the final mission far far too difficult. It feels really unfair 
 to have played through all that to get stuck so badly on the final mission, it feels like a complete 
 waste of time and effort especially after the 20+ attempts I've now had. 
  
  The graphics, although mostly great, do suffer from pop-in issues. It's not unheard of to crash 
 your car into something which hasn't actually appeared on screen yet, plus some of the character 
 animation seems jerky and not too natural. Sometimes, also, even with my TV brightness on 100% 
 it's still often too dark to see some things even when it's currently daylight in game. The controls 
 don't exactly help, though. The controls for this game aren't exactly stellar, they're clumsy, 
 sluggish and unresponsive most of the time and this isn't aided by the basically broken cover and 
 auto-aim system, which will happily allow you to rattle off all your ammo into a wall but when 
 you have a clear shot you press the trigger and nothing happens, while you're getting filled with 
 enemy lead all the time. The auto-aim system doesn't properly prioritise, either; you're getting 
 shot at, you try to aim and you immediately find yourself turned around pointing at a random unarmed 
 civilian across the street, it's just frustrating and annoying and makes very little sense at all. 
 
  
  The multiplayer offers a whole load of different modes, but lag and connection problems have turned 
 quite a few people off, unfortunately. When it works it's great fun, though. 
  
  All in all, this game feels like GTA III with a fresh lick of paint. All the fun activities like 
 skydiving, flying planes, basejumping, ambulance missions, cycling etc. have all been stripped 
 out completely, there seems to me to be little reason to keep playing after you've completed the 
 main story as it gets boring even before then and, without spoiling anything, one of the fun side-activities 
 may or may not get taken away from you at the end of the game depending on which path you take 
 to the end. I spent hours and hours and hours playing San Andreas even after I completed it because 
 it was great fun and there was loads to do, but I don't see myself doing this on GTA IV. You can't 
 buy property or really make yourself feel like a real person as opposed to a cog in a machine, 
 you get the safehouses you're given which are erratically placed at best. There's no point in trying 
 to make money other than for the achievement for making half a million because, besides guns, there's 
 really nothing to spend your money on and it seems pointless even having it. 
  
  I paid quite a bit of money for this game and can't help but think it maybe wasn't totally worth 
 it. Sure, the story is suitably long and is a good story, but what afterwards? Probably not a lot, 
 I don't think. I no longer have my PS2 so going back to San Andreas isn't an option, unfortunately. 
 
  
  That said, it gets a 8.5 because it's a solidly built, good quality game, just lacking in a number 
 of key areas. Hopefully Rockstar take these things on board and expand it for the next one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Depending on whether or not you believe the hype surrounding this game you could be forgiven for 
 thinking that somehow this game was connected to the second coming of Christ such was the excitement.
 
  
  After a six month delay which has seen the graphics downscaled and a Vaseline like haze effect 
 try and mask the less than impressive anti-aliasing we now have the finished product in front of 
 us.
  
  Now we can see why the trailers were speeded up, in normal speed the streets are virtually deserted, 
 gone are the roads jammed with vehicles that we've seen previously, gone are the crowds of people 
 milling about they only kick in when you're giving chase as part of a mission, and as normal if 
 you're trying to lose your wanted level the cars that were sparse before are now non existent.
 
  
  Thankfully they've removed some of the more pointless aspects that made San Andreas the mess that 
 it became, and tightened up the elements they've left behind, the clothes shopping for one has 
 been made much simpler and you don't have to wait for Niko to enter a cubicle and change like you 
 did with CJ this also extends to changing outfits at your home.
  
  They've also tinkered with the handling of the cars and made them more Colin McRae than Ridge Racer 
 in that if you want to take the 90 degree bend, you have to slow down to avoid some hefty damage, 
 different cars handle differently and needs to be kept in mind when choosing one for a specific 
 mission, bikes are now a complete sod to handle and nowhere near as much fun as in Vice City.
 
  
  Graphics have moved on from San Andreas, I've still encountered the occasional texture pop in, 
 even after the install, but with the added power of the PS3 at least the characters don't look 
 as deformed as they did last time sure some move like they're extras in a zombie movie, Michelle 
 for one seems to be incapable of moving her arms when she walks, but Niko himself has a nice swagger, 
 he knows he's hard, he doesn't need to dress in Burberry like the kids who think that playing this 
 game when its rated 18 makes them hard.
  
  The mission structure is nicely planned with your cousin Roman acting as almost a central hub as 
 you progress, once you've reached the logical, and usually very messy, end to one branch of the 
 story line a phone call with Roman will often introduce the next set of characters who'll provide 
 the next mission set one example being when you move to your second home in a different part of 
 the city, its nicely done and doesn't look forced.
  
  All that being said there are a few downers which stop this being great, unless you download a 
 patch the game will freeze up when you try and access the online features, the radio stations while 
 being plentiful and varied don't have enough music to keep you interested, some start to loop round 
 ridiculously quickly and they'll be several you just don't listen to, it's a nice touch to include 
 some eastern European type stations in there, but the only time you'll listen to them is as you 
 try and find your favourite station when you first get in the car. Unlike the 360 version you can't 
 remedy this by just using your own custom soundtrack from titles stored on your hard drive either.
 
  
  As usual there's a number of distractions to keep you away from the main plot and some of these 
 feel rushed, the physics when playing pool are horrific, with the balls often sticking to the cushion 
 like glue making bank shots impossible and its never a surprise to see a ball hit a cushion straight 
 on somehow roll down into a corner pocket, Qubid is nice enough little distraction but if you happen 
 to be colour blind then tough, your shafted.
  
  It seems that Rockstar have compromised on both this and the 360 version, yes the number of loading 
 screens is tiny, sure you can drive round the whole island without ever seeing one, but there are 
 times you can drive round the whole island and never see more than 1 or 2 other vehicles on the 
 road, which is partially a good thing as if a police chase gets hectic then the game starts to 
 slow down as it tries to cope with all the extra moving objects on screen.
  
  On the PS2 the franchise improved dramatically from GTA3 to Vice City as they became more at home 
 with the hardware, if they can do that again then the sequel will definitely deserve a 10 score, 
 as it is, this one feels too empty and a little too restricted to warrant much more than a 7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apoohastata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 did phenomenally well in the GTA series. I only give it a 9.5 because of the AI problems at 
 times, as well as the jitters/anti aliasing problems on screen. Other than that the game play is 
 terrific, and its very addicting. Niko is also an awesome character, once you find out his mood 
 you love him, as well as a lot of the other characters like Brucie (Roid Junkie) and Little Jacob (Jamaican 
 Bredran) , if you gain enough friendship with these people they help you out during various missions, 
 and give you new things. Another very cool thing about this game, is that you chose who lives, 
 and who dies. If you want someone to live, they usually come back later in the game, and you can 
 do a mission for them. The multiplayer is somewhat close to SA-MP on PC, but I've mostly spent 
 my time trying to complete the story. The last but best thing about this game is the customizable 
 things, like the new suits and outfits, the house you have, and the sweet cars! 
  
  
  This game is a must have for any system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is without a doubt, one of the best games this year will bring, but it does 
 not deserve a ten more than Call of Duty 4, Super Smash bros. or any other incredible game does. 
 
  
  Gameplay- First, I have to give major props to the story. The Balkan Niko you play as is an excellent 
 character and you really feel like him, his cousin, and most of his friends don't deserve this 
 horrible lifestyle. You can really get into these characters and feel their story. The gameplay 
 is just as strong as the story. It's most of what you would expect from a GTA game, with a few 
 more bonuses. There are basically more of everything. More people, more cars, more entertaining 
 radio stations and much much more. The attention to detail is outstanding, and there is a lot to 
 keep you busy. You advance through the single player by unlocking friends and different parts of 
 the city. You come to like and hate the characters you meet and the plot takes some very interesting 
 turns. You can even make choices to decide the outcome of the final ending. The shooting mechanics 
 work, though it was an odd decision to have the auto lock and the free aim on the same button in 
 my opinion. Everything is very well done in the gameplay done. The one problem I have with the 
 gameplay is that there are less weapons and your character feels a bit sluggish sometimes. The 
 multiplayer is very well done as well with lots of different modes to play and most of the singleplayer 
 experience is in tact here. The one complaint is that i've lost connection a lot with other players 
 and you have to go back to the single player if that happens. 
  
  Graphics- This is the first thing that's really sets the game apart from a perfect 10. Regardless 
 if the game is huge or not, the graphics just aren't up to standards these days. It's a good leap 
 from past games but not quite big enough. Facial expressions are strong, but there are lots of 
 glitches, and overall, the textures and pixels just aren't there.
  
  Sound-The best part of the game, like the the other GTA games in my opinion is the sound. The radio 
 stations are SOOO funny and varied, and the voice acting is incredibly well done. Music is great 
 as well, in all the stations.
  
  Value- With a really long single player, lots of bonus things to do and find, a nice multiplayer, 
 and alternate endings, you should buy this immediately if you can. This is one of the best values 
 you can get right now. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is an amazing game and I'm so glad I spent every penny. It is very well done, 
 however it does not deserve a perfect score. There are too many small issues for that to happen. 
 Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltrA_999
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  When this game was first announced I wasn't to thrilled. Sure I've played GTA III, Vice City, and 
 San Andreas, but overall I'm not a huge Grand Theft Auto Fan. However the more I would hear about 
 this game the more I was excited to play it. 
  You play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European attempting to escape his past and the horrors of the 
 Bosnian war. He arrives in Liberty City to experience the American dream, only to discover his 
 cousin, Roman, may have fibbed a bit in his tales of success. Starting from nothing, Niko makes 
 a living as a killer and enforcer, a bad-ass foreigner who appears to have no morals. The longer 
 we stay with Niko, the more we see that there is a broken human being inside, one who would give 
 anything to escape the person he once was.
  
  Don't worry, GTA's famed over-the-top action and tongue-in-cheek humor are intact, but there is 
 a new level of sophistication in the characters and the game world that raises the story above 
 the norm. As Niko becomes mired in the death throes of American organized crime, he begins to become 
 more self-aware. Niko's struggles with his ruthless nature never inhibit the gameplay, but instead 
 enhance the emotional gravity of a brilliant storyline. The more absurd the action becomes, the 
 greater we feel the very real pathos of Niko Bellic.
  
  Much of the credit goes to the artists at Rockstar North who created as believable a city as possible. 
 Liberty City is inspired by New York, but not beholden to it. While there are many parallels, Liberty 
 exists in its own universe and rightfully so. Many open-world games have cities that feel as if 
 they existed only from the moment you first turned on your console, but Liberty City looks lived 
 in. It's an old city and each block has its own vibe and its own history. 
  
  Drive around Liberty City and you'll be able to identify each individual block. Though Liberty 
 is filled with brownstones and a myriad of similar brick buildings, you can tell one from the other, 
 just as you can in New York. Go to an affluent neighborhood and the street is likely to be newly 
 paved, the pedestrians better dressed, the cops more plentiful. But head to Dukes or Bohan and 
 you'll find streets nearly stripped of asphalt, homeless people wandering about aimlessly and criminals 
 preying on the weak.
  
  Watch the people and you'll witness some amazing things. At one point, I saw a woman stopped at 
 a light, looking in the rearview mirror right before she was rear-ended by a man ogling a girl 
 on the street. The man got out of his car and went to the woman, checking to see if she was okay. 
 This had nothing to do with Niko or a single action I took. These were the citizens of Liberty 
 City going about their day. And it was just one moment in a day full of incidents.
  
  Hang in one area of the city long enough and you'll see how traffic and pedestrian flow changes 
 as the day progresses. When it rains, people bring out umbrellas or shield themselves with a newspaper 
 and run for an awning. Cops chase petty thieves unaware that walking down the street is Niko Bellic, 
 cold-blooded killer. There's a perfect balance of mumbling doomsayers to remind you that the reason 
 this city never sleeps is because it's full of nut jobs. People go about their day, only altering 
 course when Niko inserts himself into their lives with his crappy driving or excellent marksmanship.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badandyaw
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is a great addition to the series. However, I dont think it truly succeeded 
 games like Vice City or San Andreas. San Andreas had so many little things to accomplish once you 
 had beat the game (fly planes, find hidden packages) . The story is successful overall however. 
 The Taxi cab addition is nice cause it helps speed you through the game. On the same token you 
 dont learn to drive through the city as well cause you can just take taxi.
  
  The cars are amazing! The banshee and the car you get from bernie were truly impressive. I still 
 think that San Andreas has been the most successful in the series. But I see GTA IV as a stepping 
 stone to something even better.
  
  I have yet to experience the multiplayer but i look forward to it. The assassin missions and the 
 way you get to choose things is also interesting. The assassin missions really keep you wondering 
 who you will have to kill or betray. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attuwebi_IV
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto IV (GTA 4) i think in grand theft auto iv the people always praise the game because 
 grand theft auto does not have any defects 
  Gran Theft Auto always the best series that give you the fun and grea (take and raid in grand theft 
 aotu cities) san vice city , san andreas and liberty city 
  what things i will talk about in this game
  the graphics or the intelligent control or the or 
 the big city or the great story (the story changed the game to MAN'S LIFE not like the aother games)
 
  grand theft auto have many things feel you like a real life exampel the phone there is messeges 
 arraive to niko's phone from his friends
  there is importent thing had improved in this game i thing it is the weapons 
  especialy the 
 aim it very comfortable
  finally i think if you still don't have this game i advice you to buy it 
  note : my languege 
 it si not good so if there any wrong in gramar please
  forgive me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bashinho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say that the Game itself is a good game, graphically great and the 
 game-play is superb, a little annoying having to push a button to run but that was just a momentary 
 annoyance. The new cover system, whilst not as fluid as games such as gears (yes i own an xbox 
 360 and dont start getting on your high horse saying "We don't have a clue what your talking about" 
 because the cover system is really point marcus at wall, press A, he dives smack into the cover. 
 Simple yet Brilliant. but i could write on forever about GoW which i did do so go read) , but it 
 still works well and gives you the edge in them harder gun fights you would plain and simply get 
 ripped to shreds in earlier games, and the new aim system is great too. But does make headshot 
 very easy but I'm not complaining.
  
  The multiplayer is brilliant and fun yet i still prefer Saint's rows multiplayer were it is more 
 gang orientated. Yet the 16 player free roam is awesome. Can kind of get annoying if you get killed 
 and spawn across the map from everyone with no means of transport back.
  
  Yet being a solid game it is not without its issues.
  1) Why are trees the strongest thing ever? 
 You can't break a little tree yet you can plow through lamp-posts. If they were going for realism, 
 they kind of slipped up here
  
  2) Losing the cops just isn't as fun, I preferred it on earlier games were you could lose them 
 at the pay and spray, but it was never not fun as you'd be driving along to be surprised by a road 
 block of SWAT team trucks, but you can lose the cops now by driving really fast and turning a lot. 
 Like the police wouldn't be expecting that to happen. And why the hell did they get rid of the 
 Army. It was always fun stealing a tank off them at 6 stars and continuing your hell bent rampage.
 
  
  3) Is it me or do game-play elements that seem to work well in a GTA game, do they get rid of in 
 the next one. Take for instance:
  In GTA: VC, you may or may not know this but there was a little thing called a good citizens bonus 
 where if you saw someone running off from the police, you hit them down, and you got i think it 
 was $250. I thought yeh that's pretty cool.
  Then GTA: SA comes along and that's been taken out, but then a heap load of customisable things 
 are introduced such as new hair, LOTS of clothes, custom cars, the gym, different fighting styles. 
 And also Ammunations gun range to improve your weapon skill, so you could duel wield guns, which 
 was cool, walking round with 2 tec-9's reaping havoc. And they also had betting centres. Which 
 was fun even though it made you have infinite money.
  GTA 4 comes along and i was eagerly anticipating a better quality of customisation but no it was 
 all taken out and replaced with the brilliant idea of having TV. Seriously if you watch TV on a 
 TV you are rather sad, if you seriously wake up in the morning and go, I know what I'll do, ill 
 turn GTA on and watch TV for a bit.
  
  4) WHYYY are there no short sleeve shirts, does Niko have super hairy arms or something??
  
 
  5) Again why no planes and parachutes, it was great when you grabbed a jump jet, flew over grove 
 street n parachuted in, it felt like James Bond it was brilliant, that would be awesome online, 
 just Army Of Two style parachuting in shooting people from the air. Just screaming down your mic 
 "Reinforcements have arrived".
  
  6) The lack of guns and stupid weapons like remote control grenades. They just made the whole game 
 cool.
  
  Yet these are just small cosmetic things, they are kind of annoying as they just made the game 
 all the more re-playable. GTA: SA for me was the best game with its stupid yet simply genius plot. 
 For me in GTA 4 there wasn't the sense of rise from the bottom to the top which is present in the 
 rest of them, don't get me wrong its a good game, but definitely not the best GTA out there.
  
  Personally I am looking more forward to Saints Row 2. It sounds like SA but for next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  3 Minutes in, you can already tell that Liberty City is a very different place than in it's 1992 
 setting that featured in GTA III. You actually feel like you're in New York City. The Game's five 
 districts, Bohan, Dukes, Broker, Algonquin and Alderney all look like their counterparts, Brooklyn, 
 Queens, The Bronx, Manhattan and New Jersey. Rockstar have clearly spent a lot of time on just 
 this, where in the previous installment, they slapped a massive desert in the middle of the map 
 and were done with it. The character you control, Niko Bellic is an immigrant from Eastern Europe, 
 with an ice cool accent and likeable personality. So the classic GTA formula is there, a city that 
 excels the previous one, and a great character. When you realise that pressing R1 immediately sticks 
 you to the nearest piece of cover, you begin to think, is this a classic? The driving also pulls 
 the camera to the level of the car seat, so in a low slung sports car, the camera is wedged to 
 the road as you scream round 180 degrees in an attempt to escape oncoming police cars. The new 
 police system allows you to see where the police are looking, so you can evade any number of stars, 
 provided you can sneak around patrol cars blocking your way (or alternatively you can just drive 
 like the clappers!) . This makes missions where minimal police attention is important easy, as you 
 can see your goal, instead of simply driving blind until the police go away. As you play through 
 the story you are introduced to different services, such as Taxis, a nice touch, an internet cafe, 
 which offers some laughs, and gunshops, the most realistic yet, in basement apartments in chinatown. 
 
  Also offering something new to the table are entertainment venues, that don't involve tapping buttons 
 to a beat to dance (a' la' San Andreas) . The Split Sides Comedy club in Algonquin (Manhattan) hosts 
 2 real life comedians, Ricky Gervais and Katt Williams, both of whom are great, and just brilliant 
 to see in GTA form.
  
  The multiplayer was one of my most anticipated parts of GTA IV. And the good news is, they didn't 
 screw it up. There are many different modes to get stuck into, including deathmatches, races and 
 even a few co-op missions. The leveling system is such that you gain dollars by killing enemies, 
 winning races etc. you get $100 for killing an enemy, and from $100 to $1000 for placing well in 
 a race. Unfortunately, in the co-op missions, there are huge cash sums up for grabs, which people 
 often take advantage of to rise quickly through the ranks.
  
  Overall though, it's a damn fun game, and the best free roaming game since GTA III. I guess it's 
 just that New York charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Liberty City couldn't of been better.....
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV was one of the most anticipated games of 2008; so how did it end up you ask? 
 well:
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is set out in the familiar grounds of Liberty City, yet the term 'familiar 
 grounds' isn't best suited for this game. Liberty City has had a makeover since its previous Grand 
 Theft Auto debut and is now much, much larger than it used to be; it'll take the player ages to 
 cross from one side to the other (considering u've asctually unlocked the entire city) . There's 
 also a variety of new things that you can do, for example: Go drinking (get drunk) , play bowling, 
 go to strip clubs, watch acts and
  stand-up comedy, etc.... The city is now the perfect Grand Theft Auto playground.
  
  In this 
 latest addition of Grand Theft Auto you play as Niko: an immigrant who has travelled to America 
 to see his cousin and find a better life. But it's no secret in saying that his quest for a better 
 life didn't work out so well.
  A few extra features that the game includes are: Taxis (you can catch taxis and go basically anywere 
 in the city... if u have the cash) , a mobile phone (you can call your friends and girlfriend to 
 organise to go drinking, bowling, eating, etc....) , etc....
  
  Other than it's great gameplay and storyline, one of Grand Theft Auto IV's biggest, newest features 
 is online capability.
  The player can access the online multiplayer mode through thier mobile phone, were they can: compete 
 in a variety of different match types, create their personal online character, and play free mode 
 with friends. The entire city is available online, unless the host chooses to have the match in 
 a specific area.
  To gain new clothing and looks for your personal online character you must compete in online matches 
 and earn money. Money runs like experience points in this games online mode; once you have a certain 
 amount of it you unlock new features for the online mode.
  
  This game has some amazing features in it, but that doesn't mean it's perfect, it does have some 
 minor problems: It is very easy to lag online, the friendly AI in single-player is sometimes very 
 stupid, the gameplay can get repetitive. Thats just a few of the problems this game has. As i said 
 before: most of these problems are minor, but still the game is not perfect.
  
  The games sound quailty is great: it has a nice tracklist, the characters speak well can clearly, 
 and the sound effects work well.
  The graphics aren't the best but what do you expect from a game that gives you an entire city to 
 play in?
  Finally the gameplay is repetitve but can still be very fun in short doses.
  
  I really don't know who to reccommend this game to but if you're reading this you probably already 
 know what the Grand Theft Auto series is like. This game is just a bit more ontop of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 takes any of the games combined and put together to create the ultimate =grand 
 theft auto. This game has a lot of activites that you can do. There are: Strip clubs, Bowling, Eating, 
 Driving, Mini Gulf, Flying, Multiplayer, Killing, just the same old grand theft auto games. You 
 get your own peronal cell phone, and can add people to your contacts and best of all get dates. 
 But there is one girl thats a cop and betrays u but im not going to say who. The game modes for 
 multiplayer are ( i wont say them all cause for the life of me i wont remember them all) : Deathmatch 
 (free for all) , Team Deathmatch (Team Killing) Cops N Crooks (one team are the cops and they try 
 to stop the crooks from getting to the escape vechicle) Free Play (Kick back in Liberty City) Car 
 Jacking (well duh you jack cars for your boss) there is also a bombing mission where you have to 
 get the explosives onto the ship without dieing. But overall id give this game a full 10 out of 
 10. And i know that if you play this game you'll say the same thing i did. You can also customize 
 the look of your multiplayer character bu unlocking more clothing which you need money for and 
 u need to go up ranks to get the money, and to get the money you need to complete missions and 
 kill other players.... ironic isn't it? Well this is the end of my review, i hope you enjotygrand 
 theft auto 4 as much as i am right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincemin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I am the type of person that plays through a game no matter how good or bad it is, I explore all 
 corners, listen to all conversations and whore myself to those annoying yet crack addictive "achievements". 
 Here is my report after this game took 30 hours of my social life.
  
  Pros:
  -Great story, starts out in a cinematic style explaining the story of Niko Bellic.
  -Lots of 
 missions to play, from the serious Assassin missions to the comedic Florian Cravic missions of 
 chasing Gay Haters through Central Park.
  -Interesting characters, pedestrians and activities such as playing pool, bowling and watching 
 the comedy shows.
  -The new taxi system makes travel a lot easier to get around without the hassle of wasting time 
 driving around.
  -Learn valuable life lessons like robbing the bank and mafia nets a lot of money and that some 
 chicks don't put out no matter how hard you try (Kate) ..
  
  Cons:
  -Wall clipping issues, when auto-aim, sometimes Niko can walk through railings and walls.
  -Auto-aim 
 is somewhat broken, even when bad guy is down, won't switch to next target without releasing auto-aim 
 button.
  -Default camera angles are sometimes annoying blocking important visuals and causing frustrating 
 crashes and deaths.
  -The visuals aren't HD quality like some of the other games out in the market.
  -Somewhat annoying, 
 1 minute load time at the beginning and 5 sec load time to switch between clothing choices.
  -The TV has a lot of long interesting shows but no Full Screen option, it's too small to enjoy 
 comfortably.
  
  So does this game have a good re-playability value? Most likely not because it would be extremely 
 boring, but it was a good ride the first time around. Play this game once, go out, enjoy the fresh 
 air and welcome yourself back to civilization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  wot a game this game rocks .ther so much to do in gta that it would be a year to do and find evey 
 thing the games that big and boy is it a joy to play the cut screns are ace and they are funey 
 thers so much gone in to this game it got to be the best game iv played this year the mission are 
 long and u get short ones has well but this is a game with wots of replay valeu and u get ti didcie 
 if some men will live or die its up to u i dont need to tell u much about the game play has it 
 gta but it the best 1 by far the next 1 will have a lot to live up to just go uot and buy it now 
 and the online mode is big and ace ther a lot to do online has well like cops and robbers and loads 
 moor to do like race now thast a joy to do online the games so big u get u money worth even if 
 u havent got online its worth the money the game is big u get the nomal weapons in gta u cant go 
 on a plenbut u can go up in the skys on the helicopters and at night it looks real good it nice 
 now go on buy the game to day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtoda7
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, but after 2 days of playing I'm finding the game repetitive and 
 it wont take much longer before it becomes boring. The gameplay is the same as previous GTA's which 
 is good, the graphics are very nice also. The biggest gripe I have is this game lacks the depth of 
 its predecessor. When they should have been adding features they were removing them, a massive step 
 in the wrong direction. San Andreas had many cool things-business, territories etc and little touches 
 like driving school. It was a foundation from which this game should've built on. The lack of options 
 is apparent when you take a break from doing missions, and find yourself dating your male cousin... again. 
 Things get old fast. 
  All in all the game is still fun to play. Immersive and typically GTA. The gunfights are simplified 
 with easy controls and just the right amount of brain splatter. Driving is more realistic with weight 
 transfer and nice smoke effects. The internet feature has so much potential but left untapped.10/10 
 is a bit generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbosslives67
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  well its not worth a 10 but you got to give it a 9 cuz i cnt give it a 8.8 
  
  first off the story is unsatisfying the random choices are useless and unneeded. the gun play is 
 an amazing improvement in the series love that but the story man its not that good i don't see 
 why this game got tens and high 9s if your smart you see the repetitiveness over and over again 
 chase after chase go here kill him. all it is repetitive until you do something really really cool 
 like the bank job or killing the guy in the hospital but beisds that the missions are dry 
  
  all the extra stuff is very new and different but r too much work like keeping all your friends 
 happy is too much work i have my own life to worry about. 
  also you cant buy anything property cars the occasional change of cloths is cool but not enough 
 
  don't get me wrong this game is a must buy for any lover of gameing but don't believe the hype 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Like it or hate it, think it's perfect or an imitation of its predicesors there are a ton of things 
 to like about GTA4 and even more to enjoy. Being a native New Yorker perhaps I have quite an interesting 
 perspective on the city then perhaps many others, the first day I turned the game on I spent most 
 of it just walking around taking in the sights, finding my old neigborhood, shooting a pigeon!!! 
 I really wanted to beat the thing with my baseball bat but /sigh. The game is certainly far from 
 perfect with few traversable buildings, the cover and auto-aim functionality being less then impresive, 
 the nagging 'friends' that must be maintained, but not required to some degree, and the often times 
 disjointed story line there are by far more positives then negatives.
  
  Graphics: 
  The next gen concoles offer some of the most beautiful graphics possible today, I'd take them over 
 my computer any day. Standing on the Broker water front park the Algonquin skyline is almost as 
 breath-taking as the Manhatten skyline viewable from the same park. Cars look fantastic and have 
 a large number of damage points, from headlight to bumper just about everything is uniquly breakable. 
 Trees look better, even if they are still made up of the same 'ol cross-hatches. The water gans 
 the boost of the higher-end graphics processor. The lighting is fantastic, moody, gloomy, expresive. 
 The draw distance is impressive giving the game that dimention of depth that a quality depiction 
 of NYC requires... it's not New York City if you can't stare down Dukes Boulevard and see skyscrapers 
 looming infront of you from miles away. Boxes on the street can be pushed, garbage bins beside 
 building can be moved to gain access to the fire escapes... every inch of the city is filled with 
 something beautiful or ulgy, pleasing or striking. Although the map is actually smaller then San 
 Andreas the idea that GTA4 is only one city instead of four is hard to swallow for some, it is 
 even harder for some to swallow that GTA4 does not have wasted space the way San Andreas does with 
 its open medows and empty mountain.
  
  Sounds:
  As always GTA4 treats us to a great collection of radio stations full of various types of quality 
 music, talk stations with some of the most vile yet entertaining material now add television shows 
 that range from funny to satire and cabaret shows that fall between sadism and masochism. Sounds 
 on the streets lend ambience to the city, everywhere you go there always seems to be some kind 
 of noise and if you've lived in NYC you know it's true. It's no surprise - NYC residents often 
 find they can not sleep in the suburbs because they are unable to cope with the silence. The voice 
 acting for the most part is top-notch, main characters are done well even if that means building 
 up inside you strong desire to hurt those characters, pedestrians on the streets always have something 
 to say, some maintain conversations with other pedestrians, some talk on their cell phones and 
 you can always find a soap-box lunny if you walk far enough.
  
  Controls:
  Although I haven't had much practice with it, my wife keeps turning it off because it's too complicated 
 for her, I find the SIXAXIS controls a lot of fun but not for the heavy handed. Piloting a helicopter 
 is not only challanging it's also engaging. Driving a motorcycle is not the easiest but also thrilling 
 as you turn and tilt your controller like you would a bike steering column. Other controls have 
 been changed, gass and break has been moved to the L2-R2 buttons but I am very positive on this 
 transition as I find it's more like driving a real car because on the PS3 those buttons are triggers, 
 giving you more control over how MUCH gass or break you give the car. Not all things thrill me 
 though - I find the cover mechanics poor, either you don't take cover or you take cover in the 
 wrong place, so far it's just something to get used to... there is also the L3 button which isn't 
 heavy handed friendly either, causes you to crouch, and I press it by accident all the time as 
 I'm despiratly tryign to escape the police; ofcourse crouching has the opposite effect of slowing 
 you down.
  
  Conclusion:
  I thoroughly enjoy this game as a game and in part as a work of art. The beautiful rendition of 
 my city often leaves me speachless even though it may bother me that two neigborhoods have been 
 squished into one or some things are slighly out of order I realize that this is actually Liberty 
 City and not New York City. Many bells and wistles have been taken out of the game, like jet-packs 
 and work-outs, to tell you the truith I never liked either. Now you have TV and Internet, a cellphone 
 that can sometimes be annoying but offers a quick redo-mission option. I also can't figure out 
 why Bloomberg was so upset about this game taking place here... I've never seen New York so clean 
 and full of cops, not even under Giuliani, they're everywhere! You really have to try hard to commit 
 a crime or even sneeze in this town the cops will be all over you. Paying tolls driving to Bohan 
 is kind of silly, but it won't ruin your day. Did I mention you can climb ladders?
  
  If you like GTA this is a Great GTA! To say it is perfect is perhaps not 100% correct but to rate 
 this poorly is an even bigger mistake. GTA fans, I can't imagine you'll be disapointed. From the 
 little easter eggs sprinkled about the city to the fun voice acting cameos like those of the Opie 
 and Anthony radio show crew and Axel Rose DJ'ing a radio station, again... there is so much here 
 to explore, enjoy and blow up.
  
  Oh yeah, don't forget there's multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILuvSports
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I would like to know why GTA 4 couldn't have been made in a different city other than Liberty City? 
 There have already been previous games about Liberty City such as GTA 3 and Liberty City Stories! 
 Why wasn't GTA 4 made in a current city such as Detroit, Chicago, or someplace other than Liberty 
 City over and over again? Heck, why not make GTA in a foreign country? Now that would be VERY INTERESTING! 
 Now GTA 4 was supposed to supposedly be so much better than Grand Theft Auto San Andreas? I don't 
 think so, and here are my reasons why! The graphics are amazing, but nothing spectacular that made 
 you say WOW! It felt like GTA 4 was so cramped that there was no breathing room for it. At least 
 with Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, you had plenty of room to go from one end of the map to another 
 without feeling so cramped up. While bowling, darts, and pool, can be fun, why couldn't there have 
 been beach races, or something new and different for this game to do?
  
  Niko was a nice looking character, but his clothes were not that great to choose from and why can't 
 you give him better and faster cars, or bigger and better houses to live in? The storyline is another 
 complaint of mine, because it just felt SO RUSHED, that it was very confusing at times. With the 
 other GTA games, the storyline was AWESOME and you couldn't wait to accomplish the missions so you 
 could find out what happened next in the story. There were way too many characters for GTA 4, and 
 yes it was the same old missions of go find somebody, kill them, get paid for it, what kind of fun 
 is that? I would also like to know why as other people have said that there weren't more vehicles 
 to choose from as well as airplanes, jet packs, tanks and other things like there were in previous 
 GTA games?
  
  Here is another complaint of mine, after you finish playing GTA 4, there isn't anywhere near the 
 amount of things that you can do like there was on GTA San Andreas for instance. On GTA 4, you can 
 go get on the internet, go bowling, or play darts or pool, etc.. Okay, after a few times that gets 
 very boring and quick too! I guess I was just expecting so much more out of this game and I am 
 sorry but this game doesn't deliver anywhere near what Grand Theft Auto San Andreas did, period 
 end of story! I really feel that if there is another GTA game that comes out in the future, that 
 the developers NEED TO LISTEN TO US AS GAME PLAYERS, so you can learn how to make the next game 
 EVEN BETTER than this one! I am very, very, disappointed with GTA 4 because it was supposed to be 
 even better than previous GTA games and it is far from it trust me! You will probably want to rent 
 this instead of buying it because after the main storyline is done, there isn't too much to do after 
 that point on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightshade536
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I originally bought this game for the PS3 cause I needed something to do while waiting for Metal 
 Gear Solid 4. I've played and own all the previous Grand Theft Autos and this one blows the others 
 away. The environment itself has greatly improved. It's way more detailed than the previous titles. 
 Being on a next-gen console the physics of the game are much more than before. When you bail out 
 of a speeding car or fly through the windshield, it's quite realistic with Niko smacking against 
 the concrete. Little things like this and more realistic damage to vehicles when crashed or hitting 
 things. Another big improvement is the shooting system. The old games left much to be desired when 
 firing a gun. The new system has its flaws but is much better than previously. The only thing I 
 didn't like that much was the repetitive storyline/missions. The game is fairly long which is good 
 but most of it is filled with near identical missions to ones you already completed. This is the 
 only setback. However, it's not big enough a problem to bring the game as a whole down. All in 
 all, it's a great game with interesting characters, a destructible environment, and many hours 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeHuntre
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  This is the best GTA game till now. Its not like GTA SanAndreas or Vice City
  its Much different than that. The Gameplay is different than SanAndreas and Vice City. The Graphics 
 are improved a lot too. And its not SanAndreas or Vice City its NewYork. The whole NewYork really 
 looks real and it is fun to explore the city.
  The Online multiplayer is not just a simple Multiplayer .There are many match-types like Death-match, 
 Team Death-match, Cops n Crooks and many more that i Haven't tried. The great thing about Online 
 is that you will have to Make your own Character.
  You can also Customize him [or her] . you upgrade your level as you play Online and also unlock 
 things for your character .If you are bored of doing missions you can hang out with your friends. You 
 can go for Bowling, Pool, Eating, And even Drinking. Niko [Main Character] has a Mobile too. You can 
 use it anytime to call someone, Play Online, Or Change the theme or Ringtone of your mobile. You 
 can also go to Internet Cafe. There u can date anyone or Download stuff for your Mobile.
  AND if your bored of that, Than you can play Online. Online is better than many games. This game 
 is the best game i have for my PS3 till now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  The GTA games have always been about having the freedom to do whatever you want to in the environment. 
 However, there have always been a number of limitations due to processing power of the last gen 
 consoles. However, on the PS3 (and probably also XBOX 360) many of these are no longer present.
 
  The sheer scope of things to do, from completing missions to simply jumping off very high buildings 
 - which although sounds like a peculiar thing to do is in fact very fun due to the euphoria physics 
 engine - means you can never get bored of these game in single player.
  However, whereas in previous reviews I may have stopped there, let's not forget that in this incarnation 
 there is also the possibility to play online with people from around the world. There are a number 
 of game modes including "Cops and Crooks" and "Bomb da Base" or you may prefer Free Roam mode (which 
 is what i play a lot) where you can simply explore Liberty City with your friends and do whatever 
 the hell you like! 
  Character customisation is only available in multiplayer, but Nico Bellic can wear different outfits 
 in single player. You don't want to change his physical appearance anyway, he is by far the bast 
 lead character of any of the GTA games - and yes that does include Tommy Vercetti!
  A must buy for any fan of games which let you do what you like - i. e. everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: team-mazda3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  finally a game which worth buying with out feeling like you just waste your money . i even have 
 2 one for the xbox360 and the other one is for the ps3 
  and there is slightly differences between the two in the handling of the vehicles . in the xbox360 
 you can go sideways easily because it is hard to turn left or light . however in the ps3 is quite 
 the opposite . the grafics is the same even the light in the two are the same except if you didn't 
 turn on the full white some thing for the hdmi . but what i like in the xbox360 is the achievement 
 which gives you sometimes some thing to play for by doing stupid or bad things in the game . but 
 even if you finished the game there is alot of side missions not mentioning the online . finally 
 , i would give the game 9.7 or 9.8 put i can't do it because of the rating system .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastafr8
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Where should I start....
  
  Greetings fellow gamers. I am sure either some of you have finished playing this game, still loving 
 it or maybe some of you have already sold/trade it as you feel the game is not worth the full paid 
 price. For me, my opinion is I am somewhere in the middle. 
  
  First of all the graphics, the game is supposedly beautiful and detailed. In some part, yes the 
 game live up to its next gen requirement, but for me, somehow in most parts, the graphics are not 
 clean, and frame rate issues. But still it is up to the required standard that it wont interfere 
 with game play. Probably could and should have been bit better.
  
  The controls, this time for me its just nice. From auto aiming to hiding to driving, it is more 
 than enough so that you can enjoy the game. Then comes the AI, well, it's more of a chance, at 
 least thats what happened to me. Sometimes they can be very helpful and sometimes they can make 
 you want to throw the DS3 outside the window. The AI is not terrible by all means, it is at most 
 annoying and should not have happened in this supposedly next gen game. Or maybe I am expecting 
 too much.
  
  Last but not least, the game play. This part is the most crucial of gaming I would like to think. 
 Even with this game great voice acting or storyline, if the game play sucks, then it cannot be 
 considered as a "perfect 10" game. Well, once again, I am quite disappointed. For me, it has not 
 changed much since San Andreas. I even think San Andreas gives more options in game play or interactivity 
 than this version. At least San Andreas gives you option to buy a crib or modify your car and whatnot. 
 This game, I think should have add that option and added more, well simply because of the Blu-Ray 
 disc capacity and PS3 processing power. Well, like I said before, probably I was expecting too 
 much, based on the official review. Probably next time eh?
  
  Conclusion, a good addition to the GTA family which could be pictured as pretty at the outside 
 but quite thin on the inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILoveJunkFood
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have seen many, many, many, people give GTA 4 a 10 rating, and this game isn't a 10, sorry! I have 
 played Call of Duty 4 and that is a 10 game, not GTA 4! Let's start with the graphics and overall 
 gameplay shall wel? Yes, while the graphics are better than previous GTA games, the gameplay is not 
 better whatsoever! In previous GTA games, you had a really good selection of weapons that worked 
 well, and the previous GTA storylines were just pure genuis, that isn't the case for GTA 4! GTA 4 
 storyline is too long and complicated and there were way too many characters in this game to keep 
 straight of who did what to whom! 
  
  While the graphics are much better on GTA 4 than in previous GTA games, why aren't more houses, building 
 and other public places more accessible? Why would you design a game that has so many houses, and 
 buildings that you can't go into them and really have some fun?
  
  Niko earns alot of money on this game but what can he spend it on? Weapons and clothes and that 
 is it, and that can get very boring really quickly! Why not have him get to spend his money on buying 
 clubs, or even really nice cars or houses instead? I thought the wardrobes that he was offered 
 wasn't that great and I would have liked to have been able to give him different hairstyles, or 
 customize cars for him like I could for Carl in Grand Theft Auto San Andreas.
  
  I was just expecting so much more from a game that was supposed to be better than Grand Theft Auto 
 San Andreas, that is not the case with GTA 4! While the graphics are better, it just seems like 
 GTA 4 was really rushed through and there wasn't nearly the open endedness like there was with 
 Grand Theft Auto San Andreas! Also, there aren't nearly as many vehicles to choose from as there 
 was on GTA San Andreas. The cars or motorcylces that you are offered on GTA 4 has very poor handling 
 and when you have to do missions with either the motorcycle or different cars, it can be very frustrating 
 to say the least, because the vehicles for this game don't have very good handling on them whatsoever! 
 
  
  Why so many people keep giving this game such high ratings is beyond me because after you accomplish 
 the storyline, there isn't hardly anything left to do on the game that is exciting. At least with 
 Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, you could do alot of fun stuff after the storyline was done and the 
 possibilities of fun things to do on San Andreas were endless! I really think that if the storyline 
 and vehicles would have been better on GTA 4, then this would have been a really great game. I don't 
 know maybe I am the only person who feels like this game could have been really good but it is 
 just a poor storyline that feels rushed, and it doesn't feel as cool or exciting as Grand Theft 
 Auto San Andreas does. Now if they could have really improved on Grand Theft Auto San Andreas by 
 actually making Grand Theft Auto 4 even more thrilling and exciting, THEN this game would have been 
 a 10, but that isn't the case with GTA 4 whatsoever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ-2K7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  like i said, this is a great game and i cant really think of anything wrong with it apart from 
 Niko's voice getting really annoying, and the fact there are no planes this time, but the assortment 
 of cars, bikes, weapons and clothes easily make up for that. its a pretty easy game, if you've 
 played the others, which i assume most of you have. even the final few missions will only take 
 you 1 or 2 tries, as long as you use the new cover system.
  
  the whole cover idea is basically Rainbow Six but with a bit of diving across the room (and skidding 
 on your knees like a ten year old boy) to get there. it makes some fights a little too easy but 
 oh well.
  
  I wont tell you much about the story cos its probably all spoilers, but i will say that if you 
 get the game (AND YOU DEFINITELY SHOULD) , when you get to the end take revenge cos its more fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeQueen
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Okay, I have been playing GTA ever since GTA 3 came out on the Playstation 2. I have seen the GTA 
 games grow and develop not only in graphics, but also in the storylines over the years as well! 
 While GTA 3 was revolutionary at it's time because of the open ended game playing world, it was 
 also alot of fun to play too.! Then came GTA Vice City, which blew away the graphics and gameplay 
 of GTA 3, and the Graphics and Storylines were AMAZING for GTA Vice City! Then the big daddy of 
 them all came along which we all know is Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, and it has been the BEST 
 video game that I have EVER played, I am not joking! GTA San Andreas had it all from the cars that 
 you could customize, to the storyline, to the graphics, and of course the WONDERFUL storyline that 
 left you on the edge of your seat wondering what was going to happen next. 
  
  Don't foget that GTA San Andreas also had airplanes, jet packs, trains, motorcycles and all of the 
 vehicles handled very well on missions or while driving them just for fun! Plus, the map for GTA 
 San Andreas was HUGE! Not only was there cities on there, but there was also a desert, small little 
 towns, and a countryside that you could have fun in too. You could jump out of airplanes with a 
 parachute, and do so many fun things, that the list could just go on and on!
  
  Now fast forward to GTA 4, and all of the anticipation that this game was SUPPOSED TO BE BETTER 
 than any previous GTA game that came out before it. I was literally on the edge of my seat waiting 
 for this game to be released because I had heard of all of the hype about how it was supposed be 
 better not only game play wise but graphic wise and storyline wise too, uh I don't think so sorry! 
 With the previous GTA games especially GTA San Andreas, the storylines were PHENOMINAL and kept 
 you on the edge of your seat, not GTA 4, the storyline was very poor in my opinion. There were so 
 many different characters in GTA 4, that it was difficult to keep all of the different characters 
 straight and sometimes it got to be kind of confusing too as to what character did what in GTA 
 4. While the graphics are amazing in GTA 4, WHY OH WHY AREN'T MORE BUILDINGS and HOUSES OPEN for 
 people to go into? I liked Niko as a character on this game, but his storyline could have been SO 
 MUCH BETTER! Some of the missions on this game were just too easy, or they were so frustrating that 
 it made you want to scream with frustration! The cell phone could be very irritating ringing constantly 
 because somebody needed your constant attention for some reason or another!
  
  Missing from GTA 4 is the houses that you could buy like in GTA San Andreas, cars and motorcyles 
 that handled well. Why make racing missions for GTA 4 if the cars and motorcyles don't have good 
 handling at all? Also, all you could buy on GTA 4 was clothes or weapons, uh okay? Why couldn't Niko 
 have been able to buy bigger and better houses, cars, or even own things like the strip clubs, or 
 other things? I am sorry to say this, but for all of the anticipation and excitement for this game 
 that was built up all around it, I just don't see it at all! This game could have been SO MUCH BETTER 
 with the storyline as well as assetts that Niko could have bought and built up that it is really 
 sad! I am sorry to say this, but this game is FAR FROM a perfect 10 rating! There are still WAY 
 TOO MANY BULDINGS or HOUSES THAT YOU CANNOT GO INTO, the storyline seemed really weak and confusing 
 at times, It seemed like EVERYTHING ON THIS GAME was rushed!
  
  Unfortunately, I only give this game a rating of a 2, because it is very disappointing, especially 
 if you have played GTA San Andreas, you will know what I am talking about! I know I will get flamed 
 for only giving this game a 2, but if the storyline would have been better, there would have been 
 more cars, airplanes, jet packs, trains, motorcyles, etc THAN this game would have been a 10! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Welcome to liberty city, where the grass is green and the girls are pretty. Where the graphics 
 are superb with details everywhere and where the gta games have earned its fame. Where the gameplay 
 doesnt stop improving and where the controls cant get any better. Where the storyline is awesome 
 and intriguing, where it always makes you guess. Where Rockstar added multiplayer and where its 
 very awesome. Ok now lets talk about the changes: if for example, a car door is locked, well Nico 
 will look around if anybody is seeing and he will break the window and delock the door. If your 
 in the middle of a firefight and you dont want to get touched, well take cover. Press on the button 
 and Nico will stick himself to a nearby wall. There isnt any jetpack or other stupid things like 
 this. If you are in the middle of a pursuit (in car) , you break the passenger window and you can 
 shoot where you want. The graphics have also been ketched-up, and they are fluid and colorful. 
 My last word about this game is that its flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  -STORY-
  You play as niko an immagrant who comes to stay with his cousin roman. He comes to live the 'american 
 dream' but instead ends up in a world of crime.
  I would say Niko is the most likable hero from a grand theft auto game.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  Within 
 this grand theft auto there is a new cover system where you can go up against a wall and fire, 
 whereas in previous ones it was like random shooting and you could get killed really easy. The 
 cover system thing isn't that great i don't think it works very well. i prefered the getaways cover 
 system. You can also now climb things with a touch of a button making it alot more easier to access 
 places.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are really nice. But don't expect there to be no sort of glitches because there will 
 be. but they are nowhere near as bad as the previous ones.
  
  -MUSIC-
  The soundtrack played on the radio is really catchy. After a while i found myself singing along 
 (yes im that sad) . I got caught on the russian radio station and the song got stuck in my head. lol.
 
  
  -OVERALL-
  Grand theft auto 4 isn't my favourite it would have to be san andreas. I would say this one is 
 a sort of downgrade. You cannot build you muscles and get a hair cut e. t. c. these little things 
 makes it a dissapointment. But don't get me wrong it was a good game from start to finish. Didn't 
 like the end though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimshady124
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  ... This game is the best game I've ever played in my life!! The story is great, completely immersing 
 you in it's twists and turns. The main character, Niko Bellic, is fresh off the boat in Liberty 
 City. he just came here to live the "American Dream" that his cousin said that he was enjoying 
 so much. When he finds his cousin, he soon realizes what his cousin told him about sports cars 
 and penthouses was all bull. As Niko tries to get money and pay his cousin's debts, he delves deeper 
 and deeper into the criminal underworld. Once he's in, he can't get out. About the gameplay... 
 it's absolutely mind-blowing. The new cover system helps keep you alive unlike previous GTA games, 
 whereas there wasn't much cover and the aiming system was awful. In GTA 4, this all changes. Niko 
 can now use almost anything as cover, blind-fire, fire regularly, or just stand and fight. He can 
 break the window of his car and shoot out of it, and this works with boats and motorcycles, too. 
 Speaking of breaking windows, do you remember how you could open a parked car's door and run away 
 with the car? Well, this time around, Niko breaks the window, unlocks the car door from the inside, 
 and hotwires the car. You can still use cheats. But now, they have to be entered on Niko's cell. 
 Niko's cellphone allows you to go on dates, take a friend to lunch, have a heavy, cold mug of beer, 
 and many other things. Yes, you can get drunk, and yes, you can drink and drive. You can customize 
 the cell and you do have a personal life in GTA 4. If you refuse one too many dates with that girlfriend 
 of yours, she's not going to like you and you can't get perks from her or any other friends if 
 you treat others the same way. Perks range from cheaper guns to a gang that follows you around 
 and fights with you. Somehow, the multiplayer is just as good as the campaign. For one, there are 
 15 different game types that you can play with 15 friends besides yourself. And it's just a blast 
 to run around the city, pick up a helicopter, and fire away at your friends. Or you could make 
 your own gametype during free mode. Oh. and now you can hail taxis. You can also steal taxis, not 
 only from the driver, but the passenger in the back. So, basically, this is more than just a revamped 
 GTA. It is a polished masterpiece with basically no flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV. Need I say more? Along with better graphics, better story, exquisite acting, 
 and detailed environments; Grand Theft Auto IV brings better gameplay and an overall amazing experience. 
 Upon first playing i felt that the controls were horrendous, but after playing for a while i found 
 that they were exceptional. There are many things in this game that will piss you off causing you 
 to shut the system off and not play for 2 or 3 days, but there are also many things here that will 
 drop your jaw and make you realize how far gaming has come. The open-ended gameplay and multiplayer 
 add depth to this edition of the long-running series. I truly believe it may be the second best 
 if not the best compared to GTA III, and i only say this because GTA III was the first game that 
 truly sparked this outbreak of GTA madness so i believe in giving credit where it is due. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is a near perfect gem, it is turly something special and extremely rare. Next up 
 for me is Resistance: Fall Of Man... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOXracing416
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  this game was alot better then the others..... yes you can still run around and kill everything 
 and everyone... lol and blow everything up.... but they still have that but the graphics are AMAZING...... they 
 were alot better then i expected them to be.... when u shot a car it actually left bullet holes 
 this time..... lol..... they story line is good.... i havent completed it but its good to the point 
 that im at .
  its a really good game its deffinatly worth the money even if it is 60$ -.- the cars handle really 
 good the suspension actually lets the car sway side to side. the super jump things are funny on 
 motorcycles... lol just get a ton of speed and bust it and hit the top of a car or something.... the 
 gunns shoot very well not really much reload time so when you fight cops you dont get shot and 
 killed when reloading.... lol but the sniper rifles are fun
  the fact that you can fly a helecoper not is awsome.... you can jump out of it... or you can turn 
 it to the side and the blades will catch the people and throw them who knows how far... lol
  but its really fun and it cures the boredom.... quickly haha =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The first major difference on this version to the 360 it graphics, even though it mostly appeared 
 dark but brightness feature helps. The main thing that kinda killed me on GTAIV was that they took 
 it in a totally different aspect and direction. They wanted it to be realistic and griddy and dark. 
 The story wasn't deep and didn't want me to ask for more, it was also maybe the shortest GTA game 
 I've played. The map wasn't really big and by a week I memberized it to know where every hot dog 
 vendor was. The driving ,although nice to see, was too realistic and difficult on race's. And selection 
 of weapons and cars and clothing was terrible. I liked San Andreas and how Saints Row had Clothing 
 and cars customizable. This made me feel like I wasted money on a beautifully designed game with 
 no story and game play fun. Like in all the other GTA's the game play wasn't really serious (blowing 
 heads off, jet packs, mini cars, "unique" weapons, and funny dialog.) The map reminded me too much 
 of GTA III, VC and SA, in which was nice but strange. The vehicle parking is horrid and as well 
 of housing. I really tried to enjoy this game but it simply was a lack-luster. I hope Rockstar 
 realizes by making a GTA game realistic, dark, and life-like there feeding those stupid Anti-games/ 
 violence on games protesters have more fuel for there war. Go back to the basics gentlemen... Fun 
 Game play and some of that Crude Humor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series has always been one of the most revered in gaming, but a series of unrealistic mission 
 objectives coupled with poor targeting and driving controls have always kept the game from fully 
 resonating with me. Those issues are almost completely non-existant in GTA IV, which allows the 
 vibrant world and colorful characters to completely immerse players with few distractions. There 
 are still a few issues here and there, but make no mistake; this is the definitive version of GTA 
 and one of the best video games ever made. 
  
  The sweeping tale of Niko Belic begins when he arrives in America and moves in with his cousin, 
 Roman. Niko has had a harsh life in his home country and wishes to start anew, but it soon becomes 
 clear that Roman's stories of mansions, sports cars, and hot women were just that; stories. I won't 
 get into specifics, but the story will eventually grow to become pretty dramatic. Players will 
 even be able to change certain events by choosing to either kill or spare different characters. 
 Over the course of the game, Niko will meet many different people. Upon meeting someone, Niko will 
 add their phone number to his cell phone directory. Players can then call up the characters to 
 request missions or just hang out. Once Niko has spent enough time with a friend, he will gain 
 a special perk for earning their trust. For example, hang out with Little Jacob enough, and he'll 
 let you buy weapons from the back of his car at low prices. These interactions are great in that 
 they allow players to get closer to all of the numerous characters in the game. I just wish that 
 they weren't so intrusive. If a friend calls you up and asks to hang out, it is possible to answer 
 either yes or no. However, the game almost forces you to say yes because if you say no, the contact 
 will start to like Niko less. Also, while bowling and darts are fun a few times, and pool is a 
 little interesting, most of the activites get boring after a while. I'm glad that Rockstar has 
 put these events into the game because it brings players closer to their friends and develops a 
 sense of comaradarie between the player and the characters, but at the same time they can get annoying.
 
  
  Another flaw with the relationship system is Niko's girlfriend. While it's fun to watch the two 
 grow closer over the course of the game, and seeing her slowly catch on to Niko's criminal activities 
 is a great moment in gaming, she is a bit of a hassle. You'll need to change your clothes and your 
 car before you pick her up, or she won't be greatly impressed.
  
  The gameplay itself has improved a lot since the last game. Auto targeting is still an option, 
 and it actually works. But free aiming is available as well, and that works well too. Niko can 
 also take cover against any flat object in the environment. All in all, the moving and shooting 
 just feels right. The driving, on the other hand, can take a little getting used to. Car physics 
 feel a little bit off, so it is literally impossible to be a good driver in Liberty City unless 
 one drives at the speed of the NPCs or slower. That's no fun. Rain and other weather conditions 
 will make the roads slick, which is a really cool addition. But if Niko is trying to chase down 
 a target in a car while it's raining, it could very well turn into a very frustrating chase. It 
 is a testament to the skill of everyone at Rockstar that, despite these annoyances, driving around 
 in Liberty City is still very fun. Most of that fun comes from the attention to detail that permeates 
 every aspect of the city.
  
  The little touches are simple amazing. If Niko is driving his girlfriend somewhere and he has to 
 slam on the brakes, he will put his arm out to stop his girlfriend from smashing into the dashboard. 
 If Niko crashes at high speed, he's gonna go flying out the windshield. If he steals a car and 
 speeds off, passengers will attempt to leap out of the back seats, often to hilarious results. 
 Much of these awesome interactions are the result of the integration of the new Euphoria technology 
 into the GTA world. Euphoria allows the game's characters to react realistically to almost any 
 given situation by grabbing onto ledges if they're about to fall off of something to flying out 
 of the windshield in a high impact crash. This is the technology being put to use in the upcoming 
 Star Wars: Force Unleashed game, and if GTA 4 is any indication, it's an amzing addition to any 
 game. 
  
  Considering the amount of detail that went into Liberty City, anybody who complains about the graphical 
 quality of GTA IV is a fool. The graphics look fairly nice when taken on their own merits, but 
 considering the size of the world and the amount of additional information that had to be crammed 
 onto the disk, they are actually pretty great. Characters faces are much more expressive than they 
 were in the older GTA games as well. The sound is uniformly great as always. The radio stations 
 are hilarious and the music is diverse. The sounds of the city are all natural sounding as well. 
 The great voicework just adds to Rockstar's hilarious skewering of American life. And what a parody 
 this game is. While the story itself is serious and tense, all of the extraneous content in the 
 game is purely satirical. From the steriod-pumping Brucie to the rich Playboy X to the hilariously 
 right-wing Weasel News Network, it is clear that Rockstar just gets it. They hunt down and make 
 fun of everything in our country in equal measure, so while you may not agree with some of the 
 parodies, it's clear that Rockstar is at least fair with their tomfoolery. The best part of all 
 of this is that all of the parody is spot on and true when you think about it. 
  
  The multiplayer aspects of the game don't hold up as well as the single player portion, but not 
 for lack of content. There are many different modes for up to 16 players, and it's fairly well 
 integrated into the game (just take out your cell phone and select Multiplayer on the menu) , but 
 there usually aren't enough people online to make it fun. Games will usually have under 10 players, 
 often as little as 3 or 4, and the levels are pretty huge. This makes many games a chore to play 
 online.
  
  While it's impossible to cover every detail in GTA IV in one review, it is possible to stress just 
 how much action fans need to play this game. Rockstar has finally managed to create a game that 
 lives up to the open world promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satreed
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  G. T. A IV is a really good game if you are playing it the first time. But unfortunately it is one 
 of those games that you begin to dislike as you play it more often. This happens because it is 
 mostly the same things that you do over and over again and it becomes more boring.
  The graphics in this game however are superb and whether you are playing it on the 360 or PS3 you 
 will totally be impressed. In this GTA game when cops are chasing you all you have to do is leave 
 the area that they are searching and hide for a few moments and "BAM" your wanted level is gone. 
 This makes it easier to escape from cops, unlike the previous games.
  Simple things such as cell phones and internet really add up to the gameplay and before you know 
 it you are totally immersed into this reality. The driving is a little harder than other G. T. A 
 games but once you get the hang of it you will sure be driving to everywhere you go in the game.
 
  The one thing that makes this game so great is the storyline. It is so interesting that even if 
 you are not a fan of the series you owe it to yourself to play the game. The GTA IV world is so 
 believable because you are allowed to make your own decisions in some missions and this changes 
 the outcome of events. Most people will probably go back and play the game making different choices 
 to see what they had missed. This game is a great game but it could still have been better.
  This is so because they have reduced the amount of things you can do in this one. In San Andreas 
 you could ride bicycles, fly planes and even go gyming but in this one all those things have been 
 taken away.
  This is what I think about the game but I suggest you should play it for yourself and make your 
 decision because this is definitely a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  GTA IV successfully manges to create the perfect gaming experience...
  some people say that this is not the perfect game but these people say it because they can't enjoy 
 games...
  I for example think that GTA IV has an amazing storyline for the single player and it's also an 
 addicting game which you can play for hours, after the single player mode ends you can date girls, 
 conflict with the police and so on (and believe me the options never end in GTA IV) .
  you can also play online in the multiplayer mode, which is pretty fun.
  The Gameplay is the most 
 exciting aspect of this game, every mission is different then the other, the sound effects are 
 stunning as well as the voice acting and it'll definitely will be a game you'll remember for life...
 
  
  That's A MUST HAVE GAME, cut scenes are magnificent and graphics are satisfying for such a massive 
 game that brings up the standards of gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meluckycharms12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV, to put it bluntly, is a vast gaming experience. As soon as you pop in the 
 disc, hundreds of hours of gaming goodness is at your disposal!
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the graphic upgrade. As you walk/drive down liberty city streets, 
 you'll see the hustle and bustle of cars, pedestrians, police, gangs, airplanes, boats (if you're 
 by the water ;-P ) coming to life around you. The atmosphere of the game is amazing and makes you 
 feel like you're walking around in a real city. The cast of characters only compliments the game's 
 immersing ability by getting you to like some and despise others.
  
  The story, as you may already know, is about Niko. He is an eastern European immigrant with a dirty 
 past, trying to start a new, not so clean, life in America. You are immediately introduced to his 
 cousin and find out that the "land of golden opportunity" is really the "land of somewhat okay 
 opportunity but not really much different". You'll quickly find yourself mixing with the wrong 
 crowd all over again.
  
  Some negative things about the game I've come across from my time playing involve the sound and 
 the controls. Let me just say that the music available via radio is incredible, but the overal 
 gunshots, speech, etc seems rather San Andreas and hasn't really been improved. The other problem 
 I had was with controlling Niko on foot and while driving. My main problem was with the camera 
 swinging in odd directions making me relatively blind the the two guys shooting me in the face. 
 Once you get used to battling the ingame camera, the game is a (literal) blast!
  
  To conclude, the game is flippin' huge! Outside of the main story line there is a myriad of things 
 to do (girlfriend/friend relationships, various mini-games, finding hidden items, etc) . If you 
 have some time on your hands, get GTAIV. If you are susceptible to motion sickness, maybe just 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirstAlchemist1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The game was the best gta to date but in some cases it took 1 step forward and 2 steps back personally: 
 what happened to the bikes like in San Andreas. Not much hostlity is current with with pedestrians 
 anymore. Why does it seem throughout the whole city I am the only one doing crime. More threads 
 definently need to be made avalible. AI is not much of a improvement but gun battles are alot better. 
 More exploration. the city might be alive but its half dead when you can only venture in certain 
 places. Hate how after you do a mission with someone or you go in a building they just went in 
 they tottaly dissappear. The list can go on but ill stop there.
  
  In the next Gta if they can fix these things and much more GTA could be a great game more innovation 
 is key like running your own gang or businesses once things are done and taking over more businesse 
 and setting up your own missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to spend too much time on what the game got right (because rockstar practically got 
 everything right) . What I am going to be discussing is the shift in the style of the game. Maybe 
 the old San Andreas silliness and somewhat linear mission outcomes sat better with me than the 
 heavy moral choices of GTA 4. As a gamer I've always wanted to have games that have a "I want my 
 cake and eat it too" progression. I liked Vice City and San Andreas because when you finished the 
 game you'd feel like you've got your character somewhere better but I don't get the same feeling 
 for this game.
  
  There is still a lot of good parody and satire but the game felt bitter, probably because the material 
 might be too recent. In Vice City and San Andreas the environment seemed detached from what was 
 real and everything was goofy over the top. You'd hear some guy in San Andreas shouting "Weed gives 
 me knowledge!" and it was these little things that helped lighten up the mood, in this game, however, 
 things become so serious to the point that I feel burdened. I miss the innocence and simplicity 
 of Vice City and San Andreas but I also loved how the characters and the world of GTA 4 were fleshed 
 out.
  
  I know it's a difficult job to decide what to develop when developing video games, if rockstar 
 had stuck to the comical routine, people would probably criticize the game as being shallow, but 
 if rockstar developed the game as wholly believable (as is the case of GTA 4) then people would 
 be burdened with difficult decisions because of the "nobody wins" results (similar to the real 
 world) .
  
  Maybe this game is really for adults in the sense that GTA 4 doesn't give you a urban fairytale 
 romp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinewolv
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  When you are first driving away from the docks of the Liberty City harbor, you immediately notice 
 that this game has changed from its predecessors. Though its not the best game with graphics, it 
 is very impressive given that Liberty is a busling metropolis full of animated characters and detailed 
 buildings that make you feel inside NYC. Not to mention the entire map is playable on line. Just 
 like previous GTA's there's plenty to do besides the already dynamic storyline, including exploring 
 the internet or phone to 'hang out' with several of your friends you meet throughout the game. 
 The shooting system is much more improved and the driving more realistic. One aspect I personally 
 enjoyed was the innovative police chase sequences. Instead of just running into a pay n' spray, 
 you have to evade the cops from being in their sight, a challenging yet rewarding task. Everything 
 about this game makes one want to play it again the next day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godslim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is it the big GTA4! Sold out everywhere but is it as good as people really say..... the games 
 graphics, physics and gameplay are much improved and the character niko is cool..... however gta4 
 seems like a step down from san andres lacking many features and anything new compared to GTASA. 
 GTA4 is probably gonna disapoint players who were expecting alot more from this one.
  The singleplayer story isnt too long but its the multiplayer which makes up for the single player 
 if ya got mates to play with this game is ace online.
  Many different modes which are alot of fun!.
  
  After completing this game u will probably 
 feel disapointed as i do with an ending which to honest kinda sucks.
  
  graphics: 8 - decent looking game alot better graphics than the old games
  
  Sound: 9 - Good 
 acting and normal gun shots etc with good radio stations with bob marley on one of em.
  
  Gamplay: 8 - much improved from the old games however stil some floors
  
  Lasting appeal: 7.5 
 - singleplayer isnt too long but if u have mates the multiplayer should last u a while longer
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clominon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Long overdue but here it is. I know, I knowthere is probably millions of millions of gazillions 
 reviews/previews/views of this game. And 99.99% of the time it's about how awesome the game is 
 I would totally agree with you and the 99.99% of the reviews if I was a mindless zombie!!!! Just 
 kidding... what I meant was brainwashed zombies! Yeah that's better. Not that I don't like GTA4 
 in fact I loved that game. The game was so awesome that I almost cried when I got the game. Maybe 
 a bit exaggeration but you get the point. First of all Rockstar! You guys really do rock second 
 of all Rockstar would you marry me!?
  So anyways the game so as always I paid way too much for a game (Europe is so expensive!) . I don't 
 know why we peoples here put up with this crap. Anyways I got the game, I started the game. Of 
 course had to install the game first? What kind of a BS is this!? Okay okay if it makes the loading 
 time less then I don't mind waiting 30 minutes till this thing gets installed. But in the game 
 there still were loadings!!! meanwhile I went and made myself a sandwich! Boy that was a sandwich 
 I really enjoyed! Now hear this take 3 bread slices o wait! The game! Yes the game is installed 
 with a gynormous sandwich in my hand I was trying to watch the intro cut scene. Man that sandwich 
 was good!... 
  It was so cool I thought I was watching a movie. The graphics!!! Holy crap people the graphics 
 have never been so good! Rockstar really did a great job. 
  After seeing the intro thing and now actually trying to play the game I jumped in the car! I pushed 
 X but the car didn't move! What?! Has it been so long since I played gta? X was acceleration right? 
 Oh wait they changed the buttons. No worries I just get used to this one. So after pushing all 
 the buttons I figure out what is what. Now its time to actually drive the car I was in for like 
 5 minutes. A blind crippled person trying to walk on ice is more stable than that car! I managed 
 to complete that mission in two tries. First time I drove the car in to the water that was behind 
 me! I have absolutely no idea how that is even possible I was going forwards and next thing I 
 know the car was making a flip in air going backwards in to the waters! How is that even possible? 
  Second try! I barley touched the acceleration button and we were driving yay its working! Before 
 I could get any speed I smacked into a wall that was invisible at first. No wait it was dark and 
 the only thing I could see was my red lights! I'm not talking about Amsterdam's red lights talking 
 about the car! At nights the game is so dark that I really couldn't see anything! I don't think 
 night visions would even help. Anyways After allot of screaming and kicking I managed to get the 
 car with Roman and Niko of course at the place we had to be. So I said well that was a crappy car 
 so I stole another car just to drive around and see places. Man these cars really look good! Everything 
 looks good. So many cool looking cars! What should I steal? So I stole the one that looks like 
 Chrysler bla bla bla don't really know the car. Don't get mad not so much into cars. At all. 
 So the car is super correction pretty fast. If you drive a straight line. But if you try to turn! 
 All hell brakes loose! So we got unstable cars, who cares! the game looks so good! Graphics are 
 awesome. After driving a bit I heard of this GTA 4 social club something. So I typed in the address 
 and got there, with allot of error messages the site loaded up. First thing I saw was the thing 
 about the first 100 people getting a key of the city something? Anyways I got excited and crap 
 so I tried to link my PS3 ID thing (yes I have a ps3! So sue me) to my GTA4 account. An unknown 
 error has accord it said what?! Really?! okay no big deal. Gta is a very popular game and I imagine 
 allot of people were trying to do the same thing and maybe the servers got overloaded or something. 
 So I thought okay I will finish the game then I will do that. So I played the game! And played 
 the game!. 
  
  aside from the crappy story line I did really like the most wanted thing with the cop car. Oh and 
 what's up with the man dates?! I don't want to buy an overpriced game to go on man dates! Once 
 or twice okay I get it its fun to feel gay and go on man dates but come on people MAN DATES!!!?? 
 Who cares the game really looks good. And what's up with the girlfriend BS. It didn't work in San 
 Andreas it's not going to work here. If I wanted to have a psycho for a girlfriend I so have enough 
 choices right here in real life (No offence girls) . But hey they were useful and what not. Besides 
 who cares! The game really looks good. No taxi, No ambulance, No fire-fighter missions?! Those 
 were the side missions I liked. But hey who cares! The game really looks good. And oh yeah almost 
 forgot about the weird thing. When you kill people. like you're in a warzone and people are coming 
 at you from all sides and you are killing them like they are baby seals. The thing I noticed was 
 when I kill them and like their life bar is all empty and they fall down in a pool of blood and 
 me all happy and psychotic looking move to the next guy I see all of a sudden they stand up and 
 try to walk away! Like what's up with that?! I just killed you dude! Stay down. That's just weird 
 but okay I forgive rockstar 'cause the game looks so good! I was complaining about the cars just 
 a second ago... Now don't make me start on bikes! Not only are they pretty rare to find they are 
 so crappy to drive with. With the smallest tick I fly 2 feet in the air. We said realism but come 
 on people! But the fun detail is when you get a bike and wait for a sec he pulls a helmet out of 
 nowhere and puts it on. So I figured if you can put on a helmet on a bike you should fasten your 
 seatbelt in a car. So I waited a second or two then drove as fast as I could into a tree! Not only 
 didn't it work! I flew threw the window of my car then flew threw the tree and into a wall splattering 
 my brain. Although it was fun to see that, I did not try that trick again. So no safety in car! 
 Past GTA games you could jump into a car and like be safe for a while. But now it looks like that 
 its even more dangerous. 
  Now don't think I hate this game. Sounds really like I hate GTA! But people I don't hate GTA. I'm 
 just pointing out the flaws! 'Cause that's way more fun. Don't forget the game looks really good. 
 One last complain before I sum this thing up. The cars explode really weird. First a small fire 
 in the engine. I don't know much about cars but I guess it could happen. Second your wheels burst 
 into flames now that I can't imagine.. why would your wheels catch on fire? And all cars explode 
 the same! But heey who cares! The game looks awesome! Two days has past! I finished the game! Wow 
 in two days you ask? Yes two days not because the came is short just because I played it non stop.. 
 you know to win that silver key thing. Now lets do the side missions to get that 100%. No hidden 
 packages this time instead glowing pigeons. Glowing pigeons?! Yes glowing pigeons. 200 of them! 
 I'm not going to tell you how that went but right now I really hate pigeons! I hate pigeons so 
 much that every time I see one I just wan to kick it like a soccer ball!! Hidden packages.. Such 
 a fun part of GTA series! Now? Not so much.
  But again who cares. The game looks great. 
  It seems that rockstar paid 90% attention to graphics and like 10% game play and the rest of stuff. 
 And after two weeks of hell to get all those side missions and mini games and 1 more day left for 
 the 100% contest and still unable to get into the social club thing. I stopped playing. I admit 
 defeat yes I do.. Took out the game and you know what I'm playing now? I'm playing Jak & Daxter! 
 One of the first PS2 games! Im not saying GTA 4 is a bad game I'm just saying it's too much hype 
 and disappointments. But other than that the game looks awesome! This is like a shorter version 
 of my review look at it... Look how long my review got!! If only I could write so much for work/school.
 
  
  p. s. I never got to 100% (stuck at 96%) and I still can't get into social club thing. BUT hey the 
 game looks awesome!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mspacman916
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are absolutely amazing, and I couldn't help but look around at every detail 
 of liberty city. 
  Gameplay: The game play is by far the top of the line. I was hoping that GTA IV would have some 
 RPG elements like in San Andreas, but you don't get everything you want. There are some minor glitches 
 here and there but it doesn't take away from the gameplay. Omg! they finally updated the Aiming 
 system, and they added a shooting style duck and cover type of play like Gears of War. 
  Difficulty: They really kind of dumbed down the difficulty of the game or maybe it's because they 
 finally fixed the controls LOL. 
  
  Over all story and online: The story is so well written and the voice acting is totally awesome. Adding 
 the entertainment aspect of the game was a great move by Rockstar ( You actually bond with characters 
 in the game) . The Online is so good you might actually spend more time playing online instead of 
 playing the story. 
  
  Over all this game is a must have and will definitely win game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is known for being one of the most contraversial series in the history of videogames 
 since its debut in 1998. It still holds that crown to this day. Grand Theft Auto IV is finally 
 out and as far as pro reveiwers see it, it's the most perfect game thats been out so far. But I 
 for one dissagree, and though it is a fun game, I just cant say it's the best in the series.
  
  Gameplay: The biggest and most mentioned new aspect of the gameplay is of course the new cover 
 system. This is a very welcomed improvement to the Gta series as far as I'm concerned. Though it 
 still could use some improvement. The new aiming system is of course inspired by Saints Row. Which 
 makes aiming way more tolerable. Other new features like climbing over gates, hanging out with 
 friends, drinking and driving, playing pool, darts, bowling is pretty cool. The driving takes a 
 lot of gettig used to.
  Cops are everywhere this time around, but it's easier to loose your wanted level. But compared 
 to San Andreas there isn't as much to do than the usual.
  
  Sound: The dialog is very well performed by the voice actors. I love all the talk radio stations 
 and television shows. The selection of music isn't as good in this one. VC and SA still hold the 
 crown there.
  
  Graphics: Definately the most obvious improvement in the whole series. The city is a very convincing 
 version of New York City. The environment feels very lively. The city is not as big as SA's was 
 however. And despite the size of the city, theres not to many buildings to go into. All the characters 
 look and move very well. Realistic damage on vehicles are impressive. Blood splatter is very good. 
 Even the strippers are worth watching.
  
  Conclusion: I have to say this game is worth buying. But it could have been alot better. All the 
 perfect scores this game has recieved is a bit ridiculous. Hopefully they can build up on what 
 they started with game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV improves on many flaws that have plagued past GTA games, while adding many more.
  
  GRAPHICS: A huge improvement over past titles obviously, but still has some rough edges and flickering 
 shadows. Main characters are well designed and pedestrians look almost as good as main characters. 
 Liberty City looks more like NYC than the old Liberty City which is a good thing since the game 
 is going for a more realistic approach. Guns, explosions, cars, building, etc. everything looks 
 better. The new Euphoria Physics Engine is some thing every game needs to have. Hitting and running 
 people over with cars has never been better and more fun. The way bullet holes stay on your car 
 no matter where you shoot it or where it was shot by someone else is amazing. Shooting someone 
 the windshield and seeing the blood, bullet holes, and cracked glass is nice. Weather effects are 
 also better driving in the rain drifting your car is crazy. 
  
  SOUND: Gunshots all have a different sound that is dynamic and really helps make gunfights cool. 
 Grenades and rocket launchers are the best weapons to use if you want to see the graphics do their 
 thing. Weather is great such as when it is thundering and you can hear the roar blocks away. Cars 
 all sound different and many if not all of them sound like the real life car they are imitating. 
 Pedestrians have more dialog than ever and it is just as crazy and insane as it always is. You 
 should try following closely behind someone answering their phone and eavesdropping on their conversation 
 for some funny dialog. With all the money spent on the soundtrack it was worth it considering how 
 much music is in the game. There is something for everyone to enjoy no matter what you like listening 
 to. I was surprised to find myself listening to the Eastern European radio station and Radio Broker 
 more than The Beat and rap music is my favorite CRAZY. The talk radio stations are even funnier 
 that before with WKTT being my favorite. The Richard Bastian Show & the courtroom judge are hilarious. 
 I'll also note without spoiling anything that adding three of the funniest people on SNL is a big 
 plus for the talk radio stations. 
  
  CONTROLS: The controls are much better than past games and the new cover system is a great addition 
 to make gunfights better if not a little too easy. You can now target individual body parts on 
 enemies to shoot what you want to hit. You can also free-aim with every weapon if you prefer using 
 your own skills. Most guns allow you to zoom in on targets once you are targeting them which is 
 a nice addition. Cars handle differently than they did before feeling heavier, but it helps with 
 the realism and you get use to it before long. Motorcycles are harder than you would expect to 
 control and will take most people some time to get use to driving them all over again. Another 
 thing to get use to is the way the camera takes an over-the-shoulder view of the car and how you 
 have to move the camera yourself so you won't crash into anything. Though it was weird at first 
 having to do so much while driving it is not that complicated and is actually a way better design 
 than older games. Don't bother using the sixaxis controls they will cause you more frustration 
 than they are worth. Also playing with a Dualshock 3 controller is a must for you to get the most 
 out of the game, although it's not required.
  
  OVERALL: There is so much things that this game does I can't type all of them. Most people will 
 not even hear, see, or do everything that this game offers. One example is that when you fail a 
 mission you do not hear the same dialog you heard last time. They have another dialog track that 
 will start. Most people would not even hear half the dialog in this game and that is saying a lot. 
 The interactive cell phone, the internet, TV shows, comedy shows, etc. just add even more to the 
 depth of the game. This game delivers on all promises even though it isn't perfect it is as close 
 to a perfect game as a Grand Theft Auto game has come thus far. If you don't already have this 
 game what are you waiting for buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedlogan123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Words cannot explain how thrilled i was when a copy of Grand Theft Auto 4 flew through my letterbox 
 on the long awaited april 29th. It looked awesome. I had high hopes for this game. The three previous 
 GTA games on PS2 were awesome and had always improved every sequel. However, some aspects of GTA 
 that were introduced in San Andreas don't seem to have materialised in GTA 4. First of all, Nico 
 seems to be a slow runner. Just be using only the analogue stick makes him walk as fast as a paralyzed 
 tortoise. The ability to customise your hairstyle and tatoos has been removed and whoever agreed 
 to it deserves to be shot in the back with a nail gun. Because of the games sudden Next-Gen transformation, 
 common glitches have been removed which is very dissapointing seeing as glitches are what made 
 GTA so great. Jet Pack's have been removed which was a stupid, retarted and immature idea. Not many 
 buildings are enterable. Quality of cars and cheats ve not improved and have gotten worse. There 
 are only around 10 cheats available for the game which gives the game less replay value. Bikes 
 have been removed (not motorbikes) and Liberty City isn't as big as San Andreas. Also huge mountains 
 and farmland and deserts have been removed. Multiplayer is average. It's basically a third-person 
 version of Unreal Tornament. There are a few positive things i have to say. Missions are good and 
 the storyline drags you in. There are a few interesting locations. Loading times have been improved 
 dramatically and having taxi's being able to take you from place to place is very convienient . 
 Overall a great Next -Gen package but can sometimes feel like just GTA 3 with better graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getchahellyeah
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game is definetly the best looking Grand Theft Auto game yet. It looks like you could go and 
 investigate every building but most of the time you get stuck at the door that won't open. The 
 missions are fun and the story line is the best yet but there is a lack of creativity for missions. 
 I was dissapointed in the safehouses of this game. I miss old fasion garages and respawning guns. 
 The strip clubs in this game are the best yet. The professional dancers are looking their best 
 and I can actually get hard watching them give my character a dance. The best new feature of this 
 game is the online multiplayer. When there is enough people online playing it is a blast going 
 around the city killing each other and driving around in cars with your friends in the back seat. 
 This game is a step forward to the series but with the couple of steps back it makes it an almost 
 perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shay00cooper00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Most people who have followed the GTA franchise will be most pleased with this title, those who 
 have not followed the franchise wehere have you been people?? The game is what you would expect 
 from a GTA game however the various flaws i mentioned earlier are due to the fact that the game 
 was released in poor state that shuld have been patched beforehand. I mean the resolution was terrible 
 with jagged edges everywhere you looked not to mention all the people who could not get it to work 
 therefore i have ranked this game 9.5. 
  
  However for those who manged to get to work will have found new exciting missions that offer a 
 good diversity and are not as boring as previous missions in the franchise, obviously more depth 
 has been included in this game. The combat system is a hell of alot better though fist fighting 
 is a iffy, i personally think it would be nice to see more of Nikos army training moves come out 
 in the fights with some cool disarms for weapons (useful when you pretend to put arms up when cop 
 corners you) . The soundtrack is as usually amazing with some new tracks on there which just adds 
 a bit of spice when your "flying" down the street on a motorbike only to clip something and watch 
 Niko fly like superman on speed!! Its all good, seriously go out and buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Grant Theft Auto 4 is a game that not only caused alot of antisipation building up to it and caused 
 many gamers to camp out over night prerelease day, wipe out all copys on the release day and brake 
 the record for the best selling computer game ever as well as recieving aces reviews everywhere. 
 Everyone loves these type of games, mega games that will always be fitted into history, GTA4 is 
 one of them.
  
  The hypes gone, its all calmed down and people everywhere have already got 100% so i'm going to 
 try to give an honest review about it. You play as Niko a foreign immigrant whos come to Liberty 
 City believing his cousins lies about how successful he's been doing, as well as a side objective 
 about revenge. The story is quite solid and you feel more in touch with the characters than the 
 rest of the GTA's. Niko is very different, he's been in the war at his home country, been stabbed 
 in the back and this has changed him, Rockstar have made this change and lust for revenge sleep 
 out of Niko very well, you'll easily like him as well as feel his pain through the game. In GTA4 
 you'll be able to have real friends which you can take out along with girlfriends to do a range 
 of activities such as getting drunk, pool, darts, bowling and much much more, these mini games 
 have had fantastic detail added to them saying they are not part of the actual game at all.
  
  As for Liberty City, this has to be the biggest and best thing about this game, its what makes 
 it different from the other Grand Theft Autos, Its alive. You runs 24 hours, taxis, cars, people, 
 litter, police, cellphones busy office workers, everything you can think of has been added to make 
 this feel like a real life city, its very very impressive, just walking around and taking in the 
 sights is something you could be doing for a while.
  
  However there are a few things that goes in the cons list of GTA4, for instant the game is notably 
 easier than the others making you able to complete it much more faster, also alot of the role playing 
 features of San Andreas have been removed although some will agree with this change. Police are 
 much easier to loses and the AI isn't very smart, although for Grand Theft Auto that can easily 
 be forgiven.
  
  The amount of new features reall shines this game out, the cellphone for the example is a fantastic 
 thing thats added that you will rely on in the game, calling friends, girlfriends to go out and 
 have fun, calling mission characters to arrange missions, recieving texts, changing ringtones and 
 themes its all very nice to see introduced. Also the new targetting feature is a deffinate rise 
 when it comes to new features, it makes the games combat alot more fun and bearable, its not just 
 about going all guns blazing anymore, you can be tactical and take cover as well as fire a host 
 of beautiful weapons to create stunning and I mean stunning explotions which are some of the best 
 I've seen on the PS3.
  
  In all the game is a big step forward, the city and new features are a fantastic achievement that 
 shows Rockstar is moving in the right direction and although the game is slightly easy and some 
 other nags, its a game you just can't miss on next gen, something thats as good as the hype was, 
 a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing, realism is top notch.. which means, the fun factor of GTA is gone.
  
  I understand that graphics are important, but in playing the past GTA games, graphics is not really 
 the issue. GTA is all about having fun, creating the most bizzare acts in the comfort of your leaving 
 room. 
  
  I really enjoyed the first hours, but after a while, it gets really boring, doing the same missions 
 in the past GTA's, and worst, spendless countless hours driving from point a to point b. I guess 
 the developers want the gamers to drive more to see the beautiful graphics that they have done, 
 but really, if I want a driving game, I will purchase Gran Turismo. after all, GTA isnot about driving, 
 its about crime and mayhem. I use the taxi 100% of the time if I want to go to a mission, or buy 
 an ammo, rather than steal a car and drive for a lllloooooooong time to get to a place.
  
  I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they have to 
 do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and 
 they have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing 
 new... and they have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think 
 somehing new... and they have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar 
 has to think somehing new... and they have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. 
 Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is 
 getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA 
 franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they have to do it.. fast! I guess 
 the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they have to do it.. fast! I 
 guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they have to do 
 it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and they 
 have to do it.. fast! I guess the GTA franchise is getting old. Rockstar has to think somehing new... and 
 they have to do it.. fast!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyalhk
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  a marvelous game and a level var has been set, a quality standard for the rest of game makers that 
 how to reach perfection, yes it is possible to reach only if you are dedicated and follow the very 
 very right path.
  
  This is soooo better than all of the GTAs i have ever played, i was never a GTA fan because the 
 pevious ones had a somewhat basic gameplay and not much juice was put into it but this time i am 
 its fan , so muc juice in it, a world so beautifully created i am never going to stop playing this 
 game.
  
  It rocks everything about it just rocks. great multiplayer, great graphics sound etc etc you name 
 it and its got it. Rockstar was working on it for a very longtime, completely new engine from scratch, 
 detailed city with lots of fun stuff to do and the main guy is cool Niko Bellic.
  
  So this game is a must buy, go get it dont be late and never stop playing it is worth $60. yes 
 sir it is. not other games are but this one really deserves its price. It will also keep you entertained 
 when no good games are coming out for a years or so.
  
  Happy gaming, my one sided review for the best game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayymasterflex
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Just great had fun the whole way. you really can get lost in your own kind of liberty city. this 
 game is just awsome. great visuals and good graphics. people are gonna be talking about this game 
 for awhile. its a far better than its predecesors. It's a definate top contender for game of the 
 year. Great game for teenagers and adults but maybe not for kids under 13. But thats up to the 
 parents to decide i could careless this game is just awsome all the way through. this game surprised 
 me greatly mainly because it actually met up to the hype. this made me love my ps3 even more than 
 i already do. its a must have and i recomend it. Half way through the game i just kept picturing 
 myself as Niko Belic its a game i will still play due to the awsome online that it has. Niko is 
 the best main character in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  (Letter Grade: A) 
  Story: Grand Theft Auto IV is about an illegal immigrant named Niko who flees from Europe and comes 
 to the good ol' US of A to start a new life. His cousin Roman tells him of his success in the U. S. 
 and convinces Niko to come and join him. When Niko arrives though, he finds out that the "American 
 Dream" is not what it appears to be. I don't want to give away too much of the story, but you get 
 the idea. GTA IV has a wide variety of strange and creepy characters; you never know who will stab 
 you in the back. Niko Bellic is one of the most interesting main characters in the entire Grand 
 Theft Auto franchise, he isn't a good guy or a bad guy, he is just an ordinary person trying to 
 survive and make a living. The storyline overall is top-notch, it really digs deep and depicts 
 human emotion without over doing it. This just goes to show that Grand Theft Auto isn't just about 
 running people over and trying to score big with the lovely ladies, or is it?
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Gameplay: Since it's a Grand Theft Auto game, you should know what to expect. 
 You will spend most of your time beating the life out of people until you lose interest, shooting 
 everyone and everything that moves, escaping cops, and drinking like there is no tomorrow. You 
 can also do things such as surf the internet, find dates, check your e-mail, buy hotdogs, go bowling, 
 play darts, and the best one, watch T. V.! There is so much depth within the game that it could 
 take many pages just to list them all. To progress in the game all you have to do is go to the 
 marked point on your map, watch the cut scene (or not) , kill a couple of people, and repeat. As 
 boring as it may sound, it's actually quite entertaining. Be warned though, there are no check 
 points in any of the missions, no matter how long the mission may last. On the plus side, timed 
 missions are now long gone. GTA has also put in a new cover system; it works extremely well, a 
 definite plus for the series. Escaping cops has also been simplified, you can now just walk or 
 drive out of the area that the cops are in and your wanted meter will drop. Grand Theft Auto IV 
 also brings the series online for the first time. You can take part in a variety of modes such 
 as Co-op missions, death matches, cops-n-robbers, or you can just relax and go into Free Mode where 
 you and your friends can shoot random pedestrians ( I love it!) . Grand Theft Auto IV builds on 
 top of an already good series, and just makes it better. 
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Graphics: The in-game graphics isn't as visually appealing as a game such as Call of Duty 4, but 
 the sheer amount of detail makes up for it. Liberty City is brought to life with changing weather, 
 angry cops, money craving hobos, mindless pedestrians, and drunk drivers; there is just so much 
 depth in the game. The fake in-game advertisement, hilarious T. V. shows, ridiculous radio ads, 
 little things like this make the game a blast. There are a vast variety of cars to look at and/or 
 steal that give the city life. The character models also look distinctly different from one another 
 and give each character their own uniqueness. 
  
  
  (Letter Grade: A)
  Sound: The voice acting is superb from every character. The dialogue within the game is cleverly 
 written and can sometimes be downright funny. There are also a vast variety of songs that you can 
 play on your radio ranging from the classics to more modern songs. They even throw in a couple 
 of foreign stations as well. Listening to the radio, the screams of your victims, the annoying 
 sounds of traffic, everything is brought together nicely for better or worse. 
  
  (Report Card: A)
  Overall: There comes a time where a game can be dubbed perfect. I admit that 
 Grand Theft Auto IV is not a "Perfect" game, but it comes real close. This game is a masterpiece, 
 a work of art on a circular disc. It exceeds The Legend of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time, takes its 
 award away for the highest rated game, and shatters it to pieces. Many developers will look back 
 on this game, and say that Grand Theft Auto IV is the GAMER DREAM, assuming of course that you 
 are old enough to play it, hahahaha!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_King12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar's biggest game yet. GTA IV. Great game. The best in its series. Had a short but great 
 story line to it. Although the game hadn't any thing too new to it, it was still pretty great. 
 The story line had two different ways to go, considering you had a choice part way through the 
 game. This is a new feature. You might even want to play the story two times to see what happens 
 on both sides. The game didn't have anything really new to it though. Some people called it "Just 
 another Rockstar GTA," well it wasn't just another GTA because they redesigned it. In some of the 
 other games you were in a gang and you fought over territories and stuff. In the GTA IV, you step 
 onto the U. S. as an illegal immigrant. Then join up with your cousin, Roman. From there on you 
 help Roman and his buddies. There were a few in game glitches and some other flaws in the graphics, 
 but overall the game was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddBowls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing the game my jaw was dropping. Who thought it could be so much fun 
 to Taxi people around in your fat cousin's taxi? I enjoyed every mission whether it was wacking 
 some dealers or simply delivering a package. The unfortunate thing with this game is the experience 
 begins to dull a bit. Missions are simply routine, the AI becomes predictable and unchallenging, 
 the story becomes uninteresting etc... When I was done with the single-player mode I ventured into 
 Multiplayer. I found this to be overrated after all the hype i'd heard. It seemed like all i was 
 doing was shooting and dieing with no particular point to it all ( Even in objective game modes) . 
 Overall though this game is excellent, fun and a buyer. Not the greatest 360 game as the hype would 
 otherwise have you beleive, but still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smpy4MrVengance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 isn't going to change games like its predecessors or for that matter does it 
 greatly expand the genre like the previous ones. However, where the other games failed GTA4 soars 
 incredibly high. This would be due to the absolute brilliant script writing and extremely deep 
 and immersive storyline. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 brings us back to Liberty City and starts on the shores of "Staten Island" (I 
 say this with quotations because everything seems like it's real but still GTA) bringing us along 
 on the journey of petty immigrant Nico Bellic and his cousin Roman on their way to discover the 
 American Dream. Along the way the game gives you a chance to meet colorful faces as well as plenty 
 of nasty ones too. Sure you can still kill pedestrians and bang hookers all you want but most people 
 will be to wrapped up in the story to even think about that till after they've completed the campaign 
 mode. 
  
  Overall GTA4 has it's strong and low points. For instance, the graphics are heads and shoulders 
 above any other sandbox game such as this, but with that comes less cars, less world, and some 
 technical glitches. Also the Campigan is fantastic but the online multiplayer seems shallow and 
 thrown together. Although these may seem like huge deals they
  really aren't because the city seems more lifelike then ever and gives you more of a chance to 
 focus on the emotions being exchanged between characters. As for Nico Bellic and GTA4 itself, they 
 are the absolute best in the series and should be welcomed to everyone gameer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conde_almasy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  I hate how people are trying to boycott the game just because critics loved it and its the fastest 
 and biggest box office game ever made.
  
  This seems like THE TITANIC of games, just like the movie (which made millions and got great reviews) 
 people are being unnecesary skeptic about the quality of the game.
  
  Ley me say:
  
  It's not perfect:
  
  - The downsized a lot of great thing about san andreas
  - A lot of visual 
 glitches
  - Multiplayer is varied and great but with a lot of lags
  - The country aspect of san andreas (including the country radio station) was great and its sorely 
 missed here
  - Even though there are like 100 missions and 30+ hours, it really seems too short
  - For some 
 people the radio stations are not as good as vice city and san andreas. The radio stations of liberty 
 city don't have big classics like the former games, but in this game the radio stations are the 
 most varied of all games and the music we may have never heard like eastern european rock are more 
 than welcome.
  
  Those are the only thing that's not perfect about this game, EVERYTHING else is amazing, really 
 amazing
  
  And I really hope Rockstar manages to release a lot of downloadable content.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temps567
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  No game is a perfect 10. And certainly not this one.
  
  First of all I have been a REALLY big GTA fan. Ever since the first ones came out, Ive really stuck 
 to the series. Even though my favorite is and has always been San Andreas.
  Tho this game is farly different from that of other games. This time you play as a Russian imagrant 
 trying to find a new life. But guess what city he picked.... Liberty City.
  Now I like the acting and the character's expressions on this game, but for some reason, it just 
 does not get to me. It seems to me that every character introduced to Niko is all nice and stuff. 
 but Niko has like an atitude with him. But anyways
  The gameplay has really improved. I like how they have the covering system now ( so now I wont 
 get shot up every time i turn a corner) . And for some reason. The driving is really fun. Every 
 time I say to my self, yeah today Im going to shoot up the cops and rob that clothing store, but 
 i find myself driving all around town. Which Brings us to a problem in the game.
  The cops are REALLY REALLY RREEAALLYY hard in this GTA. Its like Rockstar focused on cops sacrificeing 
 there lives ( in which they do that anyways) just to kill you. I mean yeah it was hard before but 
 at least you could survive for at least 10 min. On here you cant even pass the 30 second mark.
 
  So to tell you the truth I like this game. Its just that its not a perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackyzaky95
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  First things first. Get this game without a doubt. The single player is lasting enough for people 
 without online accessibility and the multiplayer is a blast. It's a great game and I think it was 
 worth the hype.
  
  However, I don't get why it got a 10 and I'm not the only one - it's by no means 'perfect.' On 
 the forum there must topics created every day on how they could have improved it, or what was an 
 unnecessary addition. Don't get me wrong though it's a great game and my favourite so far on the 
 PS3 (until MGS4!!)
  
  This should keep the COD disc out of your ps3 for a good while and is a game worthy of any type 
 of gamer's collection. I'd say I've played it for about 28 hours so far- 24 hours on single player 
 and 4 hours online. I'm still finding new things and it's still a thrill to play. I'm spending 
 a lot more time online too recently, and it's a great experience. Getting in a car and doing a 
 drive-by is too fun now you can do it with your friends! Hurray!
  
  GTA continues to be a stellar gaming series and, like Gamespot said for III, should be experienced 
 by everyone mature enough to handle it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is definitely the best game of 2008 so far. It is a great sequel and follow 
 up to the rest of the series. The graphics were just simply amazing and it had smooth game-play. 
 All of the weapons and vehicles were great and made the game even better. The environment was superb 
 too. Liberty City was awesome, from the Statue of Liberty, to the bars and strip clubs. It has 
 hours of fun missions, one I especially like was the bank robbing job. I especially liked the game 
 because you could make your own decisions, which in in turn effected the outcome of the game. You 
 can do just about anything from going on dates to being a hit man. The only bad thing about GTA 
 4 is it has a sad ending.
  All in all GTA 4 is a must own and is exciting from beginning to end with is exciting missions 
 and violence! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aloush91
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  i don't know where to start from this game has so many good points starting with the awesome story 
 line to the incredible multiplayer action.
  1) Great graphics much better than earlier games
  2) All new gameplay options such as the cover 
 system & the bullet holes
  3) The massively huge map for the actual NYC
  4) Better aim and shoot system (specially the RPG)
  5) The in game internet connection where you 
 could get Niko's police report and status
  6) The wide range of multiplayer games (15) that can accomodate till 16 player playing all over 
 Liberty City
  AND many more.
  Finally this game is a must buy for any console PS3 or XBOX 360.
  The only difference between 
 the two consoles is:-
  PS3's 7 & a half min. loading for the game at the start which prevents pop ups during the game 
 while the in the xbox 360 you could buy more GTA IV missions from the online store so if you want 
 better gameplay go with the PS3 version while if you want more GTA IV get the xbox 360 version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Leading up to this game and reading review and preview times 1000, I knew I was setting myself 
 up for somewhat of a let down. How could any game be what this game was hyped up to be... A living 
 breathing city full of pedestrians that have there own agendas and your just part of the world. 
 After playing through this game in full I can tell you that it was not the perfect be all end all 
 of games. First the graphics. They werent that good and they werent bad. I personally didnt like 
 how in the distance it became blurry, some say it was rockstars choice to make it like that for 
 a cool effect. I would of much rather had a clear view of the buildings even if some textures had 
 to be sacrificed. The gameplay is marvelous with nothing to complain about here. The story was 
 meh esp the ending. I never really felt for niko or anyone around him and didnt get sucked into 
 the game like I did previous gtas... vice city being my favorite. The soundtrack of this game was 
 horrendus. I believe this really had alot to do with the way i enjoy any game and this one was 
 bad. This game is a must play for any fan of video games but it is NOT all its hyped up to be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noodlymince87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  the game starts off great, stays great and ends up great! the story's great, the graphics are great 
 and the voice acting is great. i thoroughly enjoy it.
  
  only things that i was slightly disappointed in were the calibur of songs on the radio were'nt 
 quite as good as in previous games plus what ever happened to the good old parachute! that thing 
 was great fun!! the complete lack of planes and minor range on helicopters was also slightly disappointing. 
 alot of things seem to have a diminished range. less cars, less weapons. what happened to them?? 
 also i found some missions a little frustrating as it was so easy to fail them. 
  
  The things i liked best were how sexy some of the cars looked, definitly the humour present throughout 
 especially on some of the really funny TV shows! both of the stand up comedy acts are great! the 
 ability to "free aim" while locked on to hit where ever u wanna is good (too bad u cant invert 
 the axis though) . The phone is a excellent and innovative way to get around certain tasks, especially 
 when you can use it to help get the job on hand done, blowing up a car bomb, having a guy answer 
 his home fone so you can snipe him through a window? GENIUS!! 
  
  All in all i give GTA 4 top marks for the creative spin and managing to keep an aging franchise 
 still as fresh and new as the original days. even if there were a few minor disappointments the 
 good BY FAR outways the bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamshivy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 is about a man who travels to Liberty city to find someone from his past.. you play as an 
 illegal immigrant named Niko Bellic who arrives to liberty city to meet his cousin Romen. you soon 
 find out that Romen isnt living the good life as how he explaind to you over the phone. through 
 out the game you will work with romen (he owns a taxi station) and meet new contacks through his 
 work. throught these contacks will will meet new contack's/ friends to help you out along the way 
 and ect..
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  
  Yes there are alot of new things to do in the game, your phone in gta4 is pretty much your guid. 
 you will get phone calls telling you about new jobs to do and what not. Also, through out the game 
 you will gain new friends that you can phone to tell them to hang out with you, get something to 
 eat, play a game of pool, ect... 
  
  The map liberty city is huge.. there are 3 main islands that will open up to you through out the 
 game. or you can jest hi-jack a chopper and fly over the bridges that combind the islands together. 
 theres fast food, strip clubs, clothing stores, pay an spray, an comedy clubs througth out the 
 city to keep you playing the game,
  
  Graphic's are pretty nice for an open world GTA game. not the best grapics you will see in a video 
 game, but their there.
  
  The game will last you some time to complete the story, it took me around 30 hours. theres also 
 other side missions to do like in the previce games to get a 100% complete.
  
  Theres online... many different online matchs, such as, cop's an robbers, GTA races, maffia wars 
 and of course FREE ROAM and more. 
  
  
  THE BAD
  
  
  the game just feels as it's missing something... theres only 2 choppers in the game, no jets/air 
 planes, to roam around in.. also the dev took out parachuteing from GTA SA. theres also no chain 
 saw's. i just loved chaceing people with a chain saw in the previces game's. And were the HELL 
 are the TANKS. 
  
  the online is fun, but some people wont find it to be something that keeps you coming back for 
 more. It's no COD4, when it comes to online.
  
  
  
  hope you liked my review. this is my first review that i've made/
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoilgat
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely excited to play gta IV, but I am now sorely disappointed. First, I will go over 
 the good things:
  
  1. Great graphics - Very realistic looking environment, people are detailed
  2. The game play 
 is very realistic - whether this is a good thing or not the cars drive realistically, people and 
 the environment react nicely when interfered with. But, this makes the driving very difficult... no 
 more driving 120 MPH and power sliding into a corner. 
  
  Now the bad:
  
  1. The most important aspect for any game to me is the fun factor. I just do not have much fun 
 playing gta IV. First, they took out the funny and silly humor aspect out of the game. Crazy things 
 used to happen in Vice City, but no longer occur in gta IV. The missions are pretty basic and straightforward, 
 nothing new here.
  2. Driving across the map for practically every mission. You basically start a mission, go drive 
 somewhere far and pick someone up, drive them to a different place and kill some people, and then 
 drive them back home. Very annoying when the majority of the game is spent driving around. 
  3. They took out a lot of little additions that they added to vice city and san andreas that were 
 actually pretty cool. No more buying property, controlling the physical physic of your character, 
 and they cut down drastically on the amount of stores in the town. Also, no need for your cash. 
 You actually complete a mission and earn $250,000 and after that there is no need for money.
  4. The game is on the easy side. The driving is a pain at first but you get the hang of it. Other 
 than that I have played about 70/90 missions and not once have I been arrested. First, the cops 
 can no longer point a gun at you and instantly arrest you. If they point a gun at you, you have 
 the option of running away. Second, the new star system makes it very easy to run away from cops 
 because of the radar. You can actually have 3 or 4 stars and outrun the cops and get rid of all 
 your stars without using pay n' spray. Also, the game itself is pretty easy. The new cover system 
 makes fighting in combat very easy... if you really try you can complete some of the harder missions 
 without taking any shots.
  
  All in all, I think Rockstar spent too much time on the visuals and they forgot about making this 
 game fun. GTA IV has become too realistic and no longer feels like what a video game should feel 
 like. Video games were not meant to be exactly like real life. Every video game has some aspect 
 to it that makes it very different than real life, which makes it enjoyable. GTA IV just forgot 
 why the old GTA's were so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4
  
  For months and months, Gamespot and many other huge GTA fans talked about this game, saying it 
 was going to be the best game ever and blah blah. Yes, Grand Theft Auto 4 is a very good game. 
 But it was also very much overrated. This game is almost exactly like the other GTA games, throwing 
 in some new gameplay here and there, upgrading the graphics, and throwing in a fairly good online 
 system. Unlike the other GTA games, this one does have a better storyline, and a much more likable 
 character. But other then that, i'm getting the feeling that i've been there and done that, over 
 and over again until my brain explodes. But other then that, it does give you a new feel to things 
 that does make it feel like it is a new experience. Meh, it's pretty good though. Go buy it, all 
 you PS3 and Xbox360 owners.
  
  Random blank space of doom... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultima-Chocochu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Note, I've changed my rating for a reason and it is noted at the end.
  
  By now, almost everyone who owns a console has played Grand Theft Auto at one time or another, 
 a lot of us started with GTAIII. So bringing the series back to Liberty City, is just like starting 
 us off completely new which also applies for this new addition.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV still has that feel to make it Grand Theft Auto, yet has changed soo many things 
 since the last in series San Andreas. It still has it's little on witty humor, funny radio (although 
 the radio doesn't seem to be returning to how funny it was in III and VC) , and the cutscenes you 
 actually want to watch. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is basically revamped altogether, if not new in general. Just about everything 
 has changed, the new system that allows you to hide in blind fire is very welcome. It adds to it, 
 and makes for suspenseful and harder yet easier gunfights. It takes a bit to re-learn everything, 
 mainly if you keep the controls the same. Driving is harder for quite a while, but when you get 
 used to driving it becomes quite fun and very likeable (by most at least) . All the new stuff added 
 has moved the series in a more realistic and new direction, a direction that works and doens't 
 feel like last years GTA. The game still follows the mission based system of course, but the missions 
 don't seem so repetitive and bland. You'll tend to actually want to get to the next mission, they're 
 fun and enjoyable, including the cutscenes before them are entertaining to watch. Side-missions 
 still exist, although old ones like Firefighting/Paramedics are now gone, the vigilante side-missions 
 are quite more enjoyable. 
  In GTAIV you also have the choice of hanging out with certain contacts, and going out with girlfriends, 
 to name a few they include bowling, drinking, pool, and bowling. They're really quite enjoyable, 
 and at times the break is welcomed from just trying to beat it. You may also go to shows, and watch 
 TV, which is very new to the GTA series.
  
  Sound: The sound is quite perfect. From voice acting, to sounds of the street. Gun fights, and 
 explosions work perfectly. People talking amongst the streets, getting phone calls and talking 
 to the caller, the sound of the engine, and many other things are perfectly put together. Voice 
 acting is as expected, great. All the characters in GTAIV have a personality, and the voice acting 
 really shows that and is some of the best to date. The radio can be heard outside of the car as 
 well, to add to the realism of the game. It has many little things that make it soo much better.
 
  
  Graphics: Graphically, GTAIV has also taking a massive step ahead. From cutcscenes to just roaming 
 around, it's quite an amazing feat. The cutscenes are excellently put together, with detail's from 
 movement to the skin on their faces. With the new physics, just hitting people on the street is 
 amazingly enjoyable to watch and makes the graphics that much more better. Cars also take damage 
 much more realistically, and the damage is very detailed and can affect how your car drives.
  
  Story: I feel the story has improved in GTAIV, you're not just trying to be on top in GTAIV, 
 you're just trying to survive and work by whatever means that pay. Niko is one of the most, if 
 not the most, enjoyable main characters of the series due to his sarcastic to serious personality. 
 Although it wasn't the most amazing story, the way it was put together made it a lot better than 
 other GTA's. It was well put together, and at times made you feel like you were in control of it. 
 Killing certain characters can affect the game, but almost all the characters you can choose to 
 kill do little for the story or affect the ending, but it does add to the story in some way I believe.
 
  
  Overall: GTAIV has improved in every aspect, the only part I may disagree on it improving is the 
 talk radio... It was a lot better in GTAIII and Vice City, but it seems after they felt that a lot 
 of cussing and vulgarlarity made for a hilarious station. I don't mind vulgar things, or cussing 
 but it doesn't make the stations feel as real or funny with the near constant cussing. Otherwise, 
 GTAIV has improved in every way, and the new move has made it really feel quite like a new game. 
 The way it uses the smallest things also add's to the series, I did not cover everything you can 
 do, but I don't feel it's needed for so considering that'd be a much longer review.
  
  Graphics:10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Sound:10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Overall:9.5/10
  
  Edited: 
 GTAIV is a great game yes, but the game is lacking after you beat it, unlike previous titles roaming 
 isn't quite what it used to be. Yes the city is quite good looking, and there are things to do 
 but after you beat it, you don't really care. This is really to me, the first GTA in which the 
 story is what will keep you going and makes the game good. Not saying I dislike old GTA stories, 
 they just weren't the best of all and followed along the same lines.
  Point being, the game will get quite repetitive if you've spent as much time with this as I did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-boy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This kinda boring, this game has repety gameplay, you do same mission over and over for entiry 
 game, you go buidling kill buch guys and that it, over over. The driving is horrible there cars 
 on roadway you going to crash a lot and skid over the place. The game is boring too aiming systmen 
 is like re 4 aiming system dock and cover make the game a lot easy too
  soudt rack of game is borinnnnnnnnnnngggggg! the worst GTA soudtrack ever the play weird music 
 jazz funk and more unknow type of music
  The graphics of game just another xbox 360 port the graphic are ok I wish make the game of ps 3 
 hardware insted of xbox 360. 
  the online mode is fun there lots modes to play online games there racing ,team deadmatch , coops 
 and crooks and more, up 16 players online and there no lag.
  Same you money for next GTA game in future go back to play GTAIII or GTA libety stories what is 
 about fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Right, first off, I'm not going to bother going into the various details of GTA 4 because god knows, 
 I think everyone is fairly familiar with it. All I'm going to do is point out why I don't feel 
 this is the game it's made out to be.
  
  The fact is, it's a really, really good game - believe me I'm not debating that. However, much 
 as it is fairly fun, well structured and (for the most part) brilliantly executed, it's missing 
 that something that separates the elite few games from the rest, namely; depth.
  
  Sure, you can enjoy a reasonably varied and well-written story, or you can go around blowing stuff 
 up. That's it.
  
  Now, we all know that anyone with even a semblance of human intelligence bores of the latter within 
 15 minutes, and while there is the option to pursue friends and partners etc. it's basically one 
 of those features that you'll try once and then ignore, which leaves me fully believing that it 
 (like the ridiculous "body fat" etc. from SA) will fail to make the next installment. 
  
  So that's basically the problem, there's nothing but the story to really make you feel like your 
 money was well spent, and it seems like Rockstar are valiantly trying but ultimately failing to 
 find some new directions for the series. I mean, you can even watch tv in-game. Why?!?
  
  In the nd, GTA 4 is fun, and fans of the series will be in heaven, but for some - like me - it 
 may be a case of an idea stretched a game too far.
  
  How did this achieve a higher rating than Oblivion? With all it's extras (you can enjoy the game 
 for hundreds of hours without touching the main story) it could only manage a 9.5 on Gamespot - 
 while this got a perfect 10? Nonsense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtilton
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game has the updated graphics but it is missing so much gameplay it's rediculous. No airplanes, 
 parachute, bicycle riding, gambling. I beat the game in story mode I ended with a crappy apartment 
 with a really crappy 2 car parking space. Where is my mansion. I so far do not have any business 
 that make me any money. Is it in there? I'm done with the story mode so where are my businesses? 
 Why couldn't they include a scenic drive and then hit a version of Atlantic City? The more I play 
 it the more disapointed I am. Rock Star could have done so much better. If I hear another person 
 say "Just look at the graphics" I might slit their throat where they stand, It's a PS3, it has 
 to have better graphics or they might as well put it out for PS2. I'm not saying it's a horrible 
 game. I'm only saying it could have been so much better. Rock Star just pumped out a sub par game 
 and made a killing doing it. They need to fire their staff and re-look at what they left out. Go 
 back and play GTA SA. Look at the content they had and do another that can actually fill the shoes 
 of GTA SA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 6
Date: May 31, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Come now ! ... 10 \ 10 ? 
  
  There's no actual perfect game and i mean by perfect - completed , right , amazing , Creative , 
 Legendary ... and 'Appropriate' !!! 
  
  The Bad : 
  
  How come a game that full of Swearing , cursing , sexuallty and half nudity is deserved to have 
 this rate ? I'm not underaged to say that or even a father i'm a young free 19 years old adult 
 and this game's method really disturbed me and especially when my family around me watching me 
 play !
  
  I feel worried and annoyed all the time , its like i'm watching a pron (i know the spelling) movie 
 , sometimes i play it alone in my room so there wont be an embaressment to me . 
  
  Even if i dont mind swearing at all , still this game keeps pops-out with *beeping* Words Over 
 , over and over again!! i even sometimes lose my Appetite when i'm about to eat .
  
  
  The Good : 
  
  Great Graphics , sound affects , gameply , story-line. That must be said!
 
  
  Plus the shooting effects at people is brilliant and violently agressive and thats a good thing 
 , also needless to say the car damages effects is so realistic and unique in this big type of game 
 .
  
  
  Conclusion : 
  
  Fun game overall , but unAppropriate ... What a Shame Rock^Star.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burch0079
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of the best games i have ever played! The gameplay mechanics are amazing! The game 
 is so realistic. The game is pretty long and it can take you up to 45 hours. But, th story is really 
 good. The game is funny like the previous installments, and the game has a great soundtrack and 
 I think it's the best in the whole entire series. The driving feels way more real then previous 
 installments. This might be the game of the year but, MGS4 might be better. The online mode as 
 well is stunning and could be a sole reason to purchase this game. It is also cool that you can 
 go onto the internet. The graphics look so realistic. I also think the the voice work is the best 
 in the whole entire series. i suggest that you get this game, and if you don't have a 360 or a 
 PS3 buy one! Because i guarantee that you will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonstop-Madness
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Storyline - 10/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Gameplay - 9/10 (offline) 8/10 (Online)
  
  Storyline - You are Niko Bellic, a Eastern European 
 immigrant that reaches Liberty City to live the America Dream with hes cousin Roman. You start out 
 working for a low in the food chain russian guy named Vlad in Broker. Things progress and you meet 
 more people. A run in with a guy named Dimitri turns out to be Niko's nightmare. Niko meets up 
 with an old friend from his homeland. Niko flees to Bohan and starts over with some new friends. 
 Niko goes around helping people in LIberty CIty to find DImitri. There are 2 diffrent endings to 
 the game but both are great in different ways.
  
  Graphics - This game looks pretty good and feels amazing. Its not the best graphical game out there. The 
 Euphoria Physics engine is makes this game feel amazing. Character models are really well made and 
 each character has a unique personality.
  
  Sound - Guns, Vehicles and Voice Acting is pretty good. The soundtrack is the best GTA soundtrack 
 to date. If I steal a car, I dont change the radio station because all the stations have very good 
 music. The talkshow stations and TV channels are funny and original.
  
  Gameplay - Best Action Missions in a GTA game. Missions in this game will make you feel like your 
 in a movie. From easy missions like chasing down a person to a fire fight in a warehouse to trying 
 to steal a truck while hanging on to the roof. Although this game is a great game, I wish that 
 when the storyline was finished there would be more things to do. The internet function in the 
 game is shallow. There could be more clothing stores and property to buy. Im guessing a multiplat 
 DLC will expanded the city. Online is fun but I'd rather have a funner offline then a online.
 
  
  Overall - 9/10 "Liberty City is as Alive as a Real City" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a tour de force. You'll be hard-pressed to think of another video game that 
 makes such a dramatic first impression. A massive, vibrant homage to New York City ... some of 
 the best character development ever seen in video game history ... rock-solid game mechanics polished 
 to a shine like never seen before in this series. A storyline that grips you from the start with 
 characters that engage you .
  
  How could anything go wrong with this potential masterpiece?
  
  I hate to think it boils down 
 to something so trivial ... but by the time you've made it through two-thirds of the game, opened 
 Alderney and begin what you would expect to be the crescendo of the game's storyline, everything 
 ... just ... peeters out. It feels like 90 percent of the work on GTA4 went into the first half 
 of the game, but when it came time to flesh out and conclude the storyline, Rockstar just ran out 
 of time or energy. 
  
  The memorable NPCs you're accustomed to meeting turn into stock Mafia television archetypes. The 
 plot turns from unique immigrant story and family relations into stock Mafia movie fodder. For 
 such an amazing setup, it's disappointing the game doesn't follow through and give you that epic 
 conclusion and finale you've put so many hours into discovering. Alderney itself also seems strangely 
 under-utilized, especially compared to how chock-full of activity and gameplay that fills the rest 
 of the regions.
  
  So certainly if all you see of GTA4 is the first few boroughs, this would certainly be one of the 
 greatest video games ever created. But considered in whole, and the failed opportunity to close 
 the game with as much creativity and brilliance as the beginning, it's hard to call GTA4 the masterpiece 
 of gaming all the early reviews bestowed upon it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtickner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I didn't know what to expect when I first loaded up GTA IV. I'd read it had taken a turn towards 
 being a more serious game, I wasn't sure whether this would be good or bad. I'd read that it had 
 multiplayer. Again, I wasn't sure if this would be good or bad all I was hoping was that it would 
 be an improvement on the multiplayer in GTA San Andreas.
  
  After the installation I was greeted with a superbly made opening cut scene that felt rather cinematic. 
 After this short blockbuster you have to hop in and drive a car.. I'd also read that Rockstar had 
 totally re-worked the driving physics, turns out this was true. I'll admit at first I hated the 
 driving in GTA IV, it is totally different than of that in the previous installations of GTA. I 
 was crashing, spinning out and doing complete circles with the handbrake that could give Iron Man 
 whiplash, I thought it was disastrous. In time though I got the hang of it and I am really happy 
 with the job Rockstar have done with the driving. It's a huge improvement, just very different 
 at first. It's pretty nice to see the suspension working away as you burn around corners at 100 
 kmh. It's also pretty nice to see what Rockstar have done concerning vehicle damage. Another total 
 re-work of the older and outdated vehicle damage seen in the previous GTA games. Vehicle damage 
 is now much more detailed with every panel taking individual damage, windows breaking, lights failing 
 and smashing, tyres bursting and even the engine dying forcing you to find another car or bike. 
 I think Rockstar really have done an outstanding job with the vehicles in GTA IV, even if it took 
 me a while to appreciate their work.
  
  Something you will notice almost instantly are the graphics in GTA IV. The game is actually quite 
 stunning. Especially at day time when the sun is shining. To really experience how good it can 
 look at times you need to fly up really high in a helicopter and just embrace how epic Liberty 
 City really is. I really like the water and rain effects in this game, the particle effects used 
 on the wet roads looks really nice as your flying down the saturated road. It is actually satisfying 
 to see the water come spraying off your tyres.
  
  Sound. Do I even need to say anything about sound? Everyone knows the GTA games have outstanding 
 audio, sound effects, voice acting and of course radio stations. Well I have to disagree with that 
 being said. GTA Vice City is the only GTA game I think has truly amazing radio stations. They are 
 perfect. If I'm ever listening to the radio or a song comes on at work that was on Vice City, that 
 is how I remember it. Even songs I hate I can listen to playing that game. It really did set the 
 mood. The radio went downhill in San Andreas just doesn't seem to climb back up in GTA IV. I find 
 myself almost always switching to the chat shows for a laugh as almost every song on this game 
 annoys me, with Heaven And Hell by Black Sabbath being an exception. Am I the only person who thinks 
 all the GTA games have mediocre sound tracks apart from Vice City and its stellar radio performance?
 
  
  Rockstar really have done an amazing job with this game. The new shooting system coupled with the 
 cover system really work. Like really work. Gone are the days where you would press L1, L2 or both 
 to look out your car. It's all controlled by rotating the R stick. By pressing L1 you can shoot 
 from your vehicle, and it's not just sub-machine guns this time. This time you will be able to 
 use your handguns and even grenades and molotov's. Implementation of a cover system into GTA was 
 a good idea. It performs just like any other cover system, press R1 to attach yourself to something 
 and R1 again to detach. It's simple, it works, it's good. Aiming in GTA has also been granted a 
 fresh coat and is better than ever. Fully press L2 to lock on to your target while only half press 
 L2 to free aim. When you've locked onto a target flick the R stick left and right to swap targets 
 and move the R stick around slightly to aim at different body parts. This makes for easy head shots 
 allowing you to kill a lot of people quickly and easily.
  
  Towards the end of the game I found the missions to become slightly repetitive and they seem to 
 pay tribute to the missions found in GTA 3 rather than the craziness from GTA Vice City and San 
 Andreas. This is both good and bad. It really works for this game but combined with the serious 
 approach Rockstar have taken it doesn't work at the same time. One area the seriousness pays off 
 really well is the story. I really enjoyed it. It's gripping, well acted and really does draw you 
 in also forcing you to make some decisions along your journey. It may come across as rather weak 
 when compared to something like FF X but this is not a story driven RPG. This is GTA.
  
  I miss trying to survive the 6 star Army as long as I could, I miss stealing a tank and going mental 
 in it, I miss dealing drugs out the back of my ice-cream van, I miss investing in property, I miss 
 climbing to the top of that ludicrous Mt Chiliad in San Andreas then riding off on a push bike 
 and then releasing my parachute.. Or if I felt like, just free fall untill I hit something. These 
 are just some of the things you wont be doing in GTA IV. What I don't miss is extremely farfetched 
 missions that involve stealing jet packs. That is also something you wont be doing in GTA IV.
 
  
  This is probably the main reason I'm not giving GTA IV a 10/10. I was highly disappointed when 
 I found no split screen multiplayer in GTA IV. I led myself to believe this game would include 
 it I wanted it that badly. So in a sense the multiplayer has been downgraded since San Andreas 
 for me. I don't really care that much for online play and I haven't really played it yet so I don't 
 have a proper opinion on it. Play it for yourself, maybe you'll see me on there one day.
  
  As you should know by now. This review is just my outlook on GTA IV. Play it for yourself and make 
 your own decision. You'll be surprised with it, I know I was. There are plenty of great things 
 to do that I haven't covered so go grab yourself a copy if you don't have one already. Definitely 
 a worthy asset in anyone's library and one of the best games I've played to date.
  
  And just in case you were getting worried.. Yes, the classic GTA humor is still there. Sit down 
 and watch the TV for a few minutes and I can promise you'll be laughing.
  
  
  *UPDATE*
  While most of my review is still accurate some is not. This game is not even worth a 9 in my opinion 
 anymore. I finished it a while back and now that I think about it, this game is good but not I 
 repeat not anywhere near close to coming perfect. Why;
  
  Missions - They are redundant and become tedious once you near the end. It will start to bore you 
 because it seems like you've done the mission you're doing 56 times before
  
  Money - This is so lame. I am loaded with money and I spent little of it. I went through the whole 
 game with the one weapon set and the only thing you can spend money on is weapons and food basically. 
 No houses, No businesses, No-thing cool.
  
  Multiplayer - Is good. Pretty fun but bloody annoying how it doesn't have a lobby seperate to the 
 game. So if you're starting a game and something goes wrong you have to wait while the game loads 
 your save file again then you have to load MP again. Lame. Annoying. Stupid.
  
  There are more things I could pick at but I'm not going to bother. Play the game for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxymandias
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Been playing GTA-IV on and off since i got it a few weeks ago. Amazon delivered the game on its 
 day of release which I appreciated.
  
  The game itself has been much improved since my last GTA game "San Andreas" although I was disappointed 
 that game had been clipped of features. Still the core of the game remains and the graphics are 
 amazing, the combat controls have been revamped and whilst its much easier to do missions I feel 
 that its gotten a little too easy.
  
  Game is based in the present and thus a lot of the humor of the previous games is missing although 
 oddly enough there are enough tongue in cheek funnies to still be amusing.
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic.. Love the cooperative modes and the size of the arenas is awesome. Love 
 the ability to use vehicles (cars, helicopters etc.) with other players.. Imagine shooting out 
 of a helicopter whilst another player pilots.. 
  
  A great game but I think it is missing a lot of the depth of the other games and certainly it lacks 
 innovation.. Of course its still great but I'm looking forwards to the next version where they've 
 put in some of the missing features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Hi there guys, i don't write reviews so be kind :)
  
  I've heard soooo many mixed reviews about this game i have heard people blaming marketing getting 
 it 10/10. I have heard people complain about the changes, each to there own devices. Blood Diamonds 
 The good, the bad and the ugly
  
  Let's start of with the good, The new driving system is a brilliant addition it makes if feel like 
 your driving a car not a match box i always felt that the cars in the old GTA games felt uninspired, 
 The ability to shoot 360 degrees around your car makes chase down and kill all the more easy and 
 fun, the phone this is really smart some times when you get a call during a mission it's always 
 a laugh to listen to NIko tell them what's going on using the phone to meet up with your friends 
 (even criminals have to wind down) , the bowling etc... this is what the last GTA's lacked the ability 
 to have fun out of the missions, shooting BOOM HEADSHOT has never felt so good on a GTA game you 
 really feel like you killed someone here, not like the old GTA games where you feel you shot a 
 card board cut out and cover shooting unlike the other gta games Niko doesn't feel like the terminator 
 unlike the previous games.
  
  The Bad: MONEY!!! yes it's grate having money but like all GTA games there isn't enough for you 
 to spend money on, unlockables not enough of them when ever you did side missions in the old GTA 
 you unlocked a skill or weapon, hidden content not much is there i thought Vice city had loads 
 of hidden content to keep you chuckling to your self. 
  
  The Ugly (what i think should of been added) : The ability to buy cars and fine tune the bodies 
 after your purchased your car if you lost it, it would reappear in a garage that you have bought, 
 if your were arrested you had to buy it out the impound. In game music player/radio when on foot 
 i always hated the fact you could have an MP3 player or radio i know the xbox 360 you can play 
 your own music. But with the Rockstar cheek i'm sure they could of come with a Tri-pod (just like 
 the i-pod but a triangle for the buttons) which could allow you to upload your own music to it 
 or connect to the ingame radios why walking around. More things to spend your money on, there wasn't 
 enough to spend money on at all even with GTA: SA you could of spent all your money in a casino 
 or on the amount of clothing you could get your hands on.
  
  In conclusion, GTA is still growing strong i feel that If they make a new gta it will include more 
 unlockables at least, i can't be the only one angry about that, But i have not enjoyed GTA as much 
 as i have this one i am going to look forward to playing this one over and over again. The reason 
 it didn't get a straight 10 is because nothing to spend money on. Any thought about this mail me 
 i am looking to get better at this writing gig 
  
  Thank for your time B. D.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeXP
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the GTA series, you will most probably be dissapointed with this game.
  Hear me out. Firstly do not be fooled by the ad-campaign-driven score that this game has recieved. 
 It is just a great example of how money can buy you a 10/10 review.
  
  Now all things considered, this game is actually very good. If it was NOT a GTA game however, it 
 would not have recieved a 10/10.
  
  First the good points: The characters are more believable, the story line is gripping, the graphics 
 can be very nice, the city is incredibly detailed.
  
  Now the bad points: For a GTA game, this game does not feel FUN! GTA has always always ALWAYS been 
 about fun. Fun first, then realism.
  This game has done a 180 and tried to minimise the fun you can have, opting instead for a realistic 
 experience.
  About half way through the game you will be wondering "where are all those GTAish missions? Selling 
 weed through an ice-cream van.... burning a weed-crop before the FBI shows up... controlling an RC 
 helicopter etc. etc. etc."
  
  Believe me you will miss the crazy FUN missions that past GTA offered.
  Instead what are you 
 given?
  Serious missions. Nothing BUT serious missions. After a certain point you begin to wonder if you 
 are just working your way through an epic mafia movie.
  The creators have tried to make the game much deeper. Nicko shows alot of emotions and comes across 
 as a nice guy. You are told that he does not enjoy killing, and many of his kills are the result 
 of a 'lesser of two evils'' type situations.
  But there are missions where Nicko kills without hesitation. These severly ruin any credibility 
 the creators had.
  
  Also forget the scarface driven fantasy that Vice-City offered. Forget owning nightclubs, making 
 money, buying new mansions. None of that in here. (Although you 'inherit' a few upgraded houses 
 along the way. You never get the same feeling of accomplishment) .
  
  
  Another MAJOR problem for a GTA game is that after completing the story mission, there is infact 
 not much else that will keep you glued to the game. Side missions mainly involve earning respect 
 from other characters. But by the time you have finished the game, this is pointless as the characters 
 all have a special ability that is designed to help you throughout the main game.
  
  Throughout the game you are pestered by side characters who will ocassionaly ring you to hang out. 
 At first this is a very nice novelty but it soon wears off.
  At times you are on a mission, and have to decline the offer to go out with a friend. You will 
 then AUTOMATICALLY be penalised and the friend will like you less. I found this very annoying as 
 the user really has no choice but to reject the offer.
  Also having a 30yr old steroid junky ignore your calls because you 'refuse to call him as often 
 as he likes' is very disturbing and unrealistic.
  
  Having the option to travel by taxi is two-sided blade indeed. On the one hand you will be loving 
 the quick-travel (just press X and you are warped to your destination) . But after a while you will 
 realise that the fantasticly detailed life-like city that you are in is hardly getting explored!
 
  So be aware. Getting a taxi is very time-saving and can be tempting, but it will ruin a part of 
 the free-roaming experience that all GTAs have.
  
  I finished the main story and was left very dissapointed. I had especially ignored the online feature 
 as a special treat for when the single story was finished. So i was very excited about playing 
 it online.
  I admit online can be very fun. However you will find it hard to find many games with more than 
 4-5 players. Even games designed for 16 players.
  
  However in all honesty, if you are reading this review you are probably already going to buy the 
 game anyway. And you should. But I just hope this review can help bring this overrated game down 
 to earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  By far the best GTA game to be released and different in some ways to all the others. Many classic 
 elements are kept the same from the previous ones, and the online multiplayer is great, not lagging 
 whoever you are beneath me!! Your internet just isn't good enough!!
  Anyway online multiplayer is what takes this game to 10 / 10 as it's the first in the GTA series 
 to actually allow people to go online. The only real bad point about the game is to achieve 100% 
 completion you have o kill 200 or so flying rats. Now i've only killed 3 and can't be bothered 
 to find the rest. 
  Story :- The story to the game is very good as you are playing as Niko Bellic, An immigrant from 
 Bulgaria (i think) who is trying to settle down to life in Liberty City, whilst killling gangsters 
 and saving his pathetic cousin Roman.
  Gameplay :- The gameplay hasn't really changed from the previous GTA's but still is very good with 
 the driving more realistic, and you also fly out the front window of your car if you crash into 
 something too fast.
  Graphics :- The graphics on GTA4 are much better than those on San Andreas and Vice City for example, 
 everything looks more realistic and so does everyone, i. e when you kill them with a sniper.
  Overall i'll give GTA4 10 / 10 because I can only find one bad side to it but flying rats don't 
 really make a difference to my opinion of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  look dont hang me and burn my remains, just listen. this game offers a solid story and the online 
 is fun. however i was a bit dissapointed. the main reason i bought this game was for the online. 
 this is by far the most lagging and ghosting glitchy online game that i have ever played in my 
 life. atleast the story makes up for it. the story is pretty deep however you dont progress like 
 in the other ones. meaning you go up rank in the mafia and eventually become a boss. in this one 
 all you do is missions for your boss then eventually kill them all. the graphics are beautiful 
 and the environment is very well detailed for new york. the best thing to do is buy it beat and 
 return it and go old school with vice city. my favorite one of all time is definitly gta vice city 
 with voicing of ray liota and being able to buy businesses and eventually run the city. however 
 this game does deliver solid gameplay and the story immerses you. it takes a while though to get 
 going as the first several hours are spent running errands for your idiot cousin roman. the missions 
 could have been much harder and the cops were just annoying in this one. hopefully next one they 
 will go back to vice city gameplay in modern times. even today im still having problems online. 
 is it worth the 60 big  bucks definitely.
  
  ST3-3YA
  "Highly addictive"
  Fantastic!! If you don't like this game then you can go an jump 
 off the Empire State Building!!
  
  i would also like to add this is an opinion and does not reflect upon everyone. however what i 
 am about to say is not an opinion. 65% of users still have problems with the online service for 
 this particular game. it is not your internet service. but the rockstar server that supports the 
 game online. now you may have recieved booting, freezing, or system crashes for both systems of 
 this game and if you havent congrats. that does not speak for everyone. this kid that gave the 
 review above me is obviously one of those kids that are underage and have nothing else better to 
 do then cry if someone gives his favorite game a bad review. well guess what it was completely 
 over hyped and the online is a piss poor attempt to atract people to keep playing after the game 
 is beaten because there is no replay value what so ever. the story and graphics are beautiful but 
 it does not make it a perfect game. especially when the other gtas may not have had as good graphics 
 but atleast they had a bigger story that made you feel like you were advancing in the game. also 
 this game is a mature game and parents shouldnt be letting there 12 year old little boys be playing 
 it. my son isnt allowed to play this and wont be able to until he is much older. now the next time 
 a little kid tries to bad mouth someone with a brain and higher i. q. i think you need to realize 
 its past your bedtime and play a game with a teen rating. thankyou and hope you enjoyed my review. 
 merry christmas and happy new year! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickncompany
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has several new additions to the gameplay that covers up alot of its flaws. 
 One is the cover system in which a player is able to duck or hide behind walls / bricks / fences 
 , anything to prevent bullets from hitting the protagonist.
  The story starts with Nikolai Bellic an immigrant from Eastern Europe who comes to America to achieve 
 his dreams. He Then realises and finds out thats his dreams were still distant. To achieve his goals 
 , he is forced to play dirty by killing old comrades etc etc.
  Its a long story which covers 30 hours of gameplay.
  It is an interesting story and the best 
 thing about this is that the story is not linear , yes , it has more that one endings. I will not 
 say anything else about it as it would contain spoilers that will mar your enjoyment of playing 
 the game.
  Like all the GTA , its a sandbox freeroaming kind of world and can do anything.
  AI have been improved.
  Graphics have increased positive by alot.
  There are less choices of 
 vehicles and guns , it kind of made me angry at first but you'll get over it.
  It is an excellent game but i doubt it that it deserves a 10/10.
  GTA overall is a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  After a few days of playing, I finally had the words to accurately describe my feelings towards 
 the much-beloved GTA IV: "GTA IV is like that friend you had when you were 13. You thought he was 
 cool because he wore the latest pair of Air Jordans, gratuitously and uncompromisingly dropped 
 the F-bomb, and was fun to hang out with in short bursts until he started to get on your nerves." 
 The review on this site, and many of the users on this site, have given GTA IV a perfect rating. 
 I have disagreed with some highly-beloved, and highly-rated games in the past (most notably Halo, 
 particularly numbers two and three) , but I find that giving a perfect rating to such an obviously 
 flawed game is absolutely egregious. 
  
  Let me explain ... First off, with this being the "next gen" of gaming, many games try to pass 
 of snazzy graphics as a cloak to disguise horrible game design. I find this not only to be true 
 with GTA IV, but I don't even find the graphics that appealing. In every cut scene I watch, I cringe 
 at the modeling done on Niko, the main character's face. It looks like his face is made out of 
 leather that can't be reshaped in any way. The lighting on his face is weird, as well, as he seems 
 to have a such a constant spot of light under one of his eyes that he might as well just be wearing 
 a bandage there. I am a few hours into the game, but I've really only found one, maybe two characters 
 that I found believable to the point where graphics pretend to be nowadays, where I almost thought 
 that it was actually a person who was recorded, and not a digital image. I know I may take heat 
 for this later on, so let me remind the readers: I do not rate games on graphics purely for their 
 "realism." I rate games based on the look they were going for, and what they actually pulled off. 
 Here, I feel that GTA IV fails. Additionally, in the options menu, the game has a "brightness" 
 setting, which I turned to the brightest it could be and I STILL have trouble distinguishing the 
 finer details at night, such as cars, people, turns, poorly lit streets, etc. I have also outdriven 
 the draw distance on this twice. Once was nothing major: just a few barrels on the side of the 
 road that popped up out of nowhere. However, the other was about three or four seconds of me driving 
 on a gray slab with generic block walls on the side of the street before the game caught up and 
 rendered the textures. This, in this day and age of high technology, where foreground and background 
 textures can be buffered as you are approaching different areas, is entirely unacceptable.
  
  As with all of the GTA games, the sound is superb. The radio stations and the street chatter 
 are all of an excellent quality. Some of the voice acting is absolutely atrocious, though. The 
 main thing that bothered me, though, was not so much the voice acting, but the dialog that was 
 created for the characters and street chatter. (This is where I actually picked up the previously 
 mentioned reference to the 13-year old.) I have absolutely no problem with profanity and will casually 
 drop a four-letter word here and there with no second thoughts. However, even I, as mentioned, 
 find the use of this to be, to quote what I said in the first paragraph, "gratuitous and uncompromising." 
 It's hard to listen to a character and take them seriously when all they do is drop those bombs.
 
  
  The value of GTA games is always high, with a high amount of missions, side-missions, and hidden 
 package-type pickups. As this game is not currently holding my interest, I will probably not pursue 
 100% ... I don't even know if I'll complete the story (more on that in a bit) . (Update to this 
 ... see below.) However, there are plenty of things to do in Liberty City and you can even take 
 your game online for multiplayer matches, if that's your thing. (I personally don't see the appeal 
 of online play like this unless it's with a couple of your friends or to make new friends. This 
 "battle anyone just to become number one even if it means dealing with cheating and giving up your 
 life outside of the game" mentality that's sweeping up gamers these days does nothing more than 
 perplex me.) However, for me, this game held virtually 0 value as I not only have no motivation 
 for 100%, but no motivation to even complete the story.
  
  Ah ... the gameplay ... I've been licking my chops in order to rip into the game, as this has been 
 the most frustrating part for me. I'll get a few of the good things out of the way first: every 
 car that you are in will trace a path to your objective, destination, or waypoint via your GPS 
 system. This can really help you learn the city and find the best and quickest routes. The aiming 
 is improved and you can even take cover (in addition to crouching) . HOWEVER, I find it to be nothing 
 other than a broken control scheme if while auto-aiming from behind, you can manual aim by moving 
 the right analog stick, and then fire using the O button, which also must be hit with the right 
 thumb. I guess you can try holding R1 with your middle finger, adjusting the aim with your thumb, 
 and firing with your index finger, but we're not all double-jointed. Since you can't move (left 
 analog stick) when you're behind cover I guess it would be too much to ask Rockstar to use that 
 as your manual aim or to still use the right for your manual aiming, but have the option to press 
 R3 to fire. I wasn't sure where to put this next point, so I guess here is just as good as anywhere. 
 As your character is Russian, but speaks predominantly English, he will occasionally toss in a 
 few Russian phrases, which are translated in the subtitles. Since the chances are highly probable 
 that a majority of the people who play this game will not be fluent in both Russian AND English, 
 would it be too much to ask that the Russian translations be put up on screen as a "forced stream" 
 subtitle? Again, I guess it would. Another thing about the subtitles is that one of your contacts 
 speaks heavily in jargon which is either standard speak for Jamaicans or a stereotype of said standard. 
 I remember in Vice City, your Jamaican contact spoke exactly the same, but those subtitles were 
 not only translated into "normal" English but were only during cut scenes. I can't understand one 
 thing this dude is talking about whether or not I read the subtitles, in addition to the fact that 
 it's difficult to read them while driving at top speeds. That brings me to my biggest complaint 
 about the game: the driving. The mechanic is DRASTICALLY changed from the previous GTA's. In III 
 and Vice City, driving was fun because, while it wasn't "crash into anything you want to without 
 due regard or consequences" a l the Need for Speeds, it definitely had an arcade-y feel that I 
 found comforting in the fact that it was easy to get used to, a bit of a challenge, but still fun. 
 The new driving mechanic feels more like something out of Gran Tourismo. I don't consider chasing 
 after someone or running from the cops, touching the e-brake for a split second to make a sharp 
 turn, and spinning out of control a full 360 as I crash into everything in site and wreck up my 
 car to be very fun. I also don't consider it fun when I'm going over a bridge and I don't stop 
 to pay a toll and have to spend the next five minutes outrunning the cops before I begin my next 
 mission. Yes ... PAYING A TOLL. Another "yeay for realism, boo for videogaming" moment that I had 
 was having someone chasing me and shooting at my car and watching not only my car's health, but 
 my character's health decrease, as well. Yeah, great, random bullets are hitting me, but when my 
 car gets trashed from both bullets and the ATROCIOUS driving mechanic, I now have to go running 
 around the city trying to jack another car while at or below 50% health. Another thing that bothers 
 me is the introduction to the story. In GTA III, your character gets double-crossed on a bank heist. 
 In Vice City, it was a drug deal gone wrong. (I won't even bother mentioning San Andreas ... I 
 was not a fan.) Here, I watch as Niko goes on his first date (early in the game) and telling the 
 girl that he's trying to keep his nose clean and try to start a good life in a new country. Then 
 I watch as the next two missions he drives someone over to a lockup with some "hot parts" in it 
 and then watches over a drug deal with a gun at the ready. What is his motivation? The final thing 
 that irks me about this game is the "friendship" bullcrap that you have to deal with and the other 
 pointless junk put in the game. You can take your friends to bars, grab a bite, or even take them 
 bowling or to play darts. Not only is this an aspect of the game I find to be tacked on for no 
 good reason (yes, you can get rewards from them, but let me finish) , but it's already annoying 
 me early in the game and I only have three people to please, in addition to having just met a few 
 more. And those rewards that I mentioned are not permanent. Yes, just because you earn a reward, 
 does not give you the right to say "OK, mission accomplished ... onto the next friend." No, if 
 you ignore your friend and the "status" drops below a certain point, not only do you lose the reward, 
 but it's harder to get back than it was to get in the first place.
  
  As I would assume is obvious right now, this game is not very important to me or my collection. 
 The only reasons I am trying to complete, at the very least, the story are because I've heard that 
 it's very good and I'm STILL (a year later) trying to justify my purchase of this $500 piece of 
 hardware that's done nothing except allow me to re-play my PS2 games with wireless controllers. 
 After dropping $60 on this (on a pre-order no less, although I did save on shipping) , I'm now looking 
 to Hitman, Splinter Cell (only a temporary 360 exclusive) , God of War, and Resident Evil to be 
 my justification.
  
  Actual score: 5.4
  Gameplay: 5
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoppsy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Just when i thought GTA couldn't get any better. When i read the reviews and previews for this 
 game i thought it was being overhyped, i guess i was wrong because it was nothing but plain perfect. 
 The classis GTA elements can be noticed in the game imediatly but with top notch graphics and animations. 
 The gameplay has also imporved to what is expected from a game this size, the online multiplayer 
 is a great feuture and can provide endless fun. id give this game 9.5/10 and would reccomend it 
 to anyone especially those who have played the earlier games in the series. The Story Mode is so 
 entertaining and it is very long, so you will not complete it in a day, like some silly games. 
 You will understand it the whole way through and enjoy every bit of it.
  To be honest.. Forget all the details, just buy it, you wont be disappointed..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: migelpsp
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I owned that game from 05/27/08 , that game is so cool i like it pretty much the graphic is so 
 awesome the cars i love it money esay to find the mission when you start is little easy but when 
 you are in the second level is more hardly but I'm trying to do my best , but the game is so freaking 
 hot i wish to get more cheats codes for the cars. I owned that game from 05/27/08 , that game is 
 so cool i like it pretty much the graphic is so awesome the cars i love it money esay to find the 
 mission when you start is little easy but when you are in the second level is more hardly but I'm 
 trying to do my best , but the game is so freaking hot i wish to get more cheats codes for the 
 cars. I owned that game from 05/27/08 , that game is so cool i like it pretty much the graphic is 
 so awesome the cars i love it money esay to find the mission when you start is little easy but 
 when you are in the second level is more hardly but I'm trying to do my best , but the game is 
 so freaking hot i wish to get more cheats codes for the cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRXgamer93
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is like something you want to love, but cant, you just cant do it, this game was AMAZING, 
 and is one of the best, but still while im driving an infernus, with my friend at shotgun, i couldnt 
 get outta my head that there was something missing, i cant name it, but something is just missing. 
 I ve been waitig to get my hands on this game for YEARSSSS and now im half-proud, and half disapointed. 
 but dont get me wrong this game was Friigggen sick. AS i said before this game is good but not 
 perfect, like most people think OOOOO GTA IS THE BEST GAME EVER MADE YES IT IS HAHAHAH, no it isnt 
 not even close its just a game, a good game. and come onnn this game is tooo overrated, my opinion 
 is that its only good because of th past hgames, but no im sorry it just isnt. and well the gameplay 
 is just all over the place ya' know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series has always ben filled with great games and rockstar knows how to change for the 
 better. GTA4 in my mind changed from an unbelievable kill fest to a well oiled fine tuned story 
 line with improved gameplay. The cover system is remarkable and similar to many we've seen in next 
 gen games, and we can expect to see it more in gta games to come. As far as the story goes it is 
 very believable and full of twists that will keep you playing just for the sake of the story. As 
 far as the difficulty goes it is way too easy, but other aspects of the game will make you forget 
 about how easy the missions are, primarily the length. If you take the time to play through and 
 take your time than this game will last you a very long time. If you just stick to tthe story it 
 will go by way to fast and not be enjoyable. The sandbox style gameplay is not for everyone but 
 nonetheless this is a game that belongs in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sl4y4
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  I'll admit that I was hyped for GTAIV, but I had my suspicions right from the first set of missions, 
 as from that point onwards, you can expect any originality to be thrown right out of the window, 
 along with a useful cover system.
  
  Thats another issue that needs to be addressed, why is there a cover system in this game? the other 
 GTA games didnt need it thats for sure. It seems that developers are intent on shoving these un-needed 
 wastes of code into a lot of recently released games, such as GTAIV, Uncharted, Kanye and Lynch, 
 Bourne, and Gears of War. These are NOT NEEDED! how many games back in the day were amazingly fantastic, 
 but lacked a cover system? lots, heres a few to jog your memory:
  
  Syphon Filter
  Resident Evil
  Medievil
  Future Cop L. A. P. D
  Dino Crisis
  Doom
  
  I'm positive there 
 are many more classics out there that did well without such a system.
  
  The voice acting is the one saving grace for this game, or it would be if I cared to watch every 
 cutscene, and I dont because so many of them are recycled, just with different locations and characters, 
 and they usually revolve around, "I dont like this guy, go kill him for me", or "this guy owes 
 me money, go kill him for me", or even, "My daughter has a boyfriend, go kill him for me". see 
 a pattern?
  
  The graphics are pretty much whats expected of this generation of gaming, although I think Dead 
 Rising looks better, and that was a 360 launch title.
  The missions are incredibily generic and boring, It amazes me how anyone can sit through the same 
 missions over and over again, almost every mission requires you to kill someone because they owe 
 money (a frequent occourence in this game) , or did something that someone else didnt seem to agree 
 with.
  
  The music is extremely limited to Rap and R'n'B, with only a small selection of alternatives, which 
 irritates me as I am a fan of neither, I really believe that Rockstar should have thrown some more 
 variaty into the mix.
  
  The vehicle handling is criticised by many people, but I like it, it feels like a driving sim more 
 then anything, but it depends what your in to.
  
  Nothing much else to comment on, online multiplayer is fun for a while, but I'm yet to find a server 
 with max players on it, which limits the amount of fun you can have in such a massive map, as when 
 you die you are often catupulted far away from the battle scene, and it takes a while to catch 
 up.
  
  aside from that, this isnt such a bad game, but definately not worth a perfect 10, its far from 
 perfect, as you'll realise when you play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well there isnt much new since the last GTA... actually theres less in this game than 
 SA or VC. You can finish the story in under 30hours if you really stick to the story. Dont get 
 me wrong, thats plenty long enough and if you do all the extras you will be there 50 hours plus.
 
  Positives: Pretty good stats tracking like all gta. Comedy club can be quite entertaining. Drunk 
 Niko is pretty funny and drunk driving is fun.
  Negatives: Its a BIG city and yet you cant go in 95% of the buildings. No licensed cars. Repetitve. 
 Multiplayer is pointless. Rent or buy: Well everyone has to buy it, its the law. Just dont get 
 your hopes up
  
  As someone else on this site posted, "GTA4 is San Andreas with a new paint job". Basically, thats 
 all it is. While San Andreas was fun, and GTA4 is also fun, its not revolutionary. In the new post 
 COD4 world, GTA4 graphics arent anything special. Maybe the shift key slipped when they were making 
 the name, its definitely not the 4th GTA. Maybe we should rename it GTA$
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky17
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is one of the most anticipated games ever. This game is a definetely 10 out 
 of 10. After plenty of delays on this game it came out being more than I expected, things in this 
 game are more realistic than ever, like the driving and the weather conditions. The great new features 
 that this game has are the new shooting system that lets you hide behind walls and blind-fire. Online 
 is a great new addition to the game that has plenty of game modes to play. There are only a few 
 things that are bad about the game, sometimes while playing the game hops around because of all 
 the things going on at one time on the screen it can be annoying if you pay attention to it but 
 once you get sucked into the great storyline you wont notice it hardly. Another thing that can 
 be bad is the talking is very quiet sometimes hard to hear and the darkness even if you turn the 
 brightness up can be hard to see still. But those three things are the only things that put a little 
 mark on how great the game is. Highly recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  
  Having been a fan of the other GTA games on the Ps2 I had very high hopes for this, without buying 
 into the hypereuphoria about the game before hand. 
  
  I did have a little laugh to myself when I saw the GS score as that just set the game up to fail 
 to meet my expectations. I mean a 10 score could only be given to the most original, invovative, 
 graphically amazing, gameplay reinventing, best voice acted, seemless framerate, perfect AI etc 
 etc game! Which GTA ISN'T! 
  
  The story is very good and characters interesting, the AI is flipping stupid - I mean driving around 
 like a lunatic etc in front of the Police and they do nothing!? The voice acting is on par with 
 most 'better games' but there are still times when I have to cringe over the mock 'Eastern European' 
 accent?! I mean where is this guy from?? One minute hardcore Russian the next a slang sounding 
 guy from the USA putting on a silly accent which slips?! Here's an idea..... get a real Russian/eastern 
 European actor?!! Graphically too it's ok but I found glitches and hitch ups, not to mention how 
 incredibly dark the game looks or how mushy the backgrounds are. The city is Huge and generally 
 well detailed, not quite GT Prologue but very good. I loved the TV and Radio add's which were brilliantly 
 caustic and funny. The mini games too are also a nice touch and I was compelled to found out more 
 about the characters/story which drove me more than the game itself??! There's also a lot of carry 
 over in terms of the game itself, Hi-jack a car, run away from the Police, get caught etc etc. 
 The missions and friends aspect were really good injections too. I also found the tempo of the 
 game a times a little slow and repeatative before anything of real excitement happened. 
  
  So all in all a really good game but by no mean a 10/10 flawless original masterpiece its been 
 protrayed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnbabes
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Most games that get pre hyped before you can buy them at times fail to for fill whats expected 
 from it having played all gta's san ardreas was the perfect ish game sure there were flaws with 
 in the game in the new gta4 the graphics are nice the shooting can be a bit crap the way the cars 
 handle also can be ropey mission side is more or less the same call or meet some one drive or hire 
 a taxi kill them niko phones says job done and so on ect this could have been better but hey it's 
 gta :) bugs and all still a good game you do notice some pop up's witht he graphics and some cars 
 go missing from where you park them out side of your safe house over all the game is good still 
 san ardreas would be a hard act to beat still thumbs up to rockstar will there be another gta !!!!! 
 online play could have been better as i find it a bit slow ish well worth the asking price ..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when I was first hearing about Grand Theft Auto IV. It was delayed, but after 
 what seemed like forever, I finally got my hands on it on April 29. Grand Theft Auto IV, for the 
 most part, lived up to the hype surrounding its release. 
  
  In the game you play as, Niko Bellic, an Eastern European immigrant and a veteran of the Bosnian 
 War who, after persuasion from his cousin Roman, comes to Liberty City to pursue the American Dream. 
 After his arrival, Niko quickly learns that Roman's tales of riches and luxury were lies, concealing 
 Roman's struggles with debt and gangsters. Niko aids Roman in his troubles while hoping to carve 
 out a new life for himself in the city. You will later find out a bigger reason that he came to 
 Liberty City. But I won't tell you anymore of the story because I don't want to spoil it for you 
 
  
  The story in Grand Theft Auto IV is probably the best there has ever been in a GTA game. The characters 
 are very intereesting and you will find youself wanting to know more about the story. An addition 
 to this years game is the ability to make morality choices. You can choose things like if you want 
 to kill this guy or that guy, or you can choose to kill a person or spare there lives. Depending 
 on what you do, it won't change the story much, but it effects it a little bit. That is, until 
 you have to make a decision late in the game that will change the ending. 
  
  The gameplay has also been upgraded. Free-aim can now be used to shoot, or you can still use lock-on. 
 You can press R1 to use the new cover system and get behind something to protect yourself. The 
 cover system is a very nice addition, but it's not flawless. Sometimes Niko will take cover behind 
 something you didn't want him to, and you can end up taking a good deal of damage. With that being 
 said, the ability to take cover provides a nice little twist to the GTA gameplay, instead of just 
 running around hoping that you don't get hit. 
  
  The driving system has been changed, and it now seems to be more realistic. Some people have said 
 they didn't like it because it was too hard to drive because the car would slide around, but if 
 you drive around a little bit you'll probably get used to it and it won't be a problem. I actually 
 like it better than driving in the past games. 
  
  Another new addition is the cell phone. Sure, there were cell phones in previous games but you 
 couldn't do much except receive a few calls. It's pretty cool because you can do all kinds of things 
 with your phone. You can of course call people, and you can call your friends to set up to go out 
 and do things with them (or set up a date with your girlfriend) . You can recieve text messages. 
 The list of things you can do with the cell phone just goes on and on 
  
  When screens were first being shown of GTA IV, I remember people saying that the graphics weren't 
 that good, and GTA games have never been known for there graphics. I always thought that it looked 
 alright, but when I got to play the game and see the graphics I think we were all fairly impressed. 
 These graphics are up there with some of the best next-gen games. Everything looks very good and 
 Rockstar gave things a lot of detail. The new animations are also good. You can get a feel of how 
 good the graphics are by taking a look at Liberty City. The whole city feels alive, and it looks 
 beautiful, especially if you take a ride in a helicopter at night. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto games have always had great soundtracks. GTA IV 's soundtrack is good, but didn't 
 really blow me away. It had some really good Hip Hop stations (The Beat and CIassics) , a pretty 
 good talk show by Lazlow (Integrity 2.0) , from what I hear from people who like Rock, it has decent 
 Rock stations (Liberty Rock and L. C. H. C.) , The Vibe is fun to listen to sometimes, but the rest 
 of the stations are all some European music. It's sometimes fun to listen to, but there's just 
 to much of it in my opinion. 
  
  
  This is the first GTA game to "officialy" have online play. The modes you can play include the 
 standard Dead Match and Turf War options, along with some mission based modes and racing modes. 
 There's even a Free Mode, where up to 16 players can run around Liberty City freely. The online 
 is a fun little addition to GTA IV, but it honestly doesn't feel complete, but rather like it was 
 just slapped on. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV will definatley keep you busy. It will probably take you about 30-40 hours 
 to finish the story missions (or longer depending on how much you explore the city) , plus you can 
 go for 100%, have fun messing around in Liberty City, or play online. 
  
  A lot of reviewers have gave Grand Theft Auto IV a perfect score of 10 out 10, and while it is 
 definitley an amazing game, it falls just a hair short of a perfect 10 from me. 
  
  Some of the complaints I have about GTA IV are: The missions become repetitive because the majority 
 of them consist of "Kill this guy and I'll give you money", and you just get the feeling that you've 
 done this before. That also confuses me because you work so hard to get all of this money, yet 
 there's hardly anything for you to spend your money on in this game. While there's a good amount 
 of things for you to do in the game outside of missions, the game pales in comparison to what you 
 could do in San Andreas. The new shooting gameplay (cover, free-aim...) isn't perfect but I'm not 
 going to complain to much because it's an improvement. Online could have been better.
  
  With that being said, GTA IV is still an incredible game that I would recommend to anyone no matter 
 what type of games they're into. 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  
  Overall: 9.8*
  
  * (not an average)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pi_24112
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  First of all, I want to say that I really like this game. But I also want to love it, I really 
 do..... but for some reason I feel as if it's missing a certain something in order for my stimuli 
 to obtain that feeling, so here we go:
  
  Story: 8.5/10
  The player plays Niko Bellic, an immigrant from Europe travels to Liberty City to see his cousin 
 Roman living the high life, but that was all changed when the words from Roman were all lies and 
 in fact he lives in a crappy apartment, working for a cab company and soaked in gambling bets, 
 So Niko goes and tries to build up and live in the high life of Liberty City while a few hidden 
 plot holes come up to turn the story.
  
  A Decent story, nothing too spectacular (certainly not as inspiring as previous GTA games in were 
 the foundation of the game was mostly based on the era that was set) but great enough for a GTA 
 game, but the best thing in some missions, it's non-linear, but not sure about the ending though.
 
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Not the best graphics in on the PS3 (neither the Xbox 360) , but gets the job done and a nice upgrade 
 from the PS2 era GTA titles. Liberty City has been given a face lift, so forget everything if you 
 played GTA III. The visuals and the rendering are very similar to previous franchise games.
  
  Controls: 6.5/10
  The weakest point of the game, the control scheme at first on the PS3 is 
 more of a Xbox 360 control scheme than the usual PS2 controls, what bothers me is that they swapped 
 the buttons, R2 is shoot and L2 to aim, WHY THE HELL CHANGE WHAT WE'VE GREW UP WITH?! But luckily 
 you can change it to a "Classic" control scheme, it's still tough but adaptable.
  
  The Controls in the game is a little wonky, the walking at real time is so super slow that you 
 always have to tap"A" in order to feel like your going anywhere at a decent speed, and when driving 
 but when shooting, it can piss you off. You use the Right analog stick and the Left to steer but 
 that's hard with driving and shooting. What the hell is this? Saint's Row? (No, Saint's Row is 
 a good game, I ain't bashing it!) . So, in the end, the controls are frustrating but adaptable.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Everything you know and love about GTA is still here, with a lot more variety, less load times 
 when going in and out of places and cities. You can use a phone to call people, go on the Internet 
 to buy things and check e-mails, go on dates, go at places to play pool, bowling, darts, Strip 
 clubs, get wasted, etc. So, even though the gameplay is pretty much the same, but it's improved 
 with alot more variety of things to do. But may taken out one or two things.
  
  And since when did GTA turn into Gran Turismo? The cars handle like Niko is driving with his butt. 
 Are you in a chase mission and you want to drift into a 90 degree turn? Too bad. Using the handbrake 
 has only one possible outcome; a complete 180 degree turn followed by a stop. When going around 
 corners, you have to slow down and ease the car in the direction you want to go, otherwise you 
 are going to slam into the wall, get stuck on a handrail, and then lose the mission.
  
  The online mode is quite fun too. As I've tried playing Deathmatch, but it does have online flaws 
 such as lagging and delayed kills, but it's still fun to play online and go against each other..
 
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  The music in the game is quite solid, haven't heard much but quite intriguing, always a mixed variety 
 and so on. I really can't complain.
  
  Sound effects in the game is a mixed bag with the pistols sounding more crisp and weird in someways, 
 but it really doesn't matter.
  
  Voice acting in the game is pretty solid and quite awesome with the dialogue as they act serious 
 and funny at the same time. Like a real crime movie.
  
  Total: 9/10
  While it may not be the Perfect Game that everyone is expecting, GTA IV will blast you away once 
 again with it's awe and empowering gameplay, story and dialogue. It may lack on what the past GTA's 
 had but it's adaptable and still a great game to own, but I do have to say once again... How can 
 a pro-reviewer say in one breath its "not without its flaws", and then give it a 10. I thought 
 10 meant perfect? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock4563
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best GTA in the history of Grand theft. I almost beat the game and love to play 
 against my friends online. Team Deathmatch May be my favorite mode. A Ten is what it deserves, 
 because it is that: "Perfect". They have tons of my favorite guns and vehichles. The cheats make 
 the game alot funner. I wonder if Killzone 2 will be better (that'll be hard) . it still amazes 
 me with great gameplay and wicked graphics. Bomb da Base II is extremely fun (yet i keep landing 
 the helipcopter not fast enough) . GTA: San Andreas is the second best one. Yet San Andreas isn't 
 good enough. Great Job Grand Theft Auto 4. Keep it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgordon2191
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Almost everything about this game is perfect. 1. The storyline is pretty good and the cutscenes 
 have been improved so that you actually feel connected to the players and care if they live or 
 die. 
  
  2. Controls have improved imho. The fighting is a little more realistic and people will sometimes 
 run away after you beat them up enough. And you walk by just moving the analog stick, and by holding 
 (x) you run, and tapping (x) you sprint. The driving is better too, but I must admit, it takes 
 a little getting used to first. But afterwards it feels better and drive-by's are much better. 
 The driving is more realistic and feels better. 
  
  3. Radio stations are pretty good too. They aren't as good as Vice City's or San Andreas' but I 
 still like them. I think they made too many disco/funk ones. They should have put at least one 
 regular pop station and another rap/hip hop station. But Vladivostock really fits all the accents 
 in the game and the songs are very catchy even though you can't understand them (glukoza-schweine 
 is my favorite) . 
  
  4. Multiplayer is everything we have been dreaming about. You already know about all the different 
 types of game modes so I'll just say that I have had no problems whatsoever with it and Team Deathmatch 
 is very addicting.
  
  5. Graphics are 100X better! This series is finally up to par with the systems it plays on. The 
 water actually looks and behaves like water and things are waaayyy clearer. 
  
  6. Cops are alot better too! If you are in a building, they will come and get you. Even if that 
 means climbing up the adjacent building's stairs to the rooftop. But they aren't all knowing like 
 before. Once you get out of the field of vision, you can leave the search area. No running to pay 
 'n spray with cops in the garage with you and magically losing wanted level. You can only use it 
 when cops aren't looking, and it takes 3 hours instead of 3 seconds. Another thing is that tanks 
 are gone, so you can actually drive a vehicle with 6 stars without getting blown up from bumping 
 a tank. I personally hated tanks and I'm glad they're gone. And you can escape wanted level by 
 running if you want. 
  
  7. The only problem is freezing. Many people have had this problem and so have I. The severity 
 varies from person to person, but I believe that it will be fixed soon. But shame on Rock* for 
 not fixing this before release. I would rather play the game in June than it freezing on me. This 
 is why I'm giving it a 9.5 instead of a 10. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazysniper8
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is by far one of the greatest games I have ever played. It has everything for 
 everyone from racing, to carjacking, or just plain wreaking havoc The storyline is one of the best 
 of the series and the charactors and voice acting play it out well. Countless times, I find myself 
 gazing in awe at the spectacular colors and lights of Liberty City during the day and night. The 
 enviroment is the perfect size and players wont find themselves spending half an hour to get across 
 the map only to take the wrong road and wind up back where they started like San Andreas. The controls 
 are easy to pick up and the new targeting and cover systems are just right. The online play is 
 awesome and good for competitions or messing around with friends. GTA IV also has a great soundtrack 
 with familiar songs by the Who and other major artists. The only thing that I don't like in GTA 
 IV is the lack of customization for online play. Other than that , I rate Grand Theft Auto IV for 
 the PS3 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jriggs45
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot fun, but it is not perfect. Only four clothing stores, and two of them are the 
 same store? Lack of interactive points of interest on most of the islands? How much does my mission/socializing 
 ratio really need to be? I guess if I spend all of my time in the bowling alley, then I need not 
 worry about finishing the main storyline too quickly. I played for hours this weekend , but only 
 completed a few missions in between trying to maintain all of these relationships. But seriously, 
 when I'm on a date with one girl, and another girl calls me for a date while I'm in the car, it 
 gets a bit much. I guess it gives me something to spend my money on.
  
  I do like how the game is giving me better cars now that I am further along in the storyline. I 
 like my new apartments in the city. I think the graphics are heads and shoulders above what I've 
 seen in the past. (First time I took a boat and my first helicopter ride were simply amazing) . 
 I like that Niko is already fit (doesn't get tired easily) . A lot of fun, but it seems to have 
 had certain parts of the design rushed. I look forward to the next one; I bet it is a killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I remember a long time ago seeing my girlfriend at the time purchase a brand new ps2 and a copy 
 of gta3. One morning while she was still sleeping I put it in and started playing for about 3 hours. 
 Once she was ready to leave I turned it off and felt very empty and unfulfilled, like I just wasted 
 all that time and I will never get it back, I was sad and never played another second of gta3.
 
  
  Then I saw the score that had been given to gta4. WOW! That's a big statement giving a score like 
 that to a sequel I could care less about. So I went out and bought the Collectors edition... I 
 know, I know, it makes no sense whatsoever, but I trust this site and I had noticed that other 
 highly regarded sites have also been giving it a great score, plus I like t-shirts.
  
  The first thing I did was call a friend and figured out how to play online. We played a few games 
 that took about an hour. After that I couldn't shut up about how great it was, it's online against 
 real people! Then someone told me that online isn't even the best part, it's the story one player 
 mode that is where it's at. So this weekend I played and played and played. They were right. It's 
 seriously the best game ever, you can do whatever you want. The graphics are great, the shooting 
 is spot on, and it's so many different games in one! This game is not going away, and it's kind 
 of funny because I remember when gta3 came out all the crap it got, this one didn't really get 
 too much guff.
  
  The only bad thing about this game is that I can't beat down my little brother in LA because he 
 has it on x-box, if only there was a way to cross box!
  
  Oh and to all of you giving this game a bad review, don't cry because you suck online and get murdered 
 like a noob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miketama2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  I was a bit let down by this game. i do hold on to the idea that this being the first for this 
 head set they will get better... but. i saw the same thing with zelda. they turned it into a kids 
 game and took all the good stuff out looking for "new" players. i really hope this is not what 
 they are doing. 
  Dont get me wrong there are things i like about this game too. 
  the gnarled messy hard to get around streets, i like em. not to wide and not to small. there are 
 good streets for flat out speed with the highways and then main streets as well as back roads full 
 of things to zip by and try not to hit. 
  I dont like, the story line... i got to kill a man for the gut i end up hating??? what the cracker 
 jack kids gome carp is that? i would have just off him for asking me to kill his boss. they could 
 have had him jack me up so i had a reason to off him. then after that they give you the chance 
 to pick who you want to off later??? the best part of the game is the mind set of i am tommy or 
 carl. i dont want to be this guy, he is loyal to nothing but rage and the past. he is fat old and 
 sloppy looking. now moving on lets talk about moving on. it was that i could move on and move up. 
 i earnd money so i could buy a house and have better. now i earn money so i have a big lot of numbers 
 on my screen. 
  Ok what dose rockstar not like about me getting to the new island? as before you cant get there 
 ofr some reason. sure make it hard to get there but if i can make it let me roam. ivce city let 
 me do just that. the game did not stop the world didnt end i didnt get to skip anything. but that 
 and no dogs/cats to run over is an ongoing let down. 
  In all i was let down by this game and will not be running out to be the first on my block for 
 the next one like i have been doing. i will wait and after renting it i will deside if i want to 
 buy it... if it is anything like this one i will not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamfasher
Rating: 6
Date: May 27, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me just say I've been a hard-core gamespot-goer ever since the early beginning, 
 and I've played all the GTA games (even the top-to-bottom original) and many other games from a 
 myriad of genres, so this review is not an easy thing for me to write.
  
  First, the game- I am just completely and utterly dumbfounded as to what the hell Rockstar was 
 thinking when they sat down to do this game. I mean, San Andreas was SO good! Granted, it wasn't 
 flawless (got a 9.6 on GS) , but it was the closest GTA ever got to it, and it was DAMN close. This, 
 in my mind, was due to the unbelievable amount of variety you had in there (in addition to amazing 
 production values and great gameplay) . When I think back on the game I remember the whacky stuff, 
 like the jet-pack, tank-rides, weird gang-war moments, and other memorable moments. The main issue 
 for me with this new iteration in the series is exactly the lack-there-of of these moments in the 
 game. There are NONE. All I remember is a grey city, with dull missions, and a heap of money and 
 nothing to do with it, and I just finished the game yesterday!! I can go on all day-long about 
 other drawbacks of this game, but others have already done that, and with more detail (game instability, 
 bad gameplay-driving & shooting, no optionals- real estate and planes, etc.) , and at the end of 
 the day this is the single-biggest reason why this game is a fluke for me. The characters are forgettable 
 (you simply can't compare Nicko to Tommy and CJ) , the gameplay is awful, there is no customization 
 at all (compared to SA) , and no optionals what-so-ever. I simply can't understand how THIS is the 
 NEXT in the series after SA. If you look at all the games not from a chronological point-of-view, 
 this should have been released after GTA3 at the very best (bar the improved graphics) .
  
  Now, for my bigger problem with this game - the universal 10 it got from almost all pro-review 
 sites. You just can't help but come to the conclusion that it's been influenced in some way. I 
 mean, they haven't even bothered to be subtle about it.. They still list the cons in the review, 
 but give it a 10 anyway! After reading the GS official review and then playing, I just couldn't 
 believe my eyes. I grew up playing games, and all through this I almost always agreed with GS on 
 games I played. Granted, there were times when I didn't completely agree about something the reviewer 
 wrote, but he's just human, and entitled to his own opinion. Lately, however, this has been anything 
 but the case. I've played 3 games in the past 2-3 months that GS gave an 9-or-above score to (Sins 
 of a Solar Empire, Assassin's Creed, and GTAIV) , and I simply cannot understand how games with 
 no content and completely repetitive gameplay get such high scores. I already reviewed SoaSE, and 
 I didn't even bother with AC, it was that pathetic. 
  I just can't help but feel "betrayed". I know it sounds ridiculous, but that's how I feel. I used 
 to pay good money to GS, and felt it was justifiably-given. Now I'll probably have to look for 
 another review-site, though almost everyone seem to have given this piece-of-junk a 10.
  Just some final tid-bits of information- scores some truly great games got on this site, just so 
 you can compare for yourself if this 10 is justified (these are all games I've played, and every 
 single on of them deserves a higher score than GTA4) :
  Diablo (9.6) , Diablo 2 (8.5) , Half-Life (9.4) , Half-Life 2 (9.2) , Heroes II (8.2) , Heroes III (9.1) , 
 God of War (9.3) , God of War 2 (9.2) , Final Fantasy VII (9.5) , Homeworld (9.0) , Total Annihilation 
 (9.3) , Starcraft (9.1) , Warcraft 2 (9.3) , Warcraft 3 (9.2) , Fable (8.6) , Baldur's Gate (9.2) , Baldur's 
 gate 2 (9.2) , and so on...
  
  That's it. I'll prbably get kicked out of membership here for this (they took off a review of mine 
 once and "warned" me) , but at this point it doesn't really matter I guess... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasduo
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this is a very good game but why did just about every game ratings site give 
 this a 10/10? Come on, what was behind this? This game is in no way a 10!!! It's almost like they 
 were paid for hyping it. Oh well, maybe my expectations for this game was too high but after the 
 first week and a half, I found the game getting repetitive. Come on a helicopter and no missles 
 to blow stuff up with? The multiplayer lags a little but maybe it'll be fixed with a patch or something. 
 A game does NOT deserve a 10/10 unless it has replay value... ALL GAME REVIEWERS SHOULD DO AN INITIAL 
 FIRST PREVIEW AND THEN A "LOOKING BACK" PREVIEW. ALL THE HYPE FOR THIS GAME GOT IT THE SALES RECORD 
 BUT ITS JUST "GOOD" GAME. Not Great... I found that after a couple of weeks playing this game, 
 I was ready to get back online playing COD4 and other games
  
  My Review for this game:
  Graphics:9.5
  Gameplay:9.5
  Replay Value: 8
  Multiplayer: 8
  Fun (Initial) : 9.0
  Fun 
 (after 2 weeks) 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Well.. where to begin..
  
  Ok.. I've never really liked the GTA series.. at all. I'm sure everyone will agree and admit that 
 the funnest aspect of the games is just to cause the most mayhem as possible. On the older games.. 
 all you really needed to do was own maybe one of the titles, and you're set. 
  
  Now GTA 4.. is quite a different story..
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  Yea I know most won't be happy 
 with this rating, but the character models are a little toony, and at times can really lack the 
 appropriate expression for certain actions. It's no biggie, but I feel that they could have been 
 beefed up a little more. On a side note, the city is gorgeous. No where near as mapped out as Assasins 
 Creed but come on.. no loading times at all between areas? Thats heavy duty draw distance. Which 
 demands immediate respect.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  I've read a few reviews that it wasn't any fun to play this game because 1. The fighting is too 
 hard to grasp.. 2. Driving is crap since its too hard to steer. 3. The cops are too hard to get 
 away from.
  
  Alright.. here's my counter.. 1. The fighting is NOT that hard.. all I do is button mash an I can 
 basically take down anyone. Perhaps a little juvenille but hey, do whatchya can right? 2. Of corse 
 the driving is hard.. I guarantee you anybody who complains about the driving probably isn't a 
 professional stunt driver.. it's called realism.. and the steering abilities obviously are going 
 to vary from car to car.. here's my suggestion to the whiners.. stop stealing a crap car, and bash 
 the game cause you can't outrun suped up cop cars in a friggin boat.
  
  3. .. do I really need to contest this arguement? How many times have any of you ran away from 
 the cops after a shooting spree.. or for that matter.. ever ran away from them at all.. go ahed 
 and try my friends.. I guarantee you GTA is quite lenient in this aspect.
  
  Anyway.. Multiplayer is a blast.. I won't spoil the moments but just imagine 16 people duking it 
 out in the biggest sandbox environment ever constructed on a gaming scale.. its amazing
  
  Controls: 9.0
  
  I love the feel of the game. Button placement is very convienient and to me, 
 it takes a very comfortable learning curve to grasp. If you've played previous titles it feels 
 pretty much the same apart from the auto aim and cover system.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  
  Everything is up to par here.. the only complaint I have is the radio.. I really think the commercials 
 plus talk shows are too beligerant, and really not that funny. The stand up comedian clubs are 
 okay.. I'm not much into Kat Williams etc.. per say, but it adds a nice perk.
  
  Value: 10
  
  yea.. its definately worth the 60 dollars.. I guarantee you every play through 
 the game will never be the same.. unless you absolutely want it to be.. (uhm.. why?) The campaign 
 is amazingly fun, and the multiplayer is so addictive.. its too hard to really complain about. 
 If you got the cash for it, my suggestion is to not miss out. 
  
  p. s. - this is important.. THIS GAME IS NOT FOR FRIGGIN KIDS.. I'M so dead serious on this.. if 
 you're under 17 and you're crying cause mom and dad wont let you get it.. all the power to em. 
 It really ticks me off playing online and hearing kid's voices cussin up a storm as they drive 
 by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinderegg
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Almost every review I have read has given GTA4 a 10. While I do not dispute the near perfection 
 of the game over any other game (GTA or otherwise) , I was a little disappointed that there wasn't 
 more.
  
  There was no criminal empire to build. There never was any accrueing income. There were no garages. 
 You never got a mansion. There was no heli that fired rockets. There was no FIB ferrari. There 
 were no businesses to manage. You couldn't store boats. There were no gang turf wars. No tank and 
 no military. There was no parachute. There were hardly any interactive buildings. There were no 
 ambulance or fire truck missions. And after finishing the game, there is little else to do except 
 multiplayer which is fun but not that unlike any other multiplayer.
  
  Over time, I began to find nothing to buy. All safehouses were given to you and if you found weapons 
 pickups you rarely needed to visit an ammo dealer. Also, cars would duplicate as you rode one so 
 getting a repeat into your parking spot meant you always had a backup (I have four infernus' doing 
 nothing) . I kept hoping to unlock and have to renovate the mansion where you find the Sultan RS 
 but nothing happened. I could have easily sank $400,000 by the end of the game to fix it up without 
 it affecting gameplay. Anything! I get the plotline that he wanted out but it seemed pointless 
 in the end.
  
  One thing that really bothered me was the setup on changing clothes. Why couldn't you see your 
 clothes to change into?! It became so annoying to flip through everything I just rebought clothes 
 as needed.
  
  Maybe my expectations were too high. Or maybe, because of the delay, I thought it would be earthshattering. 
 Also, I maybe biased as I own a PS3 but I noticed alot of spots throughout the game that looked 
 like it would have been more had it just been for the PS3. But because of the microsoft deal, those 
 things stopped being fleshed out because they needed to launch both.
  
  I hope, in the end, Rockstar adds extra missions for download on the playstation network that gives 
 the game added life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Pretty Damn Good to say the least. There seems to be alot more story to this GTA installment involving 
 an easten-european immigrant Called Nikolai Bellic and his cousin Roman who has serious debt problems 
 and everyone wants a peice of him. There is a huge graphical improvement regarding the jump to 
 next-gen. There are a big selection of vehicles including automobiles, boats and bikes. There are 
 also helicopters but no planes. The radiostations are pretty good music wise if you like rock decent 
 music basically! You can still buy clothes for your character but there isnt as much choice as 
 there was in San Andreas. It has its own internet. You can go Dating and look at stupid adverts 
 that Rockstar likes to make. I particularly like the way Rockstar has called the internet cafe. 
 "TW@"
  its called. Nice idea! It is hard to see in the darkness of the night but you can get used to it 
 eventually. The cars arent as agile as the cars from previous GTAs but its just adding to realism. 
 I agree that the story is quite good but once youve completed it there isnt much to do as you cant 
 modify cars or go hunting for mysteries like in San Andreas but this is still a reccomended purchase 
 for any gamer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonHamoodi
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a great game, and has everything that you wish to see in a GTA game... Rockstar did a 
 pretty good job by getting rid of all the boring extra missions found in previous GTAs such as 
 the ambulance and the fire truck missions! The world, the cars and the civilians all look amazing 
 and are so real! I love the look of the wet streets when its raining, I love the after rain effects, 
 I love how cars get dirty and muddy as you use them, I love how civilians interact with each other, 
 and how if one of them does not respect the law, he will be arrested, I love the vast amount of 
 cars, I love the brand new control scheme! Basically I am in love with this game, and it truly 
 lived up to my expectations, if not a bit more!! The only the thing that disappointed me is the 
 extremely low resolution which is the first thing I noticed when I purchased this game! But this 
 minor letdown is forgivable!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawn7017
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  This game is what I like to call a masterpice the graphics
  are allright but the gameplay is awsome but I would like
  too see some new weapons. Story line 
 is deep. The game
  has alot of new cars like the escalade and the chrisler
  300. The game has a few frame rate issues like when
  you are going at maximum speed and try to 
 turn a curve. GTA 4 has a lot of new features like you can use your
  phone to set up dates and call people and you could use a gps. Also you can go on the internet and 
 meet other
  people. Liberty city has changed alot from the other gta games. I think that the LCHC radio station 
 can use some slayer, bulet for my valentine, metallica, and korn. How you evade the cops is difrent
 
  from the other grand theft auto games how you evade the cops is
  more like scarface. The exotic cars look and are bad. Most of the
  missions are about killing some 
 one or taking someone or 
  something to a specific locaion. The good thing about this game
  is that you allways have something to do. You have to have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbrickwood
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  The game world Rock* have created with Liberty City is amazing. For that alone the Score deserves 
 a 9. It is simply the most detailed game world to have ever been created.
  
  The New Shooting system is great and much needed. Driving, I think is great and more challenging 
 than before.
  
  I will say a few niggles stopped it being a 10 and they were,
  
  Mission structure has recieved little to no innovation, i was expecting more choice in how and 
 when i approached a mission - aka Hitman, rather than a linear scripted path. This contradicts 
 everything about openworld gameplay and i thought Rock* could have implemented some new ideas to 
 approaching a mission.
  
  Maintaining relationships is just not fun. Driving across the entire city in an in game hour is 
 near impossible and you will lose respect of your friend for being late. The activities just arent 
 that fun to do time and time again. And your phone never stops ringing.
  
  Melee combat is clumsy. When you think of how deep The Warriors and Bully system was ( both Rock* 
 games) i really think they missed the boat on this......... such a shame. This was a huge dissapointment 
 for me.
  
  Multiplayer is great - when you connect! 
  
  No rewards for treasure hunting....
  
  Lastly pop up and framerate issues can take you out 
 of the immersion, but arent game breaking.
  
  This really is an amazing game, despite the niggles i have, the score is justified by the shear 
 scale and ambition of the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanokano
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Before people say anything about this game, remember 2 things; 1) it's a video game=meaning no 
 matter how hyped a developer makes the game in the end of the day its still a video game, not real 
 life. 2) the whole aim/theme/motto of GTA IV is realism=meaning the way you play the game; driving, 
 fighting, escaping from police, doing missions, side missions are based on realistic choices and 
 animations. but still the end of the day no game is perfect without any flaws. 
  
  
  This game is the best to date because of the whole experience GTA IV can bring. For some reason 
 the more you played the game, the more you love it... the beautiful sunset, the morning fog, the 
 weather changes, the realistic physics/animations of how people act and react to Niko. People have 
 to remember developers these days are still only using a 9GB Dual layer DVD and to have a game 
 the size of GTA IV which has huge details city along with buildings having different interiors 
 designs on a DVD in truly amazing!!!
  
  There are games that have better graphics compared to GTA IV... yes, there are games that have 
 better weapons features... yes, but to have a game that has a huge detailed city along with beautiful 
 sunsets, changing weather, realistic physics animation all rendering on a 9GB dual layer DVD is 
 truly AMAZING!!!
  
  For example: People always say "whats the big deal?" "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" has 200 hours 
 of gameplay, but the thing people don't understand is that "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" has 
 copied and paste techniques which means the buildings and people you see in the background have 
 the same designs and pattens. Where in GTA IV at least each buildings has different designs and 
 people have different cloths, voices and animations styles.
  
  Also people have to remember GTA IV is a game that is 4 years in the making and with the developers 
 at Rockstar North using the Xbox 360 and PS3 the first time, future games will only get better.
 
  
  Overall quality, experience, fun factor GTA IV deserves a perfect 10/10
  
  Now i'm going to try to write the difference between the 2 versions PS3 and Xbox 360.
  
  First 
 off, i have both versions so have played both versions on HDTV and a projector as well.
  
  First up the Xbox 360. The first noticeable difference is that the Xbox 360 version has brighter 
 colors... which seems the picture quality has more life. For example if you see somebody or know 
 somebody that has a energy/enthusiasm to them... that's what the Xbox 360 version has... energy, 
 life!
  
  The framerate on the Xbox 360 is stable nearly all the way from start to finish. The only framerate 
 drop i can see is where theirs huge car explosions and cop cars come in from every direction, i 
 saw a little framerate drop. Also the Xbox 360 runs at native 720p resolution along with a steady 
 30fps, which is impressive for a game like GTA.
  
  Overall i found that the Xbox 360 version is smooth and silky with picture quality that brings 
 life to the screen!
  
  The PS3 version on the other hands runs at native 640p resolution with framerate drops at the start 
 of the game. In the PS3 version i played which had framerate drop somewhere in the beginning to 
 the middle where i tried to escape from the police in a very fast sports car...
  
  The picture quality on the PS3 is darker and doesn't seem to run as smooth as the Xbox 360. i know 
 IGN and others did a comparison between the Xbox 360 and the PS3 version and they decided that 
 the PS3 versions is ahead of the Xbox 360, but when i was playing the PS3 i did not see any aspect 
 of the game that was better then the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Heyz, first of all this game dosnt deserve a 10. No game does it can always be improved. Anywayz..
 
  
  Story.
  The story is a good story. You get off a boat after getting into Liberty America and meet your 
 cousin who lied by saying he was rich and owned a mansion and stuff when he owns a failing taxi 
 place and a small apartment. As you go though the story you find out more out about your character, 
 Niko, and why he really came to Liberty City to track a person down who betrayed him and loads 
 of his friends in the war. As you though the story who meet more important characters and every 
 know and then you'll have a chose between 2 characters and which one your going to kill. Some choices 
 dont really effect the story but others have huge impacts.
  
  Characters.
  The characters are great. You'll meet onces you'll like and others you'll hate. Every character 
 has there own little personality and makes them great in there own little world. 
  
  Graphics.
  Graphics are really good and the game is incredibly detailed.
  
  Gameplay.
  
 Gameplay is really fun. The new cover system really makes you feel like you in the middle of a 
 huge battle field and adds a very nice edge to the game.
  
  Audio.
  Its good. If you fail a mission and someone is talking to you as your driving to wherever the person 
 your with will say something completly different which is cool. The Radio is pretty bad honstley 
 you'll hear most of the songs pretty quickly and the chatshows are funny but there isnt enough 
 of radio which is pretty dissapointing. You hear people talking on there phones and stuff but other 
 then that you dont really hear many people talk unless you crash into them.
  
  Random People.
  Did what Assassins Creed failed to do. You'll see loads of different people apart 
 from the taxi drivers who look all the same and the hobo's who you see everywhere.
  
  Driving.
  Good and much better that you smash the windows and hotwire it instead of just opening 
 the door and driving off.
  
  Online.
  Online is really good for once you completed the story and you got nothing to do. There are loads 
 of different matchs and all are really fun and enjoyable..
  
  The Cops.
  The new way to escape cops is very good and is fun. Nothing beats running down allys and jumping 
 over gates like a true fugative lol.
  Extras.
  The Internet was wasted on the game. Its pretty pointless apart from the dating site and the phone 
 site. Taking people out to clubs and bowling ect is good fun or just a chore depending on what 
 you like. The bowling, darts and getting drunk is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jshaw71
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  rockstars 4th installment in the grand thefto auto series of crime/action games, stars niko bellic, 
 a man running from his past from unnamed eastern eurpoean country, where he served in a army, he 
 has come to libery city, at his cousin Romans urging, and stories from various letters to niko, 
 as niko arrives in librety city, reality dons on him as the mansion that roman talked about is 
 a 3rd rate roach infested studio apartment, from arriving in the city, niko has work to do, people 
 to meet, contacts to help out, the games graphics are a sight to be hold, the pedestrains sparkle 
 with personality, the inclusion of onlineplay to the game, has only added to the games fans, and 
 althogh i have yet to play online, i am sure it will be a fun expereince, i am itching to try cops 
 and crooks mode, the controls with cars, where difficult, possinly the worst handling i have experienced 
 in a gta game, the inclusion of a cell phone, where you send and receive calls, as well as text 
 messages is a welcome addtion to the game, as a usable item, not just another way for more people 
 to order you around, taxis also are fully functional if you have nothing to do, hop in a cab and 
 switch the camera to cinematic mode, and enjoy the ride, the same goes with the helitours, once 
 open they serve as a another mode of transport, for a price, the storytelling moves along at a 
 slow pace, sometimes taking place during car rides, as well as at the end of 'bosses' not to mention 
 the ingame cutscenes that accompany missions from the little i have experienced the storyline seems 
 to be very good, and am looking forward to progressing the storyline, to get some more info on 
 the characters, and nikos past 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  ROCKSTAR Games deserve to be praised really highly to present us GTA 4 as the game is really superb 
 in all respects and it offers gamers huge satisfaction overall .
  
  GTA 4 story starts with the main character of the game Niko Bellic ( a european ex -war veteran 
 ) arriving in Liberty city in present day to escape his mysterious past and start a new life with 
 his cousin Roman Bellic. Plus he is here also to find a special someone for redemption from his 
 past. Niko soon finds out that to gain status , wealth and power in Liberty City , he must follow 
 the main rule of the game ' Survival of the Fittest ' .Soon Niko finds himself dragged into the 
 hell like underworld ruled by mafia kingpins , druglords , corrupt bureaucrats and cops . Niko 
 must obey his instincts to survive in this heartless city .Will Niko ultimately find his goal in 
 Liberty City ? For this question my freinds , you have to purchase the game and find it out yourself 
 . All i can spoil is every moment of the game from Niko approaching Liberty City till story end 
 , GTA 4 will put you at rocking thrill joyride .Plus Niko can make choices in the story which will 
 affect the end story. Story of GTA 4 is like a noir ( stylish) thriller novel from start to finish 
 .GTA 4 is more story driven than previous GTA series .
  
  GTA 4 graphics are revolutionary amongst whole GTA series .Do not mistake same Liberty city from 
 GTA 3 in GTA 4 , as the Liberty city in GTA 4 is tottally new and breathtakingly beautiful. The 
 City is very huge and divided into many districts which has its own individuality different from 
 others .The whole city is very lively as in reality with many provisions such as normal pedestrians 
 on roads , vechiles , bridges , parks , entertainment centres ( malls , strip clubs , bars , resturants 
 , bowling junctions , internet cafes etc ) , buildings ( ranging from flats to skycrapers) , hospitals 
 / hotels , train stations , docks , banks , cop stations , airports , car wash , garment shops 
 etc shown very realistically in the game .The game uses night and day cycle and also weather changes 
 throughout the game .You get to meet and see variety of people in liberty city and even have to 
 deal with various crime organisations ( ranging from street thugs to mob families ) .
  
  Niko can use any vechiles present in the game , but this time he has to break ( steal ) cars without 
 arising suspicion to jack a vechile .Unfortunately , you won't find Tanks , Jets unlike other GTA 
 games , but that dosen't affect gameplay much .Niko can only ride COP ANNIHILATOR ( Chopper ) , 
 Boats in certain missions .The Vechile controls are user freindly .
  
  Niko can use variety of weapons in the game too ( ranging from pistols to rocket launchers ) , 
 but again unfortunately he cannot dual weild certain weapons and many high power weapons from previous 
 GTA games such as minigun etc are missing .
  
  Combat system in GTA 4 is highly satisfying as Niko can use cover and target his enemies with auto 
 aim .Plus he can cook grenades and throw them at his enemies also .With Cover Niko can take minimal 
 damge plus he can boost his health with healthkits and armor lying around .In GTA 4 Niko can make 
 a breakthrough when being arrested by cops if he wishes too , meaning he will not get busted easily 
 unlike previous GTA games .in GTA 4 if you are seeing entering a pay and spray by a cop while being 
 chased , losing your wanted level will not work but in GTA 4 losing cops is very easy unlike other 
 GTA games be it on foot or on vechiles .Destruction or blowing up cars etc in GTA 4 is terriffic 
 , action sequences are high adrenaline filled and action looks straight like a blockbuster Hollywood 
 action movie .
  
  AI in GTA 4 is very smart .Ingame voiceactings and cutsenes are superbly done .Most of the characters 
 in GTA 4 are memorable. in GTA 4 Niko can unlock freinds whom he can date or chill out with .Niko 
 uses a Cellphone ( whose model , themes , ringtones etc can be upgraded ) to access multiplayer 
 menu , cheats , missions , freinds list .Making certain freinds happy ( chilling out with them 
 often ) makes u gain certain cheats such as losing wanted level , health refill , getting weapons 
 on discount , free taxi ride etc .Niko can also acccess net on cybercafes to know abt his side 
 missions ( by reading / checking his e-mails) or set up dates with characters plus he can also 
 access police files on a cop car to get database of a criminal. You get tons of side missions or 
 objectives in the game besides main story missions .Completing 100 % GTA 4 nets you more unlockable 
 features.
  
  Music in GTA 4 is mindblowing .The radio stations are all new and offers awesome soundtracks from 
 Elton John , Kayne West , Queen , R. E. M plus ton other popular artists .
  
  GTA 4's online multiplayer is new feature in its console series and offers upto different kinds 
 of 15 modes of play .It supports upto 16 player online and allows players to explore the city .Its 
 multiplayer mode is very popular and many people play it .
  
  The game has few neglible cons like the PS 3 multiplayer section of the game tends to freeze sometimes 
 . Many Vechiles , weapons , variety stuffs as in GTA San Andreas seems to be left out in GTA 4 
 . Nonetheless GTA 4 is a unique experience in its own rights as it emphasises more on the the charaters 
 and main story than concentrating more on outside feautres . Warning : GTA unedited version uses 
 strong language , sex and violence so play it at your own risk .
  
  GTA 4 is a must buy and play for every gamers .Its is one of the highest selling game till date 
 and broke Guiness books of world records for its enormous sales and huge popularity amongst gamers 
 worldwide plus it has acheived highest rated game ranking till date from many notable reviwers 
 worldwide and gained notable acclaim .
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4EVGASM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever will now be disscussed by me.
  
  Graphics: Amazing graphics, artistic and technical. The characters faces look a lot more real than 
 other GTA's and other games, and the whole face and body movements look great. The buildings in 
 the game are great, and the allys are pretty stunning and seem real, all of these make it feel 
 more real. The cars are stunning, they have been very well redisigned from real cars, and a fantasticly 
 animated. The reaflects and shadows just blew me away when I played throughout the game.
  
  Scenes: Many of the cutscenes are just like the other GTA's, with heaps of improvements, but some, 
 like the first one and last one seem so movie like, and a whole new side of the game, the movie 
 style side. This can also be seen with slow mo jumps, cool climb-over angles and slight music over-fade.
 
  
  Gameplay: The cover system made this whole game a whole new generation. The other GTA's were very 
 fun, but the cover system, in which Niko can hide behind almost everything in Liberty City. Driving 
 has been greatly improved and is more realistic as well. The minigames work nicely as well.
  
  Story: The story is very nice because it moves away from drugs like in other GTA's and moves 
 towards diamonds. The 'random' work in this game is put through much better now, that package you 
 must get is now actually explained. The characters seem to have more of a unique mind and even 
 AI, and all are much more interesting than usual GTA's.
  
  Multiplayer: I wasn't availiable to multiplayer for the first 2 weeks, and when I finaly got access 
 to it, I had so much fun playing. Sometimes it's annoying when theres ultra nerds who can kill 
 you from 40 kilometres away in one shot using a pistol, but with friends and people of equal skill, 
 the multiplayer is very much not repeadative and compelling.
  
  Content: The game has a lot less stuff than San Andreas, but it also has a lot more. I will try 
 to list the main content of both games.
  1. SA- Lots of clothes, haircuts, tatoos, gyms.
  IV- Not many clothes.
  2. SA- Few minigames, not many GF date possibilities.
  IV- Lots of minigames, 
 friends and GF have heaps of possibilities.
  3. SA- Races with some good fun. 
  IV- Very nice races found better.
  4. SA- Huge map with countryside
  IV- Huge map of city.
 
  5. SA- Loads of alright content
  IV- Less contect but the content is a lot better
  
  SA is better than IV in a few ways, but the full games show that IV is better.
  
  Overall, 
 I would like to ramble on but theres still to much to mention, but this games would be very hard 
 to top, I think the only game that would be better, would be the next GTA, which I hope is San 
 Andreas Stories.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFS-Marc
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  http://pixelatedsausage. com
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is no question the biggest game of 2008 (even though it's only April) and there 
 have been epic amounts of hype behind it. I have been a fan of the series since it's birth on the 
 PC and all those people who argue that the series is a Sony series can go and F*** their PS3 in 
 a closet because they are what I like to call "retards". This is no question the best game in the 
 series, but it is far from perfect. Some problems from past games are still present, but major 
 issues (like shooting) have been fixed overall.
  
  The story is of a high production value just like the previous games, but now with a bit more importance 
 placed upon it. Everything is extremely well done as a whole, but as you progress through the game 
 you'll notice that the character of Niko isn't as human as you might expect. Niko soon becomes 
 someone who will do anything for money and barely ever questions what is asked of him. He bases 
 most these actions on "loyalty", but he comes across as someone without empathy. This may be a 
 good thing for most because it makes dicking around in the game easier to swallow because you will 
 no longer doubt Niko is capable of doing those actions. Besides that the story is really well done 
 and the voice acting is excellent. I found the writing to be great and especially enjoyed the dialogue 
 between characters after a night of drinking. The drunken chats are funny and believable, but most 
 importantly feel like the kind of conversations one would have while being intoxicated. So you 
 heard it here first, I fully promote drinking and chatting. It's a win/win situation!
  
  I found the controls for the game to be great, especially the shooting. The game does have a lock-on 
 system that does "work", but you can turn off lock-on feature so that you always use free-aim and 
 that is where it works best. I found the shooting system similar to that of Resident Evil 4 and 
 it worked great for me. I never enjoyed the shooting in previous GTA games that much, but now I 
 absolutely love the system and even the cover system works well. Pretty much any piece of architecture 
 can be used as cover and though the action of getting into cover isn't super smooth, it does work 
 surprisingly well. The hand-to-hand combat has been improved from "sh****" to "decent" though you 
 never have much reason to fight with your hands. I will say that after you get used to the fighting 
 system the small amount of depth does become fun and it is more challenging than the retarded counter 
 system in Assassin's Creed. The driving has gone down a more realistic tone (just like the game 
 as a whole) and it may take a little getting used to, but after some time you'll be driving like 
 you always do; which means you'll be knocking over a lot of light poles.
  
  The mission structure follows a very similar path as the previous games, but there are a few epic 
 missions that will not soon be forgotten. The bank job has been the most talked about mission and 
 all I'll say is that if Kane and Lynch was like that mission then I would have bought that game. 
 Some missions have major flaws though, mainly most of the chase missions. When you are chasing 
 someone in a car/bike most of the time it is impossible to kill them until they have reached a 
 designated point, such as crashing their car or getting some backup etc. I can understand the reason 
 behind this decision because the chases do have many scripted events that are cool, but knowing 
 that I can't do anything until I hit a specific point really takes you out of the experience. I 
 was chasing a guy on a bike and shot the hell out of him but he never died. I was chasing a dude 
 in a car and shot at his tires, but apparently he found the only bullet-proof tires in game. These 
 issues tend to take away from the open mission structure and pull you out of the experience. That 
 is just a small gripe and for the most part the missions are fun to play.
  
  Graphically the game is gorgeous and is truly one of the best looking games out there. Old series 
 plagues like pop-in still happen, but they are nowhere near as bad as in previous games. The real 
 star of the game is the Euphoria engine which allows for greatest physics I've ever seen in a game. 
 Not only does the engine bring this game to life, but it will also leave every person with tons 
 of great memorable moments. Though some times the physics are a bit over-the-top with crazy crashes 
 happening when you're going around 15mph. Another big change for the game (on consoles) is the inclusion 
 of a multiplayer component and it works rather well (with friends) . I find the MP to be overall 
 pretty good, but there isn't much depth to keep me coming back months down the road. GTAIV online 
 is fun, but most of the fun comes from playing with people you know. I will say that I would love 
 to see a co-op mission similar to the previously mentioned bank mission; they could even call it 
 something like, "Cane and Linch".
  
  GTAIV is a great achievement in the industry and is one of the best games I've ever played, but 
 I feel so many people are quick to call it "The Greatest Game You'll Ever Play". A lot of people 
 making that claim haven't finished the story, or are just plain consumed by the hype. The best 
 way I can describe how I feel about GTAIV is with this statement. If I were on a deserted island 
 and I could only take one game that I would ever be able to play, it would be GTAIV... but if I 
 could only play one game that I would ever remember it would be Bioshock. Both games are great, 
 but they deliver very different experiences. I would say that overall GTAIV is more fun to play, 
 but a game like Bioshock is more memorable to me. I'm not "dissing" the game and I can pretty much 
 guarantee that I am a bigger GTA fan than you, but people claiming that GTAIV is the greatest game 
 you'll ever play is just a ridiculous statement. With that, I give you the first 5 Sausage game 
 and it is some nice, tasty sausage!
  
  (PS3 vs. X360... The PS3 does experience less pop-in, which is especially noticeable in the gun 
 stores. The 360 does have a sharper image from what I've seen and the PS3's color palette does 
 seem a bit more vibrant. Either way the game looks great and the real question you need to ask 
 is, "Which controller do I prefer and which system do I prefer for online play". No matter what 
 system you pick, you won't be missing out at all.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kz1den
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  After getting enough game play under my belt, I decided to revisit my review and give a more thorough 
 assessment of the game.
  
  Like many of you, I myself was one of the midnight marauders waiting in line to get my hands on 
 a copy, but it didn't take long for the realization of the overhype to set in. Outside of the fact 
 that it looked better and contained more depth than its predecessors (in which it should considering 
 that it's now "next-gen") it really didn't offer that much more in terms of innovation - no business/property 
 expansion, no side missions/RPG elements, no diversity in vehichle selection i. e. GTA: SA, etc. 
 Dare I say, it actually took a step back. The game started to get boring for me during week two 
 after I came to the realization that I was doing virtually the same thing, mission after mission, 
 only having different reasons for "doing what I had to do" (as quoted so many times in the game) . 
 The graphics were subpar for a next gen title. The controls weren't the best that I've experienced 
 in a GTA release, and this couldn't have been more evident than what was experienced during the 
 bank robbery mission with Packie. One of the missions I found to be damn near unplayable (the street 
 race with Brucie) due to the controls. Is GTA4 a bad game? By all means, NO. But seeing 10's across 
 the board, given the lack of innovation and other glitches and flaws that plagued its release, 
 it's hard not to hear whispers of payola. But I will try to stay clear of that path. I understand 
 everyone is entitled to his/her opinion, but it just makes me wonder if subsequent well deserving 
 efforts (i. e. potentially MGS4, NG2, etc) will get undercut due to this "standard" in quality set 
 by GTA4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I finally thought it was time to write the review. I'm feeling kinda sick at the moment, 
 so I'll try to keep it short.
  
  Graphics have improved ALOT since the older GTA games and I respect the score that GS is giving 
 the game. Everything looks great in this game, I have nothing to say bad about the graphics
  
  Gameplay is FUN for sure. If you've played the other GTA's, then you pretty much know what 
 to expect from this game. Cops/Bad guys/Weapons/Sex etc etc.
  
  It has lots of replay value due to it having online mode and that is very fun to mess around with 
 ROCKETS FTW!! Storymode is cool, so I really can't give anything away, but it has it's moments.
 
  
  I'm happy that this game is out and it will go down in history as one of thoses titles that you 
 should own.
  
  Sorry if this review isn't the best, but you get the point. Go buy GTA 4 NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll tell you what motivates me, amazing games. As corny as that was, its true, and this game 
 is nothing short of amazing. Not only is this by far the best game in the Grand Theft Auto series, 
 its also my second favorite game to ever be released, and anyone who knows me knows that means 
 a fair amount. 
  
  The game-play here has been completely reworked, and is better than the previous games in every 
 way. You still have the auto aim feature, but its uses much less awkward angles than before. Better 
 still, you can now free aim for the awesome head shots by only pressing halfway on your control 
 stick. Its also much easier to take people down via drive-by. You can now shoot forward from your 
 vehicle, which may not sound like much, but it makes those chase missions way better than in previous 
 games. You can also free aim out of your car now as well, not to mention you can use weapons other 
 than the sub-machine gun while driving now. Dropping grenades out of your window while driving 
 down the freeway at max speed can result in some interesting situations. 
  
  The cars handle much more realistic now, which takes some getting sued to. This led to some frustrating 
 moments early in the game, but once you get the hang of things its actually better than before, 
 and you can notice more of a difference between cars. The cars are much more diverse this time 
 around, and while you can no longer find a tank or a plane to steal, you won't have a problem finding 
 something to drive. Which brings me to traffic, there's lots of it, and they aren't the friendliest 
 of drivers. I think my record for being hit by cars while trying to cross the street is three times. 
 
  
  The difficulty is perfect, not quite as hard as previous games in the series, but still a challenge. 
 The missions are much more creative and fun for the most part. The cover system is certainly a 
 welcome addition to the series. It doesn't work quite as well as the cover system in Gears of War, 
 but tis still very helpful and is pretty much the only way you're not going to constantly die. 
 Body armor definitely helps too.
  
  Rockstar went and did something very controversial this time around, something that many fans have 
 complained about, but I actually am very glad they did it. They trimmed the fat off of San Andreas. 
 What I mean by this is that they took out all of those meaningless novelties that were slapped 
 on last time around. This means no more RPG elements, no more turf wars, no more car customization, 
 and no more hot coffee. I felt that these features took away from the game, and just kind of bogged 
 it down. Rockstar seems to have agreed. 
  
  The graphics this time around are fantastic considering the scope of the game. This is what fans 
 like myself have been waiting for, an environment that truly immerses the player. So not only are 
 the graphics as a whole, but everything is just much more detailed. There's actual textures now! 
 The lighting is fantastic, flying over the city in a helicopter at night is just simply awesome. 
 There's a very far draw distance, which is nice. There are almost no load times, probably thanks 
 to the mandatory install on the PS3 version. I noticed hardly any frame-rate problems. I didn't 
 see any glitches or pop-in. Contrary to past games in the series, this game is actually pretty 
 much technical problem free. Smoke effects are great, explosions really stand out, its really makes 
 it fun to just blow stuff up. Something that really helps immerse the player are the perfectly 
 done character animations. The way Niko slides to cover, walks, falls, or even steps off and on 
 the sidewalk is perfectly executed. Its just as great looking game overall.
  
  The soundtrack had a lot of work put into it this time around. The soundtracks in past games in 
 the series have always been great, but this is my favorite. Its very diverse, and doesn't run with 
 a common theme like the previous games. There's just something about it that got me hooked, i really 
 go into this time around. I'm waiting in anticipation for the soundtrack to come out in a box set 
 like Vice City and San Andreas. The sound effects are great as well. The guns sound like real guns, 
 and the explosions are awesome. Even better is the superb voice acting, it really helps the story 
 out.
  
  I have found previous Grand Theft Auto games to be lacking in story. They were either childish 
 like in San Andreas, a movie ripoff like in Vice City, or essentially nonexistent like in GTA III. 
 Not this time, this time Rockstar put a lot of effort into the story to make sure it wasn't the 
 weak part of the game. Not only is this the best story in a Grand Theft Auto game, but its one 
 of the best I've experienced in any game. It progresses at a realistic rate, involved awesome characters, 
 and had some great twists and turns along the way. I seriously got attached to some of the characters, 
 like Niko, Roman, and the Mcgreary family as a whole. It kind of made me sad to see it all end. 
 The ending, is awesome. Its sad, but it provides closure. It is a little mysterious though, Rockstar 
 kind of leaves it up to your imagination. I have heard though, that there is more than one ending 
 depending on how you go through the game and what decisions you make, so yours could be a completely 
 different experience than mine. One thing I know I share with anyone who finishes GTA IV is the 
 longest credits I have ever seen in my life. That seriously took like 15 minutes to sit through.
 
  
  This game truly left an impression on me. I hope I never forget about it in the many years waiting 
 for me down the road. Its one of those games that rival films, and even surpasses them, as an art 
 form. If you're a Grand Theft Auto fan, you should definitely own this game. If you're a fan of 
 awesome games, you should definitely own this game. I love this game, and it easily made it into 
 my top 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terdoo
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series has comeback again and better than ever. GTA 4 is easily the best one yet. And the 
 best game this or any generation In my opinion. By that I mean in quality. This game is just almost 
 perfect in every aspect. At first I wasent sure, but after weeks of playing the game, you can take 
 it all in easy. I dont think any game has been of this quality, or even addictivness.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are noticably 10,000 times better than the older GTA games. While San Andreas 
 was preaty ugly, the graphics in GTA 4 are almost perfect. Some things are alittle bland looking 
 like trees, but besides those things, everything is so detailed looking. No game has ever duplicated 
 New York City like this one. If you have been to New York City, you can tell GTA 4 does the city 
 justice. I really cant make any examples, becouse every street, building, ally, ect is perfectly detailed. Even 
 the hookers are somewhat attactive. ( I dont go to the strip clubs in the game just saying) You also 
 got to take a helicopter ride around Mhanhatten at night, its sweet.
  
  Gameplay: Compared to older GTA games, this one blows them out of the water. First off, the gunplay 
 is so much more easier and effective. For example, San andreas had that boring automatic lock on. GTA 
 4 has 2 ways to aim. Free aim and auto lock on. Auto lock on also lets you shoot specific body parts. As 
 for walking around, its alot more reaslistic. the physics engine helps make it so realstic. Say if 
 you want to push someone around on the ground... well you can do that by litterly just walking on 
 them. Its just so advanced you have to play it for yourself. Its so fun when cops grab onto your 
 door and you can swerve around in your car to nock them off. Its the same thing with choppers. Also 
 the vehicals are alot more fun to drive. The damage is compeltly realistic. Its not scipted or anything 
 like that. You can do anything with your car. And the chopper can actually break into 2 peices.
 
  
  Sound: Well theres only like 15 weapons. But, those weapons become very addicting becouse they are 
 so fun to listen to and use. Basically the sound is just what you wanted. But my only major complaint 
 about it (and the whole game) is the soundtrack. Sure theres a couple of good songs, but previouse 
 GTA games had much much better soundtracks.
  
  Overall: GTA 4 is a masterpeice. Pure and simple.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamachine536
Rating: 5
Date: May 22, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Before i buy a game i usually rent and this time i am glad that i did before wasting $60 hard earned 
 dollars. First i would like to compliment the game on its fabulous graphics and performance. The 
 characters voices are actually in synchronized with the lip movements and each character has distinctive 
 facial movements such as frowning, smiling and so on and you are able to see the movement in their 
 faces. Now the bad, this game has a huge imbalance between real world mechanics and game world 
 mechanics. For example when you have the fastest car and are using it to chase down some fool whom 
 has a real POS as a ride, no matter what his car is he will ALWAYS be faster than you. When pursing 
 the target they effortlessly more between cars at insane speeds while you just get hit by every 
 other car that just happens to turn in your path. They also tried to add a "drifting" aspect to 
 the game where you can use your E brake but this does not work as planned because half the time 
 you just spin out. Also the car shooting mechanics are retarded and need some serious work. You 
 can use the L1 button to start to shoot out your car but it is extremely difficult to shoot and 
 dodge traffic at the same time. They do however give you the ability to "focus" in on your target 
 but not "lock onto" your target while driving. In addition the motorcycles are just plan crap, 
 if you are driving down the middle lane all the cars just have to get in your way and if you get 
 bumped by another car you go flying off your motorcycle losing about half your health and then 
 get run over by some taxi, killing you. Next up is the limited arsenal you have to work with. You 
 get two different kinds of handguns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, SMG's, shotguns, and explosives. 
 These weapons are divided into two simple categories weak and strong, cheap and expensive. the 
 weaker weapons are the ones you are given throughout the game but the stronger types you have to 
 buy with your money and might i add this is the ONLY thing you can use to buy with your money. 
 There is no end game playability, you have about a million plus at the end of the game but nothing 
 to spend it on, no assets to acquire, no hired muscle, no gambling, cant buy penthouses (there 
 given to you) and so on. In conclusion this game to me was a huge let down from the past games 
 i prefer the PS2 San Andreas to this one on PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  believe me
  online multiplayer is awsome
  
  the story is alot more clear
  
  JUST GET IT NOWWWWWW
  
  RAWR!!!!!
  
  ROAR!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  OMG CRAZY
  
 
  ok its not perfect but it has alot of value in it
  
  multiplayer's might be annoying
  BECAUSE THEY THINK FREEMODE IS DEATH MATCH
  sooo annoying
  
  but i still has fun scanning 
 the areas and cruising the streets at night
  the real feel of a city is in there
  
  i thought i was just a freaken market thing
  but it really does feel like a living breathing 
 city
  
  hearing the different people
  talking, drinking, reading, falling off the back of their on car after i steal it
  
  OH YEAH
 
  
  but anyways its good go get it
  now go get it
  
  damn gamespot makes me write more and more
  they want the reveiw to be snappy
  
  "This will 
 be displayed on the community reviews index, so make it snappy!"
  
  see and they also have a 100 word limit
  WTF RIGHT???
  
  make it snappy but you have to make 
 it longer
  
  HOW LONG TO TAKE A FREAKEN SNAP EH?
  
  oh hey my ranting made me past 100 words
  "hows that for snappy"
  *snap snap* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is finaly here and it does not dissapoint. First off GTA 4 is one of the most realistic games 
 I have ever seen and just every aspect of the game is amazing. The missions are alot of fun and 
 the story is great too and so are the graphics. The only minor bad thing about this game is that 
 sometimes when you play at night the screen gets too dark and you can't see what you are doing. 
 The online is also very fun and the how your charachter can get higher levels as you get better 
 at the game make the game that much better. The videos before a mission starts are funny and worth 
 watching. The bottom line is that Grand Theft Auto IV is a great game if you want to play the actual 
 game or if you just want to go out on a rampage and destroy anything that gets in your way. If 
 you are a fan of the other GTA titles than you should definatly buy this game whenever you can. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinrei5700
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is like some the other great GTA games but unlike the others there are things that are 
 missing. The game it's shelf if based on and russian charater named on Niko Bellic who comes into 
 the country hoping to see his rich cousin Roman or so sayes the letters. When you first get control 
 of the game you got a new control system from the previous games which I think ain't right all 
 well at we still can switch back to classic til probly gta5. Along with the new control system PS3 
 offers a Sixas Wireless control that allows to move the cars and reload the guns with out tapping 
 the buttons. The Sixas system and can be turned off because really it is lame accept for reloading 
 ammo. People claim this game has cheat codes well for me their are none that work at least not on 
 this site note I do not use the health codes if I use any I use them for rare cars only and since 
 no codes work for me I played with out them which is do able and I do not if anyone else has this 
 no code glitch like me I wish everyone had it so they can't make Niko invunerable to everything 
 accept explosives and drowning and falling in such.
  
  Gameplay well it is the same as always if you use the classic style while playing for those who 
 are use to it. Now the new system is a bit complicated to get use to but it is just makes the game 
 more of a challenge.
  
  Music well for music this is the worst sound track of all time anyone who likes this music in this 
 game except for a few song has bad taste in music don't belive me look it I I did all the songs 
 have bad ratings accept for a small few.
  
  Graphics what can I say there near perfect.
  
  Story is great but the ending is questionable not typical gta style.
  
  
  Will this game 
 have a chance winning game of the year my honest opinion is no it came out to early and could of 
 had some more work done to like added some things that are needed in game but were taken away.
 
  
  I mean I want a tank I want a helicopter that can shoot missles they could have put that in the 
 game but not have tanks on the streets and having missles fired at you if you get six stars. There 
 is a military base in New York my friend told me this who works for the army.
  
  I think planes should be in the game also yeah the map is small but it make the game more realistic 
 with them in it.
  
  Parachutes also would be nice so you if want bail out of a helicopter you do not have to worry 
 about killing your shelf which helicopters do have them in it I been in quite a few.
  
  This game has new system where you have to go out with your friends like after every misson which 
 is fun at first but gets annoying especially since you have girl friends to tend to also.
  
  Hot Coffee mini game does return in this game if you have the versions from europe or japan 
 I have the european version since I bought my ps3 while seeing london and got a small converter 
 so I can play american and europeans games.
  
  In my opinion why in the scopata did Rockstar ever make the hot cofee mini game it is absoluted 
 the must lame mini game of all time for people who have no life but anyway that can be turned off.
 
  
  All in this game is great accept for my complaint about it that those effect the game at all it 
 shelf on how good it is but some of them could have made it better.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshaDeus0
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  good , real good , dhaaaaammm good. Man i love this game and then............ What will they do 
 to imropve this ? Will there ever be an gta v and if so how will that be ? x-360 will get xtra 
 content in november. Ps3 ?? no one know's. Yeah for the moment there will be no other game in the 
 console for a long time and i didn't play on-line for the moment that is !!!!! yup the world is 
 in perfect harmony .............. Think i'm gona robe the bank again ... like that part verry mutch 
 ...... just like the movie heat ..... gonaa watch that again this weekend i think . An A title 
 10 points for sure . Never thought i would play an serv. A serv who's king in a town called libert. 
 Warrior ,assasin , thief , hood ,nobleman and a ultimate bad ass . And like i said i didn't played 
 it on-line jut yet case i wanna be good i what i do so i'm gonna practice some more later dudes 
 ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesherman87
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  this is the best game ever and i can't stop playing it. i was disappointed like the rest of the 
 world was when the game was delayed for over half a year but as soon as i got my playstation i 
 could not wait for the day that the game came out and i could not put it down. it is frustrating 
 at time when you are not used to the way the cars handle and sometimes niko snaps to the wrong 
 cover when he is being fired upon but these are merely very small niggles in a game that is so 
 big and detailed would have a couple of kinks, but even these do not ditract from the awsome gameplay. 
 it is reall smart and reacts so well top all the players actions, the explosions are one of my 
 favourite parts seeing bodies fly half way across the street and the blood effects are equally 
 as realisitc, the weather in hi-def is outstanding and actually affects your driving, the music 
 as usuall is great and the storyline is awsome, i haven't got to the end yet but i just know that 
 it is going to be the best thing ever. if anyone reads this review and hasn't got this game you 
 have to get it becasue that is the only thing that you should be doing with your life, take the 
 summer off work and play it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzief
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Seriously, waiting in queue at midnight, feeling a little bit silly for doing so, a small part 
 of me was dreading disappointment. After all the hype surrounding the game, surely there was no 
 way it could live up to it all?
  
  Well it did, and more than that, I think it exceeded them. From the moment you switch the game on 
 it blows you away graphically, with exciting gameplay and with a deeply compelling story. I think 
 that more so than any other GTA game, the protagonist Niko is such a likeable character, you actually 
 want to play through the game to see him succeed. The supporting characters are similarly colourful, 
 from the mildly amusing steroid junkie Brucie to the melancholy ex-con Dwayne. But they are all 
 interesting characters, that you might actually find yourself growing attached to!
  The mobile phone is a brilliant way to coordinate all the different parts of the game together 
 too. You can contact all of your mission contacts via your phone, and set up social activities 
 with your contacts, activating some of the minigames (bowling is fun, getting drunk is... interesting!) . 
 By spending time with some of the NPCs and doing things that they enjoy, your standing with them 
 will increase and you can unlock additional abilities, for example if you are good friends with 
 Little Jacob he will come see you with a carload of discount weapons, and your cousin Roman will 
 offer you a free taxi service around the city.
  The city itself feels so alive, the sheer number of different pedestrians you can meet is incredible. 
 You'll spend at least some time just walking about the city taking in the sights, it actually feels 
 like the city is always moving around you as you watch LCPD officers chasing down minor crooks 
 and listen to random conversations. You can even just jump in the back of a cab and cruise about!
 
  The combat feels more streamlined than before, the new cover mechanic is a nice addition and the 
 autoaim never becomes too much of a hindrance, the choice is always thereto free-aim anyhow. In 
 particular vehicle combat is better, rather than having to look to the left or right, now you just 
 press L1 and Niko will smash out the window and shoot wherever the reticule is aiming, making it 
 much easier than before.
  
  There's so much to see and do in this game, it is without a doubt one of the must-own titles out 
 there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANGERMAX
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  While GTA IV is undoubtedly a great game, the best in the franchise I'd say, there is always room 
 for improvement. Which is why I gave the game a 9.5/10, rather than a perfect score like most others. 
 It could have had some more action packed missions and more variety of missions, for example. And 
 the multiplayer could've been ramped up. But at least they included it this time.
  
  The game felt a tad repetitive. Just like the rest of the GTA games. The graphics were better, 
 but not stunning as was expected. The cars control like tanks. A lot of the characters are short-lived.
 
  
  But despite these minor setbacks, GTA IV is an enormous world (or city, I should say) well worth 
 spending 40+ hours of your life in. The story will keep you playing, the sheer thrill of running 
 from the cops while performing drive-by's on innocent bystanders will keep you playing, as Rockstar 
 continues to raise the bar on an ever growing franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natanku
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The GTA series is a videogame monster that few can deny has influenced and scandalized the industry 
 since the original was released in the late 90's. I have no problem like so many other reviewers 
 that this is an awesome game. Almost every aspect of the game has you saying "oh S***!" and there 
 are quite a few missions you will have wished you had made a save before you completed it so you 
 could replay it in all its chaotic glory. I would just like to voice my concern beyond the usual 
 holdups and glitchs (that were and are being fixed) The story was perhaps the single weakest point 
 in an otherwise perfect game, those missions that were inventive or were a backhanded homage to 
 a film or book were far and few between leaving you with many hours of fetch quests, assassinations, 
 and driving from point A-B that got old rather quick. My other gripe with mission/stories were 
 that so many of the cut scenes were rather bland and only there to move along a story that was 
 interesting, but that seemed rather secondary to my drive to finish the game. I particularly disliked 
 that at the end of the game I had no real attachments to any of the characters save for Niko Bellic. 
 Many of the morality choices he makes throughout the game of who lives or dies can be emotional, 
 but beyond the rather skimpy rewards for saving one life over another there is little consequence 
 for Niko's actions. The game is great I am just saying a ten out of time in my opinion denotes 
 some level of perfection which I believe is impossible. In my eyes the game will always be incomplete 
 no matter how epic it was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nivek_nailgun
Rating: 3
Date: May 20, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Why is everyone giving this a stellar review? I've played through half of it so far, and am not 
 going to bother with the rest of it. The tasks to accomplish and dialogue, is no better than San 
 Andreas thus far. San Andreas was a better product because of it's originality, whereas IV is a 
 prettier version. Sure, it looks good and the mini games are entertaining, but what is so revolutionary 
 that it deserves the gushing it's getting?
  Perhaps I've been spoiled and it's colored my review. I've been playing Rainbow Six Vegas 2, which 
 is head shoulders knees and toes above the shooting in this game. I've been playing Burnout Paradise 
 City which again, is far above the driving and physics above this horrible production. I simply 
 don't see what is so fantastic about this game. Not trying to be a hater, just being honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I just want to get this out of the way now: this is entirely a single player review. I haven't 
 played the multiplayer, and probably never will considering I do not have Live. That being said, 
 I might have possibly gave this a 10 if I had experienced the multiplayer experience, given that 
 it could have let me overlook some minor grievances because of the solid nature of the whole game.
 
  
  First off, I want to get the minor grievances out of the way. There are a few, and they are the 
 only reason I don't give this a 10/10. First and foremost, the missions. Don't get me wrong, the 
 missions are great. Alot of fun, excellently passed, interesting, creative, well made, and they 
 don't ever get old. They always seem to introduce something new and exciting. What bugs me about 
 them is, maybe just because I'm not a GTA veteran, they don't have any "mission checkpoints". This 
 is fine for most of the missions, that are relatively short to begin with, but, later in the game, 
 when some missions are upwards of 30 minutes long, I can't tell you how frustrating it is to have 
 to start over all the way at the beginning. And with many missions involving multiple aspects (Car 
 chases, running, killing, etc...) , sometimes you just make a mistake... like... you're car carrying 
 cocaine flips over. And you gotta start over because it was destroyed. That bugged me, but it never 
 made me want to stop playing. Second, the auto-aim feature was a little tricky, and sometimes killed 
 you because Niko aimed at civilians. This wasn't too bad most of the time, but when you're in a 
 huge firefight, it helps if you aim at the right person. Those two things being said, the game 
 is excellent.
  
  Glad I got those two minor grievances off. The auto-aim really isn't that bothersome, but can get 
 frustrating. If they had just put some checkpoints in there I would be a happy, 10/10 rating man. 
 Anyhow, on to the good aspects now, since I don't wanna dwell.
  
  GTAIV is the fourth installment in the series, and my first actual embarkment into the world that 
 is sandbox-style Grand Theft Auto. The game itself has a compelling single player storyline, played 
 out in missions where you meet realistically likable (and some unlikable) characters that, when 
 all said and done, are truly unforgettable. Niko is a great main character, with the right amount 
 of wit, cynicism, brute strength, but cool, calm demeanor. The single player missions follow him 
 and his brother Roman's rise to fortune in Liberty City. This mainly involves them working for 
 the wrong people, being double crossed, triple crossed, and the like. Although the ending isn't 
 all that satisfactory, it still is an exciting and well written single player scenario reminiscent 
 of great crime movies.
  
  Outside of the single player is probably the most lovable aspect of GTAIV, Liberty City. Its huge, 
 modeled after New York, and basically the definitive reason to play this game. There is so much 
 content here that its simply amazing how Rockstar fit all this into one game. I surely did not 
 get to experience it all, and you won't either your first play through, but GTAIV does a great 
 job of making you feel like your really in a living, breathing city. Criminals are running from 
 the cops, angry drivers get out of cars to fight you if you rear-end them, shooting anyone in the 
 ghetto causes at least one civilian to shoot back. Not only are the people in LC something to love, 
 but the media is most likely my favorite part of the game. You have a TV in your apartment, which 
 allows you to watch ten or so different programs, they've created a realistic internet that allows 
 you e-mail, news, and the like. And my favorite feature of the whole game: the radio. With over 
 a dozen channels and a wide range of music and talk shows, the radio is always entertaining. I 
 found myself sitting in my car just listening to the end of a couple programs or a specific song. 
 And they have real dj's that turn out the tunes, too. The coolest and most memorable part of the 
 media of LC is the huge satire that is involved. I had myself laughing at the extent Rockstar has 
 gone to really make a mockery of our social culture, and frankly, it's hilarious. From "fake justice" 
 radio shows that combine medieval torture and fights to the death, to excellent commercials advertising 
 for baby's over the internet and terrible fake Italian restaurants where the food is tasteless 
 and unhealthy but huge. Its all there for your enjoyment, so you're never really bored. There is 
 always something to do in Liberty City. If you get bored of all the 'attractions' around town (4 
 giant bourroughts) you can always start shooting the place up, running from the cops, and causing 
 general mayhem. 
  
  The experience is hard to put into words, but tacking a dive head first into Liberty City is highly 
 recommended. If it seems all too big at first, it is. Just keep playing. It'll all unfold as you 
 progress into the great story missions, which do a great job of "introducing" you to Liberty City 
 (you'll unlock the rest of the city as you progress through the missions, a great move on Rockstar -- as 
 its simply too huge at first) and all its aspects. And then some you gotta find for yourself. Liberty 
 City's huge, and you'll find that you'll want to keep playing just to explore every nook and cranny... and 
 alot of the times you'll just have the normal, manly urge of stealing GTA's version of a hummer 
 and playing monster trucks with everything in sight. Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamfer3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is one of the best videogames in my opinion to have been released this past year. I'd classify 
 games that have good single-player and multiplayer experiences to be must-haves. Past games that 
 have pulled off what GTA IV has have been: Halo 3 and Gears of War. I rated them a 10. I would've 
 rated a GTA IV a perfect 10 if it were fpr best sequel. Which is why i was surprised when gamespot 
 gave it a 10-because of the leaps it had taken to be a drastic improvement from previous GTA games.
 
  
  Graphics-9.5
  As a GTA game that usually has unrealistic buildings, box-shaped faces etc. Gta IV mastered what 
 a next-gen game SHOULD look like. Every little detail from minor car damage (scratches, dents) 
 to facial expressions of characters was well-done.
  
  Gameplay-9.5
  I wasn't dissappointed enough to give this game a 9 here. The vehicle choices pale in comparison 
 to San Andreas- this included planes, fighter jets and jetpacks. However, the newly implemented 
 cover system make gunfights alot more satisfying and manageable.
  
  Value-10
  This is one of the biggest videogame cities ever made. I tried driving around the eges of each 
 islands, and i ended up taking 40 minutes (real-life) to circle the entire city in a car. Rockstar 
 ensured that this game will never lose it's value and will be played for months to come. When finished 
 with the game, there is simply too much to do such as replaying the story; where at certain points, 
 you get to choose which person to kill and get to see what the alternative shows. There are also 
 great choices of radio with humorous shows and a great licensed soundtrack. 
  
  Multiplayer-10
  What i was really pleased with was that the graphics-when playing multiplayer 
 was like the single player quality. There are not much flaws playing and the multiplayer extends 
 the game's life. Some modes include co-op based missions, races, team deathmatch and of course, 
 wrecking havoc around the city with your firneds.
  
  Overall-9.5
  This is a trend-setter for what open-world game should be like. Rockstar ensured that the single-player 
 campaign and multiplayer would be a great one-two punch. GTA IV is simply the best of all the GTAs 
 because of the improvements it had been given to give gamers a cinemtaic gaming experience. GTA 
 IV isn't as revolutionary as GTA III, but it is pretty close to that immortality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonydannie
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  I was not into the whole Grand Theft Auto Vibe back when it first came out. I plyed GTA 3 and I 
 was not impressed while it was fun.. I just did not give it enough of a chance. Then I played a 
 clone to this game years later called "The Godfather" Based on the film of the same name. And of 
 course as all of us know This was a GTA "Clone" After Playing the Gidfather I wanted to revisit 
 the GTA Franchise but never got the chance. Now That GTA 4 is now released and I am know 50% plus 
 into the game , I have to say I was very wrong about this Franchise. The game Features our anti 
 hero, Niko Bellic. Right away you like this guy. he is witty and pretty bad a$$. You go into Missions 
 where you have to drive some one or kill some one or steal cars, motorcycles excetera. and for fun 
 pick up a hooker or go to the strip club, or even go on dates. There is so much to do on this game. 
 I fear I will not have it done by the time Metal Gear Solid 4 is released. however it is a whole 
 lot of fun, by far one of the best games yet on any system, wether you are playing it on a PS3 
 oor an xbox 3 something or other. you will enjoy this game. Have fun with guys and thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  I just want to say that this game is one of those games i enjoy playing for a long time. The game 
 itself is incredible, how detail the city is, how peoples reaction is, when you shoot, run over 
 with a car, or just punch him in the face =D its just awesome, graphics are much much much better 
 then the previous series. The cars look is very cool, also very in detail damage of the car. Now 
 with the gameplay, the shooting in GTA world always was a bit lame, because its hard to control 
 the crosshair, but now everythings in the past, you can now even duck down near the wall to get 
 some defense, or even a car. Aiming became much easier, i think this game is the beggining of something 
 big. Also who has the a network connection on ps3 and X-box 360 and i think everyone does... if 
 you know what i mean=) IS a geat opportunity to try out The GTA IV Online gaming, its really awesome, and 
 the same time funny, you know everyone what you can do in GTA all alone, but now with friends.... 
 oh my god Liberty city is in HeLL !! =DD well see you all in the GTA IV online) hope i wont run 
 down someone with my awesome car=DDD..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadShifty
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Well basically it took about 2 weeks and 62 hours to beat GTA IV 100%. While San Andreas was about 
 a good 120 hours. But I can't really complain even though the story was a little too short to my 
 liking it was very Immersive. Doing missions for the crazy cast of characters that Rockstar has 
 in every GTA game was very fun and the girlfriend feature is a lot better than it was in San Andreas. 
 Also, the new cell phone and Internet cafe feature is interesting and makes this game even more 
 realistic. The only thing I really miss is the Driving and flight schools from San Andreas plus 
 the Stats feature like leveling weapon skills and etc. Also the rewards are pretty dull in this 
 game. Beating it 100% was very disappointing because all it did was take off the ammo limit so 
 you could get tons of ammo and do whatever basically. The pigeons reward was pretty lame too but 
 having annihilator helicopters everywhere around the city is kinda cool I guess. Hopefully the 
 DLC will make this game a whole lot better. But for now I'm giving it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  * Contains Some Spoliers! *
  Here is my review for the most anticipated video game so far, Grand Theft Auto IV developed by 
 Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games. This game is available for both Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 gaming consoles, but this review will be based on the PlayStation 3 version.
  
  Story - 10/10
  This instalment of the Grand Theft Auto series features Niko Bellic, an citizen 
 from Serbia. After receiving many emails and letters from his cousin Roman Bellic, who is also 
 from Serbia and is currently living in the American city of Liberty City, states that he is living 
 the American Dream. In his emails and letters, he says he owns a massive mansion with a collection 
 of expensive sport cars. Feeling that Niko needs a break from Serbia, he illegally travels to Liberty 
 City in a boat with Roman waiting for him at the harbor of Liberty City. What Niko doesn't know 
 that all these statements about the American Dream were false and utter lies...
  
  The story for this game is basically more like a real-life situation. It's even more realistic 
 compared to previous GTA games, and it features things that people go-through in real life. The 
 use of cliff-hangers and suspense is amazing such as when Niko and Roman are imprisoned by Mikhail 
 Faustin, a Russian don, for killing one of his operatives. As Niko is being interrogated, he asks 
 Dimitri Rascalov, Faustin's right hand man, to take off the tape on his mouth. As he does, Roman 
 screams and pleads for help and then... BAM he gets shot in the stomach. Self-explanatory is all 
 I can say. If GTA IV was a novel, the author will get various awards. I am telling you that straight 
 on. It's just AMAZING. 10/10
  
  Multiplayer - 9.8/10
  FINALLY! Rockstar have introduced the first proper multiplayer service for a GTA game! Mulitiplayer 
 consists of 16 different modes. Up to 16 players can join into a game, and you can have the chance 
 to explore the whole Liberty City, or simply just play in a region of the city such as Bohan. Multiplayer 
 can get really fun and addictive. 
  
  The only downfall here is that more bugs perform on Mulitplayer meaning that some players could 
 cheat. Such as swimming on the roads where there is no water. Another good thing about multiplayer 
 is that there is no lag at all! I play using a 2 Megabit Internet connection and I never get lag 
 what so ever. If you are looking for a multiplayer-action adventure game, GTA IV is the right choice. 
 It's fun, and addictive, with no lag. Very sleek. 9.8/10.
  
  Controls - 10/10
  Rockstar had reworked the whole control scheme to fit in with the new combat enhancements. Once 
 I started playing GTA IV for the first time, I was puzzled by the controls and ended up driving 
 Roman's Taxi straight into the river (the first mission) . As the game progressed, I got grip onto 
 the controls and they where more simplified as the original control scheme.
  
  While driving a car, you hold R2. The harder you hold R2, the faster the car will go. If you want 
 to brake in a car, you simply hold L2 like accelerating. The harder you hold, the faster you will 
 brake. The new scheme also does fit in with the new combat system. While driving, press L1 to perform 
 a drive by. Use the right analog stick to aim and hold onto L1 to shoot. How simple and easier 
 can that get from the previous controls? When on foot, you hold L2 to go into the Aiming Modes. 
 If you hold L2 all the way, you will lock on to the nearest character. If you hold L2 softer, you 
 will go into free aim mode letting you shoot anything you want. To shoot on foot you press R2.
 
  
  I say these controls are even more simplified and more easier to understand than the original scheme. 
 If you cant get to grip with this new scheme, simply select Classic Controls from the control setup 
 option to go back to the original controls. This partition of the review gets a definite 10/10.
 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  If you compare Grand Theft Auto IV graphics to next-gen titles such as Assassin's Creed, the graphics 
 are not very good. But the main factor here is that Rockstar had reworked the graphics engine tremendously. 
 It looks much better than previous GTA instalments. Another good thing is character detail. Niko 
 looks as if a real life character close-up with the addition of moles and scratches on his face 
 skin texture (s) . A downfall here is that some character textures can get rather annoying. Vlad 
 for example. His moustache doesn't look realistic at all and it can get annoying when his face 
 is close-up in a mission briefing cut scene. Cars and building are heavily detailed making them 
 look as if it was real life. The dirt and blood is much more realistic but adding different variations 
 of blood would have been better.10/10
  
  
  
  Sound - 9/10
  This instalment of the GTA series contains the best composition of radio stations and sound effects. 
 Sound effects are even more realistic, such as gun shots, acceleration sounds and car crashes. 
 And a new feature in this game is the even more realistic use of car horns. For example, if your 
 riding a police car and it's totalled, the siren will sound like a ice cream truck as in real life. 
 Another 7/10.9
  Character Artificial Intelligence (AI) - 10/10
  The AI for all characters including peds and feds has vastly improved. Peds can now read coffee 
 while walking around and read news papers as in real life. Motor-bikers also wear helmets as in 
 real life. 10/10
  
  Physics - 10/10
  This GTA uses the Euphoria physics engine which is unmistakeably powerful and realistic. For example, 
 Niko's animations are more better and when curving a corner while sprinting, the screen will blur 
 as in your eyes will in real life. Pedestrian physics have highly improved, and each animation 
 depends in each mood. If they are about to get killed, they'll animate in a panic matter but if 
 they are simply running for a taxi, they run in a simple way as in real life. Only down-fall is 
 that many of GTA IV's bugs are caused of this engine.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  The main factor of this side of the review is that Rockstar had reworked the combat system. I read 
 various forums around the internet, which people having doubts about the reworked system, but I 
 can tell you... It's much better than fighting games alone. When locked on a character, a reticle 
 will appear composing 10 mini bars. As you attack your locked on character, the mini bars will 
 slowly deteriorate until there is no mini bars left. 
  
  If you use a shotgun, the mini bars will fastly deteriorate compared to using a 9mm Pistol. The 
 melee system is probably the best so far. Square is for kicking, Triangle for alternative punches 
 and Circle for normal punches. You can use Triangle and Circle for Left and Right punch jabs as 
 in a real life boxer will do, or add a kick and be a Bruce Lee wannabe. You can also climb objects 
 such as ledges and fences and can now hand from buildings and move around such as in Metal Gear 
 Solid. If you drink alot, you will be drunk and the whole screen will blur heavenly as in real 
 life. While driving, if you speed, the screen will blur and you will gradually lose complete control, 
 a feature we first saw in San Andreas. Another factor I missed out, is the gun combat system. You 
 can now hide behind walls and peek as in Metal Gear Solid and free aim from your shoulder as in 
 Resident Evil 4. 
  
  While locked on to a character, you can use the right analog stick to aim your gun around so you 
 can shoot a guy's leg or face for example. To lock on, you press L2 while on foot. The harder you 
 press L2 it will lock on to the nearest character. If you softly press L2 you will be in free aim 
 mode making you shoot anything you want without locking on. The gameplay has vastly improved and 
 even sprinting can be more enjoyable than completing all previous Grand Theft Auto games put together. 
 Simply magnificent. Thats the word you can simply use. And also realistic to every corner. You 
 can consider this game to be a real life simulation. It's THAT good. The amount of detail put in 
 this game is too good to be true, but it is true. 
  
  You can even watch TV in GTA IV. Small things like that make GTA IV the BEST game mankind has ever 
 experienced. Hell, you can even roam into a internet cafe and go onto the internet seeking new 
 ringtones for your cell phone or keep in touch with family and friends by emailing them. Another 
 thing I missed out was the Cell Phone. You wield a cell phone which you can take to other people 
 which you've met around the game and receive text messages. As the game passes, you will receive 
 a new cell phone which you can customize the theme or take pictures. A definite 10/10.
  
  Ok, all I can say now is that if you own a PlayStation 3, you MUST own this game. It's the best 
 GTA game ever to be made and is probably the best game out now. The addition of Rockstar's Social 
 Club is more better to. Just link up a PSN and the club will keep track of your in-game progress 
 so you can try to enter the Hall of Fame or just compare it to other gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbrage2000
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, I will say that I enjoy this game. The map is huge and there is no shortage of places 
 to go and things to do. The attention to detail is quite remarkable, right down to the radio buzzing 
 when you're about to get a cell phone call. All the little extras and social satire are excellent 
 and show a real depth to the game development. However, I don't think this is anywhere near as 
 great as it's hyped up to be. Definitely not a 10 out of 10. Some of the issues I have:
  
  1) The saving system is pathetic. You can't save during missions which sucks considering that several 
 of the missions involve a lot of mundane crap you have to go through before the action begins. 
 Come on, give us one save point so at least we don't have to repeat all the boring junk over and 
 over.
  
  2) The chase car view gets a little impractical when you're speeding through the city, dodging 
 traffic, trying to shoot enemy vehicles, etc. You have to constantly adjust your camera view just 
 to see where you're going.
  
  3) Despite being touted as a "free-roaming" game where you can do whatever you want, I start to 
 get a little annoyed when you can only perform missions in a certain way. One example is a mission 
 that requires you to escape an onslaught of police in a vehicle that barely travels 20 miles an 
 hour when it would make a lot more sense to hop in the nearest sports car. Or a bank heist that 
 doesn't let you take hostages when you're up against dozens of cops. Or a cut scene that forces 
 you to hand over a satchel of drugs to a character who then walks away without incident. Correct 
 me if I'm wrong, but I'm supposed to be a ruthless badass, aren't I? A lot of the missions fail 
 when a team member dies (like I should care) . When that happens you have to start over again. Overall, 
 this leads to a very linear feel with the missions. 
  
  4) I have nothing to spend my money on. In spite of having almost half a million dollars, there's 
 nothing I can buy. I already have all the clothes from the most expensive store. Apparently, at 
 this point I'm only making money to pay for ammunition. Not very rewarding. Surely the could have 
 come up with something worth spending my hard earned cash on. Heck, even Rock Band has a better 
 selection of swag to pick from.
  
  5) The cover system is a little irritating. Most of the time it works fine, but occasionally it 
 puts you in a weird position that gets you shot the hell up.
  
  Do these issues ruin the game? Not at all. But if they appeared in any other game they would justify 
 knocking a few points off the score. The fact that this got a 10 out of 10 from practically every 
 reviewer makes me a little suspicious. Anyhow, like I said, the game is enjoyable but I'm already 
 starting to get a little bored of it. Call me fussy but I guess it takes more than bad language 
 and computer hookers to blow me away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV was probably one of the most anticapated games for 2007 and then after a push back to 2008 
 fans were not happy. Needless to say at this piont that the wait was totally worth it. GTA IV delievers 
 on so many levels. The main reason I think that GTA IV has swept the boards with perfect scores 
 isn't based on the story or structure but more on the little things GTA IV offers. There is very 
 little you can't do in GTA IV, if you can see it odds are you can interact with it. From entering 
 a taxi to get around the city, to going bowling or even calling contacts on your phone there are 
 so many little side things to do aside from the story. The story by the way is amazing. Niko is 
 a great lead and numerous other characters make the story all the more interesting. Niko has a 
 stronger motive and back story that sets him apart from other GTA lead characters. Along with new 
 additions comes the cover system with makes hard core shooting missions a blast to play. There 
 isn't really a major problem with GTA IV. Bottom Line: Buy GTA IV, its definatly a candiate for 
 Game of the Year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is outstanding. It shows how great and far the series has gotten since the first 
 GTA. Many people complain about the game, some about the driving other say its boring and it goes 
 on. First off it is by far not boring. The driving is realistic if you dont like realistic then 
 go play a sci fi this game is based more on realism. The way you get hit by cars is much better 
 it actually looks like you would get hit in real life. The shooting is perfect much better than 
 before adds much more to the gameplay. The fighting system has also been re done which is also 
 much better and more realistic. Graphic has much improved although I think the faces are still 
 off as it has been with all the GTA's. I found it a little dissapointing of the lack of clothing 
 in this GTA compared to San Andreas. Also the fact there is no customization which is very sad 
 indeed. You can compare this to Saints Row but Saints Row is way better when it comes to customization. 
 The last thing I must go on is when you get to the 3rd island dont expect much. Nothing really 
 new just a new place to explore no new clothing or anything like that which was very dissapointing. 
 Over all the game is great but there are some thins they could do to make it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timkuzbek
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  No regrets after purchursing GTA after having such high expectations, i was not let down. Rockstar 
 have truely outdone themselves this time. I was oustanded that they were capable of creating a 
 very impressive single player and at the same time an exellent online multiplayer. They put the 
 new gen console to full force with the detailed city and it makes it almost feel alive. Gameplay 
 is fun and enjoyable with the new duck and cover sytstem and increased AI. A major let down was 
 the driving, sure it was realistic, but i do not like slamming into a wall evertme i turn a corner 
 in a high speed chase. I would have also liked slpit screen or multiplayer offline. I think that 
 the majority of people who have a copied of gta iv are satisfied and will be playing this games 
 for a while yet.
  
  Well done Rockstar 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braxton_g
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I sometimes feel like I have left the real world and became immersed in the world of GTA IV, Yes 
 it is that good. I have played games for many years and I have to say that to date this game has 
 topped them all. The story line is fantastic and believable. All of the characters in the game 
 have a specific purpose and meaning so far. I can't wait to get deeper into the game. I sometimes 
 start to playing the game and realize that my whole day has went by before I even know it. I can 
 only say that I hope Rockstar continues to produce titles like this one, because once you get spoiled 
 with a game like this it is very hard to sit down and play something mediocre. I can only imagine 
 what GTA V will be like in the future if it is on current path we (gamers) have a lot in store 
 for us in the near future. In closing all I have to say is "Keep on Rocking" Rockstar you definitely 
 rock!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montana1983
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I remember going to my friend's house and him showing me this funny game on his computer. He brought 
 it up on the screen and there it was for the first time. Grand Theft Auto. It didn't take much 
 room up on you computer and the style of the game was great. I sat there for hours playing it. 
 Who knew it would ever get this big. I've been waiting so long for GTA4 that when I found out it 
 was on the PS3 only I dropped to my knees and said "it will be mineoh yes.... it will be mine." 
 This was before I bought my PS3. So I saved up my loot by doing odd jobs around town for certain 
 people slowly making my way to the topsorry got lost in the moment for a second. This is, in my 
 opinion, the best series that I have ever played. Rockstar always manages to add something knew 
 and exciting the next version. GTA4 is so addicting I might quite my job. Not really because then 
 I wouldn't be able to buy the next GTA. It's that good though. I love it. I have nothing negative 
 to say about it. As for all the critics who want to ban the game, there's a ratting on it for a 
 reason. Don't let your kids play it. It's meant for adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Well first off i would like to say that i was a fan of the GTA series since GTA2, the top down 
 free roaming game had me hooked, being able to do whatever i want whenever i want, whilst unleashing 
 hell was GREAT! I have looked back on how this grand jewel of gaming grow and evolve to what it 
 is today and smiled, proud of the fact that i had a chance to play those games. Now it, s 2008, 
 i have been waiting for the release of Rockstars newest game ever since it's delay back in October, 
 now that i have unwrapped it, played it and finished it... i can easily say.... Definitively worth 
 the extra wait.
  
  Now i have noticed that alot of people have criticized this game saying it's not worth a perfect 
 score and not as good as the other GTA games, like Vice City and San Andreas. Well, my 10/10 score 
 will not be based on what they think, it is based solely on the fact that it is a new step for 
 Rockstar.
  
  SO LETS GET THINGS ROLLING SHALL WE??
  
  
  Ok, in GTA 4, you play as Niko Bellic, an ex soldier from the Bosnia War who fought on the side 
 of the Serbians. He moves to America to stay with his cousin, Roman Bellic, in Liberty City. like 
 the other GTA games, things start off pretty average for the two, until loan sharks, drug dealers 
 and Mob bosses mess with their lives. Niko is also looking for ' That Special Someone' (as hinted 
 in the trailers) but im not going to reveal that information in this review.
  
  The storyline for GTA 4 is definitely the best out of the series, and very very well written. The 
 voice acting was superb, making the characters feel alive. The new motion capturing also makes the 
 movements of the characters feel more lifelike, making you want to watch the cut scenes instead 
 of skipping them. Personally, i think the the story could be put into a movie, but thats just me.
 
  
  FIRST OFF, THE ENVIRONMENT:
  The location, Liberty City, has been given an insane makeover, like making an 80 year old woman 
 look like.... well, some hot high school chick (bad comparison? lol) But since GTA 3, the city is 
 more modern, and given a grittier look to fit the real life new york making it seem as if the pedestrians 
 in the game have actually spat, spilled, drawn, pissed, etc all over the city. You have access 
 to different types of buildings, like restaurants, internet cafes, car dealerships, strip clubs, 
 bars and more, and the best part? no load times when you enter and exit the buildings. Not only 
 did the city get a makeover, the citizens have as well. You now have different looking pedestrians 
 walk by you, with very little chance of seeing clones (unlike the other GTA games) . Citizens can 
 also interact with the world, buying hot dogs, carrying groceries and news paper, doing construction 
 work, ride in taxis and even call the police. 
  Speaking of Police, the new wanted system (reminiscent of Scarface: The World is Yours) consist 
 of the old school stars and your mini map. If you have a wanted level, a blinking red and blue 
 radius will appear on your map, and to escape the cops, you have to go out of that radius, But 
 if another cop sees you WHILE your outside the circle, it will just recenter back on you, making 
 you drive/fly/swim further to escape. btw, more stars = bigger circle.
  Vehicles in the game have ALSO been given makeovers, rel life cars like the Ferrari, Aston Martin, 
 Mercedes are all present (but obviously under different names and slightly different design... but 
 you know its them) including Helicopters, boats and motorcycles. Unfortunately, Fixed Wing aircrafts, 
 jet packs and parachutes are not present.... neither are military grade vehicles like the ever loved 
 Rhino Tank (probably because of 9/11 and such) But this is forgiven since the amount of cars and 
 means of transport are VAST, which include subways and taxi rides. did i mention that if you ram 
 your car at high speeds, Niko will fly out of the windsheild? well he does, oh and jumping out 
 of cars can be alot more lethal that the other GTA games.
  
  NOW ONTO THE GAMEPLAY:
  lets see... where to start... oh right, The Cell phone... This new, modern, hand held communication 
 item is a great addition for the GTA series, letting you call friends for favors, for dates and 
 even fake calling the cops. It allows you to access certain missions as well. 
  Now when it comes to aiming and gun play, GTA 4's engine has improved it at ever aspect except 
 for variety, there are just NOT enough weapon in the game, but because of the new Over The Shoulder 
 aiming, all is forgiven. You also don't have a large amount of ammo that you can carry, compared 
 to the other GTA games, but this is alright since it makes it a bit more realistic. To access free 
 aim, you have to press the L2 button slightly, not all the way down (which then initiates Auto 
 aim) . Firing the weapon is initiated using the R2 button. during Auto Aim, a quick flick of the 
 right analog stick switches targets, but a slight movement of the stick causes the cross heir to 
 aim at different body parts, which is alot harder than it sounds. 
  The Hand To Hand combat has improved and will remind people of the combat in BULLY. When in either 
 auto aim or free aim, you press the O button for usual combo punches, the Triangle for an alternate 
 punch, the square button for kicks and the X button to dodge and block. It makes the fist fighting 
 more interesting. You can also dodge opponent attacks and counter with strong attacks, with whatever 
 you have equipped (like the knife, baseball or your knuckles) . Theres also disarming and stun attacks, 
 which makes the games combat very innovative.
  Driving cars will need some getting used to, at first you will try to step on the accelerator and 
 turn, but due to the games new and improved physics, you will need to press on the brakes to corner 
 effectively and you WILL need ALOT of practice to master the hand brake. Drive bys are initiate 
 by pressing L1 once to break the cars window and holding L1 to shoot, using the left stick to aim, 
 and at the same time, the right stick to steer, making the drive and gun much more interesting 
 and realistic than the other games. There's a lack of character customization, no haircuts, working 
 out and a smaller array of clothing, which is both good and bad. But i'll let you find out yourself. 
 Instead of character customization, you will find yourself working on relationships. Being friendly 
 with contacts will supply you with perks, such as Helicopter Transport and Cheap Gun sales, to 
 increase relationship status, you have to take your friends out to restaurants, bars, club, etc. 
 Not talking to them will decrease relationship status, much like real life. This makes the game 
 very innovative and addicting and is a great addition.
  
  THE MULTIPLAYER:
  
  This new addition to the series is a great one. You have the ability to customize your character 
 and updating his ranks. Multiplayer is initiated viz your cell phone. Game modes consist of the 
 usual Death Match, Team Death Match, Cops and Crooks, Turf Wars, Mafia wars and much more. Not 
 only are their competitive modes, there are co-op modes, letting you play 4 co-op missions where 
 you and your friends try to work together to get things done. The multiplayer is also LAG FREE 
 (from what i have experienced, and im in the middle east playing with guys in America) . The maximum 
 amount of players in different modes ranges from 2 - 16. This multiplayer is addictive and a must 
 play for those who LOVE multiplayer and those who don't.
  
  
  So overall, this game is the best game i have ever played so far and is almost perfect, but with 
 very little flaws that hardly matter since the good parts of the game overshadow them. I don't 
 care if it's not as good as the other GTA games, It is the Best GTA in my opinion and the best 
 game Rockstar has to offer for this generation... (until they mess around with the formula and create 
 a bigger, better version) So be a hater or a lover of the GTA series, it doesn't mater, go and 
 buy this game
  
  As a new step for Rockstar, i hope it will keep them going for years and years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  If you are looking at this review, chances are you're on the fence on the whole GTA money machine, 
 for if you are a fan you would already possess this game and your bloodshot eyes would tell the 
 tale of late nights and long days. Well Grand Theft Auto IV may not sway those apposed to the whole 
 general concept of the game altogether, it does offer the complete GTA experience, and then some, 
 for those who are indeed undecided. For those returning for the 7th time, or those looking to see 
 what the series has to offer them, the fine folks at Rockstar manage to throw everything they could 
 think of into this melting pot of a game so there is bound to be something that will satisfy you. 
 GTA: IV maintains the common theme of "more," for there is more to do, more to see, more time to 
 kill, more of everything that makes up a Grand Theft Auto game. So does it live up to the hype 
 bestowed upon it?
  
  A very important key component to this well based series is the exceptional story telling that 
 it consists of. In keeping with what the audience expects, GTA: IV see the rise and fall of center 
 stage protagonist Niko Bellic, an immigrant fleeing some untold events from the motherland for 
 a more "prosperous" life in the land of opportunity. He meets up with his already native cousin 
 and is immediately and unwillingly thrown into chaos as he struggles to protect those he cares 
 about all the while seemingly getting further and further from his objective. Like all good GTA 
 games, this one is packed with twists and split paths. The events even fork at a certain point 
 depending on choices you make while playing. The story has been this title's lightning rod to fame, 
 attracting all kinds of praise and top scores from all the top reviewing outlets. There is truth 
 to this, for this story is by far the most engrossing, emotional and down right awesome tales you 
 will ever see associated with a video game. Sure the type of story might not appeal to everyone. 
 That being said, this is a masterpiece of gaming screenplay that has ever graced a console. For 
 all those screaming, "Overrated!" We all know you have not played through it.
  
  For all the improvements on the way the story is told, Rockstar has tweaked about every other facet 
 of this game, starting with the most influential. Those returning to the series will find that 
 the vehicle handling has been noticeable changed. Not just in the control placement (the shoulder 
 buttons are now your acceleration and brake/reverse) but in the handling overall. You will no longer 
 be able to pull the hand brake and swing around turns like you used to, or if you are skilled enough 
 to master the technique in this iteration, you won't be able to do so easily. That being said it 
 is hard to determine if they are trying to make the handling more realistic or just more technical, 
 either way, it won't hold you back for long. 
  
  You are going to need those new car controls as you discover that the staple to the GTA, the wanted 
 level, has also been changed. The days of struggling to find a Pay 'n Spray as your car is being 
 pummeled by police and government cruisers is over. They have traded this with an upgraded radial 
 system. Now when you are being perused, you will see a flashing blue/red circle around you. The 
 diameter of this circle changes with respect to your wanted level. The more stars, the bigger the 
 circle. You will also gain the advantage of being able to see nearby police vehicles right on your 
 radar in a Driver-esqu type feel. The name of the game now is avoidance. If you are able to get 
 outside of the wanted awareness parameter, and stay outside of it by not attracting attention, 
 you will lose your pursuers and be just an average citizen again. Take this new system as you will, 
 it does make it easier to lose your wanted level.
  
  The only other main difference is obviously the attention to detail that, in terms of sheer magnitude, 
 has surpassed all attempts thus far. The game is so detailed that you will find moments where you 
 are just dumbstruck. Not only is it a nice game to look at, the new generation of hardware is to 
 thank for that, but the way the people behave and act, the level of detail in the everyday events, 
 that is where it gets awe inspiring. Liberty City is beautiful, the people are purpose driven even 
 the street preacher will come close to selling you his religion. The way the characters act will 
 really drive home the feeling of realism that the entire game produces.
  
  Along with all this you get a quick batch of mini games, from the standard bowling, (a fair game) 
 pool, (horrible mini game) and darts, (by far the easiest) to the nifty little arcade cabinets, 
 there is always more to do. Complimenting these are the theaters, where you can see a mix mash 
 of magicians, performers, or just crazy people, to the comedy club where some of the bits are truly 
 funny. All of these, along with eating, going out for a drink, or going to a "gentlemen's club" 
 are all things that you can waste your time doing at any point during the game. They become especially 
 critical in the relationship mechanic that Rockstar has tweaked. Through the course of the game, 
 you will develop friends that you in term have to spend time with by doing any one of said events 
 to gain special abilities, such as a taxi service, or weapons being delivered to you.
  
  This along with some cheap SIXAXIS controls and an upgraded cover and gun fight mechanic round 
 out the most noticeable changes in the game. The SIXAXIS control is awful, you won't ever find 
 a need to use it. The new gun fighting on the other hand, is truly impressive and is leaps and 
 bounds over what you saw in San Andreas. It is hard to describe other then saying it works. They 
 even go as far as to throw in destructible cover, so hiding behind some boxes, not going to cut 
 it I'm afraid. This new mechanic goes hand in hand with the games hardened difficulty. Not to go 
 as far as being punishing, it will frustrate the hell out of you Then again, that is always part 
 of Grand Theft Auto, there will always be missions where you will have to go through them again 
 and again until you finally figure, "I'll just use the rocket launcher and blow up the stupid car 
 instead of chasing him around town for an hour!" Luckily the game has an auto save feature, a long 
 awaited addition that makes having to run to a safe house for a quick save between missions a thing 
 of the past.
  
  With all of these factors going for the title, it's not hard to see why GTA has such a profound 
 following in the gaming community. This "fourth" installment in the series sees that same tried 
 and true tested formula expanded exponentially to fit more detail and depth then ever before, all 
 being crammed onto a disc with only a minimal install time to work with. This game truly does show 
 the raw power of the current generation of consoles compared to its predecessors. You will feel 
 for Niko and the hard choices he makes. You will love the improvements to all aspects of the game, 
 especially that auto save! As for the overall mark that is going to brand this game for all of 
 its accomplishments, this reviewer puts it as high as it could expect to go. The only fault this 
 game possesses is that it is the subject of franchise. The thing about franchises is that they 
 grow to become routine. Sure this game has more then you could want from a GTA game, but that is 
 precisely the problem, at the end of the day it is just a GTA game. Since it doesn't technically 
 revolutionize anything about that same tried and true formula, the highest it can hope to receive 
 is a nine out of ten. Therefore, that is the final verdict.
  9 out of 10  "Above and Beyond"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charles85642
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Now where to begin. This game is not only one of the best games i've ever played with a engaging 
 story, life-like physics, good graphics but its just fun fun fun. This is actually one of the first 
 GTA's ive played properly.. meaning i played for the story ( I use to just go GOD Mode and kill 
 everything in other GTAs =D) and to my surprise its as good as what everyone else says about the 
 GTA stories. I was engaged to the story and character Nicko on the first cut scene and that was 
 the case thoughout the rest of the 90 mission storymode. The graphics of the game are very nice, 
 of cause not top notch like COD 4 but considering the amount of detail happening aorund, it really 
 doesnt matter. 
  Online is not bad, it's good fun with mates but after playing an Online Masterpiece of COD 4 it 
 just doesn't match. 
  So GTA IV is one of the best sandbox style games out there and I think this is a great buy and 
 i would recommend it to anyone else thinking of buying it!
  
  Thanks for reading my Review. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_mgs2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Its hard to say really.
  
  So GTA IV is properly the most hyped game ever but has it lived up to it? Well i can easily answer 
 that with yes. This game is amaing in every way and has successfully done things which other games 
 haven't even tried or been successful at doing. Im not just talking about one thing im talking 
 about a lot things so....
  
  GTA IV story. Thats a 10/10. The story is this one is better then other GTA games. You begin as 
 Niko Bellic just coming from easten Europe to America to live the 'Amercian dream' like his cousin 
 Roman. Howveer when he arrives his cousin turns out to be not rich and Niko comes to a grotty apartment. 
 So form here your first few missions are from your cousin seeing as he's the only person you know 
 but then you meet new people and we learn more about why Niko has come to liberty city.... the 
 missions in this game are more varied given mutiple options as to whether you kill someone or not 
 which affects the story later on, the actual missions are longer and more challenging as well. 
 the main part will last you way longer then in other GTA games. One of the biggest additions is 
 the mobile phone which Niko has this can be used to access mutiplayer and call contatcs to get 
 work, whether that be main missions or side missions you can recive texts and even customise your 
 ring tone and other cool stuff. You can also play through a SIXAXIS tutorial which lets you use 
 the control to drive and reload (ha ha 360) .
  
  the gameplay in GTAIV is amazing. Its like other GTA games except with a hell of a lot of additions 
 which just make it so much better. The mian one been the cover system, which lets Niko blind fire 
 jump put and shoot a bit like Uncharted drakes fortune, howver this can be a bit glitchy at times, 
 keep playing around with it ull see what i mean. on this game you can still have girlfriends and 
 buy new clothes although not as many available in san andreas theres still enough. You can also 
 use internet cafes to go on the internet and check e-mails. Ammunation and pay n sprays are still 
 present but arent as easy to use on this game becuase you can't enter ammunation with a wanted 
 level and to use pay n sprays you have to go in without been spotted by the police. in ammunation 
 instead of side scorlling and aselcting the weapon like in previous games you can walk up to the 
 model and examine it before decing to buy it. 
  
  The graphics in GTA IV are amaing and look great compared to previous games. liberty city really 
 feels alive with dust bins out on the streets to tramps in allayways. The game looks great close 
 up and far away objects thanks to the PS3 hardware. The NPC's look great with none of them looking 
 similar and all do realistic things such as talk on mobiles eat, and use cash machines. One bad 
 thing about graphics though is the trees. everything looks great excpet the trees they look like 
 rubbish PS1 style graphics. Next time your on the game go up to one and look at one you will see 
 what i mean. 
  
  The sound on GTA IV again is supurb with the radio stations making a return. There are 14 in this 
 game filled with great and modern tracks, if you listen carefully you can even hear Queen!! The 
 voice acting is brillant and it should be with the amount of dialogue in the game, although one 
 guy (little jacob) i can't actually never understand him. guns and cars sound great just like they 
 should do. sound gets 10/10 as there is nothing wrong with it.
  The car handling is much more realistic in this game (as are a lot of things) and at first takes 
 some getting used to but when you do its great.
  
  the drive by shooting has been imporvbed so instead of shooting directly left or right you can 
 now shoot 360 degrees. You can do various activites such as bowling, pool, and darts which is great 
 to kill some time and fun.
  
  GTAIV will last you a heck of a time. The story lasts for ages but if you want to go for 100% well 
 thats even better. there a lot of side missions to do like with previous games Unquie jumps make 
 a return and as for hidden packages there are now 200 pigeons (or 'flying rats') to shoot. 
  
  Mutiplayer in GTAIV is amazing and can be up to 16 players. the city still looks the same and 
 the gameplay is the same the only thing thats changed it that you in liberty city causing havok 
 with 15 other people. The variety of modes and ranking system make it addictive, you don't have 
 to be blowing the hell out of each other as there are co op style modes as well.
  
  To sum up here are the bad points about the game and why it didnt get a perfect 10. The tree graphics 
 just spoils it sometimes. the fact that there are no planes it a letdown. In mutiplayer sometimes 
 there are animation issues. These small things are nothing to the amount of goodness in thsi game 
 but it does stop it from been perfect.
  
  Basicallt though if you do have a next gen console then get this game, you won't be dissappointed 
 trust me...
  
  Raiden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niki6199
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  After playing San Andreas i found it hard to believe that GTA IV would be able to surpass it, but 
 it did. With that being said, if you loved customising cars and going to the gym then this game 
 isn't for you, though it compensates in other places. 
  
  Your character is Niko Bellic hoping to live the American dream with his so called rich cousin 
 only to find out that his cousin is just as broke as he is. Niko has to pay off his debts and help 
 his cousin with his but goes through a few speed bumps on the way. The storyline is quite compelling 
 though I think San Andreas' story was just as good.
  
  This version is much more detailed, you'll see the pedestrians lighting a cigarette, phoning their 
 friends and family or walk by a hot dog seller trying to earn a living. If you dont feel like leaving 
 your home you can easily just turn on your tv by pressing the L1 button and watching from a variety 
 of channels such as Stand up comedy or even poker tournaments obviously with a little bit of Rockstar's 
 humour included. This time there is more interactivity too, you will see your character pushing 
 people that he bumps into, or even picking up cans from the floor to toss them at other civilians. 
 
  
  The Police are also smarter in this version and this time you have to exit a certain area to evade 
 the cops, it's easy when you have 1 star but once you've gone past 3 you better bring your A game. 
 This time the shooting is also better with the new hiding system where you can press the R1 button 
 to hide behind walls. The fighting is also improved, you can now disarm your opponent or even duck 
 when he's trying to swing a punch to your face.
  
  The Car mechanics are more realistic, most GTA fans won't approve of this as handbrake turns are 
 hard, but its a welcome new feature since the other GTA games would see you flying past corners 
 with ease. Cars now also stop working if they take a brutal beating. 
  
  The graphics are beautiful as always, the sea is a joy to look at, you'll sometimes find yourself 
 staring into the background.
  
  The online multiplayer is also very welcome this year, though I fell they should have added more 
 it's a great new addition.
  
  This game does have it's flaws though and doesnt deserve a perfect 10 for the very reason that 
 no game is perfect, the music stations can get annoying at times, the loss of car customisation 
 and gym's were felt but all in all it's such a good game that you won't even remember them. 
  
  Whether you are or not a hardcore GTA fan this game is a must have, it should keep you occupied 
 for hours and hours.
  
  Rockstar's most successful series is back and us fans couldn't be happier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Well it is the best GTA of the series. some people might like GTA III: san andreus better but im 
 not very sure. I think GTA IV is jsut 0.5% better than GTA: san an but, who knows?
  
  Good: game looks great as always, bloom, reflection of the water, the detail of your clothes, its 
 all great!!! The cover system makes fire fights a lot better. The free aim and auto aim buttons 
 makes gameplay easier. gameplay is very smooth and getting away from the cops is easier. some might 
 think is bad, some think its good. i think its good but you might not think so. customizating your 
 character has less vriaty but is still alright. phone system is a cool new addition to the game. 
 multiplayer is where the game really shines even more. a lot of gameplay types makes multiplayer 
 anti-boring.
  
  Bad: the driving is still unrealistic. very unrealistic. not amny cheats. good or bad i dont know. 
 the graphics for the non important AI characters is still bad. fingers still look a bit like blocks 
 but is a bit better. its easily forgivable though cause of the size of the city. city is smaller 
 than san andreus. The internet system dosent work very well.
  
  Its still one of the greatest open world  what grene is GTA under? 
 I still think would be cool as if there is a GTA IV: san andrues!!!!! CJ has to come back. HAS 
 TOO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b3rT_K
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  One of the many things that set GTAIV apart from its predecessors is Liberty City, which is more 
 convincing as a living, breathing urban environment than anything that you've seen in a game before, 
 and bears little resemblance to its namesake in 2001's GTAIII. Liberty's diverse population believably 
 attempts to go about its daily business, seemingly unaware that several criminal factions are at 
 war in the city. Niko has no such luck. He's compelled to start working for one of the factions 
 shortly after arriving, when he learns that his cousin Roman has some potentially fatal gambling 
 debts. Niko's military experience makes him a useful freelancer for employers in the business of 
 killing each other, and though his reluctance to carry out their orders is often apparent, he does 
 whatever is asked of him in the hope that completing missions for other people will ultimately 
 give him the means to complete his own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtiaz2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This modern actions adventure game was worth waiting for to play in next-gen console. This game 
 definitely lived up to its predecessor or more or less in some way. The liberty city was truly 
 a masterpiece and main attractions for this game. All the hype for this game wasn't a lie, especially 
 the part about "living breathing city", which i first hand experienced it in this game. This game 
 has a lot of good, no, great qualities to it. Story it self was great, especially with dialogue 
 and the expressions on each characters in cut scenes was smooth and awesome and most of all the 
 lines fits with their body language too. As for the customization, it doesn't give whole range 
 of it except for the clothes, but i wish they added the work out things like gym, etc, in "GTA: 
 San Andreas" . Game play was much better than last game in this series, especially with shooting 
 cause usually in console like ps3 or xbox controller i have hard time shooting some Ai, but not 
 in this game. It is very much addicting and one coolest and help device the maker of this game 
 put it in this game was the cell phone. This device was very helpful to me especially with cheat 
 code and all and to survive in some mission, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vertygo23
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Hands down, this is a game worth buying. It's great in so many ways. Yet, what would be the fun 
 in mentioning only the good things? I can assure you there are plenty. Instead I'll just touch 
 on a couple of things I like and several things I don't. Just as a heads up, this review has some 
 pretty big spoilers if you haven't finished the story. But without further ado, allow me to take 
 it away.
  
  There's no better place to start than with my main man Niko Bellic. Although a surefire nightmare 
 for any mother trying to keep her son out of prison, Niko is a great main character who could make 
 even an M. Night Shyamalan film good. Even though English is his second language, he's more glib 
 than most native speakers could ever dream of being on their best day. Like all GTA heroes (anti-hero 
 probably being the better word choice) , he has a dark past he's trying to escape. Well, that's 
 not exactly true. He's escaped that one, and found himself in an even darker present. Instead Niko, 
 an immigrant from Serbia, is a perfect example of the horrors of Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome. 
 Now he's on a desperate search for the man who betrayed him and his comrades in the war. Fresh 
 off the freighter, Platypus, he embraces the American Dream Michael Corleone style by killing anyone 
 and everyone who gets in his way. Seriously, what's not to like?
  
  This time around, Rockstar maintains its typical, high level of voice-acting without bringing in 
 well-known actors. This is both refreshing and, at the same time, frustrating when even after you've 
 placed a character's voice, you end up finding yourself S. O. L once you've checked IMDB. Also the 
 radio stations, a GTA trademark, are better than ever. They offer a variety of music, news, commercials, 
 and talk-shows wider than any of its predecessors; music ranging from Classic Rock to stuff straight 
 from the Motherland. Unfortunately, since GTA IV is not meant to take place at any time in particular, 
 there is a lack of nostalgia. The kind of nostalgia that San Andreas gave me all too well; Vice 
 City was just a little before my time (sorry to make some of you readers feel old) .
  
  Just to quickly touch on the online play: I think it's fricken' awesome. I haven't played much 
 of it, but I found co-op missions to be insanely fun. And in the words of Forrest Gump, "that's 
 all I have to say about that."
  
  Moving on! Unfortunately with everything in life, GTA IV has its downsides as well. I'm a GTA fan, 
 but not a fanatic. I've played all the main games, but none of the expansions. What attracts me 
 most to the series is the character development, the double-crossing, and the original story telling 
 (any similarity between Vice City and Scarface being purely coincidental, right?) . And that's exactly 
 where I found this game to be lacking. I found the ending completely unfulfilling, having no victory 
 over a clearly defined bad guy. And if that wasn't enough, I was only rewarded with a good twenty 
 minutes (believe me, felt more like twenty hours) of uneventful credits and the words "so this 
 is what the American dream feels like" stated poetically by Niko. Well Rockstar, thanks for building 
 me up (buttercup) baby, just to let me down.
  
  Also, there was absolutely no return of any old characters. I read the reason behind this is because 
 they are starting a brand new reality of the GTA universe with this installment. Apparently, this 
 reality doesn't include Tommy Vercetti or CJ. I can't imagine the next game having too many cameos 
 either considering Niko ends up killing most characters you meet (often without your approval) , 
 and most of your friends are pretty annoying save Jacob. No doubt the second best character in 
 the game since he's truly the first person in the GTA series you can always count on to have your 
 back. Elizabeta gets the O. K. from me too considering she was the only one with the cojones to 
 actually kill someone herself without sending Niko out to do the dirty work (perhaps she'll have 
 a cameo in GTA 2308 when she gets out of prison) .
  
  Although the developers at Rockstar put together an elaborate version of Liberty City, there is 
 one area where the detail is lacking. And although I may be making a big deal out of nothing, this 
 is something that bothers me. First off, many of the buildings in this game cannot be entered. 
 And secondly, although the buildings, from afar, look like they have a certain amount of depth 
 inside are anything but. When you get closer, it's easy to tell that the insides are 2D drawings 
 copied and pasted over windows and doors on a mass scale. Not to mention (my absolute favorite) 
 when every light in the city, both building windows and car headlights, turns on at the exact same 
 time to let us know that "night" has begun.
  
  Something else I found lame, but amazingly realistic, was that even though you get the opportunity 
 to choose from a wide variety of girls to date (exactly like life) , barely any actually want to 
 date you (exactly like life) . Out of all the girls I got to choose from on lovemeet. com, I could 
 only get two to trust me enough to go out with them. I love that a perk for getting Carmen to like 
 you is when you call her for advice, she tells you to get some rest. I can only assume she means 
 save my game at a safehouse, something I definitely didn't need to waste five dates at a Cluckin' 
 Bell to tell me how to do.
  
  Nonetheless, GTA IV is an all-around fun game to play. It looks great, the voice-acting is superb, 
 the combat system is new and improved, and it's absolutely hilarious. For the most part I enjoyed 
 it from start to finish, so much that it was difficult to pull myself away from the PS3 for more 
 than a day. I even went home on my lunch break from work to get some playtime in. And if it wasn't 
 for MGS4, predicted to be the Second Coming and scheduled for release in less than a month, I wouldn't 
 have a single doubt that GTA wins game of the year. It's an amazing game, just not quite worth 
 the perfect ten that it received from the editors' choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killwithhonor
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Alright, first things first, I go and get the game, i'm thinking its gonna be great, awesome, amazing. 
 Bring it home, open it up and slap it into my tray. I wait for it to install then i jump right 
 into the game.
  
  Ok this is the best part of the game, it hooked you in and then it slowly let you down. At the 
 beginning i couldn't even take my hands off the controller without thinking of GTA IV and what 
 im going to do next. So i played for a week on and off as much as I could. It was amazing, all 
 i could do was play GTA IV, every other game was inanimate.
  
  (Spoiler*******Kind OF)
  
  Then it hit me when i finished the bank mission. Once i finished this, I had access to the 
 third island. And what a waste of space! All the islands are identical in their shops except Perseus 
 in Algonquin.
  
  Now I have a crap load of money and i cant use it on anything but guns! Wheres the fun in that! 
 Ya.. i can get a girlfriend, i can hang out with my buds and go get drunk, but other than that, 
 theres nothing that comes from it! There are barely any fun side missions other than Brucie's tasks.
 
  
  So no i have all this money and no where to go with it, i can't even buy real estate for gods sake! 
 No i need to work for more criminals after Niko tells them the same thing... "if it pays" Well 
 obviously you have 400,000 dollars and you still want money! cmon!
  
  The hype was huge and i was quite disappointed to know that I won't have any fun after a certain 
 point in the game when everything becomes repetitious. 
  
  They took a lot of the creativity out of San Andreas and rushed this out a little too soon. I don't 
 know what happened in the Beta, but these guys must have played for like 5 hours max!
  
  Storyline was good i'll give it that, there was nothing to comment there, it was solid and exciting.
 
  
  Graphics were very good considering the other games.
  
  Sound was also very good and the voice overs and conversations were worth listening to.
  
  
 The tv and interactive stuff like the computer to an extent and the shows was also very good.
 
  
  However content as i mentioned above was lacking this time around. I got bored about 35% in and 
 i was just getting halfway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAFIOSO_13
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  I haven`t played this game because i don`t own a XBOX or PS3 anymore, but i decided to make this 
 review... because all the vids on gamespot and a first perfect 10 rating on gamespot for almost 
 6 years made me to think that i don`t need to play this game to know that is a perfect 10... So 
 i haven`t played this game but i wrote Time Spent Playing, to Date: 100 or More Hours because i 
 know that i will spend more than 100 hours on this gmae.. From the reviews and the videos i saw 
 my conclusion was that Liberty City is a big, big city the main character is Niko Bellic... the graphic 
 is excellent... THE BEST THERE EVER WAS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike1494
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  An overall great game with Euphoria physics and the new shooting and cover systems, which are revolutionary. 
 You fall and get shot reallistically. You actually step up and down each stair and off curbs. You 
 can hide behind walls and pillars, cars and dumpsters and whatever else you can think of. Blind 
 firing is a good feature, and you can peer over edges to wait for the perfect shot. It's really 
 the monetary value of the storyline that keeps this from a perfect 10. Let me explain... As the 
 game begins, Niko and Roman are dirt poor. As you progress and make a few grand, the complaints 
 continue, despite your fat pocket. As the complaints end, another problem arises. You have thousands 
 upon thousands of dollars, and all u have to spend it on is clothes stores, death, and food. So, 
 a dollar away from a perfect 10, but hopefully there will be DLC to give us something to blow this 
 cash on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haddix
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  At first, you wonder what is going on with this? I mean, the opening scenes show a completely irrelevant 
 domination of some dude getting whipped by a dominatrix. It's a bit odd as the cut-scene flashes 
 just as you are pulling into the harbor. Weird. If anything, it's your first clue that this ain't 
 going to be your run-of-the-mill kinda game. From there, prepare to spend some time getting to 
 know Liberty City - cuz she's the kinda girl you just can't seem to get enough of. GTA IV is a 
 much of a driving game as it is a shooter. And the details are amazing. There is nothing else like 
 it. From the details of the body movements to the sheer size of the city - there are so many aspects 
 to take in while you create utter mayhem in the course of building your criminal empire. So, sit 
 down, turn up the sound, and prepare to waste (several) hours. Rock Star Games owns you now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olschooldu2
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I've only been playing this game a couple of hours now, but I can definitely say that this is 'The 
 Best' game ever made in this series. Usually the sequels will get stale or very repetitive, but 
 not this one! R*/TakeTwo did a very outstanding job with this 'next-gen' version of the the gta 
 series, because so many times when a game makes the jump to one of these next-gen consoles, the 
 game will suffer from low frame rate and the graphics to name a few. But that is not the case in 
 gta4.. everything is so lifelike, especially when you hit someone with your vehicle. A lot of the 
 movements and reactions are so lifelike, you'll find yourself doing some things again and again 
 just to see how great this game really is. I could go on and on about all the things this game 
 has and how good it looks. but theres been enough reviews and comments.. i'm going back to the game!!! 
 And by the way, as soon as i put the game in, it automatically downloaded the update and installed 
 it all in less than ten minutes and so far, I've had none of the issues, such as freeze ups, etc. 
 that some of the other gamers have had & I'm playing on a 60gig ps3 bought after the very first 
 price cut (599.00 to $499.00) in july 2007. If you don't have this game already, this is a 'must 
 have', regardless of what kind of gaming console you have!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4fanboy201
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is without a doubt one of the best games created this year. It has eveything 
 from raceing expensive cars and killing people to taking a girl out on a date. The story is phenominal, 
 it has humor, drama, action, romance and everything you would expect from a top notch story. It 
 is nothing like the past gta's at all its like rockstar has created a completly new game. They 
 have total revamped the shooting mechanics. You can now hide behind cover like in gears of war 
 and the aiming is vey similar to that and resident evil 4. The driving is very percise even though 
 it might take you an hour or two to get the hang of the controls. The game can be beat in just 
 about forty hours if you just stick to the main story but thats hard to o considering all the things 
 you can do in the city. You can bowl, play pool, surf the in game web, go out to eat, compete in 
 street races, go out on a date and take them out for something to eat, and go to a strip club. 
 This game never gets old with its varity of missions like settinfg up a date with a gay guy on 
 the web so you can later kill him to robing a bank for a bunch of irish goons to finding that special 
 some the protagonist niko bellic came to liberty city to find. And once you completed the amazing 
 single player game its time to play online. With gta4's host of online modes you'll definetly be 
 playing this game into next year. This game is by no means perfect though. It could have definetly 
 benifited from checkpoints, and the cover systems is pretty flawed. If you don, t have online this 
 game only warrents one more play through because after you beat the main story there really isn't 
 anything else to do besides crappy ass side missions. But besides this Grand Theft Auto 4 should 
 be a game played by everyone as long as your 17 because this game is definetly not for younger 
 gamers. Now go out and play this game because your in for one hell of a ride. 
  
  P. S. sorry about chanig my review but after i beat MGS4 when i went back to this game and relized 
 how flawed some of the aspects of this game were. Im not trying to keep people from playing this 
 game, don't get me wrong. But it does not deserve a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAXPAINE_1989
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  was this game worth the waiting? OF COURSE! is it worth buying the PS3 for it? YES IT IS 
  
  this game of course retains the gripping addictive dialogue/ mo-cap with completely overhauled 
 graphics and textures the environments is immersive and highly detailed. 
  
  true all the statements that were made about that every single building will be recognizable yes. 
 
  
  additionally the game now adds a new cell-phone element in the gameplay that plays a major role 
 in your story progress. one thing did'nt show up is your stats rank [EG: thug, bagman, capo, sweeper 
 etc...] and of course the parachute experienced in SA is altogether gone [adding more seriousity 
 to the game atmosphere] 
  
  finally, the only thing i did'nt choose 10/10 is a private reason no need to disclose. 
  
  
 yes i forgot the radio this time is a meh little disappointment for you to listen not as expected 
 but maybe this also adds this speacial combination that makes this game absolutely perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nf1994
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best gta, no doubt about it. I think the graphics and environments are incredible 
 and well varied. Each of the islands having their own feel and special neighbourhoods. The story 
 and characters and brilliant and very well thought out with loads of twists and turn on the way. 
 Even the little things in this game are perfect. The radio stations are actually funny and have 
 great music. Sixaxis has been used well, to reload you simply have to shake the controler, and 
 it can also be used to steer bikes, boats and helicopters. Gladly, the annoying system of going 
 to the gym, and keppign slim or getting fat has been taken out. The only thing i could say wrong 
 about this game is, the fact the story doesn't last as long as previous games, but with all the 
 extras to do you will be easily gaming for over 40 hours. This game really shows us what can be 
 achieved on next gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  To be quite honest, this is a hard game for me to review for 2 reasons:
  1) The hype and great reviews
  2) I'm not good at it. 
  
  I'm not good at the driving, and 
 the sandbox action games are not my stong suit. 
  
  Graphics - Really good, but not a technical marvel. This is isn't surprising considering the amount 
 of content crammed on the disk, and the sheer size of the game world. There could be more if this 
 was PS3 exclusive, but we take what we can get.
  
  Sound - Really nice voice work. The main character's voice work is witty, sarcastic, and fun, and 
 it really adds a lot to the game. I didn't like the gangsta rap sterotype stuff from San Andreas, 
 so I really like the more non-conventional Eastern European characters. No character has grated 
 on me, and I'd say the voice work is above par, though it's by no means perfect. But it doesn't 
 get irritating and ceratinly doesn't detract from the gameplay. 
  
  Plot - Pretty much excellent. Your character has no real allegiances to anyone but himself, which 
 makes for really great twists and turns in the plot. Plus, there's a lot of people who you can 
 kill or not kill that has an effect on the game later on, if only in little side missions.
  
  Gameplay - Here's the biggy. Not perfect, but very, very good. I don't like a lot of the driving 
 missions, but I'm biased because I'm just not very good at controling the cars. It's nice that 
 the cars all feel different (very different) , and that adds a touch of realism to them, but the 
 controls almost exclusively feel too loose, even at slower speeds. The bikes are incredibly fun 
 though. The cover system is 9.8/10. It loses a bit because it gets a little confused sometimes 
 and makes you cover in a very open area which you weren't aiming for, but this is because there's 
 so much in the game world, so it's give and take. It does make the shooting sections feel a lot 
 more realistic, and that's a definite plus. My only problem with the combat, both melee and shooting, 
 is that nothing feels very powerful. Even the AK feel like pea shooters in your hand. I don't know 
 how they could've made it feel like you've got that powerful gun in your hand, but games like Gears 
 of War did it better. 
  
  Overall - This really lived up to the hype, which is pretty rare. It's got a very entertaining 
 plot that sucks you right in, a whole ton to do so you feel like you've gotten your money's worth, 
 and the gameplay does have a good balance of realism to video game impossibility that makes it 
 really fun to pick up and play. For me, it's a big step up from previous entries, and a really 
 great first appearance on the current generation of consoles. 
  
  Kudos, Rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankdarkblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  It's one of the most anticipated games of 2008, and a multi-million dollar seller in each of its 
 games for the ps2, and continued again for the ps3 and xbox360. The hype has been enormous with 
 brand new features both sought after, and some... well... not so much.
  
  There was much hype surrounding this game when it first came out; so, being a fan of the Grand 
 Theft Auto series, I decided to give it a go. This game DOES NOT disappoint. Fresh off the boat 
 you, Nico (The main character) comes to America to find a new life, in his hopes to escape his 
 past; however, what started as a fresh start in the land of opportunity comes to be a repeat of 
 his past.
  
  Ah, familiar Liberty City; things have changed all for the better. If you've never played the previous 
 installments to the Grand Theft Auto series, don't worry, you will be able to pick up this game 
 and love every second of it... assuming you don't mind getting in some trouble on the way ;) .
 
  
  The physics have been re-worked, no longer can you jump off of a 2-3 story building and still live 
 (Like the previous installments of the series) . Cars behave the way they should: larger vechicles 
 handling sluggishly, no longer being able to turn on a dime, and actually carrying some pain with 
 it as you pummel through other cars; sports cars on the other hand are fast, but you must put to 
 good use the E-brake if you want to be able to drive at high speeds around corners. Pedestrians 
 are probably the most exciting thing about this game (I know... woo-hoo huh?) , they are individuals 
 all their own... I've spent days playing and haven't seen the EXACT same person walking around 
 (Which if you played the other games, there was a basic scheme for a specific person) . The lighting 
 in the game has been reworked, headlights finally have a purpose (You can switch from low-beams 
 to high-beams by holding square) . Car damage is realistic and just plain fun to look at how badly 
 you have ravaged your car, be careful though... because driving into a pole (something that will 
 bring you from 60 or 100 mph to a complete stop) will send you flying out the windshield; as well 
 as the more damage your car has, the less likely it will start on its first... second... or even 
 third try. Cars will catch on fire before exploding, and will burn for quite a bit before exploding; 
 keep in mind though, if your car is on fire and you smash into something going fairly fast... your 
 car will explode and it'll be off to the hospital. Crashing in a motorcycle sends you sprawling 
 across the road, you might even smash across a car or two, depending on how hard you hit (A death 
 can be prevented by waiting until you put on your helmet) . The water looks phenominal, reflections 
 and life-like behavior; you can swim (Like in San Andreas) , but you can not dive under water.
 
  
  The police are in a category all by themselves this time around, taking special notice of other 
 people as well as you; (Example: You run into someones car, they get out, they pull you out, they 
 hit you, they get arrested.) this also includes guns, which if you have them pulled out, will earn 
 you a felony star. The felony system has been reworked, showing you a circle-area where the police 
 are looking for you, get out of that circle without being noticed... stay there for a bit, and 
 your felony goes away; however, it becomes more difficult with more and more stars. They have done 
 away with the pressing R3 to get into missions for police, now they have a police computer that 
 you can access to find vigilanties.
  
  Gameplay is amazing, they have reworked the aiming as well, making it easier to aim at a specific 
 spot on a person rather then just simply aiming at the person at random.
  
  Top 3 reasons to play this game:
  
  1) GREAT storyline (It's been a while since I could say 
 that about a GTA game)
  
  2) Improved graphics and physics (You are no longer superman who can jump off a 5 story building, 
 get up, and walk away)
  
  3) Life like atmosphere (Beware, this game can turn your social-life into spending hours upon hours 
 wasting away infront of the TV) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamike
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  The GTA series has always been fun to me, and this one is no exception. Now playing once again 
 in the infamous Liberty City. You play as Russian Immigrant, Niko. He's here to escape from problems 
 and to help his cousin. It's a really fun game, there's new driving controls that are very fast 
 and easy to get used to. The Cover system is cool, it makes it easier to kill enemies without dying 
 in 2 minutes. There's all the great weapons. There are over 100 Stunt Jumps to try and find and 
 attempt. The driving in this one is so realistic. Like if you drive straight into a barricade at 
 high-speed, you're gonna fly out the windshield. It's got it's few glitches, but doesn't every 
 game. Those few glitches though are the reason why I gave it a 9.5, instead of a 10. Well, I still 
 suggest to buy the game with the highest recommendations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  As all of my stalkers know, i only post reviews to games i've beaten, and trust me, after playing 
 through an amazing 30 hours just to complete the main story, I'd do it all again! But first i might 
 want to get to 100%...
  
  This game is more than hype, its possibly game of the year!
  Due to this games intense story-line, amazing and easy to get use to controls, realistic reactions 
 with the environment, and great detail, this is the game to own!
  
  The multi-player is also a great add-on for the fact that unlike games such as Resistance and Halo, 
 you can use all of Liberty City as a battlefield! If you wish you could even divide the map into 
 parts you specifically want to fight in.
  
  Out of all the things in this game i DID like, the only thing i didn't like was the fact that when 
 you start playing, the game is way to dark and you need to turn up the brightness a bit just to 
 see where your going.... Other than that this game gets a well deserved 10/10 from me!
  
  Keep up the good work Rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devo150
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is going down in history, not just for howmuch it has sold, but all the great gaming 
 memories that come along with it. You may not notice it now but in a couple of years when you are 
 either still playing this or thinking about it, you will think of the fun times you have had with 
 this game, and with that said thats start...
  This game is set in Liberty City with Niko looking for the american dream, and also that special 
 someone. You start out without really anyfriends, or money, but as you work your way up, you will 
 earn money and gain friends and their perks, but you will have to come to hard choices of killing 
 off main characters. Evan though sometimes the friendly AI isn't that great, or the glicthes can 
 get pretty bad, it is still an amazing game. The story mode is AMAZING and really powerful, sometimes 
 I thought I was watching a Hollywood blockbuster. The multiplayer is really great also, with a 
 hole bunch of game modes and having the whole city has your play ground, with that said, I am amazed 
 by this game and think that if you ever liked a GTA game, then this game is a MUST HAVE! 
  My score: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickkcin10
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Incredible.... to write down all the things rockstar did right in this game would literally take 
 me hours to do, so i will start with the wrongs. 
  
  Many people say this and i agreee, the map shouldnt of got smaller. thats it. one of the main attractions 
 to the GTA games is the size of it all, the hours it takes to get through all the city, andthe 
 new discoveries that you make on each new play of the game. dont get me wrong, Liberty city is 
 still big, the second biggest in fact, out of all the GTA games map size with GTA: san andreas 
 the only exeption. The only other thing i can think of that is wrong with this game the sluggish 
 frame rate at times, the framerate can literally chugg down to low speeds at the most intense moments 
 in the game.
  
  Now onto the positives of the new game
  1. The mobile Phone. The mobile brings a whole new dimenstion to the game which keeps you in contact 
 with all your friends, and informs you with all the new missions, and this is what youll be using 
 to cheat with for all of those unfair players out there using the keypad to dial in the cheat code 
 to use at any time needed.
  2. The Graphics. The graphics of this new GTA has been cranked up a notch from the previous games 
 to make a better experience, dont get me wrong, it isnt all that much better than todays games, 
 but that + the sze of this makes it incredible for Rockstar to achive such a feat in this game.
 
  3. The Gunplay. The gunplay will feel similar to all the gta players but there has been something 
 else added to it, now you can see their health, and you can fine tune all of your aiming using 
 the right anolouge stick. the guns in this game fell more authentic as well, especially at the 
 start of the game when you get your first pistol. they feel more like a weapon rather than just 
 a peice of disposable hardware like in the older games.
  4. The story. When i finished this game it was the first time i felt emotion while playing a game. 
 i felt genuinly sad at what happened at the end, i dont know how rockstar did it, but they did, 
 the sneaky bastards.
  
  i could go on and on about this game but my hands are getting sore from all this writing. GTAIV 
 is the greatest game EVER made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god_of_shawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  First thing first, GTAIV IS FANTASTIC. But it's not perfect though. I am impressed at the graphics, 
 i mean, it's such a big game, and they still can manage to make the graphics so beautiful. And 
 after installing the game, it sure has lesser pops-up and lesser loading times. I love it when 
 knock those peds on the road using my car, that is realistic, plus shooting them is = Epic win. 
 The way they react is fantastic. The rocket launcher is awesome, when the missile turns, that is 
 awesome. And the online, it can last for ages, esp playing with my friends and exploring the city, 
 that is really called pure fun. ^_^
  
  Now for the cons, there's quite a few cons, so bear with me please. :D
  
  Clothing, there are 
 only like 5 clothing shops in the whole game only. I mean seriously, wtf? 3 shops that sells the 
 same clothing. Look at San Andreas, they have so many shops! Ok and the choice of clothing is so 
 little! 2 glasses to choose from only? 2 hats to choose from only? San Andreas can even put tattoos, 
 have a haircut, wear bling bling, and most importantly, a very very large range of clothing for 
 us to choose from. 
  
  Weapons, they took away.... the mini-gun, chainsaw and the flamethrower. When the A. I caught fire, 
 that animation is good, but that is only if throw the fire grenade (forget how to spell it, it's 
 something like molovc or something) . I wanna use the flamethrower on it! But it's been taken away. 
 
  
  Air planes, why can't we have? Scared because of the 9-11 incident? That is lame man. When i go 
 to the airport, when those planes take off, i really wanna ride on it, it looks so big and epic. 
 And where's the parachutes? It's gone sadly. T_T
  
  There's still much more, but those are not really important. Up to now, i still think San Andreas 
 is the best GTA game i had ever played. But still, GTAIV comes close to the fun factor San Andreas 
 gives. It's a must buy game for every GTA fans. And of course every other gamers. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  TO begin things off on GTA4 you play as Nikko Bellic, who has come to Liberty City to start a new 
 life. With his cousin. Which of course, is not as easy s it sounds, it never is. So there are things 
 that go wrong in your lfe and you end up getting involved with a lot of mafia. But there is lots 
 more to the main character than meets the eyes. 
  Good things; the game is not as frustrating as the other GTA games. the graphics have been improved 
 a lot and the game is much more life like. such as the ai system is smarter and the people are 
 more realistic on the streets and will react to you. they have also added a few parts to the game 
 where you have to make choices which does change the play of the game and the outcome. there is 
 also a good variety of weapons and vechicles to choose from and to use through out the game. also 
 you will meet a bunch of new characters and they are fun and have there own stories as well. the 
 city is really big and fun to play in . the action is pretty intense and the missions are just 
 plain fun. 
  Bad things; it does have some problems, i was not able to be signed in and play online for a while 
 until they come out with a patch. it was suprising that rock star would release the game with it 
 having problems, they should know how important the online aspect of the game is. but there are 
 also problems that i have heard of, (but did not personally have) that would make some of my friends 
 systems crash during game play. the game did reset my PS3 at times, which is annoying. but havent 
 had that problem since the patch. on top of all that the game is short and the online could have 
 been a lot better, its still hard to connect to friends online. and the problem is from tis game. 
 I have to say that it was really suprising to me that these problems came from a rock star game. 
 I have to admit I will wait to hear how the next rock star game is before running out to purchase 
 it. thi has kind of brought my trust in the company down
  Over all'; GTA4 brings it to the next generation of consols, pretty good, but i hope the next one 
 is better and that they take there time with it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjikiran
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  After a couple of hours I just got bored and frustrated at its gameplay in general. I mean its 
 a fight to play with the aiming and camera during a gun fight, the cover system is so so at best 
 in comparison to other games. Everything else emits a been there, done that feeling and the open 
 world gameplay is just uninspiring and bores me after minutes. 
  
  The graphics are great, the storyline is doubly great. Nico is an awesome character as far as video 
 games go and from every cut scene emits the greatness of a classic gangster movie. Humor, stereotypes, 
 art everything shows you that they worked hard to make this game look and feel like a clone of 
 New York. 
  
  I just cannot recommend this game though unless you are a die hard fan of the previous games, or 
 a newcomer who recently played crackdown or saints row and like the open world experience. The 
 experience is repetitious, and boring, not much more for me to say in this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  For all those interested in knowing which version is better, all I could say is," sorry to dissapoint 
 you, but both versions are fantastic." I've been playing for over 2 solid straight weeks and nearly 
 finishing the game, yet, it's the most addictive game ever made, and plowing through the game to 
 brag you're finished is not thoroughly playing and enjoying it, as it's one of the longest action 
 games ever. The story mode alone will take at least 30 hours, without side missions, and mini games. 
 Add these extra activities and the game could be played infinitely. We know the story is excellent, 
 we know the sound fx is excellent and we know the game looks great (if you have a QUALITY HDTV 
 of course) . But if you were to choose between the PS3 and Xbox360, BOTH are fantastic. Graphics 
 wise, in my humble opinion, being a PS3 loyalist, the 360 is slightly sharper and the lighting, 
 though intense is great. The PS3 is smoother looking, making the game look more cinematic, with 
 color palette more natural looking, giving it an artistic portrait look, whereas the 360 looks 
 vibrant, sharp, with textures comming alive looking like, in a good way, a comic book (us Marvel 
 readers can relate) . Both have a uique look, so it's a matter of console preference as opposed 
 to console war. There's no arguing that the PS3 has quicker loading time and the controls are more 
 user friendly, plus, adding the sixasis, makes the PS3 a more acceptable choice. As far as Multiplayer, 
 it's a matter of being a multiplayer junkie. And that honor goes to the 360 because there's more 
 players to play with online. Remember to folks, this is GTAIV, so the camera swirving, clumsy fighting 
 controls and getting used to the driving physics is typical GTA. The developers are making this 
 game as realistic as possible and not play as arcadish as we're used to. Bottom line, although 
 there's hundreds of player reviews, most favoring console favoritism, Grand Theft Auto IV is an 
 excellent game on both consoles. It all comes down to which console you have. Is this a perfect 
 10? in terms of video game innovation, presentation, creativity and jump to next gen graphics, 
 YES. If you're looking for a God's perfect, flawless, no tech hitch creation then NO. People, understand 
 nothing's perfect except God. Other than that, this game is the most deserving perfect 10 in video 
 gaming History, along side MGS4 (coming out soon) . There are always a few peasants that will nitpick, 
 critizise and call for attention on a big blockbuster videogame like this and low score the game. 
 They are what they are. If you grew up playing and loving GTA, this is the greatest game ever made. 
 If not, go back to Mario Kart or Pac Man. GTAIV is THE greatest action game ever made. (Uhmm, maybe 
 MGS4 is better?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfidotta
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game has lived up to it's expectations and has soared past them.
  
  Right now I'm only a little over 25% complete with the game, but I just can't get enough.
  
 
  I have no qualms with this game at all. The only thing that gets me is that I have read two reviews 
 that struck me. One guy complained about the graphics not being all that great. Now I'll admit 
 that GTA IV's graphics aren't the best I've ever seen on a game, but when you are playing in a 
 sandbox that big, I personally am not going to expect that every little detail be absolutely stunning. 
 With the excellent game play I think that the graphics are just perfect.
  
  Another review I read was that there isn't anything to do in the game, unlike Vice City and San 
 Andreas. For me, there is too much to do. From killing pigeon's, to boosting cars for Brucie, racing, 
 running packages for Little Jacob, killing criminals, and wiping people off of Liberty CIty's top 
 ten list, I've been losing respect from Roman (Like I said before I'm only a quarter of the way 
 into the game) .
  
  Basically in a nutshell, all I have to say is get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hailogon
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I must confess I've been making excuses not to write this review for a while now. "Complete it 
 100%" I said to myself, laughing gleefully as I watched Niko fly through the windshield of his 
 car, "get into the online first" I pleaded, as I jumped over a waiting helicopter on a bike. I 
 can't make excuses anymore, I need to somehow condense this massive game into just a few paragraphs 
 to convince you it's worth your time. It is, by the way.
  
  Chances are you know something about this game already. You're Niko Bellic, a Serbian immigrant 
 fresh of the boat from eastern Europe in Liberty City. You've come to meet your cousin Roman, who's 
 been living the American dream... or so he claims. It soon transpires he's in with the wrong people, 
 loan sharks and gangsters and so begins Niko's steep decline into the criminal underworld. 
  
  It's the little details that strike you first, the way Niko will smash a window to a car before 
 he can gain entry, or the way you'll see pedestrians using mobiles, buying hot dogs or holding 
 up umbrellas when the heavens open but soon the major differences become apparent. Firstly the 
 aiming, perhaps the only slightly dodgey component in past GTA games. Holding L2 will lock you 
 on to your nearest target, but then the right analogue stick can be used to fine tune your aim. 
 Pulling off headshots feels a bit easy at times, but rest assured you feel like a complete badass 
 each and every time you do it. Next up is a new cover system, which allows you to crouch behind 
 literally anything in the environment to desperately stop the barrage of bullets heading your way. 
 
  
  It's at this point though that i should really stop listing the improvements over past GTA games 
 because you see GTA4 isn't a major leap for the series. You still arrive at contacts doors and 
 ask for work before going out on a mission for example. It's the way in which everything fits together 
 that makes GTA4 so special. Take the storytelling for example: Cutscenes in previous GTA games 
 had been there largely to accomplish one thing, to advance the story. This time around things are 
 different. You get development of characters, forcing you to care for these people who you've come 
 into contact with. When a decisions come up which may harm one of Niko's friend's you really have 
 to stop and think about how much they mean to you. I'd even go as far as to say hanging up on a 
 friend when they're asking to go to a strip club makes me feel a slight pang of regret. 
  
  Graphically the game's no hunch. Characters look for the most part crisp and smooth, but the cars 
 and environment stand out above all else. Liberty city looks simply amazing, from the sunrise which 
 causes the ocean to glisten as you plunge your way into it, to midday when leaves's shadows play 
 across Niko's back as he punches a mobster in the noggin to midnight, when you're hanging desperately 
 from a copter watching the hypnotizing lights of the New Y-- I mean Liberty City skyline.
  
  All of this without even touching on the online. When you get round to it though it's a blast, 
 especially playing the game modes specially made for GTA. Multiplayer will see you doing everything, 
 from escorting a Mob boss away from the police, to racing to destroy cars and drug dealers. It 
 honestly has to be played to be believed, and the fun that can be had with simply getting a load 
 of friends running around with no real objective will make you thankful you're a gamer.
  
  Of course it's not perfect, the multiplayer gets laggy at times, there are graphical glitches here 
 and there and the whole friends minigame simply isn't a load of fun but the simple truth of the 
 matter is thus. Grand Theft Auto 4 is the most fun I have had with my PS3 since I bought it. If 
 you don't play this game you'll be missing out on one of the best pieces of entertainment this 
 millennium. You know what to do... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Normaral85
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  There were only a few problems i had with the games. Those having nothing to do with the my PS3 
 freezing or the game crashing. Just a few small minor details that I thought were gonna be fixed 
 in a next generation game. I wanted to bust a fool over the head with a trash can or cardboard 
 box several times and just didn't have the ability to do so. Or I wanted to just bust up into somebody's 
 crib and find somebody in there and commit a triple murder. I know that sounds sick or what not, 
 but it's that what games are meant for, for my sick behind to be able to get rid of these urges 
 inside of a video game and not next door. Just messin, but seriously they should have made every 
 door accessible. I don't care if they made them all you have to knock to gain entrance or what 
 not, or kick them down. I just seriously thought that a next gen effort would have giving me just 
 alittle more. The game looks freakin awesome and the gameplay is seriously too addicting. I had 
 to put it back in the box for a few days so I could close my eyes and not see the cops chasin me 
 or cars exploding. I love the game, don't get me wrong. I guess I'm just finding things that might 
 wanna be a dressed in the next installment. . . . . if there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevemcginn
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing... there is so much more to do and the city is so big. The driving physics 
 are a lot better and people have limbs. Load times are so short because of the game's install. 
 You control all of the menu from your cell phone allowing you to call your buddy and go out and 
 get plastered. Then trying to drive him home drunk, so much fun. The aiming system for the guns 
 is a lot better to, you can shoot people in the head... killing them much faster. Also the cars 
 are not one big block like before. Now you can fly through the window shield even brake the window 
 open to steal the car. I think this game is worth getting and is going to be the game of the year. 
 They can also add a lot more onto the multilayer and the cars/guns... the game will never end. Best 
 game ever i am playing it like crazy trying to beat it... everyone will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is what next generation gaming been waiting for. Soon as you pop the game in you'll be drawn 
 in like watching a movie. The first time you walk the city, you can't wait to steal a car just 
 to see how he does it. The driving mechanics feels responsive, now you can cruise the streets at 
 will with the new pressure sensitive buttons. When playing this game, you'll feel like you're visiting 
 a city you never have visited before. You'll spend time walking around and just seeing how much 
 effort Rockstar Games put into it. When you play your first shooting scene in the game, you gonna 
 be like damn, I can hide behind the walls and shoot plus infiltrate like Solid Snake. The gun shooting 
 scenes are intense, the sound and particle effects makes it feel so realistic. Staying on realistic, 
 now you can use your cell phone to make calls, no more driving to a destination to know your missions. 
 To make a long review short, just get the game gamer you will not be disappointed, trust me on 
 this one, this game is a Masterpeice. I can't even imagine what the next GTA is gonna be like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickG81
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain amazing. It has a wonderful storyline a wonderful set of weapons and the 
 best graphics I have seen in any game yet. Liberty seems really alive its extremely, insanely realistic 
 and Liberty City is HUGE!! I mean theres like 100 of each store!!! (its a metaphor) and I especially 
 going to the weapon store then going to a strip club just shooting those stupid but hot strippers 
 or i what i like even more is going on simple road rage with a nice police car or armored van. The 
 online play is the best part the mode i like on online is free roam i just like going everywhere 
 in liberty city killing others around the world that i don't even know.... its like a dream come 
 true. The charcters are also awesome especially niko the main character and the citizens the people 
 roaming around the city have very good AI. So overall this game is fantastic i recommend it to 
 many people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 for the Playstation3 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Storyline 10/10
  Extra's and Replay 10/10
  
  Welcome to Liberty city, the 
 city of fame and fortune! Or so Romen says.. You play as Niko a immigrant on a search for a certain 
 man for revenge. In his quest for revenge Niko will be dealing with all the wonders of Liberty 
 City and its amazing crazy drug dealing hoes and the such. This is the game where you can almost 
 do anything. You wanna just run a bunch of people over, bang a hoe and smoke some weed? Sure why 
 not. Thats not what makes this game so grand though. The graphics in this game really bring the 
 story to life and with its realistic story that is so well done you may almost think it could possibly 
 happen in real life, besides the fact of Niko killing off a whole gang on his own oh course. Niko 
 is an interesting guy, and he shows it in everything he does. The game overs lots of features from 
 combat, to dating, to random missions and taking your friends and girlfriends on the streets from 
 several activities. Its crazy on how much you can do in this game if you really want to play it 
 til its maxed out. I finished the game around 35 hours and thats with doing side stuff on the go. 
 So its a nice trip while your on it, but try to do all the extra's before the story ends if your 
 like me as it just doesn't feel the same once you beat the main story. This game also offers online 
 which is great for what it is. This game was a blast and really just looking at it and watching 
 a few video's should be enough to tell you to buy this game. 
  
  Score 9.7/10 Gamespot 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs0411
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  This is my 2nd review of this game because I feel my last review was not that brillaint so Im having 
 anouther go.
  
  First of all to give a clear view of my opinion of this game I will say that I think that this 
 game is brillaint and that it has lived up to the hype, however rather than this feeling like a 
 sequel to the other games, I feel that this is completly re done version of gta.
  
  First of all Liberty city is not the city we all remember from gta 3, this is a completly redone 
 place which is now solidly based on NYC. The city looks fantastic and is very much the most living 
 exciting city which I have seen in any gta to date. However please be aware that this just one 
 city this time and the not the huge state we all know and love from San Andreas. That means that 
 there is no countryside or desert to explore and no more planes, parashoots and jet packs. 
  
  Also the customisation has now been ripped out, meaning that you can no longer Gain weight, 
 exercise, improve weapon stats, get a haircut, get a tatoo or pimp out your cars. I can see why 
 all this would annoy players, however I feel despite all these changes we still have a great game 
 so lets now talk about what this game is, rather than what is isint.
  
  To start of the story of this game is superb and full of very intresting characters. You play as 
 a eastern europian immagrant who comes to America to seek out a new life with his cousin who he 
 thinks is already living the high life. However all Niko finds is that his cousin just owns a crappy 
 cab firm and is in serious debt with a group of evil Russain mobsters.
  
  As the story goes along you meet a variety of different characters and get introduced to diffrent 
 gangs and cultures in the city. The characters which you meet in the game you can go out with at 
 anytime by phoneing them on there cell phones. While you are out you can go bowling, play darts, 
 play pool, go see a show etc which is all a hell of alot of fun.
  
  While I am on the subject I will now talk a bit about the cell phone which niko has. With this 
 you can phone freinds, call 911, go online and later on take pictures with.
  
  There is also a brillaint online mode on this game which is great fun if you can get a good group 
 of players. There are alot of diffrent options to choose from, however I have had so many instances 
 where I have gone to a game and found that it was empty. However on the whole online mode is a 
 good edition to the game.
  
  Other features in this game include, an in game internet (check emails, go on dates etc) , and the 
 ability to watch tv (which acts like a visual radio) 
  
  Anouther nice thing to this game aswell is that the game saves automatically everytime you complete 
 a mission, so you dont have to worry about going back to your safe house just to save the game. 
 The Sountrack to this game aswell is fantastic and possibly the best in game soundtrack yet. My 
 personal fave station on there is liberty rock which includes black sabbath (heavon and hell) iggy 
 pop (I want to be your dog) The Who (the seeker) and alot more.
  
  Overall this is a fine addition to the series which may be loseing alot of content from the previous 
 game, however you get alot back in return.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningVigor
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Its unbelievable that this game is getting such high marks when the flaws are so evident. Im almost 
 100 perent positive that rockstar payed money to make reviewers give it such a ridiculous score.
 
  
  Ok graphic are really good. Big world with huge draw distance. Flying in a chopper at night with 
 it raining looks beautiful. 
  
  Sound is superb. Great radio stations and terrific voice acting.
  
  Whats the main problem? 
 Its the gameplay... the most important part of any game. 
  
  1. The driving is horrific. Its like you are constantly driving on ice. You slip and peel like 
 butter... people have always complained about driving since the first GTa and they still havent 
 improved it.
  
  2. Shooting has improved but still mediocre. I dont understand why rockstar cant do it right. It 
 feels like a stone age shooter. 
  
  3. The new cover system is flawed too. Its too much of a hastle to stick and cover. Its easier 
 playing without since you have way more control in movement and shooting.
  
  4. The missions are more boring than San Andreas.. lacks variation and god damn how can you call 
 a game revolutionary when the concept of the game hasnt changed at all. Go to a location, do the 
 mission, get cash and repeat. 
  
  5. All the extra things you can do.. aka bowling dating darts are poorly done and feel like a chore. 
 You do it so you can keep your friends happy thats it.. its not fun.
  
  6. Too many cops. Yep theres way too many cops that it becomes annoying. A simple car jack is like 
 a 30 percent chance of getting caughts. 
  
  7. This game always have duplicate cars on the same screen. So if you are driving a rare car you'll 
 see the same car you're driving everywhere on screen. This is annoying especially when you see 
 20 taxis on one screen or 10 cops cars patrolling on a screen.
  
  I can nitpick many other problems but meh.. the core thing is this game isnt revolutionary at all. 
 Its the same game with the same flaws with just pretty graphics. Sure some aspects have improved 
 here and there but it still doesnt justify a perfect score. Do not believe the hype and score this 
 game is getting. Though I'll say this... its still worth buying if you are a fan of this genre.
 
  I know it seems like I hate this game but I dont. Im just pointing out how ridiculous the reviewers 
 are. Oh and funny thing is I made a video review on youtube that pointed flaws out and rockstar 
 took it down. Never knew people like rockstar who makes these types of games can get so butt hurt 
 over what fans say.
  xbox 360 has better online
  ps3 has better loading times
  
  basically the only difference to note. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon0113
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a big GTA fan, but this game has changed my view. I wasn't going to get the game, 
 but thank God my wife changed my mind by telling me she was afraid it would be pulled off the shelves 
 at some point and she wanted it in our collection. ( yea you got that right, My wife talked me 
 into getting it. I'm so lucky)
  There have only been two problems that I have found to be frustrating. The first was when the game 
 froze on the opening scenes, but I have had no further problems since the update. It can sometimes 
 be difficult to aim and hit your target while you are driving, but time has helped me overcome 
 this small inconvenience. The game play is very fluent. The story line keeps you very interested 
 and you will find it difficult to put the game down. All the characters are very intriguing and 
 keep you wanting more.
  This is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III, which came out in 2001 for the PS2, meant a revolution in gaming. No one 
 thought it was possible to create a world as immersive as Liberty City in GTA III.
  A year later, in 2002, the sequel arrived, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. This title was a bit of 
 a rush job, (which is a little obvious considering it came out less than a year after GTA III) 
 but that didn't hold it from being another blockbuster.
  It took two years for Rockstar North (previously DMA Design) to create another sequel to this game. 
 And then, on October the 26th, San Andreas hit store shells. Well... if they even got there. You 
 needed to pre-order the game, otherwise you would not get it. The success is easy to describe. 
 1 out of 3 PS2 owners has this game. Incredible.
  
  But then... it was silence. Of course, there were two PSP iderations (Liberty City Stories and 
 Vice City Stories) but there wasn't a true sequel to San Andreas. But when the 'Things Will Be 
 Different' trailer had its debut in March 2007, a lot of people were complaining. Was this still 
 GTA? The tone of the trailer was very urgent and serious. This lead character was in Liberty City 
 for a reason. As you could know from the trailer, this guy had some hard times. Besides the guessing 
 of how the story would be, the new engine was introduced. It looked terrifyingly beatiful. The 
 stage was set, the stakes were high. Grand Theft Auto IV would hit store shells in October, like 
 any other 3D console-based GTA.
  But when the game got delayed (to Q1 2008) we obviously had to wait a little more for Rockstar's 
 next-gen debut (besided Table Tennis) .
  But now it's out, and time for the review.
  
  The story is that you're Niko Bellic, an immigrant from Eastern Europe, who hopes to wipe out his 
 past and start a new future, in Liberty City. His cousin Roman promises him a life of luxury with 
 hot women, fast cars and villa's. A lot of villa's. But when Niko finally makes the cross to America, 
 he finds out that he'll have to fight for the American Dream. And meanwhile, he's dragged into 
 a world full of mafia, assassins and corrupt lawyers.
  The story is told well, with brief cutscenes and incredible voice acting. The old GTA humor is 
 present, and a lot better and more realistic than anything you have seen in the previous GTA games.
 
  
  The way you progress through the game is like in any other GTA game, and that's probably one of 
 the biggest reasons why this title doesn't deserve a perfect 10 score. Most of the missions are 
 like this: you either chase someone down, pick up a car or coke, or you'll just have to take someone 
 out. This will get repetitive, but some unique missions keep it from being a pain in the ass to 
 play. And besides, the story is just plain amazing. You want to progress through it, just to know 
 what's behind the corner this time.
  
  The control scheme in previous GTA games was probably the biggest problem throughout the 3D-titles. 
 This has been improved, but it's still not as fluid as you'd want. The cars handle more realisticly, 
 the aiming is a bit better, but it's still not as simple and accessable like a Call of Duty or 
 Metroid Prime.
  When the first trailer arrived, the stakes were high. And amazingly, it lives up to its expectations. 
 The lightning is simply breath-taking, the details are great in both a small and a big scale, and 
 it just looks slick. So that's also been refined.
  
  The singleplayer campaign will take you anything from 30 to 80 hours to complete, and once finished, 
 you can also try to take out every pigeon you see or just look for easter eggs. With this playtime 
 put on top of that from the campaign, and you have a game with a lot of value. And when you think 
 that's all, you're wrong.
  
  The biggest addition to this new Grand Theft Auto is the multiplayer. And I can tell you, it will 
 mean be the ending of the Call of Duty 4 online reign on both the PS3 and Xbox 360. The modes that 
 are available range from basic Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch to Cops 'n' Crooks (which means that 
 one team is the cops, and they try to kill the boss of the robbers, the 'crooks') to even racing. 
 There are two types of racing modes, basic Race and GTA Race (Mario Kart like) . They're both fun, 
 but not as much as the basic gunfighting.
  It seemed impossible, but it isn't: all that beauty from the singleplayer moves over to the multiplayer. 
 As a host you can pick which area you want to play in, or you can choose for the ENTIRE CITY to 
 be open for everyone. You can go anywhere and do anything. The only real structure is the placing 
 of the weapons and spawnpoints. It can sometimes feel like you spawn right in front of someone's 
 sight (especially if you're playing a small area) but most of the time the game is very well balanced 
 and structured.
  
  Is there anything else to complain about GTA IV? Well, not a lot. The cover system works fine, 
 but some control mapping is a little bit odd. Also, the Xbox 360 version has a little bit pop-up, 
 and especially the PS3 version has some problems with freezing (though I didn't have that at all) 
 but most of the time, you can't really find any big glitch in the game. The delay definitely has 
 paid off. It really feels like it's polished to the max.
  
  CONCLUSION: GTA IV isn't such a big step from GTA III like III was compared to 2, but that's okay. 
 It feels a lot more polished, looks a lot better, plays a lot better and is a lot more accessable. 
 The story is top notch and it just feels like a blockbuster movie playing it. Grand Theft Auto 
 IV is easily one of the best games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is not radically different to its last generation predecessors. It only introduces 
 a handful of new features, many of which are fairly minor. You still commit steal, assault and 
 murder in return for money. You still have to work for untrustworthy criminals who might stab you 
 in the back at any time. You're still in Liberty City. But GTA IV is better than its predecessors. 
 It may be built on the same concept, but this time round, all of the small nuts and bolts that 
 put GTA together are of much better quality, and fit much more closely together.
  
  The game begins as you, Niko Bellic, step off a boat at the Liberty City docks as an illegal immigrant 
 in search of fortune, women and fast cars. All of this has been promised by Niko's cousin, Roman, 
 who you meet almost immediately. However, it quickly transpires that Roman has been living in a 
 dream world and has been falsely promoting Liberty City. In reality, far from living a life of 
 luxury, Roman has been living in a small, untidy one bedroom apartment and runs a small taxi service 
 which apparently struggles to turn over any substantial amount of money. Unimpressed with his cousin's 
 lies, and with little choice, Niko is thrust into the criminal underworld which is prosperous in 
 Liberty City  hardly surprising if you know anything about the GTA series.
  
  It is difficult to pinpoint one feature of GTAIV which is better, or more compelling than any other. 
 If one were forced to choose, the characters, the story or the city would be equally valid choices. 
 However, perhaps the biggest improvement over previous GTA games is in the characters. Whereas 
 in previous GTA instalments, characters could, at times, be a little too eccentric and thus unbelievable, 
 this time round, they are, in most cases, nearly spot on. Every character is well developed in 
 a way not usually seen in video games. By the time you have completed a few missions for each character, 
 you should have a good understanding of what that character believes in, why they are who they 
 are and what sets them apart from the other characters. The range of characters is also hugely 
 diverse, from the jacked up, steroid fuelled Brucie to the marijuana smoking Jamaican, Little Jacob, 
 to the gambling addict, Roman. What's more, each of the main characters are often more closely 
 related in GTA IV than in previous games, something which proves interesting in latter stages of 
 the story. Depending on how much you are drawn to big name actors, you may be disappointed to learn 
 that there are no famous voice actors in GTA IV  no Samuel L. Jackson this time around.
  
  With so many characters to do missions for, hang out with, and chat with, it is not easy to keep 
 up to date on all of their situations. Luckily, this task is made a little easier via the new additions 
 of both a cell phone and internet cafes. Your cell phone is accessible at any time (yes, even when 
 driving) and can be used to call associates, ask for help, enquire about jobs for extra money and 
 to invite friends out. The internet is also used to communicate with friends  although you cannot 
 send them messages, you must wait until they send you one and then hit reply. As well as creating 
 the ability to send emails, the internet is another medium for supplying players with a healthy 
 dose of jokes and funny websites.
  
  Equally as impressive as the characters which have been created, is Liberty City itself. Or rather, 
 Liberty City and Alderney City. Liberty City is based heavily on real life New York City, whilst 
 Alderney is based upon real life New Jersey. GTA III was also set in Liberty City, but on this 
 excursion, Liberty City is almost unrecognisable and has been greatly transformed to the point 
 where it pretty much resembles NYC as closely as possible without actually being NYC. As well as 
 Alderney, Liberty City features four distinct districts; Broker (Brooklyn) , Dukes (Queens) , Bohan 
 (The Bronx) and Algonquin (Manhattan) . These districts have there own unique feel to them, so if 
 you make the transition from one to another, it is quite obvious. This is especially true if you 
 a flying overhead in a helicopter. Also within each district are a number of landmarks. For example, 
 Algonquin features the Statue of Happiness (sorry, no prizes for guessing which real life landmark 
 it is based on) , and the Broker Bridge connects Broker to Algonquin. GTA IV's Liberty City is not 
 as large as San Andreas, so don't go out expecting to get a bigger world just because the game 
 is more recent. That, said, there are no 'empty' areas in Liberty City. Unlike the vast deserts 
 in San Andreas, Liberty City is a crowded, busy city which is densely populated with people, buildings 
 and roads.
  
  Small details in Liberty City make it feel like a real city. Pedestrians will go about their daily 
 business, provided you don't give them a reason to either attack you or speed away in fear. Food 
 stands are dotted around the city  an ideal place to restore your health. The subway is more complex 
 too, to the extent it actually requires a real map of the subway system in the GTA IV box. Police 
 Officers can sometimes be seen making arresting other people and occasionally there are traffic 
 accidents, including the running over of unfortunate pedestrians  all these occurrences happen 
 independently of anything you as the player do, again adding to a sense of realism. As a result 
 of this added realism, it seems like a much bigger thing to have to kill people. You no longer 
 necessarily feel you are just shooting a bunch of pixels on a screen. The people you kill may not 
 be real, but they are real enough within the game for you to care about them. Similarly, sometimes 
 you feel genuinely sorry if you accidentally run somebody over, killing them. Thankfully, if you 
 do do this, at least you get more realistic animations thanks to the RAGE engine. This allows people, 
 Niko included, to act differently in every collision, based on how fast you get hit, at what angle, 
 the size of the car etc. It even allows for drivers to be thrown through the windscreens of vehicles 
 in particular heavy collisions.
  
  As mentioned, Liberty City has quite a bit going on. So to get from one place to another, you're 
 going to need some transport. One of the first things you will notice when you play GTA IV is how 
 different the cars feel from previous GTA's. Sure, each car has always been different in terms 
 of design and their performance properties, but in GTA IV the difference is much more noticeable. 
 The feel of the cars weight is much more noticeable. This makes braking take longer, and also means 
 that if you do like power sliding around corners, expect the slide to last a lot longer. At first 
 this will probably mean you crash a lot, and the new driving model is a bit more difficult than 
 before, but once you get used to it you begin to appreciate it, even if it is harder to master. 
 As always, you can also catch public transport. As well as the aforementioned subway, GTA IV introduced 
 taxis. Of course, taxis were always there, but now you can pay to ride in them. This is very simple. 
 After hailing an empty taxi, you press a button to get in, tell the driver where to go, and they 
 take you there (duh!) . You can pay more money to skip the journey, which makes getting from one 
 corner of the city to the other a much faster experience than before. If you do need to drive such 
 distances on your own, this is made much easier in GTA IV via the use of GPS. Basically, you plot 
 where you want to go on the map, and the GPS shows you the quickest (legal) route to get to your 
 destination.
  
  An area of past GTA IV games which has often let the series down is the combat. The auto aim in 
 particular felt a bit broken and there was never really a way to shield yourself from bullets whilst 
 aiming and shooting back at the same time. Luckily, this has been addressed in GTA IV. You can 
 now employ the use of a cover system during intense shootouts with 'peacekeeping officers.' It's 
 quite simply  press R1 to take cover, L2 to auto aim, R2 to shoot. The auto aim also allows for 
 a degree of manual aiming, so headshot are quite easy (a little too easy, actually) . Additionally, 
 the hand to hand combat is improved, and you can now kick, punch and counter enemies' attacks. 
 You can even disarm an enemy if they are wielding a knife. Unfortunately, the auto aiming system 
 still isn't perfect. Especially in close quarters, it can be difficult to lock on or see who you 
 are aiming at. For example, if a cop gets the jump on you at close range, it can be difficult to 
 lock on and shoot them due to them being within such close proximity to you. Also, throwing grenades 
 can be a little hit and miss. On a number of occasions, you may find yourself aiming a grenade 
 in a particular direction, only for Niko to throw it into a wall next to yourself. These issues 
 aside, the cover system still works well 90% of the time, and is certainly an improvement over 
 how it previously was.
  
  As usual, there a tonne of side missions and secrets to find in the game in order to reach 100% 
 completion. However, most players will be more concerned with the story  and it doesn't disappoint. 
 The story is more believable in GTA IV than you may have come to expect from the series. There 
 is no breaking into Area 51, no flying jetpacks and no jumping out of planes. However, this is 
 not all bad. The added realism suits GTA IV and complements it's more realistic setting. The story 
 is pretty engaging, and tends to feel more like a film. This is probably due to the better character 
 development in GTA IV than what you are used to seeing in GTA games. Cut scenes really convey more 
 about characters now, and being able to go out and do activities with characters allows you to 
 learn more about them. Unlike a film though, GTA IV is more thought provoking. This is largely 
 as a result of a new addition to the series  the ability to make choices throughout the story. 
 Whilst most missions will still tell you exactly what to do, a few of them allow you to make decisions, 
 such as whether or not to kill somebody. These decisions grow in importance throughout, and you 
 will be left with some genuinely difficult decisions to make. Most of these decisions to not drastically 
 alter the way the story goes, although they do allow for two possible endings for the story. However, 
 personally I found both endings a bit of a let down compared to the quality narrative of the story 
 up until then. I found it a little predictable and also a bit clichd. With the rest of the story 
 being so good, I was a bit disappointed with the ending. The story is also quite lengthy though. 
 If you just focus on the main story, most players would finish it in about 25-35 hours. If you 
 take your time and explore other areas of the game whilst doing the story, though, you can easily 
 get 50-60 hours out of the game.
  
  GTA IV is also the first in the series to offer online multiplayer for up to 16 other wanna be 
 criminals. It works well enough, with a range of modes which include the standard deathmatch, cops 
 n crooks and some interesting yet repetitive co-op missions only available online. It is also novel 
 to be able to use the whole of Liberty City to wreak havoc on one another via the use of various 
 weapons and vehicles (or, using vehicles as weapons) . Ultimately though, the online aspect isn't 
 great, and can best be described as an added bonus to the single player experience  I would not 
 recommend GTA IV on its multiplayer alone. I found it difficult to join any type of game, typically 
 getting disconnected immediately and being kicked back into single player. When I did join a game, 
 it was quite enjoyable, but the game did suffer from frequent bouts of lag, especially when players 
 started getting hit by cars at high speeds which were being driven by other players. This happens 
 a lot, too, as most players immediate instinct is to jack a car and drive around in it.
  
  A major complaint I have with GTA IV is that it is too easy. I guess this is to cater for the huge 
 market which GTA IV appeals to as casual gamers will make up a larger percentage of sales than 
 hardcore gamers. Nonetheless, it is too easy. There were only about half a dozen missions which 
 I did not complete first time round. Of these 6, the reason for failure was often because I made 
 a silly mistake, such as shooting a friendly character and having to restart  not because the 
 enemies were too tough and killed me. I also managed to go through the entire story without getting 
 6 stars. This was a feat I was not even trying to achieve, it just turned out that way because 
 the game is so easy. In fact, even in the later missions, it is rare that getting more than 3 stars 
 would be scripted as part of the mission.
  
  Another issue I've had with the GTA series which has not been rectified in GTA IV, is the issue 
 of money. You get awarded tonnes of money fro doing missions, yet there is nothing to spend it 
 on. Granted, weapons cost more this time round, but you are still awarded with more money than 
 you can do anything with. For me, it would be better if you were paid less  that way it would 
 not be easy for you to just go out and buy the biggest rocket launcher in the game. You might further 
 consider if it was not worth the risk of killing a cop or stealing a cop car to acquire a handgun 
 or shotgun.
  
  Ultimately, despite it's flaws, GTA is a great game. It is difficult to fault it on any given aspect 
 of its gameplay. The characters are spot on and display many more human properties than past characters 
 have done. Niko is, in my opinion, the best lead character for a GTA game to date. Liberty City 
 really does feel alive, with any number of possibilities available to happen during a days play. 
 The story is engaging in a way not usually seen in video games, even if the ending does not live 
 up to the rest of the story. On top of the single player package, you also get a decent multiplayer 
 component thrown in for your money as well. Given all this, it is difficult to make any recommendation 
 other than to get this game ASAP if you have a system to play it on. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Lifespan: 10/10
  Story: 9/10
  Overall: 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick5152003
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- It looks like any other Grand Theft Auto, but with the R* table tennis GFX engine copy 
 and pasted in. That's not necessarily a bad thing, the GFX are quite impressive, but It's like 
 the GTA characters are from another world.. the R* table tennis world or something.. Still looks 
 nice though. Anyway- Just like before, you have a whole city to run around in and no load times 
 to worry about- pretty impressive- but wait, that's it? You might be wondering what sets it a part 
 from the last gen counter part, cause San Andreas did the same thing. . What sets it apart is the 
 scale and size of everything. It's so freaking massive it's really hard to believe. Walking the 
 streets and looking up at any time will find you towered by enormous buildings. You often feel 
 like a little ant compared to some of these buildings. It's massive. Flying around the city in 
 a Heli will give you the best grasp on this situation. 
  
  But a massive city with no loads times can lead to a below average frame rate. The frames don't 
 drop too often, but when they do it is noticeable and can take you out of the experience. Other 
 problems i had GFX wise was the draw distance- it's equivalent to GTA 3's draw distance. Like if 
 3 had the same draw distance as 4 you'd be able to see for days, but the buildings you're on top 
 of this time are so huge the draw distance just isn't enough. So, flying to the top of a giant 
 building in a helicopter with sniper rifle in hand is something you'll want to do, but you most 
 likely won't be able to see the peds below, even with the best sniper rifle. 
  
  Sound- The voice acting is not nearly as good as people are making it out to be. The written dialog 
 isn't too shabby but the performances from some of these guys is not really anything special. The 
 cut scenes are done nice, parts of the game where Niko gets kinda riled up will have you cheering 
 in agreeance with him. But what you'll hear from the characters during missions, while driving 
 to and from way points, etc.. just sounds robotic and/or frustratingly annoying. Like after replaying 
 certain missions a few times, you really don't want to hear some of these characters talk anymore. 
 But I remember after attempting the bank mission a few times, on the way there one of the characters 
 said, "You mind if we just listen to radio on the way there this time?" So there's little things 
 like that R* added to kinda make you forget how pissed off you just were. Also, the dialog will 
 be mostly different each time. For example, the first trip to the bank one character will make 
 fun of another characters drug habit, and the second trip to the bank the other character will 
 make fun of another character's drinking problem, etc..
  
  The soundtrack is a tricky thing this time, too. You'll be lucky to find 5 songs you recognize, 
 but after hearing what all the radio stations have to offer- it's easy to see what R* was going 
 for and the music really does go with the setting and vibe of the game and most of it is quite 
 enjoyable. Side note- R* gets 20 cool points for adding the pony song by Ginuwine 
  
  Fun Factor- It's fun. Probably more fun than any other GTA, but you'll still fail missions for 
 the stupidest reasons- like one of your buddies you're supposed to be looking after gets accidentally 
 ran over, the boat your driving flips over for no good reason, or you go to blind fire around a 
 truck with an RPG, but the rocket hits the truck you're taking cover from instead and you go kaboom, 
 etc. It can get pretty frustrating, so much so that i often uttered aloud, "I hate this game." 
 But then something crazy will happen that makes me go, "I love this game." See how that works? 
 
  
  Gameplay- Bah! A lot of the gameplay just feels unfinished. Like, now when you grab on to a ledge 
 you can kinda.. for lack of a better term- shimmy a long, but most of the time that's all you'll 
 be doing. Cause some of the ledges won't let you pull yourself up, etc. It just seems like they 
 could've done a lot more with this and made Niko kind of like an Assassin's creed type dude, scaling 
 tall buildings, etc. That would have awesome. But.. this time they let you climb ladders.. so.. 
 you can't really complain too much i suppose. Oh ya and the combat system still isn't all that. 
 Cover system gets in the way most of time and going in and out of cover just doesn't work as well 
 as you'd like. Oh yeah, and the driving is kinda weird. Specifically the turning mechanics. Holding 
 the brake down doesn't let you turn enough, but holding the e-brake down makes you turn too much. 
 You can't really find a comfortable medium with the turning this time. It kinda left me scratching 
 my head and questioning R*. 
  
  There's a new physics engine this time as well. It's called Euphoria. It's like rag doll physics 
 but your body reacts more realistically to every thing. The new euphoria engine allows just a lot 
 of crazy things to happen at random. But flying through windshields and flailing around can just 
 become something you don't always want to happen.
  
  The drive-bys are a lot more elaborate this time. Borrowing some from the book of Saints Row. Instead 
 of looking left or right and then shooting. You can now free aim and shoot any which way. But in 
 missions where you have to chase after and eliminate baddies, it can get kinda tricky- toggling 
 between actually steering the car and aiming at this guy and not running into the side of this 
 building, etc.
  
  Another thing borrowed from the book of Saints Row is the Phone. Every story based character you 
 run into can contact you at anytime and ask you if you want to go bowling or to the bar. Of the 
 list of contacts you have on your phone most of them will grant you a special perk if you're nice 
 enough to them. Like if you don't ignore any of Lil Jacob's calls and take him to the Clucken bell 
 every now and then, eventually he'll grant you the ability to call him up when ever for a guns'n'ammo 
 delivery. A nice touch, but keeping up with these contacts can become nothing more than a tedious 
 task. 
  
  Overall- It's not as much of a revolutionary jump as 2 to 3 and there's really not a lot of differences 
 in the missions you'll be doing. But with every problem i had with this game, it still took 90 
 plus hours from my life in the past two weeks. So that's gotta count for something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattimer22
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar did a wonderful job on this game especially game play frame rate and visuals. I have a 
 great time each time I play which keeps me coming back for more. This game is a huge game so you 
 will be playing it for weeks or maybe months to come. Your hard earned money will go far with this 
 title because there is a lot to do. 
  
  There is a lot of attention paid to detail, which makes for a unique and realistic experience for 
 instance when you shoot a fire extinguisher it will shoot out white fire suppresser from the bullet 
 hole. When you honk your horn people react. If your using a dual shock 3 controller and the thunder 
 strikes your controller vibrates. When your phone rings you can set your in game cell phone to 
 vibrate so that when your phone rings your controller vibrates. Cool huh?
  
  Single player campaign you will start out with an apartment in the slums of Liberty City. The jobs 
 you have the option of doing will allow you to work your way up gain new apartments and more money. 
 The people you meet make the story interesting with plot twists and interesting characters. This 
 in turn opens up the map and new places to eat and shop for clothing. Don't worry your clothing 
 choices will get better and nicer as you progress. 
  
  You'll have the capability of driving or stealing cars, buses, motorcycles, scooters, fire trucks, 
 cop cars, ice-cream trucks, garbage trucks, helicopters, no planes though in this one unlike San 
 Andreas: ( Although their will be late in the game the ability to get a helicopter with guns I believe 
 its called the Annihilator. 
  
  If you get bored with single player campaign; it has online multiplayer mode for upto 16 players. 
 Online mode not only allows to to free roam, but you have the option to free roam with out the 
 burden of the police, which is kind of cool for a couple matches but the police actually make the 
 game much more fun.
  
  I enjoy playing this game tremendously and I'm sure you will too. If you don't crack up while playing 
 this game and have a ball playing it then I guess you're just not human.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delston
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be not as groundbreaking as everyone screamed about. I must admit, when I saw 
 the all elusive "10" rating on it I was mesmerized. I purchased the game on my way home from work 
 only to find that two weeks later (at the time of the writing of this review) I was totally and 
 utterly bored of the content the same way I had been with GTA III and GTA: Vice City. A "10" should 
 captivate, inspire the player to play and replay again and again, not caring whether the content 
 is new or old. Admittedly, there are only a few games that I would personally give a "10" simply 
 because there are so many games available I don't feel there is time to replay some of those 7's 
 or 8's. 
  
  GTA IV was the same as the its siblings. Once the newness of it being better graphics, and a few 
 new physical features and some more in-depth scenery, I found myself asking what's the drive to 
 continue to commute around this city essentially running errands that don't make much difference? 
 The features I noticed that were immediately different were things like your car lifting up when 
 the water from the fire hydrant you just plowed over hits from underneath, or Niko reacting physically 
 correct when a stopping car nudges him. I enjoyed the new aiming system. But things like the phone 
 got downright annoying. However, above all, my biggest gripe about the game is the fact that I 
 couldn't walk without the camera auto-adjusting my view back to a "following" view. This sounds 
 silly, but when I wanted to walk to the right but see another direction, it becomes incredibly 
 difficult with the auto-view. 
  
  Graphics are neat, I will be the first to admit that graphics help attract me to a game. Storyline 
 keeps me interested and moreover wanting to play again and again, trying to relive moments, and 
 re-feel the way I felt the first time I played it. GTA IV does nothing of this. The graphics are 
 simply better than GTA III, but nothing even close to ground breaking. The case claims it displays 
 in 1080p, but there just simply is no way it is 1080p. 
  
  I found the game fun for the first week, my favorite thing to do quickly became grabbing a nearby 
 vehicle and mowing down passersby on the sidewalksthen I found myself asking "how many people 
 can one man run down before the game has lost its appeal?" Boredom of the game's repetition set 
 in and needless to say I've already sold my copy. 
  
  Final Thoughts and ratings:
  
  Rent it, you most likely will see all the hype within the amount of time before you have to return 
 it. This game would not be worthy of holding onto in my opinion.
  
  Graphics: 6  I expect more for a 4th gen game on a next gen system. And 1080p? please
 
  Gameplay: 5  since when did a high-end sports car handle the same as a garbage truck?
 
  Replayability: 6  some fun things to do again, but in all, the story is forgettable
  Value:4 more of the same, 10$ more
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  Shooting, Stealing, Drugs, Cars, 
 Women, Hookers, Missions that's right I must be talking about the latest installment of Grand Theft 
 Auto. The latest installment of GTA is known as GTA 4, this is the first one for the current generation 
 of gaming systems and I'll let you know that for it being the first one of the PS3 this is a perfect 
 example of what happens when you take time you get a perfect game. Unlike the characters of GTA 
 3, Vice City and San Andreas and Liberty City Stories not including Vice City Stories the character 
 of this game isn't someone who wants to raise to the top of the underworld. 
  
  Enter our hero Nico Bellic a immigrant who comes to Liberty City from what I can tell the time 
 line is either extremely late 90's or even the new millenium I can't tell for sure but it sure 
 is farther ahead in time because there is no one at all from the GTA 3 cast in this game so it 
 means that they must have moved on (referring to the ones who are still alive not the dead mobsters) 
 But anyway it doesn't change anything. You first see Nico on a boat heading to liberty city when 
 he gets off the boat you see him being alone it looked like his ride forgot him, and at it's at 
 that point you get a feeling that Nico has had it rough his entire life and guess what you wouldn't 
 be wrong. It turns out he was in a war and he is now trying to start over or at least we think 
 that. Than we see a car enter at high speed and a person get out, it's a overly happy Romanian 
 (I'm assuming their ethic background is Romanian than again I may be wrong) It turns out this is 
 his cousin Roman, you'll get to love Roman like he's your cousin during the game I know out of 
 everyone I find Roman to be one of the people I like most in this game. It is revealed that Nico 
 is also looking for someone special, we all think it's a woman at least I think it's a woman. Now 
 later you find out that Nico is the sole survivor of a horrendous crime and he came to Liberty 
 City to find the people who were responsible and that's when it hits you, this isn't a normal "Rise 
 to the top of the Crime World GTA Game" this is a "Revenge Story GTA Game" Which is a nice change 
 for the series of games not that I have any problems with the ladder but change is nice every now 
 and than. 
  
  Even though Nico is trying to make his way in the world he also has to help his cousin Roman who 
 is really indebted to the criminal element of Liberty City so in other words the mob factions. 
 Rockstar has done a lot of changes with this game for one they got rid of the AmmoNation's that 
 have populated all the other GTA games I'm not sure if they'll bring them back for the future GTA 
 games but in my eyes it adds a nice element of realism it's more real to go through back alley 
 dealers to get what you need instead of walking to any store on the end of a block also they brought 
 GTA into the current generation by adding the Net you can go to any Internet Cafe to get online 
 Rockstar was able to mimic their own version of the net to mimic the Internet of reality it comes 
 with websites, and your own personal Email which you will get emails from your family and various 
 other people. One thing I like a lot is the fact that the main communications device you have is 
 a Cell phone, I know there was Cell phones in other games but they weren't as interactive as the 
 cell is in this game. One of the websites in the game offers you a chance to upgrade your cell 
 phone via ring tones and themes I mean have you seen any other games do that? I know I haven't. 
 
  
  Unlike any other GTA game the cast of this game isn't full of people that are big name that I know 
 of whereas GTA Vice City had a huge list of A+ Stars this game has a list of people who are mostly 
 unknowns which I personally like it's easier to associate with someone who isn't a big star than 
 someone who is. 
  
  I won't say much about the story because the game is still really new and I don't want to spoil 
 it but I'll let you know that the road to justice isn't straight there are a lot of curves and 
 zig zags, and just trust your instincts. Even playing for 2 hours a day (I actually played more 
 than that but just saying 2 hours) it'll take at least a week I know it did for me. And that week 
 will be the most satisfying ever, I will admit till I beat the game I was addicted to that game 
 and once I ended it I felt like I was whole again. 
  
  I can't wait for the next GTA game to come out and if it's like GTA 4 I can't wait to buy it. The 
 controls will take some getting used to if it doesn't have the vibrate function other than that 
 this is yet another perfect game from Rockstar and I will be glad to wait for GTA 5. Long live 
 the GTA Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incognito12
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Good game all around, just a bit disappointed at the fact that since the game is set in present 
 time New York City there aren't as many people walking the streets as there should be within the 
 city. In addition there is no heavy traffic like there would be in New York city during the rush 
 hour. More traffic and increased number of pedestrians would add to the realism effect. I'm just 
 saying that when you walk downtown or drive in the game you see high-rise apartments and buildings. 
 Wouldn't you would expect to see a lot more people in the game since the population is so large? 
 The scenery within the game does not quite match the realism is what I'm trying to get at. It would 
 be funner to play with more pedestrians and traffic; just like in the big city. I agree that this 
 is the best GTA so far, the protagonist has a great personality which gamers may like and will 
 motivate and enjoy playing the entire game. Not to mention the game is at some level addicting 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomberland
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  I, ve been a big fan of the gta series since playing gta3: a gaming milestone at the time I played 
 it. Vice City improved on the formula greatly and I was blown away by the scale of San Andreas. 
 So along with everyone else I've been spending the last year waitng eagerly for the latest episode.
 
  As expected GTA4 turned out to be a superb experience and another milestone in the series, both 
 in graphical capability and gameplay.
  This is an openworld sandbox game that feels as polished as a linear, level based game and features 
 some truly stunning lighting effects.
  The gameplay is now spot on. Gunplay and targetting has now beccome a lot more accessable, though 
 still a long way off perfect.
  The driving handling and colision system is now a lot more realistic thanks to the improved physics 
 engine and makes for some nice "wow" moments.
  The overall feel of the game is more down to earth than others in the series and makes this a far 
 more realistic experience... Perhaps too realistic for my liking.
  The storyline is one of the best featured in a game, but compares to an average thriller, There 
 aren't that many standout moments in the actual main storyline and missions can be a little repetative.
 
  The setting for the game is the most detailed enviroment yet seen in a game of this kind and carries 
 it's own atmosphere incredibly well.
  But it's just not as expasnsive and varied as SA. This is the only thing that lets this game down 
 to me an why I wouldn't give it perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanchN
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Too many redundant issues with simple things. When I drive an Infernus through a bad side of town, 
 or through the ghetto... why does everyone own an Infernus? Thoughts? Not to sound like a Metrosexual 
 here, but I also liked the diversity in clothing options in San Andreas. It was just nice to have 
 that. And when changing tops, why does he still take 20 minutes? On a PS3 or 360, shouldn't there 
 be a type of, scrolling option that changes the clothes? incredible job done on the targeting and 
 the combat modes. Even on trying to get a car. No more draging people out, just point your gun 
 at them through the windshield, and they run off.
  I think overall, the game is brilliant, stunning, and all that it is ment to be. No real complaints. 
 Rockstar did what Rockstar does best. They made a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marterikster
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  First of all, yes it is a great game and i enjoyed it alot. But its not a perfect game, not even 
 close.
  I bought the game and expected it to be perfect and i was disappointed.
  The story isnt as epic as it could have been, the physics didint live up to the hype, the AI is 
 quite stupid really and everything was a little less than what i wanted.
  The game handles quite bad too, i understand that if you just went flying from a bike then you 
 shouldnt get up as if nothing happened but waiting forever for your guy to get up is just no fun 
 .On the other hand, the music is great, the world is huge and you can definately see that its a 
 great game. All that was great in san an is great here too
  The online has potential but definately needs some work. The online idea of cops and crooks is something 
 that is really interesting and fun to play.
  So i give it an 8.5 because that is how it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockutd
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  GTA !V is a grood game, but it is definitely not worthy of the 10 that is given by GS. Gameplay 
 wise, the game is good, u get to do alot of stuff that u dun get to do in other games, such as 
 surfing the internet, watching cabaret shows, hook up with chicks etc. Spoofs of radioshows advertisements 
 ,TV shows , the Internet inject some humour to this otherwise dark game. The game is almost a replica 
 of real life, with the exception of the part that u dun get away from cops so easily ( a point whcih 
 i will come to later) . The surroundings in the game are breath taking, the remodeling of LC after 
 NYC was done in a detailed and intricate fashion and u have to give Rockstar credit for that. Also, 
 the storyline is reasonably okay, and the protagonist in th e game is a likeable charcater where 
 at times u do sympathise with him despite all the stuff his done.
  
  Now i will talk abut the flaws of the game. One thing is repetition.. Most of the time u are driving 
 around, killing people, beating up people to earn some money. U do feel at some point in the game, 
 the developers add in some missions to just lenghten the game as some of these missions are of 
 no relation to the main story. Also, there is no much of character development in the game. For example, 
 u dun get the chance to work out in the gym to buff up unlike past GTA series that will give u 
 the edge in combat. The shooting system in the game is horrible. Sure, it not a FPS and u dun expect 
 COD4 quality gunfights, but since most of the missions require u to use a gun and that leaves no 
 room for excuse for the bad shooting system. The cinematics also need some brushing up and i think 
 i have seen better quality cinematics on a PS2. The AI in the game is dumb, especially the cops. Often, 
 escaping them is a piece of cake and it makes u wonder of their purpose in the game. Aspects like 
 these just removes realism away from the game.
  
  With all that said, GTA IV is still a game that is worth playing and u should try it. I just feel 
 that the game is abit overrated and i am saving my 10 for MGS 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher619
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  GTA IV Review by Brad Martin (AKA Punisher619)
  What can I say about GTA IV? I can't say that is it the best in the series because that is an understatement. 
 GTA IV changes almost everything about the grand theft auto series. First is the combat. Past GTA 
 games combat was bad. Now with the new cover system they have that you see in uncharted, gears 
 of war, or GRAW. It makes the combat a lot easier and a lot more fun. Then there is the driving; 
 now each car drives differently and handles differently. This makes the game play even more real. 
 And controls for the driving has changed and it made it a lot easier. You can now free aim in a 
 car so you can shoot down pursuers or get to those guys that where so hard to get in past games. 
 Then there is the AI. Ever NPC responds to what you do. Like if you are in a shootout with the 
 police there will be hardly and people around because after the first few shots everyone has ran 
 for the hills. Also shooting people in gun fights has improved. Let's say you shoot a man in the 
 leg he will fall but still be alive so he will get up and shoot again but when he is down you can 
 shoot him again to finish him. It is things like that which make the game all the better. Then 
 there is the law now instead of finding police stars or driving into a pay and spray you have to 
 evade the police by staying outside the police radius and waiting for awhile not that exciting 
 but is a lot easier to avoid the police. You can still go into a pay and spray if a cop doesn't 
 see you go in which adds to the realism.
  Characters, the game has great character and voice acting and the man you play as in the story 
 it nico bellic and his is a cool likable guy, and funny. The voice acting is great and it really 
 lets to feel what the character is thinking and you get to understand them and get to know them. 
 Now there are a few people in the game you can pick up and go drinking or play pool or darts etc. 
 Some of these characters will give you bonuses. And the very cool thing is each character will 
 talk to you when you are on your way to a location and they talk about their past and just what 
 is going on. The games characters are arms dealers like little Jacob to mob bosses that always 
 want you to whack someone.
  Now I got this game and I just now beat it. And from what I have seen in the game it is the best 
 GTA and best game I have played so far. This is a must play for all GTA fans and even if you are 
 not big on the GTA series now is the chance to jump on the wagon because this is a truly great 
 game.
  PSN Punisher1024 I'll be on GTA IV online if anyone wants to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN9800
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto the three little words that spark controversy with parents and politicians and 
 is also the game that sparks excitement in the hearts of gamers. Grand Theft Auto is one of the 
 biggest players in the video game industry selling millions of copies and has a place in pop culture. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV is one the most anticipated video games of all time and not only has it delivered 
 on the hype it has surpassed it, making Grand Theft Auto IV one of the greatest games ever made. 
 But what makes Grand Theft Auto IV so special? Very simply put the attention to detail. Rockstar 
 Games have done a phenomenal job in making Liberty City a living breathing world. When it rains 
 citizens take out umbrellas and those that don't have one use there newspaper , when you kill somebody 
 that is riding a car they fall on the steering wheel and the horn sounds off, while sprinting if 
 you run into someone they'll get knocked down and drop there coffee. What adds more weight to this 
 detail is the graphics; Grand Theft Auto IV is easily one of the best looking games this console 
 generation. Adding more to this the incredible soundtrack that's fits game so well, no matter what 
 you're into you'll find a radio station for you, and probably the best thing about this game is 
 the rich characters Rockstar games are known for each of them is unique. The best thing about Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is the gameplay, Rockstar Games have done a great job in remaking the aiming system 
 and have also implemented a cover system which works really well. The controls might take time 
 to getting use to but once mastered you well have a blast. The missions in Grand Theft Auto IV 
 are varied and exciting and do provide a challenge. Grand Theft Auto IV main story quest will last 
 around 30 hours plus and on top of that there are plenty of side missions which adds to the replay 
 value. Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the greatest games ever made and gamers all around need to 
 play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cow-sniperz
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I was never a huge fan of the previous Grand Theft Autos, but this one dragged me in. The graphics 
 are great, but not the best. This game has the best storyline out of any games I have played before. 
 The storyline is the thing that will keep you playing this game for many hours at a time. The cover 
 system needs work, but for the most part, it is still pretty good.
  
  The one big flaw I had for this game was the online multiplayer. The first thing I noticed was 
 that if you fail to connect to a lobby, it takes you back into single player, which takes some 
 time to load. Another thing is, some of the game play modes are not very fun, like deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch. However, there are a lot more modes than just those two, and you will be spending 
 a lot of time playing free mode with friends, or with random people on live by joining a quick 
 match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I have never been a massive fan on the GTA series. Though a lot of them have had great storylines 
 and interesting characters, there's always been something about it the games I have never liked. 
 San Andreas was labelled as one of the best games of the decade, I can see why but I felt because 
 it was so expansive, everything felt a little diluted or stretched to fit over its enormous body. 
 The result was areas of great interest punctuated by total blandness where there was nothing.
 
  
  Vice City was probably the best in the GTA series as it caputered the true essense of the source 
 material but was let down by average controls and truck loads of glitches. I found Vice City though 
 to have the most eccstatic characters of any GTA but I never felt motivated enough to go and complete 
 the damn thing.
  
  GTA III was the one that revolutionised free roaming forever in my opinion, but by todays standards 
 in very average. The lead character was a mute and the story really didn't get interesting enough 
 for me to feel the need to play it. And the overall message I got from the looks and feel of GTA 
 III made me feel a little depressed.
  
  GTA IV however, is the first in the series that has totally thrown me and caught me by surprise, 
 the story line is very interesting, the characters are solid and new feel of liberty city is unlike 
 that of previous outings. It is actaully quite an enjoyable game now.
  
  Everything has been refined to a immense point of quality, as much as quality goes in a GTA game. 
 The shooting has been vastly improved with a cover and auto aim feature that worked very well, 
 though the auto aiming can get a bit dodgy sometimes and it aims for someone totally different 
 on the other side of the street to who you actually want to cap. I like the driving. Cars feel 
 like cars, trucks feel like trucks and hummers feel like hummers, they now all react as if they 
 would and the control set up feel right. I like how a lot of PS3 are now using the R2 trigger as 
 accelaration, as it gives you that sense of how much power your injecting your motor. Many won't 
 like the driving compared to last gen's flimsy OTT paper cars which flew off the street if they 
 hit a fire hydrant.
  
  Graphically, for a GTA, its great. Now when I say, for a GTA game, lets face it, they are normally 
 pretty average. Have you recently revisited San Andreas recently? Some sacrifices have been made 
 to accomodate the size of the place but in general, it's a very handsome game. I just wish they 
 would sort the trees out! They are still made of three flat polygons stuck between each other and 
 it looks ****
  
  Water effects are cool and when it rains it brings an enitrely new look and feel to the city as 
 eveything becomes damp and slipperly, you will sit there in awe like the time when Nathan Drake 
 gets wet in Uncharted. Word of warning, night time looks cool but you may want to adjust the contrast 
 on that TV of yours as it becomes very VERY difficult to see where you are going at night.
  
  Niko is a very likeable character and next to the Vice City lead, stands as the best lead character 
 in GTA. I hated CJ because he was simply irritating and his story was pish poor. I hated Claude 
 becuase he didn't talk and didn't feel like a character. Tony Cipriani and the other bloke from 
 Vice City Stories were mildly likeable but nowhere near the depths of Niko.
  
  He is polite, for a start. Bump into someone and he shouts sorry. He has a logical head and is 
 very constructed and considerate in his responses and on a whole a great character.
  
  The city feels truly alive now. You can hear people cell phone calls and conversations and reactions 
 when you bump into them is totally outstanding.
  
  I want to bring this to a close now, but before I do... multiplayer. In short this could be the 
 best online game since Call of Duty 4. The variety of modes is excellent and you're always guarenteed 
 to find a server to join. It is phenomenal.
  
  Overall, GTA IV did something the others didn't for me. It captured me in it's world and refused 
 to let go becuase it is an unbelievable achievement. I wish the cutscenes looked slightly more 
 polished and yeah, the trees do bug me but for the multiplayer alone, it's worth buying and I could 
 surely ramble on all day about how GTA IV out does everything Rockstar initially set out to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cei13
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is almost completely flawless and is probably the best game I've ever played in my 30 
 years of game playing! The only flaw I've found is that it can be difficult to see at night or 
 in darkened buildings, but that is probably due to my not having an HDTV, yet. I've worked around 
 it by turning up the brightness and contrast. That is the only problem I've had, everything else 
 about the game is perfect! I've never played a game where the environment seems so alive. Even 
 Oblivion's world isn't as alive as Liberty City. Just cruise around bumping cars and listen to 
 the comments. I've not heard the same comment yet, which is impressive. There are so many little 
 details that make this game rock that it would take a novel to list them all. A couple of my favorites 
 are flying through the window of your vehicle if you have a head on collision at high speed and 
 watching bodies fly through the air when you use the rocket launcher or grenades. Yes, these are 
 things that appear in other games, but they make this installment even more real than previous 
 installments. The graphics themselves are almost perfect (except for the darkness issue) and I 
 will be getting an HDTV just for this game. I've been playing San Andreas on my computer and there 
 is no comparison. GTA IV blows it away. The sound effects are absolutely dead on as well. The trademark 
 humor is still there and it has been greatly expanded on. When you get Internet access in the game, 
 surf the Web and you'll see what I mean. There are websites that had me almost rolling on the floor! 
 Plus, you still get the great talk radio and radio commercials that will have you wiping tears 
 of laughter from your eyes. The story is phenomenal and is the best of the series. I'm looking 
 forward to finishing the main game just so I can explore and mess around. As for the people who 
 have demonized this series for it's violence and sex, this game is no worse than any R rated movie. 
 And I'd give it that for the language. The violence is not very gory and the sexual aspects are 
 totally PG13. In fact, they are more funny than sexy. I have seen no nudity, even in the strip 
 club, so the game fascists can rest easy. I wouldn't let a 10 year old play this, but that is why 
 this has a Mature rating. It's about time companies are making games for adults and GTA IV is a 
 perfect example of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Well it's been a long wait but it's finally here. This game is great and one of the best games 
 of the year but sadly it didn't deserve a ten. 
  
  The Good: Clean and technically proficient graphics they've done well here considering how large 
 the city is also in previous version you might be able to guess what real life car you are driving 
 but now you know exactly what your driving. The story is great going from you being a fresh of 
 the boat immigrant, to a highly respected and highly paid hitman but there is a difference in this 
 one Niko Belic isn't a cold blooded killer he does have emotions. It's great not to see the same 
 person 10 times on one street now you'll be lucky to see the same person in 2 hours. Some people 
 are giving the cover system a hard time but I think it's fine, you'll either jump or slide in to 
 cover if your far away and when your behind cover you can just pop up and waste the slightly intelligent 
 AL. Also for the first time you can decide whether or not to kill your targets and by doing this 
 it will affect the ending of the game. Yoy've always had a phone but now you can use it to activate 
 cheats ring people and upgrade it on the internet which is also a good inclusion. And by going 
 out whith other contacts in the game you can get priviledges like buying discounted guns
  
  The Bad: It's a bit short but it does have alternate endings so that warrants a play through atleast 
 twice. You can't fly planes but you can fly helicopters but it's half as fun. There's only two 
 sets of weapons 15 weapons in total. 
  
  As you can see there's a lot more good points then bad points about this game so what are you waiting 
 for go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HMN_
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the best gta game hands down... it just awsome :D
  
  STORY: 10/10
  GTA stories have never been that great... but this one is
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  basically everything 
 has improved... times 10. The driving is good (weird at first)
  the shooting is awsome.
  
  MUSIC: 9/10
  Alot of pople have said the radio stations are bad, but i find them great
  
 
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  This are no gears of war/ uncharted graphics, but considering the size of the city, and the fact 
 its multiplatform (that downgrades the graphics on ANY game)
  makes the graphics a 10
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 10/10
  All gta's have a high replay value, and considering this has online, makes 
 the number even higher.
  
  This game is a 10/10 in my "book"... if you dont have it, GO BUY IT NAO!!! you will not regret it... unless... it 
 freezes on you :P (mine didnt... yay) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best GTA around. The game has had additions which have all benifited the game. I 
 guess it beat the saying 'if it aint broke dont fix it'. But I'd like to point out a few minor incoveniences.
 
  
  The first is graaphics. For this generation they pass and look great in places, buit alot of the 
 walls are in 2d and some items like guns are pretty bland looking. The social aspect is fun but 
 can get anooying if you just want to play missions and then feel bad for hanging up on them. Also 
 online suffers from lag, especially when youure shooting them, as the shot doesnt register for 
 about 1 second or two. Also, there is a big gap between first control and gunplay, so the tuorial 
 part of the game is a few hours long.
  
  But besides those a fun, lenghty single player campaign packed with online and countless side missions, 
 it will take you HOURS to get into the 100% club! But this is one game you have to get into as alot 
 of people will throw the pad down and walk away frustrated before they see the games high points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmaxie14
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  After causing 2 sleepless nights, I have decided that GTA IV is one of the best games that I have 
 ever played, but again, there are a couple of things keeping ti from a 10. First, the driving is 
 great , once you get used to it, but, at least on the PS3, shooting while driving is exceedingly 
 difficult, especially when going backwards. I was really good at shooting in San Andreas, but this 
 one, I cant hit the broad side of a barn.
  
  I like the targeting system, although I wish it was less finicky about the free aim. And I still 
 don't understand why it takes so long to change clothes. Seems like it should be faster, but it 
 never is. One more thing, I wish they had more subway maps in-game. I lost mine, and I have no 
 idea where I'm going. 
  
  But other than that, this is a great game. The addition of the cell phone and the internet is really 
 cool, and they couldn't have made a better city. Multi-player is pretty sweet, except for a couple 
 of morons who are always on.
  
  Keep it up Rockstar!
  
  PS. I love the "hot coffee" joke! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-hearts987
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 is so Bad-ass that they took a candy, and named their main character after it. This game 
 is somehow linked to Legend of Zelda for the Wand of Gamelan because the mysterious figure from 
 Nicco's past is Link. If I were to ever play this game, I would play Dragonball Z Burst Limit first. 
 MGS (Metal Gear Solid) 4 will be 10-55 times better. I never suspected that the crap would complain. 
 Look at that crayon. The cookie tasted like a red rover. Hey Jude, don't make it bad, now that 
 you've found her now go and get her. No! Cookie monster!
  
  Fly me to the moon and back. GTA 4 has such good graphics it should be the sequal to Big Rigs: 
 Over the Road Racing! The loading is so fast, it should be the prequel to Dark Messiah of might 
 and Magic: Elements! We all love the sweet smell of sweat on your face. after the kick to your 
 face. the mustachue kills all. 
  
  Patapatapatapon!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I, like every gamer over the age of 14, had to get this game. Everyone knows that GTA games are 
 awesome and they bring the wow factor back to games every couple years. The hype around this game 
 was insane, and I think that resulted in some over zealous reviews from gaming sites and magazines. 
 That being said, while GTA IV is not perfect, it still delivers on most of the hype given to it 
 and is one of the best games Ive ever played.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is the standard GTA style mix of shooting, driving, and a bit of stealth. 
 The things they have added to the combat add a lot to this game though. The cover system is great. 
 Its not like Gears Of War, where you have designated areas to take cover behind. Anything can be 
 used as cover. This makes the gunfights more technical and adds another layer to the fighting. 
 
  The new targeting system is excellent too. You can either hold down L2 slightly for free aim, or 
 hold L2 down all the way for auto aim.
  The driving is pretty good too. Lots of people have complained about it being too hard, but I dont 
 think realism is a bad thing at all. One major thing they left out of GTA IV though was the car 
 customization. It was kind of an ancillary thing to have, but it still added another cool element 
 to the game.
  The AI is pretty advanced in this game. The characters and NPCs really interact with each other 
 very well, immersing you int he game that much more.
  
  Graphics/Sound- The graphics are decent by next gen standards. But you have to consider the large 
 scope of land in this game and the sheer amount of content that goes into GTA games. I would rather 
 have a thrilling game that lasts 40 awesome hours that has decent graphics than an 8 hour game 
 with fantastic graphics. The graphics are suitable and are good enough. My only complaint with 
 the graphics is that when set to default, the game is waaaaay to dark. you have to set it just 
 right for your tv.
  I give the sound a mixed review. The character voice overs are excellent. They are full of emotion 
 and even the pedestrians on the sidewalk talk and sound excellent. One complaint I have about the 
 voiceovers is that so many of the characters are incredibly hard to understand, so I had to put 
 the subtitles on. The sound effects are really good as well. The soundtrack isnt that great in 
 my opinion. I really liked how Rockstar put 3 talk radio stations in the game. I like listening 
 to the talk radio. 
  My main gripe with the soundtrack is the rock and rap stations just dont have a lot of music in 
 them, and there is too much techno and rave like crap. I wish the music was more cohesive like 
 in Vice City. 
  Multiplayer- I think the multiplayer is excellent. I have played all the modes, and I really like 
 the modes. I havent experienced lag at all. My main complaint with the multiplayer is that the 
 servers are down so much of the time.
  Fun/Value- This game is incredibly fun. There are so many visceral gunfights, crazy car chases 
 and high octane action sequences. This game will take you around 35-40 hours to complete, and that 
 is with minimal side quests done. The multiplayer has great value as well, adding a lot to the 
 GTA experience. 
  
  I think if you can handle all the swearing, sexual content, drug use and extreme violence, GTA 
 IV is one of the best games you'll ever play. Although it isnt a perfect 10, its still an awesome 
 experience.
  
  Pros- Excellent mix of shooting and driving, Awesome new features like the cover system and doing 
 activities with friends, great characters, great sound and detail, decent graphics, fun multiplayer, 
 great value.
  
  Cons- Bad radio, missing some features (car customization, more weapons, clothes, properties to 
 buy) , multiplayer servers still spotty, and the freezing issue plagues many PS3 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Well I was hyped about this game and before its release just getting more excited but I had this 
 feeling it wasn't going to. So got the game and played it the game and saw everything in the game 
 is an upgrade from the ps2 versions. The gameplay is great, the story is like a great gangster 
 movie and the graphics for the ps3 version just looks awesome. So the game is about Niko a guy 
 from some middle eastern country, comes to liberty city to his cousin Roman's big rich life which 
 is lie, so Niko protects his cousin from gangsters and wants the money plus he is looking for someone. 
 
  
  The game has all the same basic gameplay but just upgraded, you have the open world adns teal cars 
 and driving and shooting which everyone loves. Stealing cars is different because people now fight 
 back and even have guns. The driving is way better, cars handle better and turning is something 
 you will have to master. Your main character Nikko but there is another main character liberty 
 city (talk about that in a min.) but the controls are better fighting is way better but still needs 
 more work, the covering and shooting elements are better and the covering elment that comes from 
 uncharted and gears of war, it rules. 
  
  The missions are fun and are not the same thing over and over again but I don't mind that the chase 
 missions are great. The cut scenes are great and are funny like always. With over 200 missions 
 and are just a great and before a mission and if you have someone with you they will talk to you 
 but if you die and restart a mission they won't say the same thing and will say something different. 
 The missions are fun not every missions is great but one great mission is the bank robbery mission 
 is awesome and one of the best and fun you can going through the streets and through the subway 
 killing the cops, it's a fun mssions. While advancing you will get twists and some surprising things 
 which is different, also the different kind of missions is a good thing for this game.
  
  Liberty city is a character because how big it is and the people on the streets have there own 
 life and this city runs like a real city. Like the characters on the street you won't meet again 
 and going inside the building you can are different people. At the burger shot some one will be 
 cleaning the glass window outside and moping up. Even walking past someone and hearing over conversations 
 is funny what they talk about there friends, drugs and so on. Even people talk on there phone. 
 I was driving around and I saw a guy opening the boot of hs car and I even saw a guy pulled over 
 from the cops. This city is so huge and there are tons of things to do in Liberty City. 
  
  Overall this game is great and one of the best out there in the last 5 years, whith this generation 
 game I would put it up there with Oblivion. A game that had many hurs of gameplay and so does this 
 game but this game in the moder world where your phone is your main contol, you have radio with 
 tons of station from music to talk back radio, from there internet with news and mock up sites. 
 Well there is also the internet the first for a series and you can play with your friends this 
 game is just brilliant and with each one its getting more perfect each time but I think will be 
 the first time I try to get 100%, just a great game for the adult gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodkya
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I feel this game really fell short in the way of graphics and world size. This is in my opinion 
 because of the xbox not being able to handle the data that the ps3 can. If im wrong then please 
 correct me on this but I am under the impression that xbox still uses the normal dvd's for games 
 while the ps3 uses the blueray which will hold 10 times more data on the same size disk.
  We know both of these systems can handle alot more in the way of looking true to life so why is 
 it still on the edge of cartoon like gameplay????. I just felt bored with it after a few hours 
 like I was in vice city again although i did play it through the game left me wanting so much more. This 
 is a very good game for the first time on a new generation console but it still seems to be lacking 
 alot. Lets hope that Rockstar will step it up with the next one and maybe add a worldwide map where 
 you can fly to diff countries, enter mud boggs, Truck pulls, go hunting, fishing just plain out redneck 
 hellraising. I personally would love to see Niko, CJ, and Tommy going off in Iraq. But I guess for 
 now I can call up a friend get drunk and fall on my face a dozen times looking for a
  "YELLOW CAR!" to take us home.... lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BleakCorner
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  There's not much people haven't said. Unlike some haters claim, this game isn't worst in the series 
 nor boring or any other negative aspect attributed to it. It however is not perfect. But then, 
 no game really is. The "open world" aspect is somewhat limited - especially in comparison to games 
 like, for example, Oblivion. Due to the fact that people are able to download stuff for games like 
 this now, I hope expansions will include more game elements that would increase this... basically, 
 more options, more freedom. On the other hand, the way the environment has been created is very 
 well done - and it makes you actually feel like driving through an American city - or more specific, 
 driving through NY. And that, in my opinion, isn't something its prequels can claim as they felt 
 more like games while realism to an extend as more on the foreground here. Which I think is an 
 improvement. I just wish they'd work on their foliage a little as it still looks like crap. :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teet-O
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Long story short, GTA IV is a must have for anyone who has played any previous GTA game or basically 
 anyone who loves videogames. 
  
  I still haven't beaten the game yet, but so far the story has been really interesting. The main 
 protagonist, Niko Bellic, is a very likable, well-rounded character; he lives up to the many GTA 
 main characters that already exist. Most, if not all the supporting characters in the game are 
 memorable enough to make you feel like they are your ACTUAL friends or enemies. Which makes it 
 hard when you have to decide whether to kill or not kill a specific character you know a lot about. 
 The voice acting in the game is, as usual, top notch and fit each characters personality. 
  
  The graphics, in my opinion, are superb. Every street, building, cars, and pedestrians have 
 a lot of detail. The only thing I thought looked kind of weird were the trees. Other than that, 
 I couldn't of asked for a better looking game. The frame-rate was pretty stable through what I've 
 played. Not the best frame-rate on the ps3, but its still pretty good. Although, it can dip pretty 
 low if your blowing up like 10 cars at the same time. Animation is great, better than a lot of 
 the next-gen games out right now. 
  
  I think I covered everything, its pretty late so I might of missed a couple of important details. 
 Overall, though, I have to say that this game is one of the best games ever made. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto truly took the gaming scene by storm with its rich transition from its 2D upbringings 
 on the original Playstation and its 3D iteration on the Playstation 2 with Grand Theft Auto III. 
 Gamers will remember that the first 3D iteration in the GTA series was set in Liberty City, a mockery 
 of New York, and featured a truly innovative and living world in which players could interact.
 
  
  While future iterations would add new mini games, new missions, new characters, new locations, 
 and new eras, they seemed to be the same rehashed formula of GTA III with a new coat of paint. 
 Rockstar did nothing wrong with continuing their winning formula with the successors to GTA III 
 and made the future titles translate into an acclaimed and flagship franchise.
  
  However, just as GTA III significantly raised the bar compared to the first two titles, GTA IV 
 completely blows the gates off of not only any other GTA, but any other game made to date. While 
 other games have been exceptional innovations, and even created new genres, GTA IV took a risk 
 in using the same "formula" the franchise had used for the past three releases, but completely 
 renovating both the feel, mechanics, and gameplay of the game. Indeed, GTA IV is not like any GTA 
 you have ever played, nor is it like any game you have ever played. As a gamer, we should all write 
 Rockstar a letter of congratulations for this epic achievement in gaming history.
  
  GTA IV follows the journey of Niko Belick, an immigrant with a dark history. Without revealing 
 too much, Niko travels to the US in search of the American dream; what he finds is quite the opposite. 
 Contrary to the claims of fast cars, luxury houses, and beautiful women that Niko's cousin, Roman, 
 has promised, Niko finds a ragged apartment and a degenerate gambler of a cousin, neck deep in 
 debts to criminals. While other GTA's followed a formula of a criminal out of prison or jail, GTA 
 IV takes a more subtle stance on how someone becomes involved in a life of crime. Niko slowly falls 
 into the realm of the underworld practically unwillingly.
  
  That truly is the backdrop of GTA IV, survival. Gone is the story of a rise to fame and fortune. 
 The rags to riches story is cast aside for a much more modern and realistic crime story, one that 
 shows the pitfalls of "Americana" and the illusions of the "American Dream". GTA IV functions not 
 only as a punctuation mark in the great series, but also as a poetic and artistic masterpiece as 
 well.
  
  The shining mastery of the storyline is a testament to how much Rockstar has evolved, and how much 
 GTA has matured as a franchise. Simply put, the story line is Oscar worthy, impeccable in every 
 aspect, and exquisitely crafted in a way that would make even Scorsese proud. This game will leave 
 you rushing until the end in an effort to unfold Niko's enthralling story. Luckily, even using 
 cabs and your trusty cell phone to retry missions, this will still take you a good 40 - 60 hours 
 just to beat the story line rushing through it. Some have claimed doing it in 9 hours, don't believe 
 it, if you want to let the story unfold and enjoy the game, even using the shortcuts such as cabs 
 and the cell phone "retry" options, the single player campaign is one of the broadest to date.
 
  
  Speaking of broad, how about the size and scope of Liberty City. Separated by bridges, which realistically 
 have pay toll stopping points, Liberty City truly feels like an expansive version of New York. 
 Alderney, its New Jersey counterpart, will strike a keen reminiscence of scenes from the Sopranos, 
 and the overall scope of the game as a whole is incredible. From the "Statue of Happiness" to the 
 Rockstar's take on Time Square, this game lives and screams authentic New Yorkism. Humorous, yet 
 eerily accurate, the game is by far the biggest GTA yet. If you do not believe me, simply try flying 
 over it. 
  
  While the scale of the game is impressive enough, the individuality of each "section", each street, 
 each building, and each pedestrian is even more impressive. Pedestrians open the hoods of their 
 cars and do work on their motors, carry groceries, converse on cell phones, and even get into car 
 wrecks (in which the police interact) making GTA IVs rendition of Liberty City the first truly 
 believable "virtual city." I was quite skeptical on claims that each pedestrian or citizen truly 
 felt unique in initial reviews, however after my play through, this could not be closer to the 
 truth. You rarely see a duplicate NPC model and each one carries about such unique and individual 
 activities that it is truly a marvel at the genuine authenticity that Rockstar injected into their 
 own virtual Liberty City.
  
  The graphics are exceptional, and follow the new direction Rockstar took the series - realism. 
 Gone are the wonky looking character models of past GTA's. In fact, while other GTA's might have 
 had you going and burning a grass field with "The Truth" in a humorous fashion, but there really 
 is no such deliberate humor in GTA IV. Of course you will have crazy over the top characters such 
 as Brucie the steroid machine and Bryce the raging homosexual, but Rockstar really did their best 
 in keeping this game darker, grittier and more realistic than its predecessors. The graphics are 
 crisp, clean, and offer a truly next gen feel to the game that has to be seen to be believed. 
 
  
  The physics follow the same formula, and where in previous GTA's you could fishtail around all 
 corners in any vehicle with a quick handbrake GTA IV quickly makes you compensate for each and 
 every vehicles unique handling attributes. Similarly, being ejected from a vehicle, lunging out 
 at high speed, or falling will leave not only a mark on Niko (potentially fatal) but also require 
 a moment or two to regain his composure. Whereas in previous games you could literally "fly" down 
 a flight of stairs, GTA IV uses its exceptional RAGE physics engine to make going down a flight 
 of stairs believable and realistic. Ballistics, car wrecks, and every other mentionable interaction 
 involving physics simply looks next gen. It will throw you back at how elementary the older versions 
 of GTA look in comparison to this next generation beast.
  
  The controls are exceptional. The new cover system works extremely well and is quite a feat to 
 work so well in a game with this scope. A half hold on L2 will allow a "free aim" mode while holding 
 L2 offers the standard lock on feature of previous GTA games. However the new L2 feature also offers 
 the ability to flick the analog stick in order to reposition the shot, most effectively for a headshot. 
 Again driving is much more realistic, and while it takes a good solid hour to break your old GTA 
 habits of handbreaking and sliding around in any vehicle, the new vehicle physics are much more 
 rewarding.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast, and without revealing too much, basically you can take up to 16 people 
 online into Liberty City and perform a whole variety of tasks from missions where everyone rushes 
 to complete it first, a free roam mode, or straight deathmatch. The multiplayer alone could be 
 a standalone game, as well as the single player being a standalone game but Rockstar simply did 
 something incredible by combining one of the best single player experiences of the last decade 
 and an incredibly deep and polished multiplayer package into one product.
  
  Simply put, Rockstar went out and made the best game I have ever played. It is a testament not 
 only to the continuously rising bar that Rockstar sets for themselves, but also the incredible 
 maturation of the GTA series as a whole. GTA IV is the best game to come out this generation, and 
 to be quite honest, it takes the genre it created, and not only pushes the envelope of what gamers 
 can expect, but launches it into the stratosphere in the most complete single package that I have 
 ever played.
  
  Thank you Rockstar Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Killa14
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Well here is like one of the games most people will buy for their PS3's and 360's. This game was 
 pretty much well worth it, especially the amazing "Euphoria Engine" in the game which is like rag 
 doll physics but a little better.
  
  The driving in GTA 4 will take some getting used to, at first i thought to myself that "wow i cant 
 drive at all..." but as you progress through you will realize that its actually better than the 
 driving styles in old GTA games. 
  
  Hmmm... guns, they are somewhat a little realistic that past installments, also bullets actually 
 spread in this game! Bad thing is most of the fun weapons in old GTA games are gone (FlameThrower, ChainGun, etc) .
 
  
  Missions are in my opinion are recycled from old games like tailing a car but not getting too close 
 and a normal go to this place and kill everyone sort of thing. But dont fret there are some missions 
 in the game that we havent seen in past GTA titles.
  
  Finally the AI, i have seen other peoples reviews and GS/GFAQ's reviews and they say the artificial 
 intelligence is bad, i would disagree. Ai has had great improvement! You'd see cops going for cover 
 and civilians reaching for their gun against you!
  
  All in all GTA 4 is a must have game especially if your a hardcore shooter/adventure/action lover 
 or just willing to see if GTA is a great franchise for you. In my opinion its not worth its $60 
 price tag (maybe b/c its not every month i can get a game that expenisve: p) but it still has somethings 
 that doesn't make it as comical as the past GTA games were i would personally say $45 is when you 
 should buy it.
  
  Hope this helps you making your decision for buying GTA4!!
  (WHICH YOU  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elozl
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  story, having just completed it, can set you back between 30-45 hours, depending on how you spend 
 your time in the vast metropolis that is Liberty City.
  
  GTA IV is, simply put, an amazing and in some times jaw-dropping game. The attention to detail 
 is superb, and it is these small details that add tremendously to the overall opinion of the game.
 
  
  I always play GTA games differently to the mainstream. I decided early on that I wouldn't be an 
 all-out, gun-ho, speed daemon that roars through the city wiping out every civilian in view. GTA 
 IV is all about choices and this is the first of many that I was brought to decide on.
  
  My style of play was to emulate how I would act if I was Niko Bellic himself and had just arrived 
 in liberty city on a container ship. The first major point, is that you wouldn't want to draw attention 
 to yourself, so obeying the law ("What?! in GTA!?" I hear you say) was one of my aims.
  
  I took a more relaxed driving style, stopped at red lights, enjoyed the experience of the game; 
 listening to pedestrians interact, drivers making mistakes, the 24 hour light cycle from dawn to 
 dusk. The missions, of course, for the main storyline were the temporary diversion from this style 
 of play, as to true GTA nature, they require you to do un-citizenly (I made a new word) deeds.
 
  
  Going back to details, Rockstar have done a great job of filling the city with life - be it the 
 tour operator helicopters flying overheard as you cross from one island to the other, the 24 hours 
 in the day (where the sun rises and sets, shadows move, etc) , a policeman apprehending a criminal 
 on the side of the road and then calling for backup, getting in the police car that arrived from 
 around the corner and taking them in.
  
  There are so many extras in Liberty City that, if you don't pay attention, you may miss them. Other 
 interesting factors include:
  
  If you do a standing donut (making the wheels spin and rotating the car with the steering) for 
 too long, you will blow the rear tyres and be left with the alloys. 
  The damage system in GTA IV means that you can slowly reduce your car to an ugly mess, up to the 
 point of the engine giving up and just smoking away, or even seeing it catch fire At which point, 
 it's a good idea to run. 
  The emotions shown and expressions made by characters in cutscenes fills them with life. When you 
 are with characters in cars (driving to a mission) , they will talk about what has happened or what 
 is to come) . 
  The mobile phone system. You can call up the emergency services to get help, you can call characters 
 to talk with them about certain points in the storyline, you can call up a music identification 
 service to get a text message sent to your in-game phone telling you what song is playing near 
 you. 
  In "Middle Park" you may see a group of people taking part in yoga/tai-chi. 
  There are so many things to observe in Liberty City, and every one of them is as good as the other. 
 There are a number of "breathtaking" views, such as seeing the whole of the game world (that's 
 all three islands) at night in a helicopter, with the lights in buildings illuminating the area 
 or even just going over a bridge and seeing the sun rise or set behind the city skyline.
  
  The controversy surrounding the game is often and possibly always taken out of context by the likes 
 of Jack Thompson, who, for example, make a huge issue out of this game being sold to children. 
 I am strongly opposed to his stupidity. The game has an M rating for a reason. Some of the aspects 
 of this game are seen in a number of games, yet manifest in different conditions. This game should 
 not be played by children, and any parent that believes they are responsible, should keep it that 
 way. I have cousins how have been playing these games since they were 12 and some times i hear 
 them say, hey lets play GTA in real life, and they act stuff like shooting but only within their 
 house and also with their parents looking at them and listening from time to time to their conversations, 
 they are Horror Movies fans and one day they said that they would like to get a camera to create 
 a scene of SAW, and i said to them: You guys are crazy!!
  
  Anyways the game does not lead you to become a gun-toting madman. Again, this is a game about choices, 
 and anyone who plays will make these choices. The game is not the problem, it is the person playing. 
 If they are not mentally capable to distinguish between reality and a game, then they should not 
 be playing any game with violence in. Simple. Get back to playing Super Mario or Sonic uh oh, 
 wait, you kill goombas and ducks in that. Better not play Super Mario. (J/K im a big fan of these 
 games)
  
  Anyway, back to the real point of this post. GTA IV is a superb game and is a piece of programming 
 art, and I thoroughly congratulate Take Two and Rockstar for all their efforts. It has been highly 
 commended by multiple reviews with an overall average of 99 out of 100 (across 48 reviews) . I too 
 agree with these scores and give it a 99. The only things I didn't like were the way that mission 
 replays often started you right from the beginning and the fact the cover system could be a little 
 more refined. Apart from that, the game is almost perfect. I dont agree with the 10 so i would 
 give it at the most a 9.5 but the realistic one is the one you see with big numbers.
  Good day people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srpots
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that i didn't really like Vice City or San Andreas. IV is better but 
 not quite as good as III. I liked III for its simplicity.
  
  My first impression of GTAIV was "What the f*** they messed up liberty city" Also the controls 
 were weird at first and it was just too dark. I got used to the controls and adjusted the brightness. 
 Then I thought "Wow this is fun" But then as I started to play things just started to get repetative. 
 Missions would give over $5,000 (one mission gives $250,000) but the only things that you can buy 
 are guns, taxis (which can get for free from Ramon) , and lap dances; no property. And to me the 
 cellphone is just an annoyance. You have people calling you complaining about how you don't hang 
 out. Why would I want to hang out with some of them if most of the things you get from them aren't 
 very useful.
  
  The physics for the cars are not what I want for a video game. Most cars barely turn and it is 
 just too easy to destroy your headlights, making it hard to see.
  
  Taking cover while it does make missions alot easier, the enemy can also do it. Going on a rampage 
 just isn't fun, you just can't mow down people and there isn't a spot like on top of the old Liberty 
 City's Portland police station where you can kill indiscriminatly and the only way you can die 
 is by helicopters.
  
  Overall the game isn't worth buying just yet. It is an OK game and you can probebly get it for 
 twenty bucks at Christmas. However, if you need a good game to waist endless hours I would suggest 
 Call of Duty IV over GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The great, the legendary, the breathtaking, the always shocking Grand Theft Auto. What can be said 
 about it. Actually a lot of bad can be said. The driving mechanics, the repetitive missions, simplistic 
 gameplay, lack of customization choices, no cars to pimp, no CJ I mean Niko to exercise with, or 
 hairstyles to change. Ah Lord, all this money made and I have nothing to spend it on. Now don't 
 get me wrong it is still a good game and very ambitious, but Rockstar seemed to have worked so 
 hard to make the world real, that they forgot to make it as fun as its predecessors. We can't fly 
 planes; we can't get out of the city (San Andreas saw us travelling to the countryside and the 
 city) . Yet the game did a lot of things very well, the voice acting is the best ever, the storyline 
 is stellar (the Jamaican voices were the best ever) the music is great, and if you hook the tv 
 up to surround sound the bullets really fly. Niko thankfully doesn't scream like a **** like CJ 
 did. Overall a very good game but not better than San Andreas. The graphics are better but that 
 is expected because it is Next gen, hence my overall score of an 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 has returned with it's 4th sequel for the console. First the aiming of GTA4 has been redefined, 
 you can shoot behind cover and blind fire with free aim. The game overall looks beautiful from 
 the cars and bikes to the water and trees, you can tell they put a lot of work into it. The story 
 is one the best I have ever heard and so much creativity was put into it. The characters you meet 
 in the game have so much personality in them with great voice actors. Now the Multiplayer for GTA4 
 is well built, with up to 16 game modes to choose, from the standard team death match to free roam. 
 With many weapons in it like rocket launchers, assault rifles, and sub machine guns. You can even 
 have your friends in the same car and all shoot at the same time. Now the only problem that I had 
 with the game was the constant dropping out of games or the online crashing but it's still playable 
 online. Overall GTA4 has been put a lot of work to it and it shows. It truly is a work of fine 
 art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotchadec
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  It's back! Another installment of the GTA series comes out, this time featuring Niko Bellic, a 
 migrant from Eastern Europe who washes up on the shores of America - Illegally.
  Luckily, he washes up in the worst policed city in the country - Liberty city - to live the American 
 dream. However, on coming to the States, he quickly realises that the mansion, the sports cars 
 and the hot breasted girls infact turned out to be a one bedroom apartment, a taxi and... well... not 
 really any girls.
  The depth of this game is incredible. You can't help but smile as taxi drivers are calling after 
 you whilst you're speeding past them chipping the paint off their cars. There's a variety to do 
 with your friends, although admittedly after a few turns of getting drunk and playing darts, this 
 does become rather boring. Despite this, the storyline and indeed, size of the map is compelling 
 and mind boggling.
  The graphics featured are also very good. The visuals have been tuned up, but, more importantly, 
 the amount of visuals has also been rectified, meaning no more objects just "appearing" as you're 
 speeding along in a stolen infernus. There is also a lot of attention to detail, whether it be 
 to people (Who are all very different now, no "twins") running away holding their stomachs after 
 you've shoved a knife in there, or the pieces of litter fluttering past you as you call for a taxi.
 
  The sound on this game is again, very good. With a selection of radio stations to look at, yes, 
 including a chatshow, once again featuring Lazlo (Is that how you spell his name..?) battling it 
 out against the psychotic public that makes up liberty city. This in itself would be a good enough 
 reason, but added to this is the noise of the general public, from the hustle and bustle of the 
 city to the quiet suburbs.
  And lastly, we come to the gameplay, the most important feature of any game, to which rockstar 
 have clearly put their most effort into. They have made some changes tot he controls which, although 
 weird at first, you eventually become used to (Those who can't can change back to the "classic" 
 set) . Shooting is very good, a new feature being able to take cover behind pretty much anything 
 (Walls, barrels, bins, cars, you name it) , and has a very realistic feel about it. And, of course, 
 the online mode. There is nothing quite as satisfying as watching someone fly 20 feet into the 
 air as you do a "hit n run" on them, and you can only help but laugh when they pull out an rpg 
 and get their own back. There are a large variety of modes to choose from, anything from racing, 
 the chasing, to a good old fashioned "gun everyone down and stay alive" style play (By which I 
 mean deathmatch) .
  
  Overall, this is a good, good, good game. If you haven't got it already, get it. But be warned! 
 Once you acquire this game, you lose your social life.
  
  Graphics: 15/15
  Sound: 10/10
  Depth: 25/25
  Gameplay: 50/50
  
  Overall: 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoocheBag992
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game had a great story line how you work your way up in the city but there are a few things 
 that the game lacked in. It had such limited weapons and such a low ammo limit which took away 
 from the fun. If youre running around seeing how long you can outrun the cops you very quickly 
 run out of ammo because you cant hold as much as you could in the other games. There werent very 
 many types of cars and some of the ones that were there were near impossible to find. The game 
 had no military which was very dissapointing because no military means no tanks or flatbeds to 
 have fun with. Also there was a police chopper with machine guns but no military chopper with missile 
 so that was dissapointing. This game had some really fun mission to play and the driving is a challange 
 at first but it grows on you after a while. This game had too much hype that it didnt live up to. 
 Still worth getting if your a fan of the gta series so I would recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegiaKing16
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game is way better then the last one. It has better graphics, its lifelike, and it has one 
 hell of an awesome story board. Normally fire in GTA is really bad but in GTA IV fire looks like 
 it is actually real. When a car catches on fire it spreads through out the car first before blowing 
 up. Cars have the reflective look to it making it look like real metal. When you crash into a wall 
 or building it leaves a dent in the wall or building. Cop chases are better because of the perimeter 
 they sweep. Also one of my favorite new updates is you get to drive drunk. The story is you start 
 out as an immigrant going to the land of opportunity and you slowly get dragged into the underground 
 world of crime and slowly get into the Russian Mafia. This game shows how it is becoming a person 
 who starts out with nothing and then becomes one of the richest people in Liberty City. Personally 
 I would say you should buy this for any system (Including PC) because the game is just the awesome! 
 You wont regret buying the game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 11, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I have always loved gta since 3. They were unrealistic games that were fun to just do whatever 
 you wanted to do. With this game, they took a realistic approach and destroyed it. All of the cars 
 have a terrible turning base except for the high-speed cars that turn on a dime. Riding a motorcycle 
 is frustrating because even going 5mph into a sidewalk will send you flying. The auto-lock was 
 a good feature, but shouldn't be used on the online. Speaking of online, it's terrible. It takes 
 no skill b/c of auto-lock and the game modes are not fun for me. The graphics on this game are 
 nowhere near what was capable, and def not deserving of a 10 that it has gotten. Rockstar took 
 a great game and sucked the fun out of it for me. I'll have to go with Saints Row 2 for my insane 
 unrealistic sandbox fix from now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eugen-male
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  GTA Series never been bothered much with the gfx quality, instead they always made a fun gameplay, 
 good "AI" script, and decent storylines.
  GTA 4 features all that + the ability to play online with ur friends over 15 different gametipes 
 but at what cost?
  The original project of GTA 4 was based on astonish graphics technology, since the full redesign 
 the game graphics now looks average with a somewhat exageratted glow.
  Most players that enjoyed the GTA San Andreas, will be disapointed to find out that this release 
 features no planes, no car upgrade shop, no gang war or territory wars.
  Your character is an Eastern European immigrant man named Niko Bellic going to his cousin land 
 for the so promissed wealth, hell find out that the promisses he made were lies, and then is where 
 the story begins.
  
  The GTA 4 equivalent of the Statue of Liberty is called the Statue of Happiness, and DUMBO (Down 
 Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass) is known as BOABO (Beneath the Offramp of the Algonquin Bridge 
 Overpass) .
  In Grand Theft Auto IV, Rockstar have recreated 4 of the 5 boroughs in New York, as well as part 
 of New Jersey. Broker is the GTA IV equivalent of Brooklyn, Manhattan is now called Algonquin, 
 Queens is now Dukes, the Bronx is Bohan, and New Jersey is Alderney. The map is smaller than San 
 Andreas, but considerably more detailed. No countryside or desert, we are led to believe.
  Pedestrians are far more realistic in GTAIV than in previous GTA games - they sit on benches, smoke 
 cigarettes, read books and generally act like any real pedestrian would in the middle of a street.
 
  
  It is a good game for most, but honestly i do not agree that this game deserves an astonish score 
 of 10 since not even uncharted did, also lets not forget it misses many features san andreas had 
 and graphics arent THAT impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAN21
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  this is definately the best GTA ever the visual parts are beautiful it looks great when it rains 
 and the car actually slides on the rain. and the adiition of the cellphone makes it easier for 
 cheats. Being able to have a girlfriend and actual friends adds alot of realism to this game. the 
 single player is great it is long and not to hard not to easy. having comedy clubs adds a ton of 
 realism to the game and having bars and actually getting drunk is alot of fun. There are not that 
 many problems to this game but the most major one is when the multiplayer does not work it ethier 
 stays on the loading screen or just freezes in the middle of the game. Otherwise the multiplayer 
 is awesome having up to 16 players in a room is great and just being allowed to walk around the 
 city with your friends is alot of fun. All in all this game is amust buy and people will be talking 
 and playing this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haroutdj
Rating: 4
Date: May 11, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  in gta 4.. u only have 1 style for your body.... you cannot get  
 cannot get tatoos... u cannot get a different hair style or facial hair style.... u cannot buy property.... and 
 whatever happaned to hard missions...???? this game was so easy .... good thing i rented it.... and 
 the last mission took me only 1 try to pass.... this felt more like a gta 4 test.... i hope in gta 
 5 or w. e the hell thier gonna call it doesnt be crap like this 1....
  
  i also thought this game was going to be sold out or rented out.... i went to blockbuster 3 days 
 after the game came out.... their was sooo manny copies left to buy and to rent..... so i rented 
 it.... i was thinking it was only because no1 goes to blockbuster anymore or somehting like that 
 so i went to play n trade it was the same thing.....
  
  
  the only advice that i can give is to rent the game for 5 days.... if u dont pass it in 5 days im 
 sure u will tho... but if u dont u have 7 extra no late fee days and thats enought time to pass 
 it.... so its about 8 dollars to pass it... or 60dollars +tax??
  
  im sure u know the smart answer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfriend
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  i mean come on no games are perfect but i love this game i think the graphics are really good, the 
 exsplosions, the sound of a gun shot great the realistic car controls after you get use to the driving 
 it gets better i mean geeze when yer in a cop car u can do police things like look in the car computer 
 where have u seen that b4 i think its a great game yes the running kinda sux and the fighting but 
 hey deal with it or dont play it.... i like the other grand theft autos but this one is the best 
 so far. And i think this game is good look at the swimming that really good this game is deffintly 
 better then saints row in that game u could barley get the car in the water this game has perfect 
 water i wonder if theres any sharks that eat you or anything like in scareface that was interesting 
 and being drunk from hanging out with michelle or your cousn walkin up alil bit of stairs is great 
 fallen movements ... and the hole pay toll thing is cool and the graphics in the daytime is amazin 
 driving threw the city and bridge going into the city the morticyles is really good i liked how 
 they did the choppers.
  
  my favorite games are:::
  1. Call of duty4
  2. Assasins Creed
  3. Grand Theft Auto 4
  4. Turok hopefully more will come out
  
  games i 
 cant wait for
  
  1. Prototype
  2. The Hulk
  3Metel Gear Solid 4
  4. CallofDuty5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wittywizard603
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 10, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series has been a long running, highly popular series amongst gamers and due 
 to this rich history I pre-ordered GTA4 so as to get it immediately. I even went to the midnight 
 launch. Once I got home and played it I thought, "OK so all the good bits have to be unlocked". 
 And so I played it, and played it only to realize there was soooooo much missing and wrong.
  
  The story I found to be original (to games at least) only to find that character development 
 was shallow and no one talks for longer then 5 seconds and so we are left to guess how they feel 
 and what they mean. Also they are trying to make it realistic even though one of the great things 
 about the previous games was that they were real, but still had a level cartooniness. As a result 
 all of the colours are grey and depressing and whenever you kill someone it feels real and you 
 no longer feel compelled to go on a rampage.
  
  Getting around annoyed the **** out of me as the driving is useless, and walking is FAR TOO SLOW. 
 The taxi idea was nice but they means that you either sit there for ages and watch the poor driving 
 skill of the taxi driver who takes days to turn the frigging car around or you could skip it and 
 watch a loading screen for a while only to find you have to pay for the painful experience.
  
  The fighting lacks oomph all the guns, bar sniper rifle, are terribly inaccurate. Plus the 
 new cover system means that you can get stuck behind things easier whilst people shoot through 
 things at you. The punches look basic and you only get one style of fighting, disoriented drunk 
 civilian style. Not to mention the fact that the only way you can pick a fight is if you punch 
 a guy behind a warehouse or else the cops immediately come after you.
  
  This leads me to my next point, the police. Unlike previous games where a bit of clever ducking 
 and diving were the answer now the handbrake doesn't allow you to dive defensively and lead to 
 a big crash which traps you in the policemen's pistol fire. GTA4 utilizes an innovative patrol 
 radius approach where the radius increases every star you get. Plus, miraculously, every cop knows 
 exactly what you look like regardless of the fact they never even got a description of you and 
 you are in a new car with tinted windows on the other side of the map and thus the search is on 
 from your current position. I know you may be thinking that I should just avoid the cops then, 
 but I'll tell you that they come after you even if you walk int the side of their parked car.
 
  
  Most all of things I loved about the previous GTAs were missing, such as skills, property purchasing, 
 assets, gang land etc.
  
  As a result of all these factors and more I ended up returning it and haven't looked back.
  
 
  
  Disclaimer: Now I understand many of you really enjoy GTA4 which I don't get at all, and please 
 don't flame me for this but I have to tell others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Like majority of the GTA fanbase i feel gta4 is a few years old in terms of variety.
  Waiting through the 10 minute installing process i never expected to get this impatient and was 
 literally counting the seconds. Then after the pretty impressive intro to the next-gen look of 
 gta and the cutscene i was left sitting in the car for a few minutes trying to figure out how the 
 bloody hell i drive this contraption?!?
  After getting used to the new driving controls i was expecting this game to last quite a while, 
 and it has although mainly for me starting to give up on beating those japanese high-scores on 
 DMC4 :S...
  
  In control of Niko (who i have to agree is my favourite gta protaganist so far)
  i browsed my 
 crap-hole of a flat, knocked over a few chairs was impressed with the simply push open door to 
 get outside feature and took my first steps in the immersive world Liberty City.
  My first reactions like everyones I'm sure, even the one's that have given it an unfair 5, were 
 breathtaking. Graphically I'm not really hard to please (still lovin the old school graphics of 
 resident evil) and i thought the game looked great. 
  
  For the most part, until your forced outa your first safehouse due to a very easily hateable antagonist 
 i started to feel the repitition souring through me and even get a little bored with the mission 
 goals.
  
  So thinking i might just try a few side missions to let me get over and eventually be begging for 
 the story missions, it didn't work as well as i hoped. Yes i did go back to plowing through the 
 story but because thats all there is!!!! No more car modding, no more taxi missions (well besides 
 the occasional and pointless trip lifts for your cousin) no bicycle's not even any gangs to look 
 out for. The improved vigilante missions however do really work well and are incredibly fun though 
 theres only so many which leads me to another problem, theres no reward for doing 'anything' in 
 this game, no more guns spawning at your limited amount of safehoues no unique vehicles to unlock 
 nothing. Even the new and ridiclously hard hidden package system without collecting them all won't 
 get you much anyway.
  
  There is however a friend system which i initially welcomed and was actually glad when they would 
 phone me to go out, since at first that lead me to believe they weren't just AI's and would just 
 want to hang out. Though the activities available are all pretty boring with to me the only un 
 activitie would be the pool. Going to places to eat seem wasted since you simply walk in....2 seconds 
 later you've apparently just had the meal of your life. With the gfs they even explain how much 
 of a conversationist I am :S though of course theres no way to back it up since its all between 
 them. Sorta made me feel like I was left in the dark missing out the most thought provoking conversations 
 of my life... Even getting drunk isn't as satisfying as i hoped, listening to the conversations 
 is funny enough and trying to get back home does have a small amount of entertainment to it, though 
 again you don't see them actually downing the poison, just them walking in sober then sludging 
 out pissed. I would of expected some sort of minigame to accompany it like a chugging contest or 
 at least a small cutscene.
  Another main thorn that sticks deeply is that when driving drunk the police will go after you, 
 which is obviously to stop all the bleeding 'concerned' parents to sue for not giving any consequences 
 for drunk driving.... but it doesn't make much sense when you can drive around sober like a total 
 nutter and as long as you don't hit a cop car your in the clear.... but you actually drive rather 
 slowly and even on the right lane but if your pissed you'll still the boys in navy blue chasing 
 you down. So you can ram through as many cars and bikes as you like as long as your not drunk while 
 doing it.... mmmmkay.
  
  Another huge flaw is the money..... there really is practically no use for it besides weapons and 
 spending abit of small cash on your nights out.
  I must have given around 10,000 to hobo's cause i just have no use for it.
  There's no business' 
 to run not even extra safehouses to buy... just a small amount of weapons to procure (no flamethrower!!!!!!) 
 and limited amount of ammo to buy with it. There are clothes to buy (and that too is very limited) 
 though about halfway i had already bought them all.
  
  Onto to the main focus (or only focus) of the game, the story, that is still very entertaining 
 to play through though as i stated can become very reptitive. The morality choices you make (while 
 having only little affect to the game) really give the game a nice add off rpgness (which is ironic 
 considering how much of rpg play they took out of it) and actually made me think before pulling 
 the trigger. Though as the story nears the end it gets very intense but doesn't pay off since the 
 (both) endings pretty suck. Both aern't exactly a good ending and leave alot to pitch up and just 
 leave you back at the same spot as you were in the beginning.... some hired muscle but with noone 
 to employ you.
  
  Though the DLC does sound to hopefully add alot more content i doubt 10 hours worth would match 
 up whats missing and even with the DLC it'll probably still just raise my score to 9.0.
  
  The online play however does have potential to be very fun, though sadly everyone i know has a 
 360 so I'm left with a bunch of retarded cow mongeror's who thinks its funny to total your car 
 in the co-op missions and quit when there losing in the competitive missions.
  Thats of course if I can get through since the ps3 version at least has alot of bugs and is really 
 a game of chance if I can actually get through a game without a bleeding 'Lost connection to one 
 or more players'
  
  So could of very much bin game of this year but honestly wouldn't even match up to game of last 
 year.
  
  
  Summing up my favourite parts would be the cell-phone, just as handy as it is in real life (well 
 to me anywhoo) , the great new shooting system, graphics, much more varied radio selection (now 
 whenever i listen to 'goodbye horses' it thankfully reminds me of running down hobo's in a mafia-sentinal 
 instead of Ted levine's shemale pube exposing dance thingy) and the sheer realistic take on everything 
 from the physics to the bloodstains that begin to show all over Niko and of course the vehicle 
 damage and no blowing up when tossed over.
  
  The negative for me is definattely fueled by the repitition of the missions, sure car chases are 
 pretty sweet the first 40 times your involved in them but can get rather boring. The shoot-outs 
 are the same, insanely fun at first so much you want to actually go out there and buy a few dozen 
 rpg rockets at your local gun shop and and just go around sending prostiteuts flying.
  Everything that was removed that made San Andreas the example of what a sand-box game had. No gangs, 
 limited to everything and really just not that appealing after the storys finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smilyking
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  OK don't hate me for this I am just going to point out all my pet peeves about this game.
  First of all I am a huge fan of the GTA series (all 8 games) and this game is awesome.
  The first 
 pet peeve that comes to mind isn't the game so much as people who play it. THE DRIVING IS HARDER 
 GET OVER IT! Seriously it is far more realistic now; you can't just take corners at five hundred 
 miles an hour anymore. the only two problems are 1 you can; t really tell how fast you are going 
 unless you are going really fast, there should be a speedometer, and 2 the cars are a too light 
 they flip around and fly too easily.
  
  The next irritation is about the game. there is no military base and i can't steal a tank or apache 
 or harrier (I miss the harrier :' ( ) i know it caused loading problems in san andreas but gta IV 
 loads much faster (at least in the PS3) .
  For that matter there are no planes at all are there : ( that is probably because of my last peeve
 
  
  IT HAS NO VARIETY. it is all heavily urban land with zero back-country like san andreas had. i 
 know urban land is more chaotic and chaotic can be fun but it also forces the missions to be redundant. 
 they are all hits or robberies. the weird missions like for the hippie in san andreas very very 
 fun and added variety. its too bad this variety is gone.
  
  the lack of back-country also eliminates the fun super fast runs across mostly empty highways : ( 
 
  And most notably the land is FLAT not only is that boring but it means that there is no fun cliff 
 diving. I MISS THAT MOUNTAIN you know the one i mean. with the blu ray disk having more than 6 
 times the storage space of a regular DVD you'd think that Liberty city would be bigger and have 
 more variety both in missions, cars, and especially more variety in the landscape. I mean its down-right 
 BLAND. Rockstar you can be more creative than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pumpkinhead3
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I cannot fully express how amazing this game in this little review. This game is... uhhm.... perfect. 
 I would put this game in my top 5 games of all time. Here's why:
  
  The single player game alone would have done it for me. The storyline is so much more immersive 
 than in any other GTA. The graphics are actually good, which is a first for a GTA. Rockstar fixed 
 a bunch of problems and it really effects the game, more than I imagined. For instance, they added 
 a cover system, which turns any gunfight into a strategic and exiting showdown. They added a GPS 
 which gives you turn-by-turn directions to any destination. This can be very usefull, keeping you 
 from checking the map every 10 seconds on the pause menu. The map also shows you how far you must 
 run and where the cops are when you have a wanted level. Drive-bys are now fully aimable and you 
 can switch between a handgun, submachine gun, and grenades that you drop out of your window as 
 you drive. The phone makes recieving missions a lot easier than before. The radio is great as always, 
 and there is many, many more things that I failed to mention that will blow you away.
  
  The online multiplayer is a nice distraction to the main game, enabling you to go online with 15 
 other people. It's no Halo or CoD4, but its a good online multiplayer that has never been seen 
 in this series.
  
  All in all, this is a must have for any PS3/Xbox360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tptur91
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Grand tehft auto IV is an amazing game that has unbeliviable singleplayer and very good multiplayer. 
 The singleplayers story is best in the series the music is good but not as good as it was in san 
 andreas and the graphics are absolutely beautiful. Gameplay is easy to learn and the SIXAXIS function 
 is also welcome addition in the game. The main protaconist Niko Bellic is very charismatic character 
 and way better choise than CJ from San Andreas. Liberty city is also a very good choise of a playground 
 because of its architecture. You can also buy new songs for your radio in the game and I think 
 that is just great feature. In this game you can also go into internet and watch TV features that 
 wasnt in the previous games. You will almost surley enjoy the game and I think it is a game that 
 you just have to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrantleySalter
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Here we go, Grand Theft Auto IV. We've all wondered about this game since it was first announced. 
 Rockstar claimed that it would be everything that San Andreas was and more, that it would be as 
 big a leap forward for gaming as GTAIII was way back in 2001, and that it would change the way 
 people look at video games. After spending a fair amount of time with it myself, I must ask this 
 question: Are we talking about the same GTAIV? First off, the most noteworthy improvement is Liberty 
 City itself. It definitely does feel more alive than any gameworld I've played in. I can't truly 
 say if it captures the essence of New York, being that I've only been there once and didn't see 
 much of it, but It really feels like a living, breathing city. Really. It does this time. Despite 
 being smaller in total area than San Andreas, the world is dense and feels huge. The visuals have 
 obviously seen a large overhaul, and look about as good as/ a good amount better than the average 
 PS3/360 game. The character models are fairly well done, with Niko Bellic, the main character, 
 receiving a little more detail than other story characters, who recieve more detail than everyone 
 else. Their movements are also realistic. Niko takes every step and doesn't slide when walking. 
 The walk/run animation changes when he goes up or down a flight of stairs, and he will react to 
 people or objects in his way. Thanks to the euphoria physics engine, Niko will be seen brushing 
 aside and even knocking down and stepping on people he bumps into on the street, knocking over 
 trash cans, jumping over rails, grabbing ahold of any surface he can catch on to while jumping, 
 and picking up and throwing bricks and soda cans. But we knew about all this already. What undisclosed 
 pleasures exist in GTAIV's world? Well, not much else. The city is full of destructible objects 
 and buildings that you can enter with no load time, but without playing the story, finding them 
 will be difficult. You can do things like go bowling, playing darts, and playing pool. You can 
 also go to strip clubs, see comedy shows and cabaret shows. There's even a mock internet and tv 
 stations. It's apparent that a LOT of attention to detail went into the making of this game. The 
 cellphone has been revamped and is now pretty much an integral part of the game. You will do things 
 like setting up dates, calling friends to hang out and do the aforementioned activities, plus going 
 to get drunk, which results in a hilarious sequence in which Niko and his partner stumble out of 
 the bar and must make it home. The dialogue during these sequences can be as funny as the minigame 
 itself. Hail a cab while intoxicated and Niko will sluggishly wail "yeeeeellllow caaar!" That gets 
 me every time. The exchanges between Niko and his friend will be even better though. Drunken arguments 
 FTW. Increasing relationships with friends and Girlfriends will benefit you greatly, resulting 
 in perks like free cab rides, heli rides, discount guns, and health boosts over the phone. But 
 the game is missing several other features that were present in past games. Ambulance and Taxi 
 missions are gone, along with casino gambling, basketball, parachuting, betting shops, running 
 businesses, and pizza delivery. Clothing and appearance options are also limited compared to San 
 Andreas. But beyond all of the side quests and distractions, what about the main game? This is 
 the area in which GTA shines over its older brothers. Niko Bellic is an illegal immigrant and ex-soldier 
 from Eastern Europe who comes to Liberty City after getting involved in some messy business back 
 home. His cousin Roman prompted him to make the trip, telling in emails about his success in America, 
 where he has a mansion, numerous sports cars, and women. Soon after arriving, Niko finds that his 
 cousin is completely full of it, and life isn't exactly so luxurious. Roman's debt doesn't take 
 too long to get Niko back involved in the criminal underworld, and after killing a few organized 
 criminals and being double-crossed, Niko and Roman find themselves marked men and move around the 
 city trying to stay alive and make a life for themselves. Niko, on the other hand, has an ulterior 
 motive. His main reason for coming to Liberty City is to find out who set him and his army friends 
 up a decade ago in his home country and resulted in the deaths of all but Niko and 2 other people, 
 thus transforming Niko into the cold and bitter killer that he is today. Niko hopes to find the 
 culprit in Liberty City and give him some well deserved payback. The game's characters are the 
 most compelling in a GTA game to date. The great voice acting and cutscenes really bring them to 
 life. When all the talking is done, it's time for action. Combat is more involved than ever before, 
 adopting a Gears Of War/Uncharted type style. And it works well. The number of weapons have been 
 dropped, but each weapon included works and feels great the weapons that were left out were the 
 more impractical and silly weapons. You won't be beating people to death with sex toys (when you 
 think about it though, that was kind of awesome and nothing could be more degrading to the victim) . 
 There's basically 2 of each kind of weapon; a street version and a combat version. More than one 
 type of weapon can be fired from a vehicle as well. Speaking of vehicles, the new driving physics 
 will take some getting used to. Each car has a different feel and handles realistically, taking 
 location-specific damage. You'll want to be more careful with your vehicles this time around, as 
 an intense crash can send you flying through the windsheild. The new combat and driving mechanics 
 won't disappoint. The missions are largely what would be expected in a GTA game, though they do 
 a good job of making good use of the game's new features, and some are pure genius. And now the 
 multiplayer. The game offers plenty of different and interesting game modes, but this is GTA. Multiplayer 
 in any mode basically translates to 2 words: Absolute Chaos. However it works great and will provide 
 fun for many many hours, that is if you find everybody blindly gunning for everybody fun. Team 
 games are somewhat less hectic, but not by much. All in all, GTAIV makes some great strides, but 
 is it really the second coming of Jesus that people make it out to be? This player doesn't think 
 so.
  Along with the game's new sense of realism, comes a noticeable loss in the signature "GTA Feel". 
 It's too early to say whether this is for the best or the worst, but some players may feel less 
 inclined to take part in mindless mayhem thanks to Niko's somber and serious personality. It's 
 not until I play online with a custom character that I feel like I'm playing a true Grand Theft 
 Auto game. It's hard to describe, but there's a certain missing "fun factor". Not to say that the 
 game isn't fun, but I can definitely see gamers going back to older GTAs after playing this. When 
 the story is completed, there's not much incentive to do anything else other than play online or 
 maybe start a new game over again. The money that you end up with by the game's end seemingly has 
 no use other than cabs and activities, and you don't have much in the way of making more money. 
 Multiplayer is probably the only thing that saves its replay value. All things considered, Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is truly a great game as you would expect, but as far as being as much of a leap 
 forward as GTAIII and changing the way people look at video games, I just can't see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_soultaker
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is the first game on the next gen console and the first GTA game to have online multiplayer. 
 You play as Niko Bellic an illegal immigrant from Russia and has come to America for a better life. 
 When Niko arrives in America he is created by his Cousin Roman and the story begins. Being in Liberty 
 City is just like been in New York it looks and feels alive. I have been looking forward to GTA 
 since they announced that it would have online multiplayer now that its i have not been disappointed. 
 GTA has 15 game modes and it supports 16 players some modes it includes is Deathmatch, Cops n Crooks, 
 Team Mayfia Work, Turf War and many more. Also as in true GTA fashion you get hooked on the storyline 
 with its funny dialogue and just plain fun like sniping people in the head. GTA also has great 
 sound effects and music. And finally the controls are much easier to handle and has a new aiming 
 system were you can auto aim at targets or free aim.
  
  To sum up if you dont have GTA IV dont consider yourself a gamer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the newest game to the GTA franchise. It is an astonishing game. It is exactly 
 what everyone expected. A great storyline, brilliant game-play, good graphics and precise sound effects. The 
 game begins in Liberty City and you play as Niko Bellic an Eastern European who came to Liberty 
 City because of his cousin who told him of the great life he has here. Of course nothing is as promised. And 
 the story goes on leaving you wanting to find out more and more. The storyline is great and has 
 many situation changes which make it very exciting. The graphcis are good as well. It looks next 
 gen and on a HDTV it is one of the best looking games. As the main action in GTA IV is shooting, this 
 has been improved. The auto-lock option is very usefeul. Also the cover system improves the experience 
 very much. One of the not so great things about the game is the car handling. The car controls are 
 very poor in comparison to other GTA titles but you won't really care about this because of the 
 things you will be doing besides driving. And when I mean you can do many things I really mean there 
 is a lot to do. You can go bowling, play darts, play pool, get drunk and many more. The character customisation 
 is not as complex as in GTA San Andreas but it still let's you buy clothes. You will be able to 
 go on the internet from public internet cafes and many more. This game ofers so much content that 
 you will never get bored of it. The multiplayer is great supporting up to 16 people online. You will 
 have many game types, including Cop's and Crook's ,or Team Deathmatch or race and many others, perhaps 
 the most exciting one is the Free Mode which allows up to 16 people to do what ever they want in 
 the whole Liberty City.
  The game is great. It would take me a couple of hours to do an entire review for it and speak abou 
 everything you can do but I won't because you have to discover everything fo yourself cause that's 
 more fun.
  This game is a must have and must be owned by every single console owner. This is one of those games 
 which you will never forget and won't leave it after a while for dust to cover it. It is an absolute 
 must have.
  
  My Score 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  The release of "Grand Theft Auto 4" has been handled like an epochal event in world history: there 
 have been queues outside games stores at midnight on the release day, a welter of 100% scores, 
 and this new iteration in the series has even made news headlines due to its violence and subversive 
 humour. You could be forgiven for thinking that "GTA 4" is the greatest achievement of Western 
 Civilisation. All this hype could quite easily obscure a lesser game. Luckily, GTA 4 is not a lesser 
 game. 
  Developers Rockstar have wisely chosen to ramp down the insane size of San Andreas and in return 
 greatly increase the detail of Liberty City (New York in all but name) . And the detail is amazing. 
 One of the first things I noticed were how non-playing characters react believably to stimuli, 
 talk amongst themselves, and even natter on their mobile 'phones. Hot dog vendors shout out double 
 entendre spiel. The porcine policemen strut around, asking their buddies to buy them doughnuts. 
 In other words, as a character you are just one among millions making their way in the violent, 
 hedonistic world of Liberty.
  This attention to detail is emblematic of the whole game environment: just walking through Liberty 
 as main character Niko Bellic you have the eerie impression that the game is living and breathing 
 without knowledge of your existence either as a character or as a gamer. The already cliched take 
 on the game, that Liberty City is the true star of the revamped GTA, is true insofar as you could 
 almost imagine its continued and thriving existence outside the focus of the main character's story. 
 Critics of the game's smaller scale in relation to San Andreas tend to miss the extraordinary detail 
 that makes the smaller world somehow seem so much bigger than its PlayStation 2 predecessor. You 
 can watch TV, go online (and the brilliant online modes are a whole new review) , and date women; 
 in a word live in a city which is so much more than a simple background to story missions, car 
 chases, and shootouts. 
  The main character's moves have had a welcome overhaul; the targeting and cover system is really 
 on a par with most dedicated shooting games -an impressive achievement in itself. Again, Rockstar 
 have cut back on trinkets such as customisable costumes for Niko and trips to the gym to buff up 
 in favour of a more believable and rounded appearance for someone who is, after all, someone you 
 are meant to sympathise with. This cutting back from myriad different paths of appearance and choice 
 of tasks has again been answered with a story mode which makes Niko a tangible and emotive human 
 being whose decisions are actually of consequence.
  Of course, the game does have its faults. I own both the XBOX360 and PS3 versions, and find that 
 pop-up is more pronounced on the former console, while jagged lines tend to be worse on the latter. 
 It may take the appearance of the PC version (rumoured to be coming in November) to iron out these 
 technical issues and do justice to the magnificent game engine. The lack of 'planes to fly, things 
 like gang wars, along with the restrictive customisation options, are certainly not to everyone's 
 taste, as is the more conservative choice of music on the (still excellent) radio stations.
  Someone once said of "Citizen Kane" that if films could do this, they could anything. GTA 4 is 
 the equivalent in video games. It's that good. There are moments when the game approaches the grace 
 and sadness of Shakespeare (if only to snap back into its preferred modus operandi of admittedly 
 very funny black humour and smutty jokes) . There are even moments where even the whole "greatest 
 achievement in Western Civilisation" bit doesn't seem so far-fetched. Game developers that are 
 not Rockstar are probably very, very worried about how they are ever going to follow this: that 
 is, after they've stopped playing the thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  As one of the most talked about games ever, I was not expecting this game to live up to its hype, 
 but it did. Rockstar created a masterpiece that may just show how video games should be designed 
 in the future.
  
  You play through the game as Niko Bellic, an immigrant who comes to Liberty City looking to better 
 his lot in life, and you end up doing work for various drug dealers, mobsters, murderers, corrupt 
 police officers, and government agencies. The story is excellent, the characters are realistic, 
 with their own quirks. The characters come in shades of grey, even the "bad" guys aren't really 
 evil, so much as they just do some things wrong. The good guys, even Niko, all have their bad sides 
 as well, obvious by the entire purpose of the game, but it's really delivered in a fantastic style. 
 The star being Niko, who's just about one of the best video game characters I've ever seen. The 
 only thing I didn't like was the similarity between the two endings, those of you who have seen 
 them both know what I mean.
  
  I wasn't really impressed with the graphics of the game right at first, because, truthfully, this 
 game isn't a technical "marvel" just looking at it. But once you step back and look at the scope 
 of what the game brings, you'll realise that for sheer size, it's surprising that they made the 
 game look this good. There are a few incidents of pop ins, and some moderate tearing, but the frame 
 rate never slows down, and driving through the entire city I never once had a load time.
  
  There's something there in the audio department for anybody. With several different radio stations 
 to choose from in vehicle, you'll never have to listen to music you don't like. The sound of weapons 
 is superbly made, with you being able to tell the difference between guns even at a distance. But 
 the real star of the show in the audio department is the voice acting. It is absolutely the best 
 voice acting I've ever heard in a video game, bar none. The accents are perfect. The speech is 
 delivered without force and the script is entirely believable. Even when you're in battle the phrases 
 aren't "You should do this" over and over again. It's people yelling expletitives at each other. 
 Very realistic.
  
  The gameplay is as fun as it gets. Previous GTA's have been known for their "get this car here 
 with no damage in this amount of time" mission mode, with a few of the others thrown in there. 
 This game takes the time and damge factors almost out of the picture. The missions where you are 
 driving after something its "Don't let them get away, and don't destroy the vehicle" leaving you 
 a lot of breathing room so you don't instantly fail if you hit something speeding through the streets. 
 There's absolutely tons of stuff to do outside of the main mission. Assassinations, cab deliveries, 
 car thefts, street races, etc. And other things to do that have nothing to do with your crime life 
 such as drinking, shooting pool, darts, and even bowling. That not being enough, if you want you 
 can throw your cell phone on standby mode and run amok through the entire city, no rules, just 
 destruction. Then, just for S and G, Rockstar threw in an online mode so you could cause havok 
 with your friends. Bloody Brilliant.
  
  This game is all about the details. I can't begin to count the number of little things you pick 
 up that makes the game a bit better. Pedestrians carrying umbrellas when it's raining, traffic 
 being more congested in certain spots during certain times of day. Little things like that are 
 what set great games apart. When I'm changing a radio station and my character leans down in the 
 car to change it, I notice stuff like that.
  
  The cell phone is one of the best inputs in this game. From here you run your virtual life. Schedule 
 a date, call in a favor, order some weapons, it's implemented beautifully. Then you have TV, Radio, 
 Internet. News reports on the Radio and internet will even talk about your latest..... ah.... job.
 
  
  As far as the real world issues goes, are you serious? The game makes you pay for any choice you 
 make. Kill someone, the cops are after you, and so on. The game tries to show you the downside 
 of criminal life, not glorify it. All the way down to the ending. Drunk Driving is a crime and 
 is so punished in the game. People should play things before they judge them. (However I will note 
 that Army of Two got a low score from this site for it's views on certain political subjects, while 
 this game makes fun of the entirety of modern society and gets a 10)
  
  All in all, from a guy who was seriously considering not even buying the game, I must say I'm thoroughly 
 impressed. While the game may not do everything perfectly, it does do everything well, most things 
 exceptionally, and truth be told, the game does in fact do everything, which is not true in any 
 other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  
  The good: 
  16 Player Online Multiplayer = Chaos and fun! 
  Great story mode and voice over acting
  Looks and feels like a real city
  Surfing the internet 
 for chicks is inventive 
  Nice variety of weapons 
  Fun layout of level design (eg. Airport and Prison levels)
  Each car has a different feel to 
 it while driving (just like real life)
  A. I. Cops are hard to lose (at the 3 or 4 star threat level) 
  Water effects look amazing! Waves 
 & floating garbage! 
  Fun to go swimming!
  Liberty City feels very dark and run down 
  Rolling out of the way from cars is a nice defensive move.
  Good use of the cell phone during 
 the game.
  The ability to climb and scale walls adds to the gameplay. 
  Nico is funny to watch when he's hammered!
  The bad:
  
  DRIVING:
  You really need to brake 
 a lot while driving. It's not terrible like other players are saying, but it can be very difficult 
 to control the car you are driving. And it's a very different kind of driving from GTA 3. 
  Some cars ''fish tail'' like crazy or go into a ''spin out'' . Trust me, it's not much fun spinning 
 around in the middle of the street (helpless) when you're taking heavy fire from other players 
 in multiplayer. Some cars are so bad to drive they're not worth stealing, cause you'll just end 
 up getting killed cause you can't control the car!
  
  SHOOTING WEAPONS: 
  The targeting system in multiplayer isn't 100% perfect .... it needs some work (maybe about 70% 
 of the time you can hit targets you are aimming at!) 
  It can be frustrating to shoot at other players online. You may have the better weapon (eg. sniper 
 rifle) and should have the shooting advantage but you will find yourself dying a lot... being taken 
 out with a single shot from a plain ol' pistol from yards and yards away. (No, I am not a terrible 
 shooter!) Sometimes you may get the drop on somebody and unload a whole clip from your machine 
 gun into them and still not kill them!!! 
  
  LACK OF JUMPS:
  Unlike GTA 3, there really doesn't seem to be as many ramps around Liberty City for jumping your 
 car. I really miss that. Rockstar dropped the ball on that one.
  
  WHY CAN'T I SWIM UNDERWATER ???
  Like I said before, the water looks great with waves and all, 
 but why can't you use your weapon when the water is past your waist ? If you could still shoot 
 your weapon while in deeper water it would bring a whole new dynamic to the game. Also it would 
 be nice to be able to SWIM UNDERWATER to avoid gunfire and sneak up on foes. Next time O. K, Rockstar? 
 
  
  CAN'T ENTER EVERY BUILDING:
  It's great to go bowling and visit the local strip clubs, but not every building in the city you 
 can enter. Being able to break into stores or houses (ala the Warriors) would of been a nice touch 
 and would be something new for GTA4. 
  
  WHY CAN'T I PIMP MY RIDE?
  Note to Rockstar: Wasing your car is not fun... Pimping your ride up is! 
  I really wish you 
 could ''pimp'' up your ride in GTA 4. Change the color, add new tires, rims etc... There's only 
 so many lap dances and bags of peanuts a guy can buy. Maybe even if you could customize some cool 
 weapons on your car like ''Smokescreen'' or Mines. No such luck. 
  
  NO AIRPLANE FLYING:
  One thing I was disappointed in was the Airport level... (it's fun to play ) it looks and feels 
 like a really airport, but why can't you drive around the Jumbo 747's? You can fly the choppers 
 and drive everything else, why not the planes? A lost opportunty.... 
  
  LIMITED FOOD CHOICES: 
  It's cool you can buy fast food, but you are limited to one choice all 
 of the time. Nice to chow down on a Hamburger at the Buger Shot, but why can't you get fries or 
 a pop as well? I can buy a Soda at the News Stand, why not the candy bars that are there?
  
  TOO DARK... WHERE THE HELL AM I????
  One other thing, that is really bugging me the more 
 I play the game is that the city is so dark. It's hard to see where you are and where you are going. 
 You end up running into walls cause you can't find doors or stairs cause it's too dark! 
  
  OVERVIEW:
  Overall, the game is worth buying and you'll have a great time playing it. GTA 4 is 
 a solid game and it deserves every bit of the hype it's getting but it's not a 10. Too many little 
 problems in the game. However it could of been a 10... I think Rockstar spent more time on the 
 interactive city (which is really interesting and alive) than focusing on the driving and action 
 in the game. It's nice to have the choice of radio channels to listen to & Iggy Pop as a DJ, but 
 I rather have more way more weapons instead. Surfing the net is a great idea in the game, but I 
 would like to be able to swim under water instead. The ability to watch T. V is neat, but I would 
 prefer a friggin' car that can steer right! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darktation
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was good to me for the first few hours,
  fun missions and lots of things to do (at least that's what I thought at the time) .
  Though it 
 really started getting to me as the missions became more and more repetitive. 
  The missions are like this -
  
  Watch over a drug deal (Which never ends up being successful)
 
  Go over to some place and whack this person (turns into a chase normally)
  Or either just go collect something for someone, pick it up and then get chased for a while or 
 chase someone who has it.
  
  Those are the 3 main types of missions I encountered throughout the game,
  the most interesting 
 mission was a bank robbing one.
  
  This game got old to me very fast, after I had finished the game (Weak Story btw) I had nothing 
 to do as the game is lacking in things to do, sure I can just go around kill people and steal cars 
 but it gets boring.
  
  Though this game does have some cool features.
  The online play is pretty decent, and having the phone to help you on missions is a great thing 
 as well.
  I just wish they had of taken a step back to San Andreas and go on from there.
  
  There are a few features I could of talked about more, I didn't have the time though.
  
 
  I know i'm bad at reviews  . that was my first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLAU_the_Pwnr
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  A game of Gods. It is extremely realistic. You have the best damage system possible (individual 
 panels etc.) and the pedestrians who act and move as a person would and even the cops have finally 
 realised that they do not need to make every officer in the city chase after a guy for running 
 into a cop car. 
  
  The lifespan is mazing after expecting not much there is so much to do. The missions are just difficult 
 enough and when you finish the game there will still be a lot to do. The friends system is great. 
 I am glad to see thatg like in san andreas they dont constantly annoy you when you just want to 
 play around.
  
  Just having fun has lost nothing. You may not be able to use planes (which is a downside) but there 
 is still so much to do. 
  
  As always there are bad points such as cars magically looping, AI not doing what you need them 
 to and even at one point I ran into Jacob and he died. 
  
  All in all a fantastic game that everyone must experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullinfire
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is good look great and the story is quite good. Very easy controls expect of 
 driving because in the other Grand Theft Auto game x was to drive the car but now it is R2 to drive 
 it should not cause a problem but when your use to a control system it stick in your mind. The 
 mission can be quite short and there is a lots of driving in the game. The game is to easy and 
 you can finish without being stuck on any one mission. The Mulitplayer is good but the Rockstar 
 server is playing up, in which you can't save your rank. After each on the muliplayer mode you 
 get points and when you reach 1000 points your rank level goes up to rank one but end switch off 
 your console your rank has been reset which you feel your are wasting so much time and getting 
 nothing of it ,but I hope they fix the problem soon. 
  
  I would give the a good 8/10
  
  I think Grand Theft Auto; Vice City is a better game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunao2
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Gta 4 is game that everybody wants, stores sold out the game all over the world and people are 
 still crazy about it.
  
  So GTA 4 starts you off with a boat arriving to Liberty city, you are interpreting a guy named 
 Niko Bellic apparently he comes to America because his cousin Roman told him that he has a mansion, 
 sports cars and many girls. But soon you realized that the mansion is a crappy apartment, the sports 
 cars are cheap cabs and the women are slim to none. 
  Then you'll start to meet people and do lots of GTA type missions for them, for example killing 
 a guy because he doesn't pay but mostly you are going to save your cousin from his debts. An interesting 
 feature in game is about you "calling the shots", you can simply follow orders or just do what 
 you think is right.
  The new addictions of GTA 4 are the cover system and the cell phone. The cell phone lets you call 
 anyone in-game for a talk or even an invitation to see a cabaret. The cover system is also unique 
 you can get cover behind every object in the environment. 
  The graphics are just wonderful the city looks amazing with all those texture and it really loks 
 like New York but it has some GTA touches.
  
  GTA 4 is what you would expect from the beginning, you can steal cars, date with girls and lots 
 and lots of mayhem.
  The addition of multiplayer just makes this game spectacular it's up to 16 people with the city 
 all open to do whatever you want. 
  
  The differences between the two versions are almost none with some exceptions:
  In the PS3 it 
 makes an install before launching the game (5 min.) and it looks like it runs a lot better and 
 smoother. On the other hand the Xbox 360 runs depending on your DVD player hardware because at 
 some points it has some streaming issues.
  
  To sum up GTA 4 is game that you must play no matter what kind of gamer you are.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caruma
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Fodasss jogo do caralho!!!!!!! Axo k o multiplayer  uma beca ranhoso mas tem uma historia do caralho, 
 a meio torna se uma beca secante pk akela merda passa a ser um bocado montono mas depois a historia 
 comea a "akecer" e torna se mais interessante. S espero k eles se lembrem de fazer uma sekuela. 
 Em relao ao multiplayer axo k devia ter mais modos por ekipas e k  fosse s matar se uns aos 
 outros devia se meter umas misses para se fazer online com uns amigos. Tambem axo k a personagem 
 devia ter mais interao com o publico sem ser s dar lhes tiros nos cornos k at se fodem!!! XD 
 fodass tenho k escrever mais para esta merda aceitar a puta da review..... site de filhos da puta 
 americanos!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfpint666
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  A perfect combination of all that makes GTA such a successful franchise. In terms of gameplay, 
 the physics are more realistic, the new ability to take cover improves shooting and realism, and 
 the driving itself is improved substantially. I found GTAIV's playability is sufficient, even after 
 30+ hours play time and completing the story, there is still plenty to do and explore. The story 
 itself is gripping; Niko seems to have some qualities we can all relate to, and also the it isn't 
 as repetitive as the previous releases, which was often the reason for me losing interest half 
 way through them. Finally, the introduction of online multiplayer has added a whole new dimension 
 to the game, further increasing the playability and overall entertainment value of the game.
  I would definitely recommend this to anyone; it seems like it would be easy enough to play and 
 have fun with, even if you have never played previous games in the series.
  Definitely the best game to be released this year so far. Believe the hype, it really is that good 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyhn
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  the game play is fun. good story. online is excelent. great soundtrack and graphics is very good. 
 very funny and lots of variaety. the bad is you cant buy houses. you cant hijack big airplanes 
 when you are in the airport. girls are very hot and good but dont let your mother now. it feels real. it 
 feels like you are in another world. but sadly when you fire a rocket on a big airplane it does 
 not explode niether does the subway. AI is not so good .story mode is just right. but if you love 
 grand theft auto you have to buy prototype. ill even tell you a review on it game spot. because 
 i have played the demo in radical entertaiment. prototype has good story. excelent game play. lots 
 of digiuses and weapons that you could transform in. it takes 30-60 hours to finish for a skilled 
 gamer. the best thing is your the strongest player but in the game you will find opponents that 
 can defeat you. graphics are great. i think there is nothing bad in this game so ill give prototype 
 a 10!!!!!!!!!! but for grand theft auto 4 ill give it a 9.5 and good bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  First off: GTAIV is a spectacular game, but it is far from perfect. As a fan of the series I must 
 say I was both impressed by GTAIV emmencely, but also let down a little bit. I've been a fan of 
 GTA since GTAIII. I had been familiar with the first two entries in the series but had never got 
 into them in their time. GTA has always been good about wrapping you up in a universe that felt 
 active and real. The people you become involved with, the city life that is active around you, 
 and even the little things that normally go unnoticed add depth to the world of the game. GTAIV's 
 attention to detail to sucking you into this universe can be held under a microscope and is impressive, 
 but this also means that a lot of the extra minigame crap that made the sandboxness of the GTA 
 worlds previously possible has been held back, and somehow this depletes from the realism and variety 
 that a GTA game really should be about.
  
  GTAIV makes a new landmark in the series for its graphic and physics engine, Different times of 
 day cast realistic shadows by the position of the sun's east-west journey from buildings, elevated 
 trains, cars, and people. The morning is pink, the noon sun is blinding on the concrete, and the 
 sunset is orange. Explosions and bullets knock people around. Vehicles feel like they have weight 
 and friction on the tires, and will make you fly accross the street if you happen to stand in front 
 of a moving one. As someone who has played all the last five entries into the GTAIII series (PSP 
 included) , it did take some getting used to the new physics engine, but once getting used to it 
 has made the game more realistic and natural, and now going back to the old games would make them 
 feel simple and arcadey.
  
  The story of GTAIV is its most focused point. In past GTA's story was always important, but was 
 just as much an inertial placeholder or excuse for a new mission to introduce new gameplay. GTAIV 
 is all about it's new character Niko Bellic, his cousin Roman, and the other friends Niko meets 
 along the way. The story, the characters, and the choices you have to make within the story are 
 phenomenal and some of the best the GTA series has come up with to date. Massive amounts of voicework 
 and cinematic sequences round up almost every single misssion, both during gameplay and in scripted 
 sequences.
  
  This spectacular story has come with a price though. Much of the random sandbox minigames that 
 have evolved through the GTA universe have been scrapped. No more Top Fun vans and no exploding 
 RC cars (III) , no skydiving or rocketpacks (SA) , no Sanchez dirbike races (that I haven't found 
 yet, I'm hopeful) or , no property management (VCS) , Ammunation is now a back alley black market, 
 no fricken jet planes... or ANY fricken diveable plane (that I found, I'm hopeful for a least Dodo 
 like in III) , the only heli I found is in one spot and has to be stolen, no golf driving range 
 (VC) even though there is one on the map, no car or motorcycle driving schools, no gang wars, no 
 city bus driving (VC) , no rythm game dance club, and even some silly but included anyway stuff 
 like driving a train (SA) that could have been added to the subway system but hasn't. The worst 
 part of the new GTAs universe is that it doesn't hark back to any of the previous GTAs. Other than 
 Lazlow, some of the vehicles, and a few satirized products, there is no connection with the GTAIV 
 universe and its past, other than references to Vice City or Las Venturas.
  
  Fortunately not everything has been scrapped. GTAIV puts a lot of attention on making successful 
 friendships with the main game characters. This has played out fairly similar to the process of 
 getting girlfriends in SA. In IV instead of Hot Coffee you get bonuses like purchasing guns, quick 
 transportation, or the urban racing events the GTA series has done so well. The best thing that 
 GTAIV does new is the taxi system. Taxi's were fairly pointless in past GTA games other than to 
 get in your way or take you to restart a mission after you died and lost all your weapons. Now 
 you can hop in a cab anywhere and have it take you wherever you want. It cost a small realistic 
 amount of your cash, but can take you instantly (like no time has past) to meet that time sensitive 
 destination. I have spent more time in cabs in this game than a stolen car. If anything hit on 
 NY realism it was this dependency on the cabbies to get you around. Sadly the taxi fare missions 
 were also scrapped, but I don't care now because they actually get me to where I need to go.
  
  Out of the Taxi Fare, FIre Dept, Amblulance, and Vigilante missions the only one left is Vigilante. 
 I feel bad as a reviewer that I hadn't actually tried Vigilante to date, but will edit this review 
 with my comments once I get to it, which will be soon now that I beat the main story.
  
  Thankfully some of the tedious elements of GTASA are left out for the more comfortable and simple 
 GTAness. All the bodyweight, muscle, and hunger is gone. One just has to eat a weiner or a sack 
 of nuts and you are healthy again. Plus as a boon from past GTAs you no longer get tired from sprinting-AT 
 ALL!-which of course is a relief.
  
  The most depressing thing about GTAIV is the variety of the main storyline missions. 95% percent 
 of the missions involve, "go to point A, goto or follow someone to point B, kill everyone, and 
 loose your wanted level". This is a definite step backwards from past GTAs that have introduced 
 so many different gameplay elements to make missions varied and interesting, for example in VC 
 guiding an RC heli with bombs to blow up a buliding, or chasing a freight train with a dirtbike 
 as in SA. Thankfully the new combat system GTAIV introduces keeps this repetative gameplay mechanic 
 fun, and is short of getting old before the storyline is completed.
  
  The wanted level system in GTAIV is the way I always wish it should have been. No longer one has 
 to fight to get to that Pay'n'Spray or find a star hidden in a bush. Now, depending on how many 
 stars you have, one has to fight their way out of a search radius. How you are able to do it adds 
 into a lot of the fun in evading the cops. You can jump into other cars, you can take alleyways, 
 change clothes, and if you make a scene by driving too erratic and making an explosive mess they'll 
 be back onto you. This new system makes sense now, and is exhilerating and fun.
  
  Multiplayer should take a lot of note because the loss of all the minigame goodness of past GTAs 
 now resides here. Of course it relies on its fun factor by the chodes you end up playing with, 
 but there are a lot of good game types that are varied and purposefull and all have a fun mechanic 
 about it. This wont take over COD4, but it will give a lot of people a lot of good online fun. 
 MP doesn't really connect much to the SP experience, but it uses the actual maps from the SP game. 
 Item locations are changed and bolstered to enhance the MP experience, and the cars and peds are 
 still just as random and as frequent as the host wants them to be.
  
  Ok... Thats my review....
  
  There's so much to be said for GTA to warrant and extensive long 
 and boring review, but this is what I had to say as a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm still in shock, i can't even write. So i will go on facts.
  Graphics - who will look at graphics when we have so brilliant gameplay? This can't be the best 
 graphics ever but it perfectly fits this game. Blur, dynamic lights and shadows - no even sight 
 of low frame rate. And water & sunrises/sunsets are just ideal. 
  Gameplay - Rockstar cut off all boring stuff, get realistic physics and car damage and filled city 
 with pure life. Anyone who says that this expirience is boring - i just don't get it. This makes 
 you live in Liberty City, not play videgame.
  Sound - it sounds like a real city! Thousands sound sources create an atmosphere of big city. Stunning. 
 And, as a player from Russia, i must admit that russian language here is ideal, spelling is right.
 
  Transport - a heart of this game. Brilliant work and many new articles & functions.
  That all together makes Grand Theft Auto Four nearly the best expirience i ever had in videogames. 
 Must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobgh81
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Apparently most people that have written reviews about this game have different expectations for 
 this series than I have. 
  
  First, the good. The graphics and environment have definitely been improved. Little things like 
 your car getting dirty is kind of a neat additive to the GTA visualizations. The city doesn't just 
 appear as you travel, it seems like you can see the whole thing for miles. GPS feature is pretty 
 cool too. The cell phone feature is a nice interface as well. If your bored, go to the comedy club 
 for a few laughs. 
  
  Now the bad. What was Rockstar thinking when they decided to limit the number of weapons and vehicles? 
 I'm not sure what most people expect out of the GTA series, but I expect versatility. I didn't 
 particularly care for the storyline of San Andreas, but the options of weapons and vehicles were 
 superior. In my opinion, I don't want GTA to be a realistic storyline. I want to be able to sneak 
 into a military base and steal a Harrier jet or jack a lear-jet. What was wrong with spawning a 
 tank and going on a rampage? I haven't played it all the way through, but I have yet to find a 
 parachute as well. The internet feature is good for a few laughs as well, but gets old very fast. 
 Hanging out with your friends has about the same effect. It's fun at first, but I get tired of 
 playing darts with Brucie. Same goes for the dating. I don't like how the girlfriends and regular 
 friends call you all the time and want to hang out, and if you don't, they get pissed off. There 
 seems to be a very limited amount of vehicles as well. When im playing a game from the GTA series 
 I want variety and freedom. There aren't even many good jumps to ramp the firetruck on. In San 
 Andreas you could even steal a tractor. It seems like they wanted to make GTA a good story that 
 compares to other games like Bioshock or something. GTA hasn't ever been about the story, so why 
 now? At least come up with some new and interesting missions. Maybe equip Niko with a .50 cal sniper 
 rifle and have him watch over a drug deal from all the way across the river instead of over an 
 alley way. Equip him with some of the new weaponry of our time instead of the same old stuff (although 
 the Desert Eagle .50 cal was a nice addition) . Add a rare spawning custom bike from OCC or a decked 
 out 4x4 witha a rock crawling mini game or mud race. Have a mission where you steal a monster truck 
 and wreak havoc through the city. I'm not that creative and I just came up with these ideas in 
 the last few minutes. I'm sure Rockstar's developers could come up with more and better ideas in 
 the few years it takes to make a game such as this. Where's the content? I don't know, maybe I'm 
 being to critical, but it seems like Rockstar was trying to make this game realistic when none 
 of the previous games in the series were. I'd compare it to trying to make a porno with a good 
 love story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kosai_Avonej
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  It's been four years since San Andreas graced our consoles and it is with deep regret I say Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is sadly not the game it was anticipated to be. I've composed only a brief and short 
 review.
  
  Gameplay: Overall GTAIV features quite good improvements to the old gameplay with realistic physics 
 and driving ability, however the concept of spending time with everyone you once did missions for 
 giving you hardly any freetime to do as you please without having your own acquiantances (sp?) turn 
 against you for saying no to going out drinking or to a strip club is absolutely a downer. The 
 TV's in the safehouses are worth a good look as well if you are looking to get a chuckle or two. 
 However the big downer comes when you beat the game, there is nothing left to do in single player 
 mode but run about shooting people at random but I myself do not play any game online. There is 
 also nothing to spend your money on except for weapons, no property, no buisness' or no customizing 
 cars which was a big let down for me because I liked adding my own touch or color to cars I liked.
 
  
  Graphics: Although the franchise itself is not known for it's super visuals and over-the-top sequences 
 the overall graphics are not so bad but still do not live up to the next generation. However the 
 new visuals like the explosions for instance are relatively superb and the water waves on the beach 
 or under the bridges are however very enticing to gawk at along with car body graphics.
  
  Soundtrack: Overall the soundtrack is impressive with an aspiring range of tastes, I however am 
 fond of JNR and Vibe since I'm a bit of a mellow person but that aside there is plenty of music 
 to bask in while you drive around or feel the need to be entertained
  
  Overall: Two steps forward and five steps back, I can accept and concieve why planes are not in 
 this because it is afterall just one city and of course there are people out there who do call 
 GTA a terrorist sim but the game just lacks a greater majority of everything San Andreas basked 
 us in. There is no way for Rockstar to justify the losses in just graphics or downloadable content, 
 hopefully the next installment in the near future will pick up where San Andreas left off in terms 
 of features and not start over back at IV.
  
  Thank you for reading my first review by the way and I apologize for any grammar or spelling mistakes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurryMcFlurry
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  this game just puzzles???
  
  1. why make neons of money when you can only buy guns n' food. you cant even pimp out ur rides. 
 this is a massive letdown resulting in a feeling of awwww
  
  2. whats with the airport. the only thing the planes do are taxi round. whilst it is a massive 
 improvement over prevoius gta games. it still seems unacceptable. but i guess its just for show. 
 oh and while were on the subject of planes it sickens me you cant even fly those beautiful looking 
 jets that just lay on the runway. show again. at least theres the choppers
  
  3. finally one of the if not most dissapointing thing was the inability to customize your characters 
 appearance. yes you can change the clothes but its not like you have much choice in the matter. 
 theres a couple of suits and other ugly looking things but thats it. and dont even talk about the 
 haircuts and working out because quite simply thats not even an option. 
  
  and yet even though there are many other things i could winge about i still find this game quite 
 good. so if you want my advice rent assess buy
  
  pro's
  
  online capabilities (screwed on ps3)
  water effects
  car damge
  improved AI
  gun controls
 
  
  its sickening to see the number 10 next to GTA 4. doesnt it just seem bit suspicious. i wouldnt 
 be suprised if rock star paid gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drag00n91
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is my review on Grand Theft Auto IV (4) . I hope you enjoy it.
  
  Story:
  Your name is Niko Bellic. You are an illigal imigrant that fought in the balcan war. You come too 
 the United States or Libery city (New York) because your cousin has sent you letters telling yoy 
 that he has lots of girls, cars and a big mansion. But when you come there it's actuly an appartment, 
 a cheating girlfriend and a taxi company with old dirty cars. Your cousin Roman has depts and gambles 
 a lot. You need much money fast so you become a killer for diffrent people. I could go on but i 
 don't wanna spoil to much.
  
  Singel Player Gameplay:
  The single player is great and every new mission feels refreshing, you never feel like you've done 
 it before. The difficulty is very easy in the beginning but the missions becomes harder and harder. 
 The controls are very responsive and feels good. One thing that may not be that great is that the 
 AI that is suppose too follow you isn't very smart so you will have too keep an eye out for them 
 and don't run to fast. All in all the singel player is good and long I've only completed about 
 51% of the game right now but I've played for a pretty long time. I've heard that if you only do 
 the missions it will take you about 30 hours to complete the game but there is so much to do like 
 bowling, drinking, taking on races, playing pool, meeting girlfriends and even watching TV.
  
  Grafix:
  The grafix are great and the motion capiture on Niko is beautiful.
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  This is the first GTA game to have multiplayer and it's surprisingly good. You will have over 
 10 game modes to choose from and as you get money for killing people you can level up and your 
 level determends what clothes you can choose from on your character. You can play Deathmatches, 
 Races and even some co-op missions. You will really have fun playing this game online!
  
  Sum up:
  Everyone should have this game!
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conflict_rules
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  grand theft auto IV is a really awesome game if you liked the other gta's your gonna like this 
 one too altho it feutures some simularity it feels like a totally diffirent experience thats because 
 the whole game is actually based on realism .
  
  the gameplay has improved big , thinks like the cover system and like when you press cirkel you 
 can lock on to someone when your chasing him whit a car and all kinds of things really makes the 
 game less frustrating then the previous gta's . just like in san andreas there are tons of things 
 to do outside the missions well some complain that there are less things to do but the things you 
 do are way more fun here like bowling or the comedy show .
  
  there isnt as much variaty in the vehicles as in san andreas , you wont jump in any planes in gta 
 iv but there is still more veriaty then other free roaming crime games or whatever , the only complain 
 that i have is that there are less guns then in previous gta's no flame throwers or setchel charges 
 or miniguns but the ease of use of the guns in this game is more to make up for .
  
  the graphics are awesome its just full of all these little realistic details and its the little 
 things that make a game awesome . the soundtrack is also really great altho it aint as great as 
 in vice city and vice city stories but its still a really great soundtrack and the soundeffects 
 are again really great .
  
  a lot of you will probably really love the multiplayer , I think its nice but i'm not an online 
 kinda dude . they say that the game freezes sometimes but it only happens to me ones .
  
  the game is really long and it has some challinging parts and the story is great and in some points 
 you can change the story and it really is great , i love it .
  
  there are a lot of things that were in san andreas and not anymore in gta iv and at first it comes 
 of as disapointing but in the end it really makes gta iv an unique game and san andreas still remains 
 an unique so its actually pretty great and you should buy this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Let me think when was i give the latest review a perfect score ....... Call of Duty 4 ?? Devil 
 May Cry 4 ??? Sequel are keep getting better and GTA4 is not a exception from the best game of 
 2008.. Is it 4th sequel is a lucky number for game where every game come out in the 4th Sequel 
 are better.. Even movie are only able to reach 3rd sequel ... Let start the best game review I 
 ever Had ...
  let start from the overview of the game Good graphic .. CHECK. Good Gameplay ... CHECK .. Good multiplayer 
 .. Check . Almost everything are cover and everything are in Good condition. I almost cant spot 
 what is the weakness of the game, but in the end i manage to find out some minor problem about 
 the game .. Lets start from the good Side .
  
  Single Player : You start as Niko the main protagonist, u started poor but in the end u will be 
 hero.. Its just a normal hero story but story-line base it is tremendous, with good storytelling 
 , it keep u on the seat about 30 - 40 hour to play the game finish .. the newest thing to add which 
 is the Handphone use .. it allow u to call to other people to know ur mission stats and current 
 stats.. 
  
  Multiplayer : U are able to access the multiplayer game through the cellphone.. There are about 
 a dozen mode u are able to play from classic deathmatch to cops and crroks... It is quite fun to 
 c a map with 16 player shooting each other with bazzoka and blast each other up, i have never been 
 so satisfy to boom other people since Call Of Duty 4... 
  
  Gameplay : Gameplay wise everything are almost remain but there are additional gameplay to add 
 to give a new breath of the game such as the cover system like Gears Of War and shooting in the 
 car. This time u are able to shoot from the car in any direction to add more realistic, Niko have 
 to break the glass before shooting to add a real effect. 
  
  Graphic : Graphic wise, it has vastly improve from the predecessor, explosion are looking damn 
 freaking real adn character facial expresion wise are better thanks to RAGE power develop by Rockstar....
 
  
  Bad Side : There are few minor problem with the game such as pop up, because the game are so vast 
 causing the game couldnt render the graphic fast enough but u reach the place.. Other than that 
 the AI of the game are sometime problem where sometime they dont follow u where u go and banging 
 against the door if i run out faster than the AI.. It is so funny to c them banging agaist the 
 door.... 
  
  Although there are few minor problem but it doesn't spoil the best game and U might just ignore 
 the minor problem and keep playing the excitement of the game. I can easily declare GTAIV is the 
 best Game of the 5th month of 2008, it it might be the best game of the year of 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuinode
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  While other games keep you glued to the screen for a day or two this one has been non stop fun 
 since I put it into my system!
  I remember waiting for this game when it was supposed to come out last year in October...
  Since 
 it got delayed, everyday I would read up about it and just wait in anticipation for new details 
 regarding this game!
  When I finally had it in my hands I didn't wait even a moment to pop it in!
  
  GRAPHICS: While 
 the graphics are incredible, as you would excpect in a game that cost over $100 Million to make, 
 it wasn't quite as good as some games like Oblivion... But It will keep you breathless once you 
 really start to take notice of the level of detail on this bad boy!
  The animation for people and the way they move in the game are unbelieveable! I find myself just 
 running into people alot, just to see what the animation will look like, since it is always different!
 
  10/10
  
  STORY: While i'm not too far into the game yet, (I continually find myself playing around and killing 
 people for no reason!)
  The story seems much more involved, far surpassing San Andreas or Vice City...
  I feel myself 
 actually caring what happens in Niko's life, unlike Carl or Tommy... ;)
  I can't speak accurately, but the way the story is going so far, i'm sure you'll love it!
  10/10
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: There is nothing to say for gameplay, it is the best....
  You will find yourself running over people for fun!
  Killing cops for fun! And just throwing 
 cups at people is hilarious!
  I haven't been able to even progress through the story mode, because it is just too much fun, playing 
 in the open world Rockstar has laid out for us!
  You don't know fun until you play this game!
  There is even a multiplayer mode in it! I haven't 
 gotten a chance to try this yet, but with the amount of fun to be had in singleplayer, i'm sure 
 online multiplayer will be even better!
  10/10
  
  Bottom line... If you have a PS3 or an XBOX 360 you have to get this game...
  You will not be 
 able to call yourself a gamer without it!
  I know that I will be playing this amazing piece of art for years to come! 
  
  ^_^
  
  FINAL 
 SCORE: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto may have made many improvements to it's formula, but it still does little to increase 
 entertainment value. After putting an agonizing 4 hours into the game and realizing that it wasn't 
 going to get much better I finally put it down. As far as a single player story mode, it's one 
 of the weakest i've seen on this console. Driving around and doing stupid simple tasks isn't too 
 much fun, and neither is going on dates with AI women. The control scheme has been improved but 
 is still awkward. The online is probably the only reason to even bother playing this game, but 
 even at that it is easy to get bored with in a few hours. Worst of all the game is broken. It freezes 
 like crazy. Most of the time this happens before the game even is done loading. All this combined 
 with a not so great visual presentation make Grand Theft Auto IV a pretty mediocre game for the 
 next generation consoles. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  These days when it comes to next-gen video-gaming, which is still ripe, people always question 
 whether the games that we all impatiently anticipate, does not live up to the hype. Im not picking 
 any titles out in particular... but I bet you know which ones. However, Grand Theft Auto 4 lives 
 up to the hype in every miraculous and beautiful fashion.
  
  In this 4th installment of the notorious and controversial video-game saga, you play an illegal 
 Russian immigrant called Niko Bellic, who has a troubled past. Which is why he makes his way, by 
 ship, to the land of opportunity; Liberty City (from GTA3) . The place that everything and anything 
 goes... aslong as you dont get caught. 
  He hears of Liberty City from his Cousin, Roman Bellic, via emails which he has received back in 
 the 'Old Country'. Hearing that his Cousin is living the high-life with flash cars, bimbo women 
 and expensive homes; Niko decides to get away from his troubles in Russia and make a fresh start 
 with his Cousin in Liberty City.
  
  However theres a big but... not everything that Roman said in his emails is what it seems. He's 
 not living the life of the hierarchy what so ever. He runs a taxi depot, he lives in a grimy apartment, 
 and hes in debt to mobs and loansharks. Pretty pissed with how much crap Roman has filled him with, 
 it still hasnt stopped Niko from protecting his Cousin from ANYONE who wants to harm him. This 
 results in you being dragged into the cities notorious underworld of crime, which will lead onto 
 an explosive journey to the top of the food-chain of Liberty City, whether its drug running, or 
 being a hitman.
  
  It would be a nice thing to point out too that Niko Bellic is arguably the most likeable main protagonist 
 from the entire GTA series. He's funny, he's witty, sarcastic and cold, however at the same time 
 he's got a heart of gold as far as his family and the friends which you will make in Liberty City 
 are concerned. 
  
  Its very safe to say that when your playing GTA4, it doesnt just feel like your playing a superb 
 sandbox action-adventure game, but it also feels like your living a completely alternate life inside 
 a game console. 
  Even if you get sick of or get stuck on missions, there is still so, so, so much stuff you can 
 do in Liberty City to pass ours of quality gaming time. Heres a few; 
  - You can go into an internet cafe, which is amusingly called 'tw@' and check out the internet 
 and arrange online dates and check your emails
  - Go into any clothing shops across Liberty City and get yourself some new threads
  - Go to bars 
 and get rat-arsed anytime you want, whether its with your friends or Cousin.
  - Play sports such as Bowling at the Bowling alley, or Pool and Darts at any of the bars.
  Theres 
 still loads more to do in the world of GTA4, its just the simple fact of exploring.
  
  The controls are alot easier this time round. The gun combat reminds myself quite abit of Kane 
 and Lynch, only ALOT more accurate. The controls are very basic and a huge life saver, whether 
 your taking cover, need to reload quickly, or needing to disarm an enemy when hes close.
  One beauty of GTA4 is just the simple fact that you dont die as soon as you touch water... my god, 
 you can actually swim.
  
  As you can imagine from GTA, the voice acting and dialogue are edgy and top-notch. Cut-scenes do 
 not take up too much time from the gameplay and are really enticing to watch, whether their laugh 
 out loud funny, or just something you dont see coming from the storyline. The sound for GTA4 is 
 spot on and really brings the city to life.
  
  What is also very exciting for GTA4, was the debut of online gameplay to the series. Now up to 
 16 players can go at it on many different online challenges; Street racing, deathmatches, team 
 deathmatches, online free roam etc. 
  So even after you've completed the vastely massive campaign game, you've still got huge amount 
 of entertainment from what is available online.
  
  So, whether you want to get cracking on the masive number of missions that is on offer to you to 
 progress through the game, or you just want to mess about with what the city has to offer; GTA4 
 has everything for a die-hard video gamer to feel right at home with. With a superb storyline, 
 a seemingly endless number of opportunities and activities to keep you going for hours and hours, 
 beautiful graphics and voice-acting and the most tense gameplay for any GTA game to date, and not 
 to forget the debut of online gaming for up to 16 players for the series; GTA4 is an inevitable 
 must have. 
  
  However please note; once you buy this game... you will most likely lose your social life all togeather. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bink4587
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Was really looking forward to this game after playing GTA San Andreas 3 times... and am let down 
 - they'll make their millions but they need to do more next time.
  
  A lot of people have rated this game a 10, even GAMESPOT, and I don't see it. San Andreas was a 
 revolutionary game - this is just a continuation...
  
  Where are the cool mission cutscenes like San Andreas - riding on the back of a motorcycle with 
 a Semi crashing through the barricade - smashing through a billboard... only cutscene I saw in GTA 
 IV was a weak building explosion
  
  Where are the cool missions - hijacking a Flying pack after infiltrating a govt bunker, rescuing 
 a boatload of immigrants after swimming aboard a ship, riding a motorcycle on the back of a airplane 
 and parachuting off...
  
  This game had nothing special - repetitive missions - a few new games bowling/darts/pool - all 
 which were very easy and it seems the Rockstar with both Bully and GTA IV seem to add little mini-games 
 to make their game more enjoyable - I'd rather see more in the game itself
  
  Improvements - am not a programmer so don't know how difficult
  
  ability to save game on phone, 
 ability to save pictures, ability to play your own mp3s - i thought the soundtrack sucked
  
  73% 38 hours played - all missions done - on to racing and MULTI player after loading patch 
 - again how can a game be a 10 when a patch is needed within the first week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid-Torch
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Sure I loved the game all i miss is styling ur car the hydra and tiger helicopter bean there from 
 GTA 3 until now and I miss the army so. And the fact that the helmet on the bike is inside the 
 bike was just stupid there were to little to do when u were finish whit the game there were noting 
 more to do accept from some stunt jumps and go bowling, 8 ball darts and fly helicopter whit others 
 the online wasn't that bad I relay liked it reason I give GTA 4. 9,5 is because to Little to do 
 after ur finished whit the story mode
  but the game it self were relley good the fact that u coud call a cab was fdam cool can't say i 
 walkd mutsh but it was fun i recomend it TO EVERY ONE I DO it was the best game ive playd but i 
 now it coud have bean even better and al this is why 9,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csward
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are brand new to the GTA series skip this reveiw and go buy this game, otherwise please 
 read my review.
  
  Before I go into greater detail about the game let me begin by saying i have played through GTA 
 2, 3, VC, and SA in the past. I have never been this disapointed with a GTA title. The game is 
 getting all 10's from pro reviews and all I can conclude is they MUST be getting paid to write 
 them. This game is far, far from a 10 and i refuse to pay for content updates to perfect the game (aka 
 patches, that BTW are free for most computer games.)
  
  
  Story: The story is ok although I personally couldn't identify with the main character and I felt 
 his motive throughout the game was not really there. The main character, Miko, just seems to want 
 be everyones lapdog. There are plenty of plot twists and such, but I really didn't find it to be 
 that interesting and Miko gets screwed so often it becomes a reacurring theme thus making it uninteresting. 
 All the usual GTA sarcasm is there in the fake advertisments and such, which is good for some laughs. 
 Some of the sub characters are interesting though and i did enjoy them. I also felt like Roman, 
 Miko's cousin was such an idiot i wanted to whack him the second i stepped of the boat. Just an 
 overall bad choice of main characters, and a decent overall plot. (I'm tring to avoid spoilers 
 here) .
  
  Depth: Here is where GTA 4 takes a huge step back to 2001 (when gta 3 came out) . The utter lack 
 of things to do astounds and baffles me. There is barely anything to customize or spend your money 
 on. There are a few sets of cloths, the weapons you would expect, nothing more, food, and a few 
 other pointless things. What is the point of exploring the city when there is no reward for doing 
 so, the city feels empty due to 99% of the buildings being closed off. The ability to watch TV 
 and surf the internet is overhyped by the reviewers and not really that great. I just got bored 
 quickly and went back to doing missions and didn't spend the "hours" doing it some reviewers claimed. 
 It's not bad, but certainly not a selling point for most GTA fans and more of a gimmick if anything 
 at all. GTA 4 overall feels like GTA 3 in the depth category, and I, for one, feel it should be 
 included in release and not charged to download at a later date.
  
  Gameplay: Also somewhat of a letdown, mainly because of A. no mission check points and B. cars 
 cannot turn at all at high speeds. Now, all cars handle differntly, but one thing is for sure, 
 good luck on the high speed chases and races. These are so infuriating because one wreck and they 
 get away, leaving you to start at the very beinging of the mission. I have never had trouble with 
 the chases this much in the past, but when you have to slow down to crawl to be able to make a 
 turn, it makes the chases ridiculous, although they are beatable you just need some paitence. The 
 new cover system is good, pretty much becoming an industry standard and nothing of importance really 
 to note. The camera can sometimes be an issue, but this was rare for me. Being able to take a cab 
 anywhere in the city is a nice touch too. The sheer amount of cops is insane (as usual) and be 
 prepared to get a wanted level if you accidenltly hit a cop car (happens more often then you would 
 think and is annoying) . Otherwise, the gameplay is the same tried and true formula of go kill X 
 for Y reward, in Z way. This gets pretty old, especially if you are a GTA vetern. Also, the new 
 dating missions (whether you are on a date with a girl or hanging out with friends) are not fun 
 and if you don't do them you lose respect with that person, i think they are over emphisized for 
 their weak addition to the game. There is some variety but nothing like what i experienced in Vice 
 City or San Andreas, and certainly nothing "revolutionary".
  
  
  Graphics: Overall good, I use a 46 inch LCD HDTV with a 1080p HDMI cable. I felt Miko and the cars 
 looked great, especially the realistic car damage and blood on the winsheild when you shoot someone. 
 The city is kind of grainy/blocky and so are the other residents of Liberty City. Also, I felt 
 a strong need to increase the brightness as it is very hard to see at night. The cinema was great 
 and the characters within moved and talked in a very real-feeling way. There is a nice variety 
 of character models as well. Pop-in can rarely be an issue for me and the framerates were solid. 
 They game is overall good enough looking and don't have many complaints.
  
  Sound: Top-notch voiceacting as usual, however i would heavily favor subtitles as many of the characters 
 have heavy foreign accents. Radio in cars is sub-par, virtually no memorable songs and some hilarious 
 as usual talk stations. The sound for the cars, guns, screams, police, exlposions, ect. are pretty 
 much the same which is a neutral factor to me. One interesting note is when you repeat missions 
 characters with you will say different things.
  
  The online muliplayer is an area I didn't explore and don't desire to play online, I will leave 
 this up to the other reviewers.
  
  In conclusion, this supposed "revolutionary" game I got tired of quickly because it's uninspired 
 from a gaming standpoint and feels like it was geared to be more like a movie with all of its resources 
 geared towards the cinema and dialog which were very good. I feel as though much more will be added 
 in downloadable content packs at a cost which i feel will be unreasonable. The fact that this game 
 got darn near all 10's sickens me, it would be very hard to justify this game being rated above 
 an 8! This game just feels empty after 6 months of delays and I am missing all of the content and 
 customization of San Andreas. GTA vets, please rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finly
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, a lot are moaning about the new controls, driving, aiming, ect. Honestly it's not hard, and 
 it's not extremely changed. This is basically like a graphically improved SA with a better story. 
 
  
  The missions, are made of a lot of "Go here, pick him/her up, drop them off" missions. HOWEVER, 
 theres several notable missions that are really fun. So for me I'd still give the missions a 10/10, 
 because driving is one of the best things to do in GTA, not to mention the ragdolls make running 
 over people all the more fun!!!
  
  The two things that stood out for me is, Ability to take cover, and multiplayer. At last! Multiplayer, 
 and withs pedestrians! It works really well, and that's all I can really say. Second best time 
 playing multi player. On the contrary, theres some minor flaws for me, 9.7/10 and the overall shooting 
 and covering works well but the covering is very annoying at times when trying to get off the object 
 your concealed by. I still gotta say being able to move the crosshair while locked, really is neat, 
 and they still got free aim, thank god.... still gotta say 9.9/10
  
  Graphics, is an easy 10/10. may require some contrast/brightness adjusting.... all can be done 
 in options to get a perfect Liberty City.
  
  Story is great, I'd say near perfect, 9.8/10, there was some things that just didn't work, but 
 what the hell should we care it's damn GTA...
  
  Now to touch the problem of freezing... I haven't had many problems with my 20 gb ps3... so if 
 you got one it SHOULD work fine... and with a 60gb, they have got some solutions to random freezing, 
 and they are working on a patch.. so just wait it out.
  
  Either way you look at it, this is a game you need to play, not to mention I'm in no way a fan 
 boy of the GTA franchise, this game is just simply stunning....
  
  
  
  
  Note.... Do not trust the 7.9 or down reviews, they probably just got let down because they were 
 so hyped up... I don't see how it is in any way a let down.... even if it didn't get anything new 
 ( which it did) it would still be a stellar game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starscreem777
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  You'll notice I gave San Andreas the same score as GTA4. This is because GTA4 suffers from something 
 no previous GTA game has ever had before. In the past every GTA game has had everything the previous 
 game has had, along with even more added into it. For the first time, GTA4 is actually missing 
 things the previous GTA game had, but still has different things in it to make up for it. For this 
 reason, what is missing in GTA4, makes it worthwhile to still play San Andreas, and holds it back 
 from being classified as better. It's just different.
  
  First off, the pros.
  -The main character in GTA4 is with out a doubt the most intricate, most likable, and most believable 
 character in the GTA series. How all of the other main characters in previous GTA games know how 
 to fly a chopper is beyond me. Niko is said to have served in some war. With this said it is possible 
 he learned how to do some of these complex skills.
  
  -Although the city is a tad smaller that San Andreas it is by far more detailed. Actually, everything 
 is more detailed.
  
  -GTA4 is may be missing those annoying firetruck and ambulance missions, and instead has highly 
 upgraded the vigilante missions.
  
  -The gunplay has been improved to use cover, and enemies will react much more realistically when 
 shot in certain areas.
  
  -Multiplayer. Nuff said.
  
  -Melee combat is more realistic. Rather than just hit the punch button over and over. Now you can 
 block, counterattack, kick, and use an alternate punch.
  
  -There is now the possibility of downloadable content.
  
  -You can now hail a taxi and instantly 
 be transported wherever you want to go. A massive timesaver.
  
  And now, the cons
  
  -There is now hardly any customization to the main character. A few clothes here and there, and 
 most of them are uninteresting.
  
  -The customization on your car is now gone. The only way to change the color of your car is through 
 the old random paint and spray. I would have thought they would at least let you pick the color 
 you wanted when you go in.
  
  -There are only 15 weapons in the game. Thats all. Each weapon only has 1 other counterpart. There 
 are no heavy weapons what so ever. More realistic, less fun.
  
  -The car handling is far more realistic. Now every car is almost impossible to control. Forget 
 those high speed Hollywood chases.
  
  -The gunplay also has its flaws. If an enemy appears behind you, it is pretty much game over. It 
 takes you so long to turn around that most of your health will be gone by the time you can shoot 
 them. Also, If you are behind cover, you can only shoot what is on the other side. For example, 
 if an enemy appears to the side of you, you can point your reticle on them but your gun will refuse 
 to fire until you leave your cover.
  
  -Some of the multiplayer modes only seem like a one time thing. Bomb Da Base, Hangmans Noose, and 
 Deal Breaker are elaborate missions. However, they are the same mission every time. 
  
  The multiplayer also has some glitches. Although it will appear you hit an enemy with your car 
 hard enough to kill them, in actuality you may have only nicked them. 
  
  They give you the option to customize your multiplayer character, however, a good portion of the 
 multiplayer modes force you to play as a preset character, AND FOR NO REASON!
  
  When you die an respawn there is nothing around you for a period of time. All the cars and pedestrians 
 are gone.
  
  -You only get two melee weapons, the bat, and the knife. The entire point of choosing the knife 
 was for the purpose of sneaking up behind enemies and killing them in one stab. That option is 
 now gone.
  
  -This may be a personal preference but I am disappointed that they got rid of the revolver. Instead 
 there is a more powerful pistol, only it looks EXACTLY like the previous pistol. Having a revolver 
 would give a visual difference when using the more powerful pistol. This would be useful in multiplayer 
 and when you are looking for ammo for that weapon, rather than having the guns look identical.
 
  
  -About half way through the game, money is totally useless.
  
  
  There aren't really any visual differences between the PS3 and XBOX 360. 360 owners will get downloadable 
 content sooner than PS3 owners, but PS3 owners can play for free online.
  
  Overall the game is fantastic. The story, the characters, the gameplay, everything has been improved. 
 Even though the game may be missing some things, and have a few flaws, unless you are a hardcore 
 veteran of the series like me, you won't notice them, and even if you are, you will be having so 
 much fun, you won't mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rd1858
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure where to start. I've been waiting since it was announced a couple years ago. The game 
 definately lives up to the hype. I just sat down with it yesterday for a little and spent almost 
 all of today playing it and it is awesome. When I first sat down i was afraid of the freezing issue 
 since I have a 60gig PS3, but Ive been playing for over 10 hours now and it has not frozen once. 
 There are so many amazing things about the game. physics engine is just simply incredible and how 
 everything is random. I remember one time when I saw a cop chasing a criminal and I stopped to 
 let him get through but out of now where a car comes flying and hits the crook head on and let 
 the cop catch up to him and arrest him. After I saw that I was like damn. Also how you can fly 
 through car windows, shoot people through them and there will be a blood stain on the windshield, 
 and how the vehicles and feel different and realistic. I know I have read about how people were 
 complaining that the controls where too loose and they couldnt drive fast without spinning out 
 of control. I have news for them, this game is supposed to be somewhat realistic and it greatly 
 excels in this aspect. In real life you can't go 100mph down a road and expect to drive perfectly. 
 They shouldnt blame a game for what they lack in skill. I personally think the controls are sweet 
 because all of the skidding and 180's that can be pulled make for great police chases. People also 
 complain about the graphics but 1) GTA has never been about amazing graphics, but about the whole 
 experience and story and 2) the city itself loos amazing. When you add in the new multiplayer to 
 all of this it makes for one incredible gaming experience. I know Im like the millionth person 
 to review this game so by now you already know that this game is a must for any collection. This 
 will be my vote for game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game available for either next-gen console released to date. You've 
 never enjoyed a GTA game until you've played Grand Theft Auto IV. The games opening credits make 
 you feel like your watching a movie with amazing voice acting, sound effects, visuals, and so much 
 more. You are Niko Belic, a man escaping his past by coming to America to live with his cousin, 
 Roman. The games single player sandbox gameplay is without a doubt some of the most amazing gameplay 
 you'll ever experience. The game comes to life due to its astounding voice acting and visuals. 
 The game has new features that you won't see in any precious GTA games, such as a new Wanted-Level 
 system, a Lock-On system, a well-formed Cover system, and of course the highly acclaimed Multiplayer 
 modes. If you're not a fan of single player games and you enjoy Multiplayer games more, then Grand 
 Theft Auto IV is still the game for you. It features up to 16-player Online Multiplayer with classic 
 game modes like Deathmatch and Race, to newer innovative modes like Cops vs. Crooks which sets 
 half of the players as Cops who try to catch the escaping Crooks who need to perform tasks while 
 escaping. Grand Theft Auto IV is a must have for anyone because it gives you unlimited possibilities 
 that other games can't, and will be sure to give you one of the most amazing gaming experiences 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpass10988
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I first popped in my new GTA IV for my 360 1 hour after its release, Played it non stop until noon 
 the next day and had trouble putting down the controller, yet somethings still missing, There were 
 complaints about San Andreas and the new rpg elements that had been added to the game, Most were 
 silly but i still think Rockstar could have added something similar to the game, We enjoy sandbox 
 titles because we can do anything go anywhere and not forced to follow a linear story line. Its 
 not a big loss but i still wouldve liked to have Niko drive around a lowrider wearing a pimp hat 
 and purple suit lol. Anyways, Liberty city is a large plave and the glitches have become second 
 nature, the walking through walls and getting stuck in between two items so youre forced to make 
 niko run in place and jump for 2 mins just to continue. The new police i think also are somewhat 
 a dissapointment. Though the new system is less challenging, It may be too less of a challenge 
 for the experienced GTA players. The story line is fantastic. never did i want to skip through 
 a cut scene, and brucie himself had me laughing histaricaly, The graphics are still a big upgrade, 
 no they're not gears of war, or oblivion, but they do have they're shining moments and the city 
 looks great from far away. The loss of the many types of vehicles is a loss in my opinion, no planes, 
 no buggys, no bikes, four wheelers, just cars, motorcycles and a helicopter...... what happened 
 rockstar??? Who honestly enjoys driving that piece of crap vespa around?? not me thats for sure. 
 All in all the gameplay isnt to bad, the new aiming system is a much needed upgrade, but could 
 still use come tweeks, niki can climb up ladders and over fences making the on foot chase with 
 the LCPD a little more interesting, The driving needs a little work the cars seem way to heavy 
 at times and i myself had touble hitting corners without holding the break way before the turn, 
 A little more realistic but needed tweaking. Also niki seems to take falls much harder in this 
 game, a drop from a 3 story building most likely will kill him if not greatly inuring him which 
 yes is more realsitic but is different from the previous games. Overall I greatly enjoyed this 
 title. though i didnt like that rockstar took out so many of the rpg and customization elemtns 
 i still had a blast playing this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolose
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I, m telling yah its the best one yet , trust me if you are going to spend money on agame this year 
 IT IS THIS ONE, there is so much you can do and the graphics you cannot beat.... Like I said a must 
 have... the neat thing is I was going to pass on this one this year cause I found out it was coming 
 out on only the PS3 & XBOX360 and that upset me "Being a die hard PS2 player for years" so I broke 
 down cause of all the reviews I have been reading an man I, m glad I did, now I only have about 
 40 or so hours in playing it but its like I cant put the controller down the story is one of the 
 best I seen in awhile and the game play is great man I cant say enough about this game... one of 
 the neat things is I think is that they got rid of the "200 secret packages" now its 200 "Flying 
 Rats" LOL its great aint nothing like going around shooting the hell out of a bunch of birds... well 
 thats all from me , get this game its well worth the money...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is quite possibly one of the best things you can spend money on, aside from 
 marijuana, pizza, porn, and electricity. The game has been talked about for ages, and is finally 
 here. It has its pro's, and it has its cons (which are few, but noteworthy) .
  
  First off, the visuals are amazing. The draw distance is greatly improved (unlike the Liberty City 
 of GTA3 which seemed to be under a constant onslaught of fog) and you can explore a seemingly limitless 
 universe at your leisure (although crossing the bridges will invite an almost assured death from 
 police and the military, assuming you are without guns and armor) . The storyline is engaging, and 
 although I haven't gotten too far, I'm dying to know the story of Niko Bellic, and what went on 
 during 'the war'. The absecence of planes and custom MP3's is horrible, but slightly overlookable. 
 The gun selection is impressive, while not too varied; realistic is the best way to put it. The 
 cars are amazing and handle with incredible realism. Going too fast? Headed for a tree/pole/large 
 object? Better swerve, or you're gonna eject like you came out of a cannon. Car locked? No problem; 
 that's why you have elbows and windows are not too strong. See a car you like? Walk up to it with 
 your weapon aimed, and it might just scare the piss out of someone enough to give you their car, 
 free of charge. Causing a ruckus? Better watch out for cellphone-weilding citizens with 911 on 
 speed dial. Abandoning a car? You better run, the police will receive reports of an abandoned vehicle. 
 The envioronments are also semi-destructable, as well as vehicles taking realistic damage. If you 
 smash up the front end of a car enough, the engine will not start. 
  
  My only cons for this game were the lack of MP3 support, the lack of planes, and the slightly sluggish 
 character handling. I think the visuals could have been better (PS3 version. PS3 has better capabilities) 
 and maybe a slightly bigger weapon selection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c1on
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  GTA4, the next GTA to follow on from GTA3 and it's expansions. Yes, expansions - I see so many 
 people complaining about not having certain features from previous games such as San Andreas etc, 
 and while I agree the added features would have improved the overall experience, you need to remember 
 this is not something they can just edit and add code like they did with Vice City and San Andreas.
 
  
  Take a step back and have a look at the core of both the Games, Okay you can look at San Andreas 
 and GTA4. What you have is the obvious improved graphics, lighting, shadows etc which was expected. 
 But what people don't seem to notice is how far the character progression, physics, character integration 
 has come along, so much so that you could almost call this an Action-RPG.
  
  You need to see this game for what is is and what it can and will become. Think about what Rockstar 
 started with in GTA3 and compare the final result of San Andreas. Now think about that same progression 
 from GTA4 to the next one or two installments to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mavein
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  After 2 weeks of playing, and 35% into the game of fighting with the graphics blur, i finally see 
 the graphics some people have been talking about.
  
  When i first got the game i was very disapointed in the graphics on my LNT4061F Samsung 1080p LCD, 
 every other game has looked flawless except GTA 4, its just like alot of other complaints of having 
 vasaline smeared all over the screen. Im not talking about the distance blur, or the motion blur. 
 Is that blur that makes everyone and everything out of focus, except when in buildings. After reading 
 how much people love the graphics i took the game to my brothers house and watched it on his 46 
 inch sony bravia, it looked flawless. 
  
  My gameing sessions to date have been 50% playing and 50% tweeking, i have turned my tv inside 
 and out to find out that i needed to have the game set to Dynamic, with an image proccessing exclusive 
 to Samsung turned off and instantly the game transformed into something beautiful. The blur is 
 gone and the colors are very loud and immpressive. I called my brother and asked him what his settings 
 were at and told me he leaves it on factory default "Vivid" ( same as dynamic on samsung)
  
  Now i can finally enjoy the game haha, i was about to give up on the blurry mess that was hurting 
 my eyes. Hope it helps some others that have the same concerns as i did. For the record nothing 
 else worked as far as settings went on my tv or the PS3 settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  So I was there for the midnight release. 36 some-odd hours later, I watch the final cutscene. So 
 it's definitely got the gameplay to keep you occupied for many hours. I could probably spend a 
 good 15 or so more hours on this game, trying for 100%, but I doubt I'll get that far.
  
  All in all it is a solid game. It has a great story, plenty of side-missions and extra things to 
 do, and the graphics are good enough for a GTA game. Then there is the online which, when it works... 
 its simply put... amazingly fun. Especially if you have other people with Mic's in your games.
 
  
  The story mode starts off with Niko arriving fresh off the boat, and throughout the storyline, 
 He's basically just trying to understand the way america works, often with funny dialogue. The 
 other characters in this game are all very creative personalities, and very nicely voiced. You 
 may even find yourself growing attached to some of them, and also find yourself wishing you could 
 curb stomp/shoot others. Over the course of the game, you really get a feel for what Niko is about. 
 I'll just say, he is MUCH deeper than I first thought him to be.
  
  The missions are plentiful, with difficulty ranging from "go around the corner, shoot this guy, 
 and get $2,000", to "I see you're on your 6th mission attempt, Why don't you just pull all your 
 hair out now?". The missions can get quite frustrating sometimes, particularly if you're like me, 
 and have to reload from your last save if you die/get arrested/etc. But all in all, if you exercise 
 patience, and utilize cover, while taking advantage of your surroundings, you will generally come 
 out on top. Then there are the "mandatory" missions, which trigger after certain missions are completed, 
 and sometimes even seem to "get in the way". But if that starts to happen, you can turn off your 
 phone, or just go online if you wanna just mess around.
  
  Speaking of online, there is such a variety in modes, you will seldom find yourself starved for 
 originality. Considering rarely does anything "go as planned", particularly when you have to factor 
 in other people, and their abilities. Once you get into the swing of things though, Certain modes, 
 like Hangman's NOOSE, can get extremely easy, if you get the strategy down, and everyone cooperates 
 (again, having a mic really helps with this) . 
  
  Anyway, long story short, This game is DEFINITELY worth your money, and is a staple for the mature 
 gaming crowd. DO NOT let your children play, or even watch you play this game though. Very vulgar, 
 and very violent. But pleasingly so.
  
  I'd give it a 9.7 if I could, very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaEliteCommando
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  The game is just amazing. Rockstar has taken the game into a whole new level. To much details that 
 make the game feel like reality. Graphics is just amazing, story line that is not boring, and little 
 stuff that make the game wonderfull.
  The only thing that i miss in this sequel is the air crafts. There are only helicopters, no jets, 
 no military air crafts, no nothing. Beside that, the game is just perfect.
  The missions are just right. The get harder and harder as you proceed in the game. Some missions 
 get frustrating with the cops and SWAT teams on your tail, which adds a spicey taste to the game.
 
  Cops are a totally new thing. With their new evading techniques. They became smarter than the 
 old GTAs.
  What is also amazing in the game, is the Cop's Computer. You can access it from any cop car and 
 you can do what ever you want, from searching for a dealer's location, to locating the top 10 most 
 wanted criminals in the city. 
  For the online, its so enjoyable, with all the different places you can play in and all the different 
 modes to join.
  I dont want to spoil more of the game to those who didnt play it yet... but I dont think this game 
 could get any better. Really, rockstar has done something WONDERFULL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mzeppelin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  First off, this is the best GTA made up to date. To start out with the Pros:
  
  The game has great graphics and looks very realistic. The city is a lot more active than in other 
 games. The missions also make more sense in this game, than in the others where you simply go and 
 kill a few people and blow something up. They usually take about 10-15 minutes on average to complete, 
 and are put together perfectly. The characters are also very interesting and can help you in many 
 ways, unlike in the other games where they were just used for the cutscenes and missions.
  
  The Cons:
  
  There are only a few minor flaws which stop me from giving this game a perfect 
 10. One of them is that the driving can be a little difficult to get used to at first, but after 
 a while becomes very easy. Another thing is that if you're in an alley at night, you can't see 
 at all.. where you're going or walking or anything like that.
  
  Overall this is a wonderful game and definently worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crystalcastles
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  you pro reviewers!!!!! need to get your head out of the clouds and rate games properly. the game 
 in a sense is good but not the best game of the year still worth the buy, youll enjoy playing it. 
 but for me rockstar have taken 2 steps forward for a 2 steps back . besides overall quality, the 
 gameplay leaves alot to be desired. music is great also the characters feel real. the conversations 
 are unique and random occurances that happen in the game are also quite fun, for example people 
 being arrested, random gun fights, preachers, car chases etc 
 
  
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bentrink
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  I read the X-Play review for this game and they said that the gunplay was a bit weak and outdated, 
 I dont agree at all. The gunplay is literally 5 times better than in the previous games, and just 
 about better than any other game i've played. Nikko truly has the marksman skills of a Marine Sniper 
 when you know how to use it.
  The missions are amazing. There wasn't one mission where i judt didn't want to do it. Rockstar 
 goes so in depth with the characters that it makes the game seem like real life, and when your 
 left with some decisions, you have to feel bad with your decisions sometimes. One of the coolest 
 things is that you can choose what Nikko does, and basically a number of enemies to kill or spare. 
 
  The multiplayer is another thing that GTA amazed me with. Getting 16 random people that just want 
 to blow the living crap out of each other was a good idea, and it works. I can personally gaurantee 
 you will love this game, and if you dont, I will refund you the $59.99 for the game thats worth 
 three times that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game will blow your mind! It has so much more than I ever imagined! You can get on the Internet, 
 have girlfriends, have regular friends that you can go drinking with or do whatever. There are 
 so many things it would take all day to name them all. You can also take cover now kind of like 
 in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 you can do blind fire and everything. The graphics are really good to. Some 
 of the scenery is down rite amazing. I think this is the best Grand Theft Auto to date. I'm addicted. 
 You have a cell phone on this game and you can do pretty much anything with it. The music on the 
 radio in the game is decent and they changed the way you drive a little but to but I like it. The 
 explosions look sweet when cars blow up to lol. The story is well done and you meet some pretty 
 interesting people along the way. If you love good games then you will LOVE GTAIV :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squalls_revival
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't surprised when i first loaded up this game I had to wait on the usual loading screen for 
 quite a while... The game froze... so i checked the forums, like any normal gamespot user should 
 or should start doing. Sooooo 10 min. later i come back do the whole thing over again, with the 
 internet disabled and BINGO! Since then i have reconnected the internet and to my surprise it did 
 not crash.... I was happy as... S**T dunno, and to this day no problems. Gta4 is most definitely 
 the best single player game I own for ps3... the multi player is nothing to complain about but nothing 
 beats good old call of duty :P
  I enjoyed the use of the six- axis controls when riding helicopters and the bikes but nothing was 
 revolutionary in that department. I really hope in the future Rockstar brings extra map downloads 
 to the Playstation network, those 360 gamers don't deserve special treatment from nobody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolskaKing
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have not bought the game and yet i give it a ten. Why? because it is amazing from the videos i 
 have watched and everything is completing remodeled. What i am pissed off at is u cant customize 
 the cars. I mean in SA u could only customizea few types of cars but still. but everything is perfect. 
 i have played the game though just to see if it is all that and it is. I have pretty much changed 
 my game save at my friends to a pretty drunk killer. It is hilarious to see Niko try to kill someone 
 while being drunk. Just do it and youll see what i  
 PS3 rocks and so does GTA  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of GTA. They get into more detail with each installment. The people of the 
 city are more aggressive. They'll actually run you over if you're in the middle of the street. 
 The cops are actually chasing you into your safehouse. There are a lot more things to do now like 
 watching tv, mini games, get lap dances in the strip club, etc. The screen actually gets blurry 
 to simulate the speed effect when you're driving fast. The graphics are still great as usual. The 
 one thing I don't like about the graphics is that the Default setting is too dark. I had to drive 
 with my highbeam on with most places even day an night. The whole screen seems to be blurry. Anyway, 
 I guess you can adjust it. Besides that, the game is very detail to the point that if you were 
 to run anywhere that has steps (like a stair) then Niko's legs operate according to how high the 
 step is (where as other games the character will be leveled) .
  The phone feature is great, it allows you to dial people to setup activities and you'll get their 
 reaction depending on your ability to keep your promise of picking them up on time.
  I haven't try to play online yet. The one big problem I'm having is that the game will freeze after 
 I take out the phone, go to multiplayer, and sign-on to PSN.
  This game is a must own for all game player.
  Did I mention that this game has foul language 
 in every second of the game? Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV Is the best GTA so far, But could of been better. First with the story, It has an Incredible 
 Storyline, But not the best GTA storyline, The story line felt shorter then the Past GTA's, But 
 the story made sense and had alot of quality, Altough some things were complicated and not shown, 
 It still made a great storyline.
  
  Also, In General of the game the gameplay felt realistic, Altough the cops wre not so realistic 
 at all, The pedestriand were smarter, And many things about the game got more ''real''
  
  The game also has a backup to ''Attempt to stand up to its hype'' Multiplayer, Multiplayer is great 
 But might get repetitive, But it is a Superb addtiton To GTA
  
  
  
  And well, altough this is my opinion, This game has the greatest Theme Song Of All The GTA'S!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people say that Grand Theft Auto 4 is the best game ever it's not I think that Vice City 
 was the best game in the series back in 2002 on PS2. GTA 4 may look like a great game but I found 
 it disappointing.
  
  Main story is set in America in Liberty City may reconise the name back on GTA 3 also it is sort 
 of set in New York City area but with a different name and its main tourist tractions such as The 
 Sature of Liberty but in GTA 4 they called it The Sature of Happiness. You play as Europen person 
 Niko Bellic who is escaping from his past and who on a ship and moe to America to live with his 
 cousin Roman, it is there vision that togethor they can find fortune in Liberty City. But Niko 
 gets into alot of trouble and helping out everyone in Liberty City either with Money, Drugs or anything 
 that they can get there hands on. The story gets more interesting later on.
  
  Gameplay= Just same in other GTA games but this time they took out the RPG elements that were in 
 San Andreas which I found very annoying where you had to bulid up stamina, fatness or respect, 
 alot of people hated the RPG elements, in GTA 4 the missions are quite easy to do in the first 
 half but they can be harder near the end of the game. You can steal drive any vechile but you can 
 also enter other places such as bars, resturants or internet cafe's, you can get drunk in the game 
 and play Bowling as a mini game. You can use a mobile phone to enter cheats, contact other people 
 in game if your stuck or where you need to go next. A good about it where if your trying to get 
 to a place thats really far and you have to drive all the way there. There is a very quick way 
 by whislting at the taxi, get the taxi and you can get there stright away if you skip the travelling 
 while your the taxi. Also using a GPS telling where and find the quickest route to your location 
 which is clever.
  
  Graphics and Sound= I've just notice that the graphics are very different from the 360 version, 
 the PS3 version has better graphics and quality to a PS3 and a great view of the city if your on 
 a high buliding. While your watching cutscenes feels like your watching a Mafia/Gangsta film. The 
 series still has some of the best sounding but the radio stations are bit bad and probably may 
 not want to listen to the entire soundtrack GTA 4. If your a fan of the series which GTA game was 
 your favourite based on sounding and graphics?
  
  Overall= There is multiplayer where you can play online with other gamers by killing each other 
 but you can't completely create your own full charcter. Your mostly killing each other whee every 
 you go. Main Story can take up to 30 hours or more pending how much you play it or wasting time 
 wondering around the city all at once. In my appion Vice City was my favourite in the series it 
 was just a very amazing game alot of people say that it was the best game and there right ears 
 to come fans are still going to play Vice City over and over becuase it was a great game. But alot 
 people say that 4 is the best and maybe Game of the Year for 2008 but who knows I don't think that 
 Gamespot or IGN or all websites/ game magazines shouldn't gave GTA 4 a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 6, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, forget everything you've heard about killing prostitutes or acts of random violence. 
 Forget everything you've heard about the games ratings. If life, real life that is, were to come 
 with ratings who among us would be allowed to play?
  
  Having finished the story, I am here to testify that the use of or violence against prostitutes 
 in the game is not required. Niko does not use drugs. Niko also advocates NOT driving while drunk 
 and doesn't smoke.
  
  Of course such vices pale in comparison to the fact that NB is a hired gun. I guess It would seem 
 that violence, as far as society is concerned, is less harmful than either drugs and or sex.
  
  GTA IV is a story. A plausible yet not so likely story of an immigrant who searches the concrete 
 jungle of LIberty City in search of revenge. The story is filled with wit, anger, sorrow and plenty 
 of laughs. Whether on a mission, meeting with a friend or cruising the streets, I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the character dialog. Just as in real life, there's a surprise around every corner.
  
  Lastly, I would have given GTA IV a ten. Except, GTA IV does not deserve a perfect score. The games 
 controls should have undergone additional testing/tweaking prior to releasing the game. Though 
 an improvement over San Andreas, the controls, in my opinion, feel too loose while driving and 
 too tight while on foot. Secondly, the weak traffic AI continues to let down. Why would people 
 driving on a two lane free way all change lanes en mass?
  
  So, GTA IV, in my opinion, is not perfect. Having said that, it's still one of the best overall 
 gaming experiences I've ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3fan02
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  i'm only writing because i see a lot of complaining about some features in the game. this game shouldn't 
 get anything below a 10. this game worth the $60 the driving and fighting takes some getting used 
 to compared to other GTA games but its easy when you do it a lot. people are giving this 5 6 and 
 7 but they dont know about games. they hating because they dont have a ps3 or 360 to get the game. so 
 go and stay with your wii. this games really deserves a 10. best game ever played gta 4 yea ,callof 
 duty 4 is my second best game i ever played. You can expect just about everything from more missions, 
 to extra weapons and vehicles. No regrets after purchursing GTA after having such high expectations, 
 i was not let down. Rockstar have truely outdone themselves this time. i have not played the online 
 yet but i really dont like to play online in game i like the story mode better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimsevilvoice
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  GTA the one and only from time to time they have been creating the most anticipated game every 
 time. Well GTAIV came and GTAIV slapped other games in the face with its intense action realistic 
 gameplay not to mention HD compatible and addictive play. Its the year of the GTA..... Niko Bellic 
 an interesting but perfect character for the game. You start off as an immagrant off a boat and 
 work your way up liberty city by earning respect money and blood. Saint Row is mad of this one 
 and should be jealous of GTAIV of stealing there thunder because GTAIV has not been the ultimate 
 of the GTA's but redeemed itself in the new generation of games. Boys and girls if you like the 
 past GTA's and Saints row you will like GTAIV even better... Brace yourself. Carjacking
  Stealing, hustling, action and shooting youll loveit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbofkc
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Alot of folks have deemed this title overrated but I think they were expecting to much of this 
 golden series. Alot of games have had problems moving their series to the new consoles but I feel 
 they did an amazing job this time around. The graphics are phenominal and the gameplay is very 
 detailed.
  
  I was expecting less actually because of the highly acclaimed name this carries with it. Each game 
 in this series has grown upon one another and they took alot out compared from San Andreas to now, 
 but I was rather happy they did. I wasn't happy with having to feed, excercise, etc. with the last 
 game and happy they did away with it. I did give it a 9.5 out of 10 because of the control changes 
 which will just take time to get used to (rather than shifting them to classic) and there are a 
 few minor glitches.
  
  Very creative with the storyline this time around, it seems they're digging at new possibiliies 
 each game that comes out. We did the gangster thing and that was fun but the immigrant thing does 
 great value to whats going on compared to the location, Liberty City (New York) .
  
  Overall happy with the gameplay and the amazing leap to the nextgen systems. People need to let 
 down their seemingly impossible expectations and let it be what it is. This is essentially the 
 leap pad to a good future of games to come to the nextgen consoles just as GTA3 was the leaping 
 pad to the lastgen console (s) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has to be seen as a synthesis of arts! The game combines graphical animation, sound design, 
 story telling, freedom of choice and all new gameplay elements to an overall impression never experienced 
 before in a video game!
  
  When you walk through Liberty City it's almost scary how alive this city feels. The mere amount 
 of audio-visual details is amazing and adds a lot to the authenticity of the game world. The possibilities 
 the game offers you are simply overwhelming and make it easily worth playing for leastwise 50 hours!
 
  
  In that time you should also be through the campaign. Due to a thrilling and "immersive" story 
 which is pressed ahead by superb characters (and speakers!) this will still occur you as too short. 
 But there's still the "great multiplayer" which is not only a truly new experience to a GTA-fan 
 like me - it's simply "plain fun"!
  
  But there's a lot more which has to be mentioned when describing the brilliancy of this game. Compared 
 to old installments in the series GTA IV has some great improvements. The new cover system is easy 
 to handle and makes the numerous gun fights become really dynamic and exciting. Moreover the cell 
 phone as one of the major game elements is integrated astonishing well into the game. On top of 
 that the freedom of choice the player has throughout the game is even topped with several moments 
 in which you can choose how to go on in the story - including the really important ones in the 
 final missions!
  
  Taking all of this into consideration, GTA IV is nothing less than a "masterpiece" and easily the 
 "best in series"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I saw a 10 and I thought I was justified in buying this game. Usually I wait for player reviews, 
 and read all the bad ones. It seems to be the only way to get a realistic idea of the game now. 
 I can't see any possible way this game could rate as a 10 in ANYONES book. I truly think the majority 
 of people who rate it 10 either were just so hyped for it they reviewed it before seriously playing 
 it, or never even played it at all.
  
  The good
  massive city, lots of area to explore. the same 'fun' of beating up and destroying things. obvious 
 attention to detail.
  
  The bad
  
  the sound is muffled and drowned out. you have to really pay attention to tell what the hell people 
 are saying. very little city ambience. 
  
  the missions are extremely repetitive. there seems to be a trend in games now to make "open worlds" 
 and fill them with teh same 2-3 tasks for you to complete. think assassins creed. attention developers: 
 doing the SAME thing over and over in different places is not fun. I know, it passes as more content, 
 but its not.
  
  the city is too big. yeah, really. why is the fact that it takes a half hour to get somewhere a 
 good point? this is a game, remember? lets stop trying to force fun into simulations of the real 
 world and just emphasize FUN. every place looks essentially the same.
  
  The ugly.
  
  The graphics are terrible. I don't mean things don't look "pretty". I mean you cannot see ANYTHING. 
 I fiddled with my contrast, brightness - via game and tv, for an hour trying to get it to a level 
 where i could see where the hell i was, and still read the text. no dice. i either crank the brightness 
 and contrast to see where im going, but no cant read the text, or vice versa. this is EXTREMELY 
 annoying.
  
  i could go on but i wont. this games main flaw in my opinion, is that they got so caught up in 
 adding features and realism that they forgot about what impact all those changes would have on 
 the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Before reading this review, I can give reasons WHY this game DOESN'T DESERVE a 10! Just because 
 it's name is 'Grand Theft Auto' doesn't mean it must have a 10!
  Oh and only people who are gangsta wannabes will give this game a 10!, if the game is so awesome, 
 WHY WON'T YOU GAMERS JUST DO ANYTHING IN REAL LIFE, then you'll realise it isn't cool going to 
 jail. What's so awesome about swearing, drugs and robbing people anyways? Ok I'll admit GTA4 is 
 a good game, but it doesn't deserve a 10, because it has BAD POINTS! Only perfect games won't have 
 any bad points, and I bet if Gamespot here went back to their old rating system, this game won't 
 even have a perfect 10. I'll say between 8.0 - 9.5, but not 10. IGN are just mega fanboys to give 
 this game a 10/10, too cheap. Even Famitsu gave this game a 39/40 showing my point that the game 
 is good, but not perfect.
  
  
  GTA 4 is a great game that starts of with a person called Niko Belic, a Serbian and an illegeal 
 immigrant, for starters the type of person is the wrong type for a hip-hop gangsta theme but suited 
 as a mafia theme person. Well the storyline is solid but anyone can finish it easy, and has al 
 lot of hilarious moments, the graphics, as expected is good for a ps3 but has a few graphical issues, 
 and gameplay, still the same, not so much difference but has online multiplayer for the first time, 
 and it's seriously fun but can't be played as 2 player in the same console as for the gameplay 
 you press in, it's quite boring but it's fun in the screen, for me the game holds some swearwords 
 and can be fun at times, but won't be very good if you play it with your parents or anyone younger 
 than you, this is a type of game that you should be playing on your own. Sounds is just awesome 
 and it's complete and 99.9% legend, and presentation is great, the bad point really is the person 
 you use, first of all, you can't decorate him as much as you can in san andreas and cornrows won't 
 really suit him, and has a few glitches maybe because of the game size, and the story isn't very 
 long, but anyway I have to say, the first great game for a ps3, this game is seriously awesome 
 and recommended to ps3 users, if you don't have this game for ps3, you are seriously lost. Because 
 getting this game, will create your second-best PS3 game after MGS4. For me, i'll give the game 
 8.0 - 9.5 but not 10 because it has some share of problems as well..
  
  
  Goods/+
  Some detailed Graphics
  Legendary Sounds
  Gameplay is the same but better when watching it
 
  Great Online
  You can virtually can do anything in the game
  A Solid Storyline
  Great Presentation
  Yeah Yeah, tons of good points.
  The addition of trophies, nice.
  
 
  Bad/ -
  Glitch problems
  No offline multiplayer using the same console
  The game is short
  Can't go to planes
  Can't decorate your character that much like you can 
 is San Andreas
  An enchanced version of San Andreas, it just make it look shiny
  A Shiny version of GTA
  Metal Gear Solid 4 beats this game by miles!
  
  Gameplay/Innovation 
 - 7/10
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation - 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankTheFrank
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 6, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  The main thing to keep in mind is that a 10 is perfection, yet people admit there are multiple 
 flaws in the game and give it a 10 anyways. That is called fanboyism, and while the game is good 
 - it isn't a 10.
  
  I do not think this game deserves a 10 there were so many things left out I am so disappointed. 
 Rock star has totally left the door open for Saints Row 2 to come in and knock this tittle off 
 its false throne. I mean come there were things left out like customizing cars, skydiving, airplanes 
 and why when your online in free mode you can't go to the strip club with your buddies online there 
 are no strippers in there. I bought the collectors that cost 80$ and you should have got something 
 exclusive to play online with only if you bought the collectors edition what's up with that. I'm 
 second guessing buying collectors edition for any games for now on. I'm really looking forward 
 to Saints Row it looks like there going to bring it on this one besides the last one was a 10 it 
 had everything. So we will see what happens when this occurs, but hopefully another game will show 
 up the reviewers who give it a "10". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenkashijd
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is the first installment on the next-gen consoles in the GTA franchise from 
 Rockstar. It stars Eastern European Niko Bellic as the main protagonist, who is in route to Liberty 
 City to meet up with his cousin Roman Bellic. Roman has sent numerous emails and letters to Niko 
 and his mother about how he is living the "American Dream". He informs them that he has penthouse 
 sweets, beautiful women, exotic fast cars and lots of money, but upon arrival in Liberty City, 
 Niko discovers that his cousin's tales of greatness are mearly delusions of grandeur. 
  
  After inserting the game disc, you are required to perform a ten minute install. Although this 
 will be the most agonizing ten minutes of your life, Rockstar provides a awesome title track instrumental 
 that's crazy. It will keep you entertained and adds to the anticipation of what Liberty City has 
 in store for you the third time around. Although the game is supposed to function better with the 
 mandatory install, the only gripe I have with this feature (in regards to all games) is why not 
 allow the choice of performing the install to the user? Some people like the functionality and 
 some people just want to play. I would've figured that with such a huge title Rockstar would have 
 allowed the choice... but I digress...
  
  Although GTA4 does not have the beautiful and realistic visuals of a COD4, Uncharted, Bioshock 
 or Gears of War, graphically, the game looks great and is by far the best looking GTA game to date! 
 But as we all know the Grand Theft Auto series has not been known for its graphics... it's known 
 for its gameplay... and the gameplay does not disappoint. The game feels and handles like the traditional 
 GTA we've grown found of on the PS2 but an evolved version that stresses realism for the next-gen 
 consoles. Last gen, stealing cars were easy as all car doors seemed to be unlocked with keys in 
 the ignition. Now, the majority of car doors are locked and if this is the case, the only way to 
 get in is by smashing the window and then hotwiring the car. You can still pull off classic dashboard 
 head smashes and kicks to the face when jackin fools, but you can also point your gun at passengers 
 and they'll willing give up their car... unless they're packin too. Vehicles handle like their real 
 world counterparts so no more taking 90 degree turns doing 100mph. This is initially one of the 
 biggest areas to master, but after playing for a few hours you really get a sense of how different 
 cars handle. Another small addition is if you're doing 100mph and you crash into a wall, Niko will 
 fly through the windshield, which is a hilarious scene to watch. There are numerous other tweaks 
 they made to the game to separate it from it's predecessors, but I will let you experience it for 
 yourself.
  
  Liberty City looks great and Rockstar created a near carbon copy of a vivrant and lively New York 
 City. Brooklyn (Broker) , Manhattan (Algonquin) , the Bronx (Bohan) , Queens (Dukes) , Liberty Island 
 (Happiness Island) , Coney Island (Colony Island) and New Jersey (Alderney) are represented well 
 in traditional GTA fashion with distorted but familiar knockoff names.
  
  The audio is top notch as Rockstar pulled in a whole array of unknown voice talent to voice the 
 millions of people within Liberty City. This fact is displayed in full at the conclusion of the 
 game when the credits roll. The radio stations are superb and better (IMO) than the majority of 
 radio stations available in most major cities. The music genre covers pretty much all popular music 
 current in the industry such as: hip hop (current) , hip hop (underground/classic) , r&b, reggae 
 (dancehall) , reggae (dub) , electronic, rock and roll, reggaeton and a number of comical talk stations. 
 
  
  One of the newest and probably the biggest new feature is the inclusion of multiplayer to the game. 
 There's more to be desired from the online modes, but I will not penalize Rockstar on their first 
 attempt. It's playable and at its best when running through the entire city causing mayhem with 
 a group of friends. The ability to run around Liberty City with friends was a great feature and 
 should be continued in future multiplayer modes.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto 4 makes a wonderful and memorable appearance on the next-gen consoles 
 that everybody should play (2008 Game of the Year... cough cough) but it is not without it's faults. 
 Although they are nearly outweighed by the greatness found within the game, the downside issues 
 still rear their ugly heads which can deter from an enjoyable afternoon of creating havoc in the 
 city. The biggest problem that is noticeable is game freezes or lockups. Initially this was thought 
 to be a 60Gb PS3 exclusive issue, but this same problem is arising on multiple SKUs not only on 
 the Playstation but Xbox 360 as well. Hopefully Rockstar will create a firmware update to correct 
 this, but only time will tell. Aside from the freezing this game is hands down one of the best 
 next-gen experiences to date and has alot of supporting votes as 2008 Game of the Year. Any fan 
 of the GTA series or owners of a PS3 or Xbox 360 should definitely pick this game up. You won't 
 be disappointed one bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigc072005
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  this game shouldnt get anything below a 9... the only thing i dont like is the occasional lag but 
 what game doesnt do that... vice city was my favorite before this came out but... yes beleive the 
 hype its def worth $60... the driving and fighting takes some getting used to compared to other 
 GTA games but its easy when you do it a lot lol... all these kids giving it 6's and 7's are stupid 
 probably like saints row instead... u dont need to play dress up with a character in order for it 
 to get a 10... and as for the DLC.... read this "What? A post about downloadable content for the 
 PS3 version of GTA4? That's right. PS3 owners are going to get DLC as well. (not exclusive DLC 
 mind you) You can expect just about everything from more missions, to extra weapons and vehicles, 
 really, the sky's the limit. What's the exclusive DLC for 360? Missions."
  
  from ps3informer. com and they got it from XGN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsande23
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I do not think this game deserves a 10 there were so many things left out I am so disappointed. 
 Rock star has totally left the door open for Saints Row 2 to come in and knock this tittle off 
 its false throne. I mean come there were things left out like customizing cars, skydiving, airplanes 
 and why when your online in free mode you can't go to the strip club with your buddies online there 
 are no strippers in there. I bought the collectors that cost 80$ and you should have got something 
 exclusive to play online with only if you bought the collectors edition what's up with that. I'm 
 second guessing buying collectors edition for any games for now on. I'm really looking forward 
 to Saints Row it looks like there going to bring it on this one besides the last one was a 10 it 
 had everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is the first installment on the next-gen consoles in the GTA franchise from 
 Rockstar. It stars Eastern European Niko Bellic as the main protagonist, who is in route to Liberty 
 City to meet up with his cousin Roman Bellic. Roman has sent numerous emails and letters to Niko 
 and his mother about how he is living the "American Dream". He informs them that he has penthouse 
 sweets, beautiful women, exotic fast cars and lots of money, but upon arrival in Liberty City, 
 Niko discovers that his cousin's tales of greatness are mearly delusions of grandeur. 
  
  After inserting the game disc, you are required to perform a ten minute install. Although this 
 will be the most agonizing ten minutes of your life, Rockstar provides a booming title track instrumental 
 that's crazy. It will keep you entertained and adds to the anticipation of what Liberty City has 
 in store for you the third time around. Although the game is supposed to function better with the 
 mandatory install, the only gripe I have with this feature (in regards to all games) is why not 
 allow the choice of performing the install to the user? Some people like the functionality and 
 some people just want to play. I would've figured that with such a huge title Rockstar would have 
 allowed the choice... but I digress...
  
  Although GTA4 does not have the beautiful and realistic visuals of a COD4, Uncharted, Bioshock 
 or Gears of War, graphically, the game looks great and is by far the best looking GTA game to date! 
 But as we all know the Grand Theft Auto series has not been known for its graphics... it's known 
 for its gameplay... and the gameplay does not disappoint. The game feels and handles like the traditional 
 GTA we've grown found of on the PS2 but an evolved version that stresses realism for the next-gen 
 consoles. Last gen, stealing cars were easy as all car doors seemed to be unlocked with keys in 
 the ignition. Now, the majority of car doors are locked and if this is the case, the only way to 
 get in is by smashing the window and then hotwiring the car. You can still pull off classic dashboard 
 head smashes and kicks to the face when jackin fools, but you can also point your gun at passengers 
 and they'll willing give up their car... unless they're packin too. Vehicles handle like their real 
 world counterparts so no more taking 90 degree turns doing 100mph. This is initially one of the 
 biggest areas to master, but after playing for a few hours you really get a sense of how different 
 cars handle. Another small addition is if you're doing 100mph and you crash into a wall, Niko will 
 fly through the windshield, which is a hilarious scene to watch. There are numerous other tweaks 
 they made to the game to separate it from it's predecessors, but I will let you experience it for 
 yourself.
  
  Liberty City looks great and Rockstar created a near carbon copy of a vivrant and lively New York 
 City. Brooklyn (Broker) , Manhattan (Algonquin) , the Bronx (Bohan) , Queens (Dukes) , Liberty Island 
 (Happiness Island) , Coney Island (Colony Island) and New Jersey (Alderney) are represented well 
 in traditional GTA fashion with distorted but familiar knockoff names.
  
  The audio is top notch as Rockstar pulled in a whole array of unknown voice talent to voice the 
 millions of people within Liberty City. This fact is displayed in full at the conclusion of the 
 game when the credits roll. The radio stations are superb and better (IMO) than the majority of 
 radio stations available in most major cities. The music genre covers pretty much all popular music 
 current in the industry such as: hip hop (current) , hip hop (underground/classic) , r&b, reggae 
 (dancehall) , reggae (dub) , electronic, rock and roll, reggaeton and a number of comical talk stations. 
 
  
  One of the newest and probably the biggest new feature is the inclusion of multiplayer to the game. 
 There's more to be desired from the online modes, but I will not penalize Rockstar on their first 
 attempt. It's playable and at its best when running through the entire city causing mayhem with 
 a group of friends. The ability to run around Liberty City with friends was a great feature and 
 should be continued in future multiplayer modes.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto 4 makes a wonderful and memorable appearance on the next-gen consoles 
 that everybody should play (2008 Game of the Year... cough cough) but it is not without it's faults. 
 Although they are nearly outweighed by the greatness found within the game, the downside issues 
 still rear their ugly heads which can deter from an enjoyable afternoon of creating havoc in the 
 city. The biggest problem that is noticeable is game freezes or lockups. Initially this was thought 
 to be a 60Gb PS3 exclusive issue, but this same problem is arising on multiple SKUs not only on 
 the Playstation but Xbox 360 as well. Hopefully Rockstar will create a firmware update to correct 
 this, but only time will tell. Aside from the freezing this game is hands down one of the best 
 next-gen experiences to date and has alot of supporting votes as 2008 Game of the Year. Any fan 
 of the GTA series or owners of a PS3 or Xbox 360 should definitely pick this game up. Aside from 
 the occasional game freeze, you won't be disappointed with this sequel one bit!
  
  Final Score: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taoridib
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  The only reason I bought it was because I thought it would be like San Andreas but better. To my 
 surprise it was a piece of crap. I've never been to New York but I doubt its that freaking cloudy 
 & foggy 90% of the time. 
  
  The driving feels like that of GT's but you are doing it with vehicles that are in traffic and 
 pedestrians on the side. The brakes on all of the cars are messed up, you need have to hit the 
 brake like 10x before you could make a fast turn. He runs without any control, walks through doors 
 and aims like an idiot... 
  
  My ps3 has never frozen before this retarded game!! I only played it for about 2 hours and quit, 
 after reading other reviews, I gave it another try and it still sucks, well my fault; I'd never 
 buy another ps3 game without renting it first.
  
  I would have given it some slacks if I was playing a ps1 game, its absolutely ridiculous. ps3?! 
 What have you done? I stayed loyal to you man! I watched people play Gears of War and hoped that 
 if I stayed faithful to you, you'd make it worth the while. The only thing that has been ok on 
 the ps3 is probably Assassins creed, a very repetitive game story, which I could have played on 
 the less expensive xbox.
  
  Just bring out Socom and don't be foolish this time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljubs6
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  while i don't think that gta iv is a straight 10 like most reviewers, it's certainly not any lower 
 than a 9. A few idiots out there have complained about a lot of things that they obviously know 
 nothing about, or haven't bothered trying to find in the game.
  
  The graphics, while less shiny and new than say gears of war, definitely are above and beyond any 
 other open world game i've seen this generation. What do you people want!? The current hardware 
 isn't going to be able to do much more with such a huge game, and the graphics are still impressive 
 at certain points. MUCH more so than any other gta ever. It's hard to describe the amount of detail 
 rockstar has put into the game, although i wish there was a little bit more in certain areas (i'll 
 discuss that later) .
  
  A few people have also said that the ai for the pedestrians is "the same as san andreas".... did 
 you even play the game? The ai is a huge step up from any of the other gta games, as the peds are 
 all different, have unique animations, and react independently each time you're around them. The 
 ai system is quite impressive at work, and i think most of the people here just want to downplay 
 how good gta is, or just don't know what they're talking about at all.
  
  The storyline is awesome, i'm only about 50% through the game right now, and every mission is a 
 blast. The cut scenes are great and really draw you into the storylines. There is a completely 
 diverse amount of cars and types of cars, you'll see just about everything except for planes (drivable 
 that is) . The euphoria engine does a great job at handling just about anything you can think of, 
 with a few minor quirks here and there. Pedestrians act differently each time you run them over, 
 or when they hit you for that matter. 
  
  The whole city seems alive, and i don't see any reason for this game to get less than a 9 from 
 even the most anti-gta person. It raises the bar for ALL games not just games in it's genre. That 
 said, i do have a few issues.
  
  I'm only about 50% through the game, but i have all 3 islands unlocked... i have a good question, 
 where are all the clothing options? there's 3 stores. that's it. with maybe 10 different outfits 
 available in total. I think rockstar may be planning to release downloadable content, which really 
 pisses me off. I hate developers that do that. It sucks to have to pay real money for clothes in 
 a game... boo to that (unless they make it free... in which case YAY!)
  
  My only other issue is the multiplayer, i think that most of the reviewers thought the multiplayer 
 was good because they played in optimal conditions. Literally every time i've gotten online it's 
 fairly laggy and buggy, and NO ONE plays correctly. You'll get into a game of cops n' crooks, which 
 sounds really appealing... that is until your whole team drives off and never tries to actually 
 get to the escape point or complete any objective ever, they just drive around like jackasses. 
 I think when it comes to the pc there will be some more serious people, but right now, there are 
 mostly 12 year olds who want to do nothing but deathmatch or free roam... in other modes. Just 
 to make people mad. It's quite annoying. There are some other issues like not being able to outright 
 kick someone, you have to vote which takes for ever and isn't worth it. You can't set the amount 
 of people for a match, so you almost always end up with 16 (which sometimes you don't want, believe 
 me) . Either that or if it's a player match people drop in and out constantly which gets annoying. 
 The multiplayer seems to be good, it just needs some tweaking to allow people who actually want 
 to play together play together, and those who just mess around to get booted.
  
  Overall i'd give it a 9.5 because of a few quarrels i have with it, but it is a great game, don't 
 listen to the lower reviews, they have something against the game in the first place. I know it 
 was over-hyped, but for good reason, all good games are over-hyped. (and some bad ones are as well) . 
 This one however, really deserves the great scores it got, i can't put it down!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remirousseau
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Not having played any of the first 3 iterations of the game, I'm coming in with probably different 
 expectations then most others.
  
  I was brought to the game by the "perfect" tag associated with the 10.0 review. My first question 
 was: How can a game be "perfect"? For me the criteria for this type of game touched on 4 things: 
 
  
  1- Is it a good story 
  2- Does it cater to the audience
  3- How is the control scheme
  4- How does it look
  
  1- The storyline is interesting although 
 the lack of a well-structured narrative will put off some people... like me.
  
  2- Although this is really far from being for the general public, It definitely targets the young 
 adults craving for violence and obscenities and does it very well.
  
  3-4 Rockstar made good choices. It comes down to balancing quality of graphics and motion VS variety 
 of missions and free roaming. None of these are spectacular but all of them are above average. 
 Video transition should have been better.
  
  In short: I probably deserves a 9.5 and a must buy but I still don't understand how it can be called 
 perfect. Minor camera glitches, game freezing, so-so storyline, varied multiplayer but none of 
 the modes are good as the single player. (i. e. if I want to play a racing game or a FPS online 
 this will be far from my 1st choice) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  How this game received 10/10 scores is beyond me ($$$) . Upon popping this game in and playing for 
 the first hour, I said to myself, it has to get better. I also said this the 2nd time I played 
 it, all the way up to 10 hours of playtime in, when I realized, it's not going to get better.
 
  
  GTA IV feels like an outdated video game that is full of problems. The graphics look like a decent 
 PS2 or original Xbox game. The audio is good with track selections full of deep music, however 
 the speech in the game sounds awful only b/c you cannot hear anyone. The audio seems like it was 
 mixed poorly.
  
  The controls are also outdated (think original Resident Evil type controls) . Good luck driving 
 also. It feels like you're trying to drive on ice. The new cover system and aiming system for guns 
 is excellent and works pretty well. However, the close combat/punching system is bad. It is slow, 
 unresponsive, and tough to land punches sometimes.
  
  The game also has numerous issues causing the game to freeze or not loading your save games. This 
 is unacceptable that the game was shipped in this condition.
  
  Overall, GTA IV feels like a half-finished game. The fun factor wore off after about an hour, and 
 what it boils down to is a slightly better looking version of all of the other GTA games (which 
 I loved mind you) . This is not the next-gen GTA we were promised and these high review scores are 
 a joke, much like this game. I would strongly recommend renting this game first, or buying the 
 copy I just traded in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamdcdog
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  No regrets after purchursing GTA after having such high expectations, i was not let down. Rockstar 
 have truely outdone themselves this time. I was oustanded that they were capable of creating a 
 very impressive single player and at the same time an exellent online multiplayer. They put the 
 new gen console to full force with the detailed city and it makes it almost feel alive. Gameplay 
 is fun and enjoyable with the new duck and cover sytstem and increased AI. A major let down was 
 the driving, sure it was realistic, but i do not like slamming into a wall evertme i turn a corner 
 in a high speed chase. I would have also liked slpit screen or multiplayer offline. I think that 
 the majority of people who have a copied of gta iv are satisfied and will be playing this games 
 for a while yet.
  
  Well done Rockstar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosoma
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Well, I'm not actually writing a review for the game because I'm way too busy right now listening 
 to my music. Lately I have been listening to a lot of Boston and Heart as well as some of the Japanese 
 bands that Tomomi hooked me up with. Damn, I was just bitten by a mosquito! I don't know how they 
 get into the house but it really bothers me. Oh, I just reminded myself to look up online about 
 whether or not bananas make mosquitoes attracted to you. Oh yeah... and GTAIV is an amazing game, 
 go buy it. And at the moment, you cannot buy it in Japan - so try out a place like play-asia. com, 
 but remember that play-asia. com will only send products to the billing address so it's best to 
 use Paypal.
  
  Yeah, I just looked up the thing about mosquitoes and it's an urban legend. Mosquitoes are attracted 
 to carbon dioxide or something like that - anyway, the best way to defend yourself against them 
 is to just keep windows closed. Well hopefully those mosquitoes will f-off now that I closed the 
 windows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markieb1976
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  My first impressions were a good game but definately not worth a 10, very much the same as the 
 other games in the series and the graphics aren't all that.
  
  In the first couple of days play i was looking at a rating of about 9 - 9.5 but i didn't want to 
 rush into a review so played a bit longer and found it to be an annoying, frustrating and repetative 
 game.
  
  Be carefull down dark alleys and i don't meen just at night, they are what they say on the tin 
 DARK you can't see anything apart from the odd light. i have tried everything to fix the lighting 
 issues closed curtains, turned lights out so i'm in a dark room and messed about with the brightness 
 and contrast setting on my tv and i still find it hard to see whats on the screen.
  
  I wouldn't bother going to the strip club or any other show's because the graphics get worse. The 
 city is huge and some challenges can take a while so make sure you get a cab. 
  
  The online mode is good but if you get someone against you who runs for the rocket launcher all 
 the time then you don't have a hope.
  
  I'm back on COD4 already will keep GTA4 for the odd game now and then but i doubt i'll ever complete 
 it as i've nearly thrown my PS3 threw the window on more than 1 occasion because of this game. 
 I've rated this game 8 but i have been very generous in doing that. 
  
  I think everyone who rated this game 10 within the first day of release should now revise that 
 review, i bet the scores go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meanman67
Rating: 5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  No get me wrong its a great but theres alot of things that are still missings I would think they 
 would add more and some things from the last gta game and also making this game over and over?? 
 yes the game is bigger but what will that do if you still cant get inside of house and also the 
 ones you can don't have anything to use plus lets face how many times its really fun beating up 
 on people that wont fight back and also if any one that played the game Bully which is a other 
 rockstar game at least people call you out and jump you so at least gives you a better reason to 
 beat them up then just going to some one beat some one for fun. besides that , just really the 
 same thing over and over its like a bad movie that replays on tv which you you could love but like 
 I said over and over thats why I stop playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  First off GTA4 is an open world action adventure game with plenty to do and many things to see. 
 The game is just simply fantastic. Many people are saying that the game is defective and is full 
 of bugs but this is false. If you turn off your system every night and dont leave it on for weeks 
 it will be fine. I have played for 5 hours straight every day since the release and havent had 
 one problem. The games content is full but does lack some things.
  THE GOOD: The graphics are fantastic. Compared to the previous GTA games ( and other games period 
 ) it is magnificent. 
  The city is full of life and the people actually interact with each other and you. People talk 
 on their cell phone, start fights, talk and even commit crimes.
  There is a ton of action in this game. You are constantly being bombarded with car chases, killing, 
 fights, crashes, police and just raw violence. You can do drug deals, hits or rob its all there.
 
  The story is extremely long. I have played forever and am not even half way done.
  The game is very realistic with the phisics engine and the cars are great.
  The games multiplayer 
 is virtually flawless.
  THE BAD: Although there are many buildings, the majority of them cant be entered which is very 
 annoying.
  You cant hold up a store for money (like you can in saints row) which doesnt make much since.
 
  You cant buy new homes and garages and you cant work out.
  
  GTA4 is very great but isnt a 10 but it is worth more than a 9.5. My actual score that i give it 
 is a 9.8. GTA4 isnt overhyped or defective. It is worth every penny and you will play it again 
 and again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHuN_G0Ku
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Grand Theft Auto series I have ever played.
  The game defines great details than the previous games and it's definitely big enough to cover 
 the last three Grand Theft Auto games.
  This game is a must buy for anyone interested on just about any categories of gaming that they 
 are into.
  The stage is very well designed and closely resembles New York City.
  The characters have their own unique design that best suits their part of the story in the game.
 
  This game is controversial and strictly crucial in terms of violence but I don't think you could 
 resist on getting hooked up with a hooker in an alley and shoot gangs and get chased by cops in 
 a large city.
  10 out of 10 in my game review book.
  If you're still having second thoughts about getting this game, then you're definitely going to 
 miss out on one of the most memorable game that this gen has to offer...; well maybe the 2nd most 
 memorable game only after MGS4.
  Get this game and you won't regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siefier25
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that when the game was coming close to release, I was skeptical. I thought it would 
 be a slighty better version of Saints Row, which would be an all around improvement to the other 
 GTA games still. Instead, we get one of the finest sand box games ever to be created!
  
  First, the single player aspect. Reflecting back to the original GTA games, I can't think of one 
 that had characters in it that I cared about. The story developement of Niko and his cousin Roman 
 was amazing. Niko, ex-Eastern Europeon soldier, comes to Liberty City in high hopes of starting 
 a new life in luxury with his cousin Roman. However, upon arrival, Niko finds that all of Roman's 
 stories about his "Great Life" in America turn to be a complete fabrication. However, Niko's true 
 intent is a lie as well. Hes there searching for a traitor....
  
  The other characters in the game are great as well. Many secondary characters are developed with 
 backgrounds, and everything... even if they don't live that long in the story. Some you want to 
 live, others you want to see face down in a ditch. The amount of depth that goes into alot of these 
 characters are incredible. Little Jacob, Brucie, Packie and the McCreary family... all well done. 
 Even Michelle, Elizabeta, Playboy X and Manny are truely memorable. The list goes on!
  
  The controls are the best improvements (don't need to mention graphics because its obvious that 
 those are greatly improved as well... I mean common.. next gen folks) . Now you can duck & cover behind 
 objects. If you're in a full on sprint for a wall, or any kind of cover, your character can do 
 a little slide into hiding behind the object. The targeting system, as well as the new auto aim 
 feature, are great improvements and add a FPS/Third person shooter kind-of-feel to it. It makes 
 the game easier. However, at the same time... if you don't act fast enough, the AI will indefinitely 
 waste you. You have to be strategic. The arsenal at your disposal is primarily the same, however, 
 the explosions they create are beautiful. Nothing like painting a symphony of pain with an assault 
 rifle or ak. Or lighting up the night life with a rocket launcher or a malatov cocktail.
  
  Now for the Multiplayer. I've completely cracked out to this feature. There is a bunch of different 
 online modes, but I will only touch base with my favorites. Starting with Cops N Crooks. This feature 
 is a blast. One is the cops, armed with sub machine guns, while the other side is a crime organization 
 helping their boss get to the extraction point. While its obvious the this mode weighs in favor 
 of the cops, things can become one-sided if your team doesn't develope a plan, or stick together. 
 Its best to have a headset for this mode. Team/Deathmatch has never been this fun. Why jack a car 
 and rain terror, when you can literally become death-from-above in a chopper? Or go on a kamikaze 
 mission on a Motorcycle? 16 players in this gets crazy real quick and only the best will survive. 
 You can choose if all weapons are available, or if you want auto aim. You can even have the city 
 deserted for your battleground, or add the police for a little extra fun!
  
  Finally my favorite mode: Turf Wars. The more safehouse you control, earns you more cash and in 
 the end.... the match. 16 players is brutal, and not to mention tons of fun. lots of close quarters 
 combat as well, and its also a good time practice your knife skills.
  
  All in all this game is the best of the series, and the first game in years to REALLY grab my attention.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  In the past years the Grand theft auto series has inspired many copiers to make a game similar 
 to GTA and also provoked some people to go insane and on a killing spree, and is renound as the 
 best Game ever, this game raises the bar. the controls have been reworked and make the game that 
 much better, along with the new cover system featured in uncharted Drakes fortune and gears of 
 war. the story is decent, after raising hell in europe Niko Belic has moved to liberty city to 
 live the American dream (as told by his cousin Roman) but he quickly finds himself in the middle 
 of gang wars, corupt police and loan sharks who want him and his cousin dead. this game has also 
 made the mobile phone more useful by allowing you to send and receive calls, activate cheats and 
 also chat to players in the online multiplayer. with all this in the game, its a wonder there is 
 any disc space left 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcladley
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The game itself: It is not the revelatory experience that was promised, but it is a solid, if not 
 predictable, addition to the series and the sandbox genre in general. There is definitely fun to 
 be had, and an incredibly large and detailed world to explore. 
  
  There are, however, issues-most of which have already been discussed on this forum: crashing, online 
 functionality issues, overly-touchy driving mechanics, poor hand-to-hand combat system, graphical 
 quirks, etc. I also found it odd that most of the city is closed off to the player at the beginning 
 of the game. In the past editions, this was the result of the technical limitations of the game's 
 respective platforms, but with the new hardware available it should not have been an issue. For 
 a game purportedly about freedom, this is a troubling decision-both technically and aesthetically. 
 
  
  The Reception of the Game: The fact that all of these issues exist suggests, to my mind, that the 
 game is not "perfect," as this and other websites would have their readers believe. The unanimous 
 praise of the game is quite shocking in light of the serious shortcomings that stand out after 
 only a few hours of play (or, after a few seconds, in my case, as the game froze after the introductory 
 cut-scene) . The larger issue raised by GTA IV's reception is the objectivity of the gaming press 
 itself. Of course, all press is biased, but previously this and other websites were fairly accurate 
 barometers of a game's quality and entertainment value. That is not the case here. For anyone seriously 
 debating how to spend their $60.00, the reviews are misleading. For those who spend liberally on 
 gaming, it is not so much of an issue, but for the individuals that selectively waited for this 
 title, they did not get "perfection" for their money. The question has now become: Can we value 
 the opinions of main-stream gaming publications? With Take-Two's larger- than-average stake in 
 the success of GTA IV and the recent "staffing changes" at this website and the issues that both 
 created and perpetuated them, I doubt the answer can be yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tron
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar has yet again revolutionized the world of video games. In the entire game it's extremely 
 difficult to find any faults other than the occasional technical issue. The story thus far is incredible, 
 there are many moments that are side-splittingly hilarious, you can interact with so much (one particular 
 example I can't get out of my head was of some woman was walking down the street then walked into 
 my character dropped her coffee cup, yelled some profanity at me and walked away, after which I 
 picked up her coffee cup and smoked her in the head with it and she ran away screaming "terrorist") . 
 The new friendship mechanic is a little irritating at first but once you get the perks of becoming 
 someone's good friend it instantly becomes worth it. Even the programs that they put on the TV 
 are downright hilarious and worth watching, I found myself watching Republican space rangers and 
 laughing for nearly half an hour straight. All in all this game is a must have for whatever system 
 you own, give jerks like Jack Thompson a big screw you and go and buy this game right now, I swear 
 you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyhgqwert
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm only writing because i see a lot of complaining about some features in the game. I read some 
 guy complained (bit**ched) about not being able to manual aim, which you can, by pressing the aim 
 button gently. And i read some other miserable sheep complaining that the game is all hype and 
 giving it a 1.0 even though he obviously only played it for less then 10 hours (like he stated) 
 when the game can not be experienced anywhere near that time.
  
  
  
  First off, I do believe this game is over-rated but it is still a very good game. 
  The details 
 and level of "Oh Snap!" moments are almost endless. Walking into a comedy club with my date then 
 being surprised when Katt Williams hops on stage was an "Oh Snap!" moment. Trying to steal the 
 car from my gun connect and being dragged for a couple yards was an "Oh Snap" moment. Clipping 
 the top of my helicopter off the empire state inspired building and free falling for thousands 
 of feet while i was still in the cockpit and falling to my doom was another "Oh Snap" moment. And 
 all of this while just exploring the city.
  
  
  However. It seems they took the best features from San Andreas and throw them away for an exciting 
 yet "get it over with" story. All of the role playing aspects are gone, which made San Andreas 
 so gripping. Now all you can do to customize your character is pick from a really weak selection 
 of clothes. Car customs and property buying is gone as well. You can no longer assemble a little 
 army and start wars in the streets, (in single player) this feature is reduced to calling a pair 
 of guys for back up but that don't really do anything.
  
  
  Story mode gets annoying , yes, annoying, whenever the story starts to get good, they shove a new 
 uninteresting contact for you to do missions for, which reek of that GTA formula, with not much 
 new added to them. Although, eventually you will have morality choices, a new and great feature 
 of the game, but that don't really change the story too much, Basically the ending is the same 
 with just one or the other antagonists. 
  
  
  I'll finish this up.
  
  
  The gun play is the best it has ever been. The highlight of the game. Although, it has been compared 
 to that of gears of war it is no where as good sadly. It has it's problems and can sometimes put 
 you on the wrong side of the object of cover and it is not easy to stop hugging the cover when 
 you decide you want to move up. But finding a nice place to park your car and hug up a wall while 
 your trying to raise your wanted level is pretty fun.
  
  The driving, is better. Not much improvement. And now you can ride taxis and skip the ride to go 
 straight into a mission, which is a nice feature which i tend to use way too much, since it gets 
 kind of boring driving to mission to mission.
  
  Multiplayer is disappointing. While it is a great concept, and very fun at times. There really 
 is no reward for playing multiplayer or even finishing a match. Soo way too often other players 
 leave and the rooms never get filled. I can see this being an amazing feature if you knew 15 guys 
 that had the game and start up a party with them, which is how these critics probably tested the 
 multiplayer. But for regular gamers like me, finding 15 guys willing to play and actually staying 
 a while is not that easy to do. So for me, most of the time I'm spent looking for the opposing 
 team on this huge map which usually leads to a quick gun fight then i go off looking for the others. 
 
  
  Racing is what it is, just like single player. 
  
  The co op missions are the best, but hold the least replay value since it's the same 2 missions, 
 over and over.
  
  
  Cops n crooks. Chase crooks down, kill em, or run away from cops to a getaway vehicle. 
  
  
 
  and some other modes.. which are all basically the same level of fun. Steal a car or kill a guy 
 before opposing players and yeah.
  
  
  The multiplay is fun, very much so.... just with other great online games out right now, this will 
 be a game you pick up when you get bored of COD and you drop again once you feel your trigger finger 
 itching.
  
  
  I suggest go into the game like you go into every other game. What i do, is i lose myself in the 
 game. I try not to die at all. I try to play the whole game in one life so every gun fight is exciting. 
 Every time the cops chase me, i feel a little suspense. I try to play it as simulation life game, 
 just like ever yother action game. If I die in the game, then obviously I would of died in real 
 life. luckily its just a game, just a simulation. Enjoy it, but if you don't pick up the game, 
 you won't miss out on much, just another gta game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  GTA has finally arrived! Video games have come a long way since Pong. This has been talked about 
 for years. Well this game was made very carefully, and very well, the graphics are great and the 
 game play is very fun. A lot of people are not happy about this game due to it's graphic language, 
 violence, and sexual content. Oh well they need to get over it the game is here it's popular and 
 selling very well. It's one of the most wanted games ever made. I love the fact that Rockstar isn't 
 affraid to make a game any way they want, and that it sells. No matter what a game has in it if 
 people want it, the game will sell. I personally feel that people need to be worried about more 
 important things in life, than what is going on in a video game. If people are more concerned with 
 what's in a game, than apparently they aren't able to distinguish between fantasy and reality than 
 they shouldn't be so upset with what content a game has in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornymushroom
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all this is a great game story wise and gameplay wise but somehow there isnt enough content. 
 Stories 30 to 40 hours no more and after your done it THERE IS NOTHING TO DO. That crazy for a 
 gta game but there arentany really bonus mission and the variety for some missions is abysmal. 
 Couldent they have copied mission from san andreas which had a lot of variety. you never even ride 
 shotgun in the game exept multliplayer.????? what was rockstar thinking. Also you get a lot of 
 money and one mission you get 250000 insane and ridiculous and you have nothing to spend it on 
 except guns, guns, guns and guns. Every thing else is very cheap so you really dont lose any money. 
 No car mods, bikes, garage but some stupid parking space that really sucks, No planes, no mountains, 
 no desert or any other terrain, helicopter aiming is garbage, no parachute, crappy side missions, 
 no good rewards for killing flying rats, I could go on. I thought it would add more like other 
 gta games but it really hasnt. Instead they are replaced by helmets, car washes, subways, and city 
 terrain. soundtrack is the only improvement over san andreas. Multliplayer is great if you can 
 get a decent game but that never happens because everyone quits but youll get lucky and youll have 
 a lot of fun. This game is by no means a ten if you play for more than 4 days but i guess the reviewrs 
 didnt do this, I also thought it was a ten when i first played it but as you play more and more 
 you get to the ending and realise thats it. This is a great game that worth your money but dont 
 be decieved by the review and other stupid fanboys surrounding this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawy89
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The GTA series was in desperate need of a complete re-doing. GTA3 to vice city stories all had 
 the same basic engine, the gunplay was not good. This has greatly changed and the gun fights are 
 the best part of the game. Also, the game has all new physics which make it more realistic, and 
 i love it. When you hit someone with a car they fly away in a real way.
  Some have said that driving is bad, i disagree. Its more real, which is a good thing.
  In terms 
 of 'stuff', this is a step back from San Andreas, but i think this is a good thing as SA went too 
 far. This game is more focused on gameplay and story.
  
  Storyline:
  I have not finished the story yet but its great so far. I wontsay any of the story for the risk 
 of spoiler but i will say that its full of twists and has some memorable characters. A very cool 
 feature, the game lets you choose whether to kill a target or let them live. Or pick between two 
 targets, which result in different outcomes!
  
  Graphics:
  I cant really comment too much about the graphics as this is the only PS3 game i have. To me they 
 are stunning, but i dont know what other game are like.
  
  Sound:
  I was a bit disappointed with the radio, there are lots of stations, but not many good songs. I 
 did get a very pleasant surprise when i heard 'Flashing Lights' and 'Because of You', i love those 
 songs.
  The voice acting is good however, as are the gunshot noises.
  
  Value:
  As mentioned before, you can make key desicions about who to kill, this alone makes me want to 
 play this game at least once more, but most likely another 3 times. As usual with GTA, completing 
 the game does not mean end of then fun, there is plenty to do after.
  
  Flaws:
  As with all games, this has its flaws, most minor. This game does not have as much to do as previous 
 titles. I dont expect nearly as much as SA, but there are some things that i wish they had included. 
 Going out with friends can be very boring after only a few times. The AI are not as good as i expected 
 from reading previews. A lack of weapons, again not as many as SA needed but still a few more. 
 
  
  They reason im not giving this game a 10, is mostly becasue i had HUGE expectations which were 
 probably impossible to meet. My gameplay expectations were met though, but i terms of other things, 
 not quite.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdecrosta03
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are enhanced from the previous GTA's. Gameplay is the same if not a little better! Online 
 is addicting! Overall there are no flaws with this game and it is a very addicting game off and 
 online! You will not be dissapointed with this game! I recommend you do not buy this game for anyone 
 under the age of 17 because it is very graphic and there is a lot of sexual content not suitable 
 for children. GET THIS GAME NOW! You will not be disappointed at all! IF you don't want to follow 
 the amazing story you can go around the map/city and do what ever or you could hop online which 
 never gets old at all! This game is a great value and you will be playing it for a long time which 
 means you get your money's worth! G T A I V G A M E O F T H E Y E A R ! If you do not like violence 
 or sexual content then you will hat this game! Like every game this game is not for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddskater828
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  im not gonna lie, with a game like san andreas preceding it i was expecting a lot more from gta 
 4. Okay the gameplay is good except for the fact that u cant free aim while auto aim is on. THERE 
 IS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO UNLOCK WHEN YOU ARE DONE. There are only two sets of weapons that you 
 can easily buy from the shop. There is nothing secret to find and nothing extra to do when you 
 are done with the game. Also, u get tons and tons of money but you have nothing to spend it on. 
 The whole game Niko is just like i need money, but what does he need it for? ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. 
 Oh and NO TANKS, WHAT IS UP WITH THAT. There is a lack of variety with everything in this game. 
 Oh and you cant customize anything. Forget haircuts, tattoos, working out, pimping out cars, its 
 all gone. This game is a total letdown and is totally unfinished. You would think they would improve 
 on the content that was included with san andreas, not dumb it down to a game worse than gta 3 
 content wise. Either rockstar got lazy or someone flushed the real gta 4 down the toilet by accident 
 so they had ship out a crappy version.
  
  Good: 
  
  -Good Gameplay with new shooting system
  
  Bad: 
  
  -No Unlockables
  -No Secret Weapons 
 or Vehicles
  -Only two melee weapons as opposed to the vast amount that were available to you in previous games 
 (pool stick, katana, butcher knife, brass knuckles, etc. etc.)
  -People Dont Actually Die When you kill them
  -No Replay Value
  -No Customization of Anything
 
  -No Variety in Weapons or Vehicles
  -Story wont suck you in like previous games
  -Major Lack of Everything that has been included in previous grand theft auto games that revolutionized 
 the series
  - (oh and you cant slit someones throat with a knife anymore... hehe)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raoul133
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  The amount of detail in this game is just astonishing. I'm really impressed with all the tiny details. 
 For example, the car lights go on when you open the car door!!! The freakin car light!! How's that 
 for detail?
  The cellphone was a brilliant idea, everything from multiplayer matches, to the organiser, to the 
 camera, it's all well thought out. 
  The new target system works well for me. I'm pulling off more headshots than ever and it feels 
 very satisfying. Lock on with L2, slightly tilt the right analogue stick up and BAM, you got yourself 
 a new room color: gang blood.
  The cover system also works very well. The minor control issues that all the game reviews mention 
 are present, but they're barely noticeable. All in all, the cover system makes the game feel realistic 
 while keeping it fun. Rockstar astonishes with the detail even on this level. I got out of my cover 
 to run to this crate in front of me, so I quickly tapped X to get there. Halfway there, I pressed 
 R1, to see Niko pull off this awesome slide all the way to cover. It's little touches like these 
 that really makes this game stand out.
  The radio stations are as good as ever, although I'm kind of dissapointed with the slong line-up 
 on LCHC. I expected a more varied selection of rock, but that's my opinion. No gripes about the 
 rest. Hilarious commercials, on radio AND tv (wich is also well worth your while) . The cameo's 
 by real life stars is a very nice touch to the game, Daddy Yankee on San Juan Sounds, Bas Rutten 
 on the Men's Room, it all adds to the whole immersing experience.
  Storywise, the game is top notch, but this was expected from the people at Rockstar. Voice acting 
 is of the same high caliber. The "moral" choices that you have to make in the game are quite interesting. 
 I've found myself on more than one occasion debating wether I should send someone to kingdom come 
 or give them a second chance at life. After all, that's what Niko's looking for and that's something 
 that the game really makes you feel a connection with. The missions are almost always fun and varied, 
 wich is kind of weird. In essence, you keep doing the same thing over and over: killing. But the 
 game tries to shake things up well, with little touches, such as having to photograph a group of 
 gang members with your cell to confirm your target, to calling an unknown blackmailer in public 
 and trying to spot the person that picks up his cellphone.
  Multiplayer is a hell of a lot of fun, I seriously did not expect so many modes for 16 players 
 and running pretty smoothly to boot. It's hard to imagine someone not liking the multiplayer. It's 
 just so much fun to take over Liberty City with 15 other players: wreaking havoc, racing, cops 
 n' robbers, it's al lthere and well thought out.
  The final area of my review is the graphics department. I've got to be honest, since the first 
 screens of the game have been hitting the net, I wasn't impressed. At all. Seemed like GTA was going 
 to be just like on the PS2 in terms of grahpics, when compared to other gorgeous games like, let's 
 say, Soul Calibur 3 (okay, that was a low blow) . But since I got the game, I've got to give Rockstar 
 props. The game really does look good, the main (!!) characters look amazing, especially our main 
 man Niko. During certain cutscenes when the focus is on Niko's face, you can really see the RAGE 
 from Tabletennis in motion. The use of Euphoria instead of a ragdoll based physics engine was a 
 brilliant move. I don't think I've ever seen video game characters react more lifelike. From taking 
 a bullet in the chest, to flying through the air after an explosion (wich also looks gorgeous) , 
 to getting hit by a car, it all looks extremely lifelike.
  The only real cons are some minor visual glitches every now and then, slight pop-up, slight control 
 issues with jumping and cover and some AI trouble, mostly when friends try to follow you. But these 
 issues are so minor and occur so little and given the grand scope of the game, are completely forgiveable. 
 It's not for everybody though, people that liked the humongous world of San Andreas might not like 
 LC, because it's allot smaller, there's no planes (completely understandable choice. I mean, where 
 are you gonna fly and land a plane in LC, besides the airport?) . The game is allot more free than 
 San Andreas, wich some people might not like, but most issues are probably very personal things.
 
  
  In conclusion, the games is gorgeous, controls great, sounds great, is detailed to an absurd level, 
 has a top notch story and voice acting and is simply put, one of the greatest games ever made. 
 With the inclusion of downloadable content for the 360 (and for the PS3 to follow) . If you're a 
 gamer, you owe it to yourself to get this game, or at least give it a try. Odds are, you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quatar
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  The attention to detail is astounding. There I was, sitting in my car, waiting for my cousin to 
 gamble... All of a sudden, I hear a familiar sound: "bahduh baduh baduh brrrrrrrrrrrrrr."; Then 
 my cellphone rings. That simulated cellphone / speaker interference is just one example of the 
 care put into every aspect of this game's presentation.
  
  While taking a real life food break, I watched an entire episode of: "Republican Space Rangers"...
 
  
  I'm baffled.
  
  The player control has been greatly improved. Cover system, running and climbing on items in the 
 environment, albeit not quite as elegant as Assassin's Creed, it's a huge step forward from the 
 previous installments in the series.
  
  The driving control has been greatly improved. They've put in a good driving simulation. Screeching 
 around a corner at nearly full speed is now a skill that needs to be practiced. Again, not as elegant 
 as Gran Turismo, but a huge step forward for the series. 
  
  The gun-play feels much more natural. In the previous games, in the heat of a battle, I always 
 felt like I was running around in a circle like a chicken. Now I have much more control over my 
 actions. 
  
  On top of all that, add in the fact that the story is told extremely well, and the characters are 
 amazingly well developed and represented. The story is as good as watching a TV show about mobsters 
 in Newark.
  
  This game was released at the perfect time. A perfect time defined by many factors:
  a: No previous 
 entry of the series on the next gen platforms.
  b: The next gen platforms are screaming for the game to be remade taking advantage of all the new 
 hardware.
  c: Released at a time when there are no other big releases.
  
  This game has raised the bar on the quality we're going to expect from AAA titles in the future.
 
  
  Fundamentally, a great game, released exactly when we all needed it.
  
  Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magic137b1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for a week now and I must say it is a major improvement over the previous 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. The Weapons and combat system is much improved making Niko a more 
 versatile character. The Controls though have been rearranged to accommodate some of the new features 
 you'll have in this game. Like driving is done with the L2 and R2 triggers instead of X and Square. 
 Though the triggers are more sensitive and are better suited for more precise driving. Speaking 
 of which L2 and R2 are used for aiming. Hold L2 lightly for free aim and hard for targeting. It 
 works flawlessly. Also in targeting mode you can still aim around a targets body to go for a head 
 shot or to wound them in their legs. Another improvement is enemies react to getting shot anywhere 
 on their bodies. Though when driving you free aim with L1 and shoot. This makes driving while shooting 
 very difficult but it makes sense as driving and shooting at someone would be difficult in real 
 life. It's not too difficult but at high speeds it gets more challenging. Driving is more realistic 
 in this game. So no more easy turning at high speeds. You gotta treat driving in this game like 
 you would in real life. 
  Now shopping in this game is rather limited. So far I haven't been able to buy my own cell phone 
 in this game or my own computer. It'd be great if you had your own PC to go onto the internet at 
 the hideout instead of driving all the way to TW@ for internet access. You have a fair selection 
 of clothes though, but not as varied as in San Andreas. 
  As for the story the acting is great. The plot is very intriguing. Niko is a very troubled man 
 as he should be considering he goes around killing people to pay the bills. And the characters 
 you'll meet you'll love and hate. Also you can alter the out come of events of the game depending 
 on the choices you make giving the story a higher replay value to see what you could have done 
 differently. Music and TV are both great. Music selection is great and television is hilarious. 
 The internet is also filled with humor. It's rather limited though so you'll only use it to check 
 your e-mails mostly.
  Then there's multi player. It is AWESOME. Just imagine Liberty City as is, nothing removed, but 
 with 16 criminals armed for war roaming around thinking there can be only one highlander haha. 
 If you got friends who get pretty creative you'll witness some over the top action online. 
  Overall Grand Theft Auto IV is a superb game. Taking cover behind anything you can. Using the phone 
 to make things happen or just having fun online. Though it could use some improvements. And when 
 I say improvements I mean adding more content. The game itself, control and graphics wise is perfect. 
 It just needs more customization. Who knows, maybe through an expansion pack or through a download 
 more can be added to this game. But overall this game is amazing and a great step forward for next 
 generation gaming. I'll just leave it to you people to think whether it is a great game, or the 
 greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorch3
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Nobody does sandbox games like Rockstar, and they have managed to top themselves yet again with 
 Grand Theft Auto IV. This time around they have taken the time to work on the little things, and 
 created an amazingly detailed world that still manages to run quite well on the Xbox 360. As soon 
 as you turn it on youll notice greatly improved graphics and physcics engine, the combination of 
 which allows for many life like things to happen. All the cars bikes and boats handle the way you 
 would expect them to in real life. The combat is greatly improved as you and your enemies are forced 
 to take cover in order to live for any length of time. The cpver system is quite similar to that 
 of Gears of War and means that the shooting missions are a pure joy to play. When all the gun play 
 leaves you wanted you will get to see the new wanted system in which you escape by leaving the 
 circle which the police are looking for you within, each time they see you though the circle will 
 center on your position. As you recieve a higher wanted level the circle gets bigger and bigger, 
 the further from the center of which you are the less likely you are too run into the cops. The 
 games story is put together quite amazingly as we experience it through various cut scenes, its 
 done so well you end up feeling like you really know the main character and you may find your self 
 burning through the missions to experience it. Finally the game includes various multi player game 
 types which serve to make a great game even better. The various modes including ones where you 
 work for the mafia, steal cars, fight for turf, and try to escape other players playing as the 
 cops are pu together excellently and are a joy to play. The deathmatch mode also is quite fun, 
 and just free roaming with friends will provide you hours of entertainment. All in all the game 
 is a ten out of ten what more is there to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  i have been playing games for around 20 years and i think this is one of the most fun and quality 
 games i have ever played, i looked forward to this for ages and its the first game ever that has 
 actually lived up to what ik was expecting of it. I love the living breathing city, the amount 
 of detail lavished in every nook and cranny is mind boggling, i enjoy just taking a car and goling 
 sight seeing. Some people have complained that the game looks poor but i think the graphics (for 
 the type of open ended game it is) are superb, especially at night when its raining! The cutscenes 
 are great with top quality voice overs that make the story really come alive. i like the more realistic 
 car handling, i love the little extras even down to the stuff like being able to watch tv and go 
 to a show. for me this is the game of the year and its only may! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcelloz
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Played it for several days now and it looks and feels good and could have been very bad for my 
 social life but... I have a lot of problems with stability as I have to reset the console every 
 hour. GTA4 freezes and does not continue. I have a Standard PS3 so why o why throwing this on the 
 market right now... 
  
  Gameplay is a lot elevated from previous versions and the game feels like a 'good-old' GTA game. 
 Great graphics and sound and lots of things to do besides the main storyline. Cars feel a bit more 
 realistic this time and the world is definitely more alive. If only...
  
  Rockstar is a great company producing great stuff, but it looks like they don't have it quite right 
 this time. So until they fix this problem I only give it a 6.. Don't now why GS gives it a 10 as 
 it is definitely flawed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Few years' back this game would have been phenomenal, game is good but it's a GTA series what happened 
 to army tanks why can't I fly a plane.
  I found game play fun and well paned out especially how you can pick who you want to kill and affecting 
 what missions you get next.
  I finished this game twice making different choice each time, most will finish main story line 
 in about 25 hours tops and about same for all the extra stuff.
  Most fans will find this game very good and absolutely best but if you look past the hype and excitement 
 you get to notice all the small thing that are missing.
  I doesn't deserve 10 but 9.5 any day its good its fun but it's not perfect.
  
  for --Fun game 
 play / it's a GTA / lots of cops to kill / hookers / Guns / funy radio / 
  
  Against --No army tanks I cant find any / no mini gun / slow frame rate / cant buy property / No 
 heat seeking missiles 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Having so much hype surrounding it, I was a little worried that anything less than game of the 
 year quality would be a disappointment. Well, it will certainly be in the running for game of the 
 year. GTA IV has been stripped of all the "extras" that San Andreas had, including the annoying 
 character evolution and somewhat absurd story. Instead, Rockstar made the game much simpler and 
 it most definitely worked. Gone is the poor shooting and in its place is a simple but very effective 
 cover system and aiming has been fixed a great deal. It's rare to find a game where you actually 
 become attached to the characters, but this is where GTA IV shines. The story is so engaging and 
 well made, that you find yourself really caring about what happens to each character. For such 
 a large, interactive city and game, GTA IV looks fantastic, with great use of shadows and the change 
 in time throughout the day is spectacular. This installment is a little less about killing and 
 stealing cars and more about an in-depth story and the consequences for your actions. All in all, 
 this is truly and incredible game that will provide infinite hours of gaming pleasure and never 
 feel old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcvideo2000
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The game part is fun, however the characters SUCK. I want to shoot everyone in the game! Everyone 
 is talking about sex or drugs even the people on the street. I have no problem with that if it 
 is part of the story but I think Rockstar is doing to be "on the edge". It is the same with your 
 friends, extras, radio and TV. If it was funny or clever banter I would accept it. I think Family 
 Guy and South Park humor is funny, so I am not a prude. This is not funny but annoying. And the 
 personalities of the main characters are the worst. I guess they made the characters so annoying 
 so you won't have a problem when you have to kill them. Some of the controls are painful; I keep 
 bailing out of the car in the middle of a mission! I think I just like the controls on PC games 
 a lot more. This game is very immersive. Take a break before driving for real. I have to hold myself 
 back from driving on the sidewalk and cutting around cop cars.  still, the game is fun. I forgive 
 all the problems of the game because of the size and complex nature of the game. Get it and enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bEnOiT92
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the first grand theft auto game that i actually own, i used to rent the previous ones, 
 but i couldn't turn down the hype for GTA IV and i purchased it.
  You start the game as Niko an immigrant who comes to liberty city and lives with his cousin Roman. 
 As you progress in the story you meet many people. Lets get to it. The gameplay in this, is great 
 very smooth and action packed and very comedic. The graphics are also very good. When you are watching 
 a cut scene you can see the defects in the graphics but when playing you cant and the graphics 
 are great. THE MAP IS HUGE probably the I ever played on.
  The cars and weapon category are filled with lots to choose from. The AI in this game is good to, 
 sometimes there are mishaps such as the AI getting confused or not walking. Overall this game is 
 great and i recommend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morde10668
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I myself have been a Grand Theft Auto fan since about the time GTA III came out and i must say 
 that this has to be the most beautiful fun and action packed version so far, i have not had one 
 bad thing i can think of to say about this, the way it lets you make your own decisions about some 
 of the mission outcomes is great, the fact that you can interact on a more personal i guess you 
 could say level, with alot of the characters is pretty cool.
  
  The fact that you can finally ride passenger in a taxi at any point is pretty awesome too, overall 
 i think everything is improved in this game, vs. San Andreas, which i guess is to be expected but 
 great job on making it happen.
  
  Another this thatg is great that has been added, is the multiplayer of course the free roam mode 
 is one of the best online modes i can say i enjoy on any of the new age 360 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Ive been playing GTA ever since part 1. I loved it especially when 3 was released. 
 But as for GTA 4... I dont have the same to say. The physics have improved and the same for realistic 
 gameplay. The gameplay itself is excellent. The graphics howver are terrible. Just terrible. The 
 fog distance is horrid as well... which kinda messed the game itself up. Gun fights pwn but sometimes 
 the buttons are irresponsive. ANother ssue is the framerate. Gamespot said there are no framerate 
 issues.... WTF!?!?!?!? The games drops frames like crazy when there are explosions or if you run 
 over 5 people at the same time. The game very seldomly crashes and at one point while playing, 
 the game just froze at a loading point. So, I had to reinstall it and whatnot. Now it works. Online 
 works alright. COntrols take gettting used to.
  
  Its a great game but not GTA great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisertime2000
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The environment is cool and the game is huge, and the whole concept is ambitious, but the driving/fighting/shooting 
 (the most cruicial element of a game) just falls way short.
  
  I really wanted to like this game, but I don't know. I hate to be negative Nancy, but The driving 
 is retarded. Its like driving in 1/3 gravity. Vice city was good. BP excellent but GTAIV... I don't 
 know what they were thinking. And the roads in Dukes are very odd to compound matters. The gun 
 play (in the little time I have had a gun) is silly. I guess I kinda expected that. Takes like 
 a full clip to kill someone w/o a headshot. Nicco moves too slow and its annoying because he always 
 crouches when you try to run (maybe thats the controller) .
  
  Often when I try to ride a taxi, I jack it instead. The Y button must be flaky or something. . 
 I don't know how this game is getting 10's accross the board. The critics are quite generous overlooking 
 the flaws. I am taking into account that I am a console shooter noob, so the learning curve is 
 longer. 
  
  I anticipated the dating and stuff was going to get annoying. That part is ok, but after a while 
 Its like I am playing the SIMs and Not doing any crime. Its much more linear than I expected vs. 
 VC. I have played over 10hrs and gotten nowhere... maybe 5-6 missions done. Only one gun related 
 mission. Maybe I need to unleash the cheats. I just find it tedious having to go home to save, 
 go to this place or that over and over. Its fine to have filler missions to help you find your 
 way around and get aquainted, but its tedious after a while. Not sure aboot MP yet-I will give 
 that a go sometime, which should be better.
  
  The reviewers called the driving more "realistic" but nothing could be further from the truth. 
 It is infuriating, as is the fighting, shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  1) Awesome story line and cut scenes, as in every GTA game
  
  2) Liberty City looks beautiful and feels alive with tons of citizens and cars
  
  3) Gun play 
 is improved with a new cover system similar to Gears of War
  
  4) Tons of minigames and little side quests to pass some time. You can bowl... yes thats right... bowl 
 and its introduced to you very early in the game.
  
  5) Tons of comedy and so many little details that you can just take for granted. As usual listening 
 to the radio is hilarious. Awesome song list on the radio, and commercials that will make you laugh 
 your a** off. Just look around and you will see just how detailed the world is. When you go bowling 
 look at some of the pictures on the wall and you'll see some sexual inuendos that will give you 
 a laugh or two.
  
  6) New getaway and lose the cops is an interesting way of avoiding getting arrested, and is similar 
 to the getaway system in Need For Speed Most Wanted
  
  7) So many animations that you just have to see for yourself like (dont read might SPOIL) : when 
 a cop holds you at gun point you put your hands up and he will arrest you but you can try whipping 
 around and knocking the gun out of his hand, if you try and steal someones car every now and then 
 they will fight back and sometimes you or the driver will get caught in the car as they speed away 
 and you or they will get dragged down the road with their arm stuck in the door
  
  Cons
  
  1) the amount of police in the game is so annoying. They are on every corner i kid you not. 
 Its like the game is based on every criminals worst nightmare which is having cops everywhere to 
 catch them.
  
  2) The getaway system is nice but sometimes just way too easy which kinda takes away some of the 
 suspense in harder missions
  
  3) Driving controls have been tweaked. They are a bit more realistic and not as arcade like as 
 you would expect in a GTA game. Which isnt bad but does take some getting used too.
  
  4) Speeding around in a car is a nuisance because you cant see as far down the road and cars just 
 spawn in.
  
  5) All those mini-RPG like elements that were included in San Andreas (gun skills, driving skills, 
 physique, working out, car modding, changing of clothes etc.) are very shallow in customization 
 or not included at all. Making CJ fat in San Andreas was probably the funniest thing I ever did 
 in that game. I am very disappointed that they didnt have more customization options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vexer4000
Rating: 5
Date: May 4, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  After waiting for what seams like forever for this game it has been a huge let down. The graphics 
 look good, but what game doesn't look good on PS3. The story is lame and the characters aren't 
 likeable. Niko seems to have no ambition in the story. He doesn't want to build an empire, own 
 the city, or do anything else (he might want revenge for something that happened 10 years ago, 
 but by the time you find this out you don't care) . 
  
  The missions are nothing new and are very boring. I've done them all before in other GTA games. 
 The most annoying part of the game is the driving and walking. That sucks because that's usually 
 the biggest parts of GTA games. The controls for driving is set up to make it seems as if you are 
 always driving on sheets of ice. You have to almost have to come to a complete stop just to turn 
 corners. Then when you do a 360 spin the camera angle sucks and you can't see anything.
  
  As for walking, you have to hold down X to walk fast or if you don't you walk like a turtle. The 
 controls for walking are off as well. When you come to stairs if you don't hit the stairs right 
 in the middle of the stairs you just bump into them?? And don't even try to run up to a ladder 
 and try to use it without stopping. You have to make sure you are properly centered and press triangle 
 to climb the latter. The most annoying thing to me is when you get out of a car and try to run 
 and the car door doesn't close and you have to walk around it?!?!?!?!?!?!!
  
  The only good part of the game so far is the cell phone option. However, even that has its drawbacks 
 as you get calls from "friends" to go bowling, drinking, etc. Those mini missions are stupid and 
 a waste of time. All of the past mini missions are gone from this version and are missed!!
  
  This review comes after I've completed 15% of the game and I hope it gets better, but I'm not 
 holding my breath. Overall I think this game just takes itself to seriously. I didn't try the online 
 play and have no desire to do so after trying the single player mode. I hope the next game is better.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  WOW this is what i said when i saw the score for this game i thought it will be the game without 
 any mistakes or defaults but hey you know what they say dont believe it until u see it ,so i went 
 down to the store and yelled at the cashier saying i will burn ur shop if you dont sell me a copy 
 of GTA and with big smile on his face he gave me the game but after i paid 90$ for it .I dont want 
 to say that i regret it no its just i was so excited about this game and wanted to know why and 
 who it got 10. Anyway played the game everything was going nice and easy its nice to have sex and 
 do dirty things like going to a striper club and dating and not getting some, loved all that but 
 the game have some issues like when u try to go online u get disconnect and when u try to go back 
 its freez e another thing its not that realistic i mean when you cross a red light near a police 
 car and he do nothing you feel that something is not right here , do i have to kill some1 so that 
 a police car should chase me.!
  And whats the point of watching TV if im going to see the same shows again and again its pointless 
 .
  10 means this game is perfect and nothing is wrong with it ,but just lets face it , its not . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man007_s
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I know i'm one of hundreds out there who reviewed it, so i'll make it short and simple to read. 
 Thus, I'll make it as a list of pros and cons so you can get it easily and make your own decision 
 before swaping to another review.
  
  pros:
  
  - too big to investigate and it needs you to clear your schedule for a week to check every bit 
 in the city, don't warry about the story it will not take that long
  and that's apart from the multiplayer which i expect will take years to get bored of it.
  
 
  - stunning visuals and good amount of anti-aliasing which appears more in the ps3 version.
  
  - variety variety variety 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghhost99
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion, and 2 many other ppl, once u play, u may not stop, its addictive. i coudnt even 
 stop for a bathroom break 6 times. anyway, with this being a 10 for game spot, i give it a10 also, 
 it is the best game so far out of the gta series. i would HIGHLY recommend, this to ppl who nedd 
 action, adventure, shooting, and others. if u have it, great, if u dont, then y havent u, go get 
 it!!!!!!!!! well, i dont know what else 2 say, so im just gonna keep talkin till 800 words......... 
 .. .. .. .. . .. well anyway, just to inform u again, get it, if u have it, play it til ur finger 
 hurts so bad it could break off and still keep goineven if u die. but if u dont have it, just dont 
 try to steal or rob it, like one idiot who tried, got arrested, and BAMM!!! well, just cant wait 
 til the end, so i can use the cheats ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  This was my first GTA game that I ever owned. I had played San Andraes and Vice City before but 
 never really got the full experience. When I popped this game in though there was one thing that 
 I noticed instantly. The graphics were definantly not up to date with 2008. There are many visual 
 glitches in this game. Especially when you're up high sniping like I sometimes like to do. Even 
 in cutscenes when you would expect the visuals to be cutting edge they still lack A LOT of the 
 texture and frame rate that they should have. At times it even looks like a PlayStation 2 game 
 to me. However... graphics do not make a game, they simply make it more enjoyable. This game is 
 nearly perfect if you leave out the graphic problems. I'd say if your looking for a good game for 
 any system, this is the one to get. Unless you're like some people who will not play a game with 
 bad graphics, because my hope for this game was amazing visuals that shows the true potential of 
 this gen games. This game was truley a disappointment to be because of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Welcome back to Liberty City. This latest installment in the GTA seriers has drawn levels of hype 
 that no one has ever seen. At this point (may4th) it is on pace to outsell all of the other Grand 
 theft games combined. Why? becuase it is one of the top 10 games ever created. The level of detail 
 is so outstanding that I cant count the amount of times I simply stood on a corner and just watched 
 the city. The ammount of dialogue seems to have grown to a level unseen in any game or even any 
 movie. The voice acting is superb as usual, and of course the radio selections are both funny and 
 unique. 
  
  The story line is solid and the missions (most of them) are fun and exciting, this is the type 
 of game that will keep you infront of your televsion for 5-6 hours before you remember to do everyday 
 things, like eat, sleep, go to work. Infact I recommend you take a few days vacation for the week 
 you buy the game becuase you will not be able to put it down for long. 
  
  Is it perfect? no and i'l explain why. One of the isues with every GTA game is getting killed/arrested 
 durring a mission, sure its part of the game and it makes it more realistic however, after driving 
 to the mission site, skipping the cinimatics, and getting back to the same spot where you died 
 only to die again (somtimes for the 5 or 6th time) it becomes very frustrating and is the ONLY 
 reason I have put the game down. Other then that the cover/aiming system is buggy but once you 
 get the hang of it it is a great asset and alot of fun to blind fire down a halway capping 3 guys 
 in a row.
  Frame rate issues are also common and have not been descussed in other reviews. When there is alot 
 on screen such as a heated battle with 5 police stars the frame rate drops to about 10 fps from 
 time to time, perhaps rockstar was a little over ambitious with the ammount of detail on screen. 
 however these probelms are only here and there and dont take away from the game.
  
  On my final thought, this is a game that everyone should play, I seen it both on 360 and ps3 (I 
 have the ps3 copy) and it's great on both systems. The multiplayer which I havent gotten into that 
 much is also done to a tee. There is minimal lag (nearly none) and finding your friends and launching 
 a game is easy and fun, all of the modes are great with cops and crooks my favourite. Overall it 
 is a Superb game with so much depth you can tell Rockstar gave it there all, Thank you Rockstar!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosferatuu666
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I, as many, were really looking forward for this game, some say that they expected more since the 
 game had alot of publicity. 
  But i expected way less, sure, there are plenty of things GTA can improve on their next game, sure, 
 San Andreas offered us things we can't do in this game. but i now do understand why the game is 
 called GTA 4, afterall, everybody with a bit of GTA knowledge, knows this is their 6th game,
  
  The game is called GTA 4 because it has grown up. I was amazed by GTA 3, I loved Vice City, 
 i had great fun with San Andreas, but GTA 4 is in a totaly different leage then those game are, 
 after all, GTA San Andreas is (almost) the same as GTA 3 if you change the map and add CJ's improved 
 jumping things and alike.
  
  GTA 4 is a world filled with detail, you don't HAVE to kill people to neutrulize them and take 
 their weapons. People get pissed off at ya when driving badly or run in to them, sometimes they 
 even fall.
  
  Sure, if your a GTA diehard, this game is a bit difficult, controlls seem as they are messed up 
 as are the cars. It will take some time to get used to them and also some time to see that it is 
 better. Cars seem to act weird, but are more realistic, (exept the fact you can perform a 180 when 
 you totaly don't want to) the controls are different, but they work like a charm.
  
  I can talk about how cool the cover system is, or how easy it seems to be to loose the cops, but 
 you either allready know this, or you've read it somewhere else, thats why i leave those things 
 out.
  
  Now for the storyline, usualy i do have interest in the storlyline... as long as it doesn't take 
 to long for the game to tell me it. I want to play the game, for a storyline i watch a movie. Well, 
 thats how it usualy works. for GTA 4 i was touched by nico, especialy at the end when you choose 
 for revenge, (people who have chosen the same path will know what i mean and for those who haven't 
 i can only recommend it to ya if your into a great storyline) 
  I was feeling the same as i would have watched a movie with a great storyline. i was touched by 
 nico humanity (which all of his predecesors seem to miss) nico is a cold blooded killer, that is 
 true, but deep inside, he doesn't want to be, and the only reason he is, is because he doesn't 
 know how to be different.
  
  if you didn't got my point on why GTA has grown up with GTA 4 i can only recommend you watch carefully 
 when you steal a locked car, make some drivers angry, let those drivers come near your door and 
 then hit the gas (making them hold on and let you have fun wondering how long it will take before 
 they let go) and watch how the people you hit fall.
  
  its a game i truely loved. and i can recommend it to everybody. Even people who have never played 
 a GTA or aren't really into gaming at all. If you like a good action movie, you certanly gonna 
 like this game. it has a storlyline ANY movie could be proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warbird5
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I just don't know what to say about this one... since I've bought the game 2 days ago I just can't 
 stop playing :P I think right now this is my only one I've had for like 6 hours or so^^. I would 
 suggest that everyone plays about 10 hours before telling wrong stories (bad grafics, boring story, 
 always the same, ...) about the game. And for all you crazy gamers out there: The game makes you 
 crazy, highy addictive!
  And another thing... rather play the game in HD (720p) , than in full HD (1080p) , because in a high 
 resolution like that the distance really looks a bit blurry but for me it doesn't matter cuz the 
 gameplay is the best you could imagine. 
  
  I don't want to spoil it for anyone so I'm just gonna keep it short and simple:
  
  BUY THE 
 GAME, IT'S GONNA BE THE BEST YOU'VE EVER PLAYED FOR AGES!!!
  P. S.: a real 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michigan615
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  WOW! This game was all it had been advertised to be. I know we all so the pub and hype it was getting, 
 the adds, the commercials and everything else, but to be honest I didn't know if I believed all 
 of it...... at first. I'm here to tell you that it goes above and beyond the hype. I got this game 
 the day it came out and I cannot stop playing this game!! The best part is Liberty City, It is 
 real and alive from top to bottom. Some areas of the city are ghettos filled with crooks, thugs, 
 and no cops. Then you can go to another area of the city with condos, nice cars, and cop around 
 every corner. The graphics are superb with only a few kinks. The game play is as always amazing. 
 The missions have meaning and are fun as well and you can never get sick of exploring the City. 
 Niko the main character is what I think makes the game. He is very likeable and unlike any video 
 game character I have ever saw. I can almost assure you that you will love this game. If you are 
 a fan of the series, this is the best game yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: party8oy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I would of give this game 10 out of 10 apart from the multiplayer game. When Rockstar can patch 
 the multiplayer, the better this game will become. Its so buggy joining and keeping a connection 
 if you can finally connect. Other than that i'm happy playing the single player until the fix is 
 in place...
  The single player controls are simple and quite easy to adjust to and the sixaxis controls are 
 quite simple but I prefer to use the buttons. Graphically the game plays superb without any lagging 
 which to my shock I expected lagging and loads of loading screens. This game could be playable 
 for hours or even full days without making a dent into the percentage with all its side games and 
 like Vice City, Its unique jumps etc..
  Without giving a way too much info, The gameplay is simple and using the phone to dial up missions 
 is also a benefit from previous as this takes away driving for miles for nothing.
  This will be the biggest game of the decade nevermind the year !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  I can see why GTA IV gets review ratings of 10 : It is very impressive in so many ways. Not only 
 does it now have next-gen graphics and solid controls (FINALLY!) , it always has driving that is 
 top-notch in every way. 
  
  In just about every respect the GTA is like the previous games. This one may have a more social 
 aspect, as you spend a good portion of your time on dates with friends and romantic interests, 
 but it handles tutorials exactly the same as before and missions unfold just like they always have.
 
  
  The big additions are Internet and cell phone use, and they do add a nice change to the game play, 
 but in the end the game is all about running from place to place killing or delivering items. But 
 that doesn't destroy the game, it's the bugs that do that.
  
  I've only had a couple of lockups mid-game, but what is far worse is turning on my PS3 and waiting 
 for the loading screens to go away and then the game never loading successfully. I have had to 
 delete multiple saved games and they lose several hours of game play just to get the game to load. 
 You don't even get a screen where you can load a game unless it has successully loaded a saved 
 game!
  
  My biggest fear is whatever patch Rockstar releases won't do enough to fix these kind of game crushing 
 bugs and that in the process they will force me to delete all my save data and start over again. 
 We have to ask ourselves whether we really want to have next-gen consoles and games that are this 
 buggy.
  
  Is it worth it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chkaiban
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  OK first of all let me start by saying that even if it's a big series returning or "considered" 
 the biggest release for 2008 does not mean we should be blind and unprofessional and give it a 
 10 just out of the blue.
  
  For God's sake have you seen the persons did you see Roman's hands it's like they are attached 
 to nothing and this is just one example out of many graphical glitches and if all the "official 
 reviewers will keep on singing its praise than am sure that RockStar will just ignore these issues 
 .
  
  For those who will start saying that the graphics can be better since it has been released on both 
 consoles just remember that there are several releases for both PS3 and 360 (CoD4 to name a few) 
 and have a lot better graphics.
  
  Also since the buildings, the shops, etc are not all accessible they look just like a cheap homemade 
 image.
  
  The story is well written the car driving is not perfect it could have been a lot better. The best 
 thing is that the story line and acting makes up for the bad issues but not enough to deserve a 
 10
  
  Bottom line it does not deserve a 10 believe it or not it should be getting min 8.5 to a max 9 
 nothing more nothing less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bull2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  i started laying this game yesterday and one of the first thing i looked at was the graphics. i 
 thought it was awesome, it makes the city feel more alive. i like the fact that u can't see the 
 same pedestrian all the time. i looked at the cars too and i thought they were great and handles 
 like the real thing. i like the flow of the story, its comedic, action packed, and its pretty much 
 a mix of a movie and game. i started shooting people with the M4 and as soon as the first one went 
 down, the police came out of nowhere which kinda annoys me a bit but thats ok because, in real 
 life, almost the same thing will happen. i like the crash physics on the cars. it adds to the realism. 
 especially when niko gets thrown off the windshield. overall this game is really amazing and with 
 a few minor tweaks, the next GTA game will be another sell-out stuff =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller11
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  gta series has been a very succesful franchise and so to keep the games being good it gets harder 
 to not fall below the hype luckly gta 4 is game that has not fallen below the hype.
  
  firstly few maybe dissapointed that some stuff has been taken out like the gym and changing hair, 
 tatoos so on but i thought even though it was a new addition to san andreas i thought it was more 
 of a gimmick. another thing that was taken out was the whole police and fire dept and ambulance 
 side missions but you can still change clothes.
  
  the graphics in this game are very good and people who complain about the graphics now, they should 
 of know because look on the trailers they had in game engine, with some in-game footage before 
 it was released.
  there is texture pop in and out but thats is expected in a sandbox game,
  
  the gameplay is the all of the previous gta games but improved the shooting that was not so 
 great in gta games, have been done so you can free-aim and a new lock on feature you can move the 
 crosshair around the body when in lock on.
  
  the story was is also good with twists and some hard choices later in the game, the be short with 
 story for no spoilers.
  
  the online is also great this is not an afterthought online on here is great whether you are messing 
 about or wanting to win, my fave game mode are. free mode doing whatever you want in the city with 
 15 other people, but their is alot more modes than just that.
  
  overall no game is perfect but what is in this game have done great and you still play it for years 
 to come (or when xbox 3 or ps4 comes out)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  firstly ill review the game.
  Gameplay - fantastic, just like GTA3 but with better graphics and more stuff as well. the new cover 
 system is a nice addition but i still find myself not using it if it doesnt call for it. the sixaxis 
 is good but just annoying in certain situations (like controlling bikes with it is really hard) . 
 another addition that i enjoy is the climb functions. its great to run away from the cops over 
 buildings and jumping off cranes.
  Graphics - not what i'd call "best of year" graphics (that goes to dark sector for now) but its 
 still a jaw dropper. shame about the lousy framerate at some points but what do you expect when 
 its modelling the entire island?
  only had a few loading points in the game and they were all because i skipped the small explanations 
 and the biggest was about 1-2 seconds. its great.
  Story- ive only done 15% of the game and ive come to enjoy playing Niko Bellic. is nice to play 
 an eastern european in america rather than a butch american in america. and it also plays on the 
 theme of people going over to a better life but with false hopes. and because ive only done 15% 
 of the game i cant really comment on the total sotryline but i cant wait to play it again which 
 is what games should all be about.
  
  now for the grizzly bit, online.
  i so far have not played a single game online because of the mysterious loading screens of death 
 (havent had freezing so far) when signed in to PSN. and the so called "fix" that R* came out with 
 is a load of tripe. dont work at all. lost about 5% of the game because of it. im just playing 
 it offline until i can be garenteed that it will work. im not having another save file corrupted.
 
  
  update - the online is working now so i can now review it. the online is great. the free mode just 
 allows you to piss about or the missions (though there are only four) which are great. my only 
 niggle is the ranking system. only gives you the rank up in one session then deletes your progress 
 when you exit the game. when that gets fixed then i will be fully happy with the game. still a 
 9.5 until that fix though.
  
  Overall - a great game offline, worthy of its 10 score but for me the degraded online pulls it 
 down to a 9.8 but theres no option for that so ill go for 9.5 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasX
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is perhaps the best game I have ever played. The Rockstar's star pupil makes a huge splash 
 on the 360 and PS3 with this one. The gameplay is magnificent and accomidates the single player 
 story mode so beautifully you can even take a helicopter tour over liberty city just to see all 
 the amazing scenery. A lot has changed since the old GTA's, the physics are just killer! You can 
 actually see the physics engine at work just by watching people walk or run, its so realistic, 
 or if your fortunate enough jack a car and watch the driver hanging from the cars door handle as 
 you speed away you can really get a taste of it. GTA IV's Multiplayer is also incredible boasting 
 up to 16 players at once all running around destroying eachother or working together for a common 
 goal (spans the entire map!) This is a must buy, wether or not you liked the GTA's in the past, 
 do yourself a favor and give Niko a chance here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRIME1011
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome and complete that it forces me to see errors in it that I have never even 
 thought of looking for in other games. Nothing too big just small stuff like not being able to 
 walk into every door and go to every shop and restaurant. I think the game is a perfect blend of 
 old Grand Theft Auto elements with a new gameplay that makes it feel and look more realistic than 
 ever. I used to be one of the people who would sometimes just get lost in the sandbox of the game 
 and never really finish all the missions but now I actually enjoy completing the missions because 
 it seems more fluid with the sandbox. And the multiplayer is also one of the funniest I have played 
 in a long time, somewhat reminiscent of n64 goldeneye in a way. This game is not for kids, unless 
 you want them to be psychotic, thieving, prostitute visiting murderers, but besides I think everyone 
 should play it at least once. I love it. Get it as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevCubsOr21
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Thats it! One flaw! Difficult to understand people! Thats it! Other than that this game is 100% 
 flawless! Absolutly amazing! If you can dream it, it seems like you can do it in this game. The 
 graphics are beyond incredible. I have a pretty old not HDTV, and the game looks like a movie on 
 it. The difficulty level of the game is perfect, so missions easy, and some take a few trys. Some 
 of the missions are pretty similar, but each one has its differences, and they are all fun. The 
 gameplay is outstanding. The driving in GTA4 is the best in all of the series... by far! The shooting 
 system is just unbelievable. It features an auto-aim, but if you choose you can take that off. 
 The cover system is perfect. Just about anything in the environment you can take cover on! The 
 guns are perfect. The actual story of the game is exciting, and very very fun to follow. Not only 
 are the missions fun, but you are given choices in this game. There are times when someone will 
 call you on your phone and ask for help. If you choose you can help them, or you can choose not 
 to, hell, you can even hang up on them in the middle of the conversation if you want. There are 
 tons of fun, exciting mini games that you can unlock throughout the story. Because this game is 
 so well done, there is so much to it, and I know that in this review, I am missing so much, and 
 I still have soooo much left to play of the game, but that doesnt matter. If you do not have this 
 game yet, you have two options. 1) You can go buy the game, which I stronly recommend. 2) Go take 
 your PS3 and throw it out the window, because you do not deserve to have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re4forevr
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets start off with what the game improved and added
  
  A brand new multiplayer that surpasses even Halo 
  
  Amazing graphics the graphics instead 
 of being behind in other grand theft autos is right up there with some of the best games out there
 
  
  NO FILLER ok this is when you look at a game and you see space thats just there Just to be there 
 like when you walk into a room and its just a window and table. Yah theres none there.
  
  Alot of different people
  
  An awesome targeting system with some of the best driving mechanics 
 out there 
  
  Awesome dialog / Awesome music/radio stations
  
  Awesome physics (euphoria)
  
  An AWESOME story i'd compare its greatness to that of The Godfather 
 or the goodfellas. Ok now thats Really really good. The godfather is said to be one of the greatest 
 movies of all time.
  
  the list goes on and on about what features and things that i liked about this game like the relationships 
 that you forge with characters and the cell phone use rather than going through menus. 
  
  i think that this game goes number 1 in my list of all time favorites 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  GTA4 is the best game I have played in a long time. This game is a Must buy no questions asked. 
 This game puts you in the Shoes of Protagonist Nico Bellic. Who comes to liberty city for what 
 his cousin Roman promises him and revenge. So you work your way to the top jut like all other GTA's. The 
 game also improves alot of things that previous GTA's needed. Pros and Cons Time!
  
  Pros
  ------
  UNBELIVABLE STORY
  Choose to kill certain people
  Great music soundtrack
 
  New Cover system
  Fantastic Graphics for a game that can handle so much
  Great weather and time of day effects
  Great voice acting
  The coolest character in the GTA 
 series
  Two different endings
  If your going to cheat you never have to input the same code more then once. :D
  Various minigames
 
  Although fitness like in San Andreas is out it wasnt really necessary since Nico is supposed to 
 be Nico.
  
  Cons
  -------
  No planes tanks or parachutes. Wtf is up with that?
  Going Postal (Killing everyone) is harder since the AI is much better which is a good thing actually 
 since it is more realistic. 
  Not enough weapons
  Game can be exceptionally hard sometimes and you can see yourself doing extremely lengthy missions 
 at times if you lose.
  You may see some minor graphical issues (Such as having body parts phasing through walls if you 
 are close enough )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chain123
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I cant see how anyone could give this game a 10 out of 10. Cars are extremely boring, missions 
 are same old, nothing special with the weapons and nothing incredible with the graphics either. 
 I cant see myself playing this game after having completed the story (unlike the other gta games 
 which were fun to play at all times) . The driving is horrible and generally in chaos with the AI 
 wrecking and crashing all over. I remember trying to drive good in the other games, seems impossible 
 to do here O yeah what in gods name is with the fps? IT DROPS LIKE MAD WHEN YOU RUN OVER A GROUP 
 OF PEOPLE OR HAVE EXPLOSIONS GOING ON!.
  
  Dont get me wrong, its a solid game all around and I would give it probably 8.8. Perfect example 
 of heard mentality and reviewers getting paid off 
  
  Hopefully the next gen Driver game will be good and show Gta a thing or to about a good driving 
 game.!
  
  Ps: The bowling is absolutely horrible haha I couldnt believe it!
  
  Meh Meh Meh MEh Meh Meh Meh Meh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is even better than I expected it to be even after reading all of the 10/10 reviews it was 
 given. It is truly a masterpiece that will be near impossible to match in quality. The storyline 
 is incredible. It seems as if you are playing along with a movie and after a scene is showed you 
 get to play out the following, and then afterwards you can go and do whatever you want in the city. 
 Not only is the story amazing, but so is the city itself. It is massive, not as big as TES: Oblivion, 
 but its still very big, and the detail to all of the little things like what the pedestrians are 
 doing, signs on vender's with the prices of their food, or whenever you are hanging out with one 
 of the people within Liberty City, they notice when you get new clothes, and notice whenever you 
 were the same clothes multiple times in a row. Also, there are so many things you can do it is 
 almost impossible to get bored. You can do the main missions, bowl, play pool, throw darts, race, 
 do hitman missions, go to a bar, watch a show at a comedy club, go to a strip club, hang with people 
 you've met in the city, steal a cop car and catch all of the people on the most wanted list, listen 
 to the cop radio and go stop current crimes that are going on, take pictures of people or type 
 their names in the cop car to see if they have criminal records, and if so you can go and kill 
 them, look for easter eggs, go on helicopter tours of liberty city, deliver packages, and more... 
 Also, the multi-player is excellent. You can go wherever you want within all of Liberty City with 
 up to 15 other players, and from the games I have played I have only experience minor lag whenever 
 playing with 15 other people. Team games are very fun, but the free-for-all aren't so much fun... 
 All-in-All Grand Theft Auto IV is a must buy. There is absolutely no reason you should not go out 
 and pay $60.00 for Grand Theft Auto IV. It is the best game I have played since Max Payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I can't remember a game more anticipated than Grand Theft Auto III (PS2) until the announced Grand 
 Theft Auto IV (PS3) the same hype really surrounded this latest entry. Delay after delay but, I 
 told myself that it would be worth the wait and it really was.
  
  Okay, so it does take forever for it to upload but, then again I waited long enough what's a few 
 more minutes? but, once the game is ready to go you're greeted with a snazzy intro and then the 
 story kicks off.
  
  I have played every Grand Theft Auto since GTA I (PS1) so it's safe to say that this series has 
 taken a MAJOR step forward with this entry. The characters feel real, the city feels alive, driving 
 a car is realistic, and the people react to you in realistic ways as well.
  
  Words cannot describe this game. I can only attempt a review. It just seems that there is an eternity 
 to explore with this game. There are many things to do and most of it is through a handy cell phone. 
 The GPS system is my favorite feature in this game as it is very helpful in getting around the 
 huge city. I like the mini games as well such as bowling and pool. Going to a bar and coming out 
 stumbling drunk is unique as well. The controls while this is going either walking or driving is 
 impressive as the feeling is captured perfectly.
  
  The targeting system is an improvement as well. It's easy to target enemies as well as individual 
 parts (arms, legs, etc....) and the targets react in realistic ways.
  
  I haven't had a chance to go online as of yet but, when I do I'm sure I'll enjoy every mode available 
 as it's always been a hope of mine to enjoy this mode.
  
  I love the graphics the most. As time passes from day to night or when it rains it just feels like 
 you're actually there. 
  
  I cannot put this game down but, I must if I'd like to stay gainfully employed. For those of you 
 who doubt I suggest you go out and get this game whether it be for the PS3 or xb360 get this game. 
 For I cannot understand why this game WOULDN'T be in EVERYBODY'S collection. It's an OUTSTANDING 
 game and it is an experience like no other. It was worth every delay it ever had in the making 
 and I can only wonder what Rockstar*/Take-Two will do next.
  
  I can promise you that I'll be playing this game for a very long time and I do hope that everybody 
 who owns the current next gen system goes out and gets this game. For all those involved in the 
 creation of this game please know that I appreciate every effort and all the time put into this 
 game and do what to say I thank you. For you all have created a timeless masterpiece.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aumelen818
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  To answer the hype: I wouldn't know really... I tend to not read too much into a game so I can have 
 a fresher perspective when I finally get my hands on it.
  
  Console games have always been my bad point in gaming. The controls are awkward for me as a PC 
 gamer. But when I kept hearing about this and that about GTA4, and watching a friend play it at 
 my place, I broke down at the pressure of paying $60 of a game. I'm not going to talk about the 
 story of the game. I'm sure that was spoken of in other reviews. I'm just going to give the rundown 
 on my opinions here.
  
  I have so far put about ten hours into the game, and I'm addicted. It is a rare thing for me these 
 days for games. The game feels so open. You aren't bound to continually do mission upon missions 
 unless you feel like you want to. You can, at anytime, "pause" the game and freely roam Liberty 
 City. Go beat up some people. Go steal some cars. Steal a police vehicle and do some police work 
 that is on the police computer. There is a lot to do.
  
  The graphics and sounds are pretty good and detailed. Lots of people walking around and plenty 
 of cars. Depending on the area you are in, there will be different kinds of vehicles. People screaming 
 when you get close to them or start firing weapons. You hear people mumbling or talking on their 
 cellphones. It's pretty engrossing. Steal an emergency vehicle or police car and turn on the sirens 
 and watch as people pull over to make room for you and watch people like criminals or prostitutes 
 run away in fear.
  
  I think I could go on and on about this game. I ranked it a perfect 10 because I just cannot really 
 find a flaw so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mini_mandel
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of those people loyal to playstation and refuse to buy an xbox just cause of Halo (which 
 is fun online but has a crappy story and till the 3rd one bad graphics... don't get mad its MY 
 OPINION) . After buying PS3 i went through a couple good games that entertained me but just didn't 
 make it worth my money. I got NHL 08 which i was obsessed with but i got too good and now i never 
 lose so i don't play as much. But then came GTA4. This game alone made the $700 (CDN) i paid, and 
 the countless months i waited (without a game worthy of the system) , worth while. Before this game 
 i was just about to finally stop being stubborn and admit PS3 wasn't worth me buying but that all 
 changed. If i didn't already have the PS3 i would have bought one just for this game alone. I can 
 only hope that future games follow in this ones footsteps and manage to combine great graphics, 
 increadable gameplay and lets not forget its just plain fun. Most fun i've had with a video game 
 in years, probably since GTA 3 (excluding NHL 08 of course) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fester420
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I just don't understand how you cannot like this game unless you are one of those people who have 
 to hate things that everybody loves. I am addicted to this game and i have only played through 
 ten missions and logged about 100 hours of playtime so far. it is just fun to be able to go to 
 TW@ and play on their hilarious and entertaining internet they have going on. and the tv shows 
 are wicked funny, i killed a couple hours watching the tv alone. i love how the cars control a 
 lot more realistically now, definitely a lot more fun to drive in this game. the characters are 
 entertaining and it's fun to hear new dialogue every time you take a friend out or go on a date. 
 And i love taking someone to go see a show, extremely entertaining. rockstar put a lot of time 
 and effort into this game and it doesn't disappoint in the least. i had no problems with crashing 
 like i've heard from some people, i even played over the part where it crashes on people and got 
 through it fine. if you buy only one game this year, this should definitely be the one, we will 
 be entertained by this game for the next couple years until gta 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianone24
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Very addicting. I do not understand why there are a few people giving it bad 
 reviews. This game is amazing. The graphics are great ( but i'm sure you need a high def. tv to 
 get everything out of this game which some people gave bad reviews for) . The driving is great ( 
 sure the momentum and handling of the car is more realistic now in that you cant do a hairpin turn 
 in a pento at 120 mph) but every car handles differently. The storyline is great ( the voice acting, 
 the plot, the missions) everything is near perfection. I mean, you can just stand there on the 
 side of the street and watch people and the city and see why it took so long for this game to come 
 out! It's as if the team that made this game took all their flaw in the previous games and flushed 
 them down the shi*ter. The only problem that i have encountered is that the cover system can be 
 a little weird at times. You go to crouch behind a wall and you end up going up against the wrong 
 side of the wall..... while your being shot. But thats not merely enough to change my rating or 
 the quality of the rest of the game.
  The online multiplayer is great too! so many things to choose from and now you can run around the 
 city wreaking havoc WITH YOUR FRIENDS! 
  
  all in all.... i'm glad that this game took as long as it did to come out. You can see that with 
 all the attention to detail, the team that made this game needed alot of time to get everything 
 they right, and i dont say this often with ps3 gaes.... but they hit the bullseye with this game. 
 I hoped this review helped anone questioning whether or not to get his game. GET IT!!!!!!! You're 
 wasting your time with anything else. 
  
  Best 59.99 i've spent on a game since the ps3 came out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mob4l
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is the best game in the whole GTA line up, of coarse. The graphics are almost unbelievable 
 and the overall gameplay is amazing. This game is very realistic. When you crash a car going fast, 
 you can actually fly out of the car. After you've crashed a car there is a possibility that i won't 
 start. All the missions were created well, they are exciting and they won't bore you. The only 
 thing that I would want more would be more cheat codes, like lock wanted level, fighter jets, more 
 cars and boats, and maybe more guns but the guns that they have there are good enough. This game 
 will not let you down, fighter helicopters, street bikes, speed boats, and customized cars are 
 just some of the things you'll be driving. Not one mission is the same so this will not bore you, 
 and even after the missions it will probably be fun to go to mess with cops, go to the Alderney 
 State Correctional Facility, (not that I have been there but it sounds like a good idea) or go 
 on a huge rampage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuepac
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay let me start by saying a few things I know it's gonna make a few ppl mad but oh-well. I usually 
 don't write reviews but this game has pi$$ed me off so badly I just had to.
  
  I have both systems and I have the GTA4 game for both. I have not had a chance to really play the 
 360 version cuz I was hoping to finally buy a game that I thought would save my PS3. I bought the 
 60gb version of this piece of crap when it was first out (599.) , and so far I have been less than 
 impressed with it and I am a HUGE Playstation & GTA fan. 
  
  Back to GTA 4, If you set ur machine to only see 1080i you can force the game into that mode. The 
 sound track is nice. The graphics are something that can be played on the Xbox or PS2. It took 
 so long for this game to be released I thought this would be GREAT on a next gen console. Then 
 to top it off the damn thing freezes A LOT and sometimes it wont even load. The Box says it will 
 do every resolution but the TV changes to 720p.
  
  I am very upset with this game, but it is hell of fun to play when it works! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssick922
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. At first, when I started playing it, I thought, wow this doesn't 
 live up to all the hype. But once I got about 15% of the way through, it really started heating 
 up and now I can't stop playing. GTA IV has really been improved since the last GTA. The cars are 
 based on real cars. The cell phone is a pretty cool idea. And the new fighting system really brings 
 it all home. The driving is a little tough to get used to, but once mastered, its fairly easy. 
 The best part about this whole game is the addition of the online multiplayer. At first, when I 
 found out it was going to be online, I thought, wow, just co-op with 1 friend? But boy was I wrong. 
 With all of the online modes, you will never be bored playing online. The one thing I was disappointed 
 with was the use of the SixAxis. It basically does not exist. And when used, it is very difficult. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatman_69
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I have not finished the game as of yet and at this point, some 60 completed missions in, I am almost 
 forcing myself to complete it because I bought it. I am blown away by liberal granting of 10's 
 this game is getting. There is corruption in the gaming world and no one need look further than 
 here at gamespot and "Gerstmann Gate". Never has this corruption been more apparent than the release 
 of GTA4, the most widely anticipated and overly-hyped game in months. This "review" is by no means 
 complete, but I cannot stand to see another "MASTERPIECE" review. If this game is a masterpiece, 
 you know nothing about games.
  
  Before I get all the 11-16 year olds (those handing out the tens in addition to the paid off reviewers) 
 flaming me, let me explain. Having completed GTA VC and SA (SA 3 times no less) , I am amazed at 
 what GTA 4 is. Where VC built upon GTA3 and SA crushed them both, I was expecting a similar slamdunk. 
 I am completely blown away by the mediocrity of the final game. This game is almost a bad "GTA 
 Clone" itself. 
  
  There has been all this mention of this greater more in depth story to try and create a more "movie 
 like" gaming experience. I don't see it. Standard GTA sequence of events story telling with somewhat 
 limited character development as has been seen in the past installments and is present here. Nothing 
 new to report here captain.
  
  The characters in this game, although somewhat interesting, really don't pull you in and make you 
 care about them. CJ was coming from Liberty City back to San Andreas, to clean up the town, crush 
 some rival gangs and rise to power; that did it for me and made me want to pump him up, tattoo 
 him and make him bad ass so I could kick some. Instead I've got an ex-Serbian soldier with a checkered 
 past that is willing to be everyone's schmuck and doesn't seem to be interested in moving up in 
 the world. Where is the excitement and motivation in that? Yay Nico!
  The other characters, while somewhat developed don't bring too much to the story. Brucie and his 
 over the top presence and delivery are welcomed and enjoyable. I was glad when Manny got whacked, 
 what an annoying piece of filler he was. Other than that, who cares.
  
  DRIVING!!!!! What the hell happened here? Last time I checked, GTA games focused on two main elements: 
 driving and on-foot components. So, how can they be so flawed? 
  
  First off, the on-foot piece. Nico turns on a weird angle, can't pivot on a spot very well and 
 must step back and forth for fine adjustments like he crapped his pants. This translates into frustration 
 when scaling staircases and the like. He attempts to scale things like Altiar from Assassins Creed 
 or the Agents from Crackdown and the man (or should I say the game) isn't up to it. The others 
 are fluid and simple, this is clunky and painful. Can we please lose the 'A' button mashing to 
 make Nico sprint, I don't want to replace my controller after this game.
  
  Now for the driving, the element that is almost 70+% of the game. Unless you are driving the best 
 sports cars or sedans in the game, it feels like you are driving on roads of sheet ice. You are 
 sliding all over and the handling/suspension of the cars is unbelievably bad. Since when does a 
 car come with a "hair trigger e-brake" option? Just touch that button at any speed higher than 
 3 MPH and you are spinning out of control. This MASSIVE step backward really makes driving a dreadful 
 part of the game. I don't want to drive around; I'm not interested in races or timely package deliveries, 
 because my cars SUCK! You end up driving like a Granny so you won't smash up and get frustrated, 
 but in the end you get frustrated because you can't get speeding to your destination quick enough. 
 I am convinced that Rock Star knew this and added the taxi option and thank god as I would have 
 otherwise given up. VC was weak in the driving area as well and Rock Star pulled it out of the 
 bag in SA. You could go sailing down long roads, pull on the e-brake and make awesome swooping 
 turns the Duke boys would be jealous of. Don't try that here, you'll be smashing down pedestrians, 
 signs, mailboxes, light poles and anything else in your amazingly graphically enhanced way. 
  
  When looking at the missions, can anyone say here really, been there, done that. That is not 
 a knock against this game, but if you compare GTA 3, VC, SA and now 4, it's all been done. SA was 
 the freshest with the gang territories and turf wars, flying missions and overall variety. Missions 
 in SA were able to greatly benefit from a better varied playing field. You had small remote towns, 
 forests, lakes, cities, military bases, desert and more, so this added to more possibilities. GTA4 
 has gone back to pre-SA, back to a closed in concrete jungle that adds an element of dj view.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are really good. But they should be on these next gen platforms. There 
 are a lot of elements in the world that you might not notice unless you just stand on street corner 
 listening and watching. This, to Rock Star's credit, is really well done. However, I think they 
 got lost in all the little details and glitz. They should have spent more time working on the flawed 
 driving than accurately depicting how a prostitute will ride me, stroke me or give me head (this 
 latter element is for shock and sales and does nothing for the game) .
  
  As for environment, going back to an "all city" playing field is a big step backwards from my point 
 of view. SA, as mentioned above offered variety, GTA4 can't offer the same in its miles of concrete. 
 SA had three cities in one county and I could fly between them, I can't here. I guess I could just 
 use the subway (doe anyone actually use this?) . Overall the environments, while graphically pretty, 
 are boring and drab after hours of driving around
  
  The overall gameplay is your standard GTA, nothing new here. While SA added great new elements, 
 GTA4 is once again a step back. A cell phone has been added now and you can call your friends and 
 hang out. I feel like a loser calling up my GTA buddies playing the same games of pool, darts and 
 bowling. Is this supposed to be fun? You have to keep hanging out with them so your "friends" will 
 "like you" and give you missions and unlock parts of the game. This becomes boring and tedious 
 VERY quickly after the first few nights out. The one saving grace is if Nico gets hammered and 
 you try and drive home drunk (which I do not condone) which can be a challenge and actually makes 
 driving in the game FUN! Then there is the addition of the Internet which serves no purpose other 
 than unlocking additional missions. Finally, if I am really so pathetic and bored, I can fire up 
 GTA4 and send Nico, who is also bored playing in his game, to watch TV and I can watch with him. 
 Rock Star, you spent time making TV shows?! Work on the driving!
  
  In conclusion, what we have here is a next gen version of Vice City, plain and simple. The lack 
 of varied environments, poor driving, lack of planes and minimally-varied missions just harkens 
 back to 2002. The Rock Star approach of packing it with violence and sex in an attempt to make 
 it fun doesn't pan out here, it has fallen flat on its face. My score looks at GTA4 as a standalone 
 game, but takes heavy slant as this is the 4th in the 3D versions of the GTA world. This game is 
 a disappointment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: otacon06
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I've always been a huge fan of GTA, and i stopped playing all the games after VCS, then 4 came 
 out, and I'm back to GTA. Very fun, if you played the other GTA's get this game, or even if you've 
 never played the series before, it's still something you should look into. 
  
  The multiplayer, is.... just.... amazing..... seriously, the replay value is just ridiculous, you'll 
 never get bored.
  
  The story is amazing, with just enough easter eggs and side missions to have good replay value 
 in the campaign as well.
  
  The cover system is a great addition to the GTA series, it makes the game funner in my opinion.
 
  
  The targeting system is still kinda buggy and annoying, but it's better, but sometimes it won't 
 target anything when you want it to, or it'll target something you don't want to target.
  
  The driving is much much harder than any other GTA game, you'll have to get used to it, that's 
 for sure, good luck making turns at 50 MPH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmckeever
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 3, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  There are some very entertaining elements to this game. Unfortunately, there are also some horribly 
 conceived and implemented aspects as well. 
  
  In general, the story lines and voice acting are excellent. Driving around through the city in 
 various vehicles, all which have their own feel and handling is also very very fun. 
  
  Where this game struggles is controlling the character when not in a car. Gun fights are impossibly 
 frustrating, the 'targeting system' is mediocre at best, and your character will often go into 
 pre-made animations at inconvenient times interrupting gameplay. While the camera can be controlled, 
 it reverts to an auto-position while not receiving user feedback, and the default positions for 
 both character and car movement are poorly realized, both should've been a little higher up for 
 better visibility. 
  
  Other disappointments include the graphics, which appear as though Vasoline or some other greasy 
 substance has been wiped across your screen - in other words, it's a blurry blurry blur-fest, and 
 this is on a 42" plasma via HDMI. Obviously they had to sacrifice graphics in order to create the 
 'complete world' effect, however it's too much of a sacrifice, and you will find your self squinting 
 at the screen most of the time trying to make out what's supposed to be represented by the blocky 
 graphics. 
  
  There are technical issues as well, now being heavily documented in the forums. Crashes are surprisingly 
 common, as are corrupted and un-loadable game saves. My game stopped working for almost a full 
 day, incapable of loading, until suddenly the next day it worked again, only to not work the next 
 time I tried to play. Hopefully a patch will be released to fix these problems, otherwise it's 
 not worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco245
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Upon the announcment of GTA IV, people were a bit worried about the third GTA game (new gen) to 
 be set in Liberty City. After the trailers rolled out, and interviews revealed why they had chosen 
 Liberty City again, things had changed. I turns out, GTA III and LCS hadn't shown the city the 
 way they wanted to, so it asked for a complete overhaul. This is why nothing is familiar anymore, 
 and with good result. They use the new engine, found in the Table Tennis game, and it works superbly, 
 from jumping out from a car and tumbling and rolling on the street, to getting run over, as animations 
 and ragdoll physics play hand in hand. The game doesnt come without problems, with small FPS dips, 
 usually in big high speed pile-ups, and some graphical issues involving shadows from a distance. 
 I hear things are worse on the Xbox, also, complaints of crashing, and corrupted files. Luckily, 
 I've had no crashing (*crosses fingers*) .
  Upon starting the game, you notice that it's a lot darker than previous games, as you play an immigrant, 
 with a dark past from his old country. In the beginning of the game, things go slow, and small petty 
 jobs are common, but as your phonebook gets bigger, more and more features and missions become 
 available. By phonebook, I mean a mobile phone is in your inventory, you use it too call people, 
 enter multiplayer, and in later modles, take pictures and buy in game ringtones. This brings me 
 to another feature, you can go to an internet cafe and buy the forementioned ringtones, as well 
 as check your email for extra jobs and spam, and this brings me to ANOTHER feature... But I'll 
 stop here, you see where I'm going, right? Like in previous games, the humor is excellent, the 
 readio adverts are as entertaining as a jellyfish farting the Soviet national anthem! And the soundtrack 
 isn't bad either, although a few more well known bands wouldn't hurt (or something like an online 
 radio station, where you stream radio stations) . Everything has been overhauled, even driving, 
 which is more realistic, this may worry some fans, but trust me, driving is much, MUCH better than 
 previous games. The shooting system is also the more common  
 style gameplay. All this makes it feel as a preoper multi-genre game, whereas before, shooting 
 was lackluster, and driving was less than Arcade. The sounds are very good too, from people dialling 
 phones (yes, you hear people inputting numbers into their phones) to the new gunsounds, which make 
 the weapons sound more like they can kill someone, unlike the pop of shotguns that take forever 
 to kill a San Andreas resident.
  Finally, the multiplayer. I havn't played too much, but I can safely say WOW! The party mode is 
 fun, I can still use the "Death Coach" from previous games (basically, grab a bus, and ram everyone, 
 the bus wont take a scratch, and the police will be damned trying to arrest you) and drive bys 
 are fun too. The Cops 'n' Crooks gamemode is very fun, with police having to either stopping excaping 
 criminals, killing mob bosses and so on. At first I was a bit let down by 16 players, as San Andreas 
 Multiplayer mod and Multi Theft Auto mod (for San Adreas obviously) could supprt up to a whopping 
 200 players, but the 16 players works well in the game modes, also, they have magnificently synchronised 
 the pedestrians and traffic in the whole city online!
  
  In conclusion, this game is in contention for game of the year, and will win awards (Gamespot gave 
 it 10!? Truly an achievment) and will compete well with MGS4, Home, and Little Big Planet (PS3 
 exclusives, I know, but still contenders) . Rockstar have managed to destroy the worries about character 
 memorability, with Niko and Roman like a double act, and very strange characters from time to time, 
 also, Niko is one of the first GTA IV characters to say "Thank You" to food vendors, but also one 
 of the first to physically push pedestrians out of the way. After 2 delays, allegations of suitability 
 for public audeiences, and very drastic changes from previous games, the game has worked out the 
 way fans wanted it to, with the Pros outweiging the limited Cons. Now, excuse me while I go calling 
 911 and watch police officers running around in circles for crime.
  
  Thank you (sorry for long review :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  I have no more favorite games than the first 3 gta. I love GTA! Go anywhere, do anything, free 
 open world great stories perfect perfect perfect. That was until I played this GTA. First off the 
 driving is horrible. They destroyed the driving mechanics. It used to be so much fun to get in 
 a car or bike and zoom around the city at break neck speeds taking corners at high speeds weaving 
 in and out of traffic. iT was a perfect setup. all that is gone now in favor of a poor mans Forza 
 motorsport simulation rip offf that is not only not fun but also slows the game down. Also with 
 every GTA game you knew that being on foot and engaging in firefights was kinda awkward. the controls 
 are weird and it just doesnt perfrom well. that reamins the same only worse with the new cover 
 system it trys to employ it just doesnt work well. There is no need to reinvent the wheel here. 
 Just copy how Gears of wars does combat or swith the combat to firts person and use call of duty 
 style or even better a rainbow six style. the story is great as always so is the voice overs, the 
 graphics are awesome and there is alot to see and do its just to bad that the execution of those 
 features is so awful. GTA has officially jumped the shark!!!! its a sad day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazbox360
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  You know the drill, Rockstar bring out a game, hyped up to the masses, and we all love it. But 
 when its GTA, we dont just love it, the whole world worships it! The lastest addition is GTA4, 
 and boy is it good.
  
  The layout is similar to the previous GTA games obviously keeping with the free roaming crime game. 
 But there have been a few tweaks with the controls and whatnot.
  
  The main character, Niko Bellic, is likeable throughout the game and doesn't really annoy.
  
 
  Liberty City returns from GTA3, but is way bigger and has a lot more to do. However, I dont like 
 Liberty City as much as San Andreas, simply because San Andreas is bigger and seems to have more 
 to look at.
  
  The final point will be the more realisitic nature of GTA4 this time round, no comedy gore a more 
 gritty city. Don't get me wrong, GTA4 still has a lot of laughs in it and has the traditional Rockstar 
 humour!
  
  Overall a classic, the second best game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcp199
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  ... but that is a good thing.
  
  Seriously though, the game deserves its "perfect 10" rating. Not only do you have the action-packed, 
 original, and at times hilarious story line we've come to expect in our GTA games, but add to that 
 great graphics, a whole new combat system, way better physics in terms of fighting and car crashes, 
 and lots more.
  
  Make no mistake about it, the game is definitely way more challenging then any previous GTA. First 
 of all you have the fact that there is no cheat codes. I think this is great because now things 
 like food, saving up money for weapons and ammo, and being more stealthy and tactical in missions 
 is a MUST. It also keeps interest in the game as I always found that the ability to just refill 
 my health whenever I wanted quickly diminished my interest.
  
  The police AI is far superior to anything we've ever seen before. In a way it is actually easier 
 to escape the police when you have a one or two-star wanted level. But anything higher and it gets 
 a little tricky. They come in far greater numbers and they are much better at damage control and 
 making sure that you STOP when they tell you to. In previous games during chases they would just 
 kind of mindlessly ram their cars into you, sometimes doing so until their car exploded. In GTA 
 IV, however, we no longer see that and they are much more organized and good at making you stop. 
 if for example you have a four star wanted level and they manage to corner you, you're pretty much 
 100% gaurunteed to be dead. You'll have about 10 cop cars which will force you into a corner and 
 they'll all get out of their cars and shoot the **** out of you (with great accuracy I might add) .
 
  
  Driving is a lot trickier in GTA IV too, it takes a while to get used to even for a seasoned GTA 
 IV veteran. The city is a lot LARGER than any other city in previous games and because of the next 
 gen-console capabilities the streets are way more layered and detailed. What I mean by that is, 
 its virtually impossible to drive top speed without eventually hitting someone or something. The 
 E-brake also takes a while to get used to as it is very sensitive and you must apply just the right 
 amount of pressure. And shooting while driving is a whole different story as well! The system they 
 have introduced in this game is more similar to that of "Saints Row". You have a cursor which you 
 can move around and fire instead of just firing out either side. Way better, but again, takes a 
 while to get used to.
  
  All in all I wish I could mention every single thing that I've noticed that I love about the game 
 but I'm far too lazy to type all that out lol. Just be rest assured that this is the best GTA game 
 yet, arguably the best game you can buy for either console right now and most likely the game of 
 the year.
  Don't listen to the nay-sayers. I'm convinced that they're members of MADD sent here to infiltrate 
 the boards and bring down GTA IV's user score. Go and buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancerex6
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that can satisfy most gamers, its a solid game with a great story, 
 great visual and great gameplay. But when comparing to GTA: SA, this newcomer seems to be short 
 of contents. Weapons are limited, not a very wide selection to choose from. The selection of clothes 
 for the main character is nothing new, but a downgraded version from the last one.
  
  Graphicswise, its great, although vehicle disappearing from time to time, shadowing and lighting 
 on buildings also has glitches, one sec its dark, one second its bright. Draw distance is amazing, 
 the lighting effect on the city as a whole is jaw dropping.
  
  AI controlled car still has a problem of changing lanes, even if theres a car in the way. NPC AI 
 is not up to standard, sometime the NPC just keeps walking into objects or walls when they are 
 following you. This makes chasing other vehicles in mission extreamly hard since u have to wait 
 for the NPC partner to get into your car before you can start chasing.
  
  To me this game is great, but also many features disappoint. The mission difficulty has been lowered 
 making the story progress faster, therefore the game's main storyline can be finished in less than 
 25hrs.
  
  In a way, GTA IV is not as good as GTA SA. A must buy none the less, since its the greatest game 
 out now, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcgrizzly1
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is the best GTA made. One of the top games ever made. People might say its boring but believe 
 me its not. The game overall is amazing but there are a few problems but all games have problems. 
 It is deff. worth the 10/10 perfect score its getting.
  
  Graphics- The detail is amazing. Its not AMAZING graphics like you see on some games but its a 
 huge world and they are pretty damn good for the size. They arent bad of course, they are really 
 good, but not AMAZING. The city is amazing and the cars are alot better. 
  
  Music- The music is from the past and todays music. Its really good. I was impressed. I love listening 
 to the radio while driving. This is a big part in the game and rockstar nailed it.
  
  Controls- Takes a bit to get used to, but damn they are amazing. They are simple once you get past 
 the fact they are not the old controls. Once again Rockstar good job.
  
  Gameplay- It is outstanding. Its so smooth and the driving (most say its sluggish) is amazing. 
 So much more realistic, now the windows will shatter, the dents look real, and the blood stays 
 on after you someone. When you hit someone, you dont just run over them like before. Now its like 
 you really hit someone and depending where you hit them, is where they fall. The fighting is realistic. 
 From the punching to the kicking to the gunfighting. Its so much more real. The cover system is 
 awesome as it saves you alot from dieing cause your out in the open like before. The Cops are amazingly 
 real but hard as hell to lose sometimes. Gets frustrating sometimes but man is it fun.
  
  Online- AMAZINGGGGGGGGGGGGG. 16 players online in diff modes to choose from. So much fun. My favorite 
 is the free mode. You get the whole city to run around in and have fun. You can steal cars, run 
 over your friends online, have a gun battle. So much FUN.
  
  Story- The story is great. They deff thought hard on this one. Seems like its gonna be a great 
 ending this time. 
  
  Overall, this game is amazing and if you own a PS3/XBOX360 GO OUT AND BUY IT!!! Deff worth the 
 $60 price tag. I give 2 thumbs up to rockstar. Youve impressed me again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keffin69
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Just wow! This game has proved to be the best game of the series and definitely the best game of 
 the year by far. Every little detail put into this game is fantastic. The storyline is well written 
 and the mission are fun to play. Sometimes you just get lost and free roam around the city. Taking 
 helicopter rides at night time is amazing too. Just looking down at the buildings is breath taking. 
 The multiplayer on the game too is awesome. There are many game modes to choose from and aren't 
 many connection problems either. This game will certainly keep you playing for years to come until 
 the next GTA comes out! What's also cool is the use of a phone now and also using the internet 
 on the computers is revolutionary! You can call people and even customise your ring tone and ring 
 type and text size etc. It's just an all round fun game to play. Definitely 10/10. I recommend 
 this game to everybody!
  
  The only let down for this game is that you can't go fat or skinny in this one whereas in San Andreas 
 you could and also the driving has been made realistic which might be appealing for some people 
 but annoying for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  I'm a big GTA fan and have been playing from the early days before half of you even knew what GTA 
 was. I bought this not off of the hype, but off of the fact that rockstar has never let me down 
 as far as the gta series goes. Well, lets start with the review. 
  
  
  STORY- Niko Bellic is a Serbian immigrant who is thirty years of age and a veteran of the Bosnian 
 War. He has come to Liberty City to pursue the "American Dream". Niko was persuaded to move to 
 Liberty City by his cousin Roman, who had claimed in multiple e-mails to Niko that he was living 
 a fabulous life, with a mansion, women, hot tubs and sports cars. Roman's claims turn out to be 
 lies to hide his own failures. In reality, he only owns a small taxi business and is in serious 
 debt with local gang bosses, which he manages to resolve by enlisting Niko's help in killing them. 
 You basically end up doing doing your missions for the russian/italian mob, meeting women & meeting 
 cool friends that can help you out in important missions.
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is cool, but I did notice a few bugs, freezes, glitches i n this game. I 
 like the way we can switch in & out from 3rd person view/1st person view. This feature adds a big 
 PLUS to the series and has really helped out with some touch locked missions. I also like the fact 
 that near the middle/end you have a choice to take certain actions against key characters in the 
 game that will affect how the story goes. The new features added to the gameplay all in all are 
 very well done. 
  
  MUSIC- The music in the game is HOT! If you've read my past reviews then you know that music plays 
 a big role in games to me. Even the russian music was HOT to me... I found myself listening more 
 to the russian station more that any other station.
  
  DIFFICULTY- The game was very easy and some missions will cost you your life or the mission itself, 
 but it's nothing you'll shut the game off for. I did find myself cursing alot at certain missions 
 towards the end, though. 
  
  
  SUIMMARY- All in all GTA4 is a very good game, but it's not perfect. I don't see where the perfect 
 scores came in at, but me being a gamer for years, I know when a game should be given the "Perfect 
 Score". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omislash1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Finnaly it's here GTA4. A long time in the making this game sure does live up to and surpas the 
 previuos games in this franchise. Rockstar did'nt reinvent the wheel or anything, but they did 
 add alot of exciting extras and remove alot of dead weight features that were in San Andreas. This 
 game is a world within a world, there is so much you can do and many different ways to kill the 
 monotany of just going thru the missions. Dating, bowling, darts. and drinking can be alot of fun. 
 
  
  First the graphics are very good, I expected a little bit more of the ps3 but it doesn't disapoint. 
 Nice touches and details fill the environment of liberty city with life, the way the streets look 
 when it rains is really amazing. I would like to see how a Vice City would look on the next gen 
 consoles.
  
  Sound effects and music are more of the same, popular songs from present to past offer a wide variety 
 of killing spree music and loud gunshots going thru my subwoofer.
  
  Controls, perhaps considerd refined they do present alot of frustration at times, Niko never seems 
 to target the damn person I am trying to shoot in the first place and the driving got alot more 
 "loose" than in the other games. I'll adjust, hopfully.
  
  Online playability, yay
  
  Summing it up, this is a great game, I havn't seen gamespot pass out a 10 in a long time, so they 
 must have liked it alot more than I do. Big city big trouble and alot to do. Hours of free roaming 
 sandbox style gameplay with an infanite replay value, the frustrating controls and having to start 
 a mission over from the begining are a few flaws that I am tired of seeing in these games. Why 
 can't they load the mision after you spent 5 minutes chasing someone over the bridge just to get 
 your car stuck between the wall and another car while the guy runs of on foot and you get killed 
 by the cops? I personaly don't have the patience for this. Other than that it is another great 
 GTA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astex
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  I Got GTA IV Special Edition For Ps3 And I Gotta Say It Is The best game Ever And When You Clock 
 The Game Then You Can Go Online And Its So Fun Online And The Story Of The Game Is Like A Movie 
 And The Gameplay Really Changed But In a Good Way And The Graphics Are Way better. They Kept Some 
 Of the Fun Things Like 12 Guns In Your Clothes And You Can Enter a Door Without Any Loading And 
 The Fighting Is great In It And You Have To Decide Someone's Faith like Kill them Or Let them Live 
 and Whatever You decide there Will be a Differnt Ending So Thats Class. If You Are A Big Gta Fan 
 Like Me Or You Like gta Buy This Now And Special Edition Cant Get Bought Anymore Sorry. Best Game 
 Ever Grand Theft Auto IV Is Worth !00 Euro Just For The game Thats How Good It Is. You can Just 
 Go Crazy In it and the Clothes Shops You Can Buy clothes What You See And This Game Will Be the 
 Best Game This Year and Haze and metal gear Solid 4 Will Be great Too. Must buy Game For PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunzyMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I got this game on the relaese date, saw all the adverts and all the videos on youtube showing 
 the trailers and leaked gameplay, Looked great with amazing details.
  
  Good stuff....
  This game has amazing detail, each car has has its own little detailed identity be it the chrome 
 rims, sports brake discs, V10 badges and even the engines are different, some are american v8s 
 and v10s, japanese inline 4 like the nissans or a nice japanese v6 like the 350z, there is plenty 
 of detail.
  The new combat system is a massive improvement over the previous Gta titles, now you can backup 
 against the walls like Metal Gear Solid style, Pop around the corner and cap a few guys, the combat 
 system is in my view so good now that it rivals 3rd person shooting games.
  Weapons:
  Weapons are what we are used to with gta titles so nothing new here, mac10, shotgun, ak47, psg1 
 and so on, the sound from the weapons now are better and the firing now seems more realistic.
 
  When driving you can still only use the handgun or smgs like the mp5 or mac10 but now you can 
 also drop nades out of the window which is a nice touch providing that you dont blow your on car 
 up.
  Online:
  Its early days for this game is terms of online gaming but from what I have seen its very good, 
 alot of different game types and the lag is minimal.
  
  Bad stuff:
  Music:
  The radio really sucks for some reason, songs are just forgetable and nothing like the old radio 
 stations were are used to, they say there is 200 tracks but also there is about 10 stations so 
 only 20 tracks per station and they also said the radio is on shuffle mode so you will not hear 
 the same dialouge for a long time but yet when you change the station its the same stuff over and 
 over becomes really enoying, Massive B radio, each time I have changed to this station 99% of the 
 time its the same song!!
  Motorbikes:
  1st thing that they messed up on it the scooter which is automatic so would have an automatic gear 
 box but has a manual and changes gears!
  Sports bikes like the pcj600 and the nrg900 only go a little bit faster then a taxi, whats the 
 point of these bikes in the game if there not stupidly fast, they just stay at the same speed yet 
 change gears and increase revs which in my view is a FAIL.
  Missions:
  Sorry if you dont not have the game but the missions really suck its the same boring stuff over 
 and over "This person has done this, kill them" and thats its, just hitman missions all the time 
 no really fun missions like the old gta games.
  Mobile phone:
  Wtf is this needed for, people calling you 24/7 asking if you want to go bowling or play pool and 
 when you say no im busy you loose respect from them, so apart from the main missions that suck 
 you also have to keep doing these side missions which also suck, pick up your friend within the 
 hour, take them out and then take them home its just senseless to me.
  
  Final evaluation:
  They have done very well with the graphic of this game and also amazing detail 
 but Gta titles have never been about graphics and I feel that this title has lost its spark and 
 edge, if you look at Gta san andreas it has so many things you can do beside the main missions 
 where as this title does not, even tho it has taken a wile to release this title its feels somewhat 
 unfinish and rushed.
  When they do another GTA title for the next gen consoles I hope they revert back to the old funny 
 and silly side of Gta with plenty more things to spend your hard earned dollar on.
  
  I dont see how Gamespot has rated this 10/10, Idiots... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommygunn1986
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I was blown away. The graphics, sound, controls, physics, and overall 
 environment are amazing. The more I played the game, however, the more I realized that they left 
 ALOT out of the game. Much of the fun things you can do in GTA San Andreas are not in GTA 4. Planes, 
 parachutes, bikes, skill leveling, fire truck/ambulance/pizza delivery missions, swimming underwater, 
 jetpack, tanks, AI gangs, gang wars and car customization are all gone. None of the vehicles that 
 had functionality do in this game (forklift, semi truck, tow truck, ect.) . Also, several things 
 including character customization (no tattoos or hairstyles at all and very limited clothing selection) 
 and melee weapons (No katana, chainsaw, flamethower, silenced pistol) are severely limited. On 
 top of that, the game has several technical flaws. Some minor texture mapping and frame rate issues. 
 The worst thing however is the game freezing. My game would occasionally freeze temporarily but 
 when I got about 25% into the game it froze completely and now won't load up at all. I tryed deleting 
 the saves and starting over but it freezes completely after only a few minutes of gameplay. I have 
 contacted Rockstar's customer support and have not yet received a response. I have the 80 gig PS3, 
 not sure if that has anything to do with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmartigan117
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  I thought GTA IV was going to be the best in the series, and in my opinion it isn't. My first reaction 
 as I began playing GTA IV was "WOW, this game is awesome! I ran around and stole some cars and 
 motorcycles. I loved the controls, though the turning is a bit sensitive. I actually like the grainy 
 looking graphics that I see people complaining about. 
  
  So what is it that kills this game for me? I just cant understand why they neglected to put in 
 so many of those fun elements that we saw in San Andreas. One of my favorite things to do in San 
 Andreas was flying the jets around and SKYDIVING out. It might sound trivial but when I found out 
 there were no planes, tanks, bicycles, jet packs, basketball or parachutes, I was done. Basically 
 thats a list of my favorite things in GTA and the very things I was looking forward to in GTA IV. 
 To me its seems like they took a step forward in graphics and 10 steps back in content and replay 
 value. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOE ---ROCK
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  At first everyone was talkin' about GTA IV . Back then i thought they ware over reactin' .. And 
 I thought it will be just like GTA SA ( (with better Graphics) ) . And everybody kept sayin' that 
 it is a SUPER game ... So I checked the game trailer ..... WOW . after watchin' the game trailer, 
 i was waitin' for the game and countin' the days remainin' . And finally it came out ... I was'nt 
 a play station 3 or X Box 360 owner ... But at the moment it came out .. I went to the nearest 
 gaming shop . And I bought play station 3 especially to play grand theft auto IV . So, If you dont 
 have the game yet .... Read that review .. And you will go to the nearest shop and buy it .
  
  |+| Story |+|
  You play as Nicko Bellic . A Russian man, about 30 years old .... Nicko Bellic 
 is known in Russia as a killer and drug dealer .... Nicko Bellic have a cousin called Roman Bellic 
 wich is a mad man .... He owes almost everybody in Liberty City ... After he felt that his life 
 is in danger, He invite his cousin Nicko Bellic to Liberty City ( (to save his a$$) ) .... So Nicko 
 Bellic reachs Liberty City . And the game starts .
  
  |+| GamePlay |+|
  The game play in this game ROCKS . It is 100% realistic . GTA IV is much more harder the any GTA 
 game you've ever played ... Every thing is hard . Even when you want to steal a car .... Its hard 
 . Because the car owner will fallow you for ever . Even if you moved the car he will hold the back 
 of ur car and it will be very hard on you to get him away from your vehicle .. If you saw a parked 
 vehicle and it was licked .. You can actualy steal it by breaking the window ... And by holding 
 the triangle ( (while in car) ) Nicko Bellic will switch the car off and get out of it . And if you 
 ware bored you can go home and watch TV ( (real shows) ) or go to enternet cafe and open some websites 
 to show you the secret places in the game .. Wich means that the only bad thing in GTA IV's GamePlay 
 is ( (nothing) ) .
  
  |+| Graphics |+|
  The graphics in the game is almost the same graphics in the real life :D .. Everything is perfect 
 ... And the best thing is the graphics of the sea .. It is like a real life in side a BlueRay disk 
 ... There is Everything, including the empty cola bottles on the ground ... Even when it rains 
 inside the game, you can see the rain as drops ... that is cool . AfterAll the graphics is the 
 best thing in the game .. and in this game its better than any other game .
  
  |+| Sounds |+|
  Sounds in GTA IV ( (as every thing else) ) are perfect .. No more replays in radio 
 station ... I've been playin' the game since three days and I have'nt heard a conversation twice 
 ... And the sound while playin is GREAT . The engines sound and the burnout sound and the shootin' 
 sound ... They are very realistic . You will feel like you are livin' in the real life not playin' 
 a play station 3 game . All i can say about GTA IV's sound that it is the most realistic sound 
 on any gaming console
  
  |+| Multiplayer |+|
  the Multiplayer ( (online) ) in grand theft auto IV is more than just great ... And the data transfer 
 is very fast .. There is no LAG at all and when you are playin' its like you are playin' in story 
 mode or the other players are beside you .. It is cool .
  
  |+| OverAll |+|
  In the end all i can say that GTA IV is almost a real life inside a BlueRay disk . And here i finish 
 my review about GTA IV .. And its my first review . I hope you enjoyed Reading it .. thats where 
 im gonna leave you . see you all in another review .
  
  Review By : MOE ROCK
  E-mail : m_o_e@hotmail. com
  Online Page : www. tagged. com/moerock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV has been long awaited by fans of the series, like myself, and I must say I 
 would have been willing to wait even longer for quality gaming like this. It may have been agonizing, 
 but having just purchased the game yesterday and played it for nearly 13 hours straight, I must 
 say I'm quite satisfied.
  
  The Graphics: While GTA does not technically have better graphics than Gears of War and other games, 
 at least in terms of sheer polygons, but personally I think it looks better than any other game 
 out there. The mere scale of the city, the amount of detail that goes into every little nook and 
 cranny. Every time I walk down the sidewalk, I never see the same person twice, which was one of 
 my big letdowns in the previous games, and ESPECIALLY Saint's Row. 
  
  But anyways, yes, the graphics are all about the details. When you park something somewhere, it 
 stays for a while. When you damage a car on a certain part, it looks like you hit THAT part. And 
 of course, my favorite part, is cars can get dirty and I don't mean with just dirt. I was taking 
 a girlfriend on a date and slammed into a guy on a moped, and he rolled right off my windshield 
 into a fence. When we get out to go to the bowling alley, I realize there's a huge blood stain 
 on the front of her car! That sold it for me, right there.
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing. They've got the same attention to detail as the other GTA games and 
 it really does well to immerse you in the experience. I appreciate the fact that the guns aren't 
 given an overpowered sound, like they sound more realistic than I've ever heard them. 
  
  Cars, explosions, hookers, and voice acting in general is superb, nuff said.
  
  Controls: The 
 controls are a bit different this time around. Things are a lot more realistic, especially in the 
 way the cars handle, which forces you to take turns with your brake and handbrake in mind. While 
 some games instruct people to do that anyways, many gamers can nearly do a right angle at 90 miles 
 an hour in some games. NOT in this game. If you were doing 90, you'd likely slam into a telephone 
 pole and get ejected from your car.
  
  The aiming system is nice and easy to use, as is the cover system, which is a BIG BIG improvement. 
 A lot of people think that this is just copying Gears of War, but honestly, who wouldn't dive for 
 cover behind something when 10 guy are shooting at them?
  
  Multiplayer: I haven't even gotten to playing online yet, but the fact that you can have 16 people 
 online in the FULL city is enough for me to say that it's awesome.
  
  
  I can't really think of much that's wrong with this game. I haven't gotten many errors, at all 
 in fact. The only complaint I have is how long it takes to install on the PS3, but again, it was 
 still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan335
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  Mainstream Canadian journalist keeps an insightful and well balanced diary of his time playing 
 Grand Theft Auto IV. A quote from his journal: "Part of me wonders why a game maker would want 
 to provide anyone, even mature adults, the ability to, say, walk into a virtual strip club and 
 open fire on all of its occupants. The answer, of course, is that this game is, above all, an interactive 
 study in freedom of choice. And knowing that one has the ability to do anything one puts one's 
 mind to (and elect not to do things that go against one's moral fibre) is what freedom is all about. 
 This, if nothing else, is what elevates Grand Theft Auto IV from a mere game to a work of art. 
 And like any proper work of art, it may just end up teaching us a little something about ourselves."Mainstream 
 Canadian journalist keeps an insightful and well balanced diary of his time playing Grand Theft 
 Auto IV. A quote from his journal: "Part of me wonders why a game maker would want to provide anyone, 
 even mature adults, the ability to, say, walk into a virtual strip club and open fire on all of 
 its occupants. The answer, of course, is that this game is, above all, an interactive study in 
 freedom of choice. And knowing that one has the ability to do anything one puts one's mind to (and 
 elect not to do things that go against one's moral fibre) is what freedom is all about. This, if 
 nothing else, is what elevates Grand Theft Auto IV from a mere game to a work of art. And like 
 any proper work of art, it may just end up teaching us a little something about ourselves." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokesc
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Frankly, I've never really like GTA despite its open world concept simply because the controls 
 were rather limited. But music in GTA series were my favourites. But this time around it got all 
 the great touches required to make it a superb game. Well, almost perfect.
  
  One thing really stood out in GTA4 is it's dialogue & acting. It's spot on despite lotsa cursing 
 involved, almost 3 words out of a sentence there's a curse. Hey! it's not that bad considering 
 it does happens in the real world too. Apart from that, the driving & missions were pretty fun. 
 Personally , I like the cover system in the game, it makes gunfight missions all the more entertaining, 
 ala GOW. But the lip syncing is not really there yet although it's not that obvious. I guess if 
 they get the WETA boys, this game will rock!
  
  There are even more crazier things that you can do other than ramming down the pedestrians. I tried 
 the helicopter tour and found it breathtaking but took a new twist by stealing the helicopter and 
 travel the city myself. Guess what? You can actually land it on top of the bridge platform or the 
 highest building in Liberty City. There are several times I slipped and fall from way up and that 
 really hurts, trust me. If only there have a sky diving or bungie jump missions!
  
  So, enough of the good stuff, let's talk about the bad ones. The cameras in the game are cool with 
 right analog rotating every view but if you have a NPC behind you and the camera is at the back, 
 you will see some nasty teeth n gums clipping with eyes popping out! Speaking of clipping, this 
 game has it all. Quite a number of developers nowadays are aware of this due to free rotating cameras 
 in a game. It's surprising why Rockstar did not implement a blur vision or transparency if characters 
 are too close to camera with possible clipping. It does help the overall presentation. Hope there 
 will be a patch for this yah. ^___^
  
  The day & nite + weather cycle system were pretty good. The rain and fog at certain times in the 
 cutscenes really set the mood. I think it can be quite dramatic if it's fully utilized. Overall, 
 GTA4 is the most worth piece of game in terms of value & replayability.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I'll sum up my two cents in a few sections.
  
  Let me just say the game is so vast and immensely deep, I see something new the developers put 
 into it every day. So what is typed below is nothing compared to what you actually see in this 
 game, it's crazy.
  
  Storyline: Very good. Nikko is probably my favorite video game character. The storyline and characters 
 are very realistic. The voice acting for this game must've taken ages because every character has 
 their own personality that is incredibly rich, it's stunning. He came to the U. S. to chase that 
 American dream, among other things, to get away from his past and start anew on the right track. 
 Problem is he gets caught up in trying to help his cousin and his friends out with bad guys and, 
 well, the rest is up to you really (it's very open ended) . Probably more so than other games that 
 are renowned for that. 
  
  Gameplay: Fixed it up quite a bit since San Andreas. There are lots of new things that can be done 
 in combat, in vehicles, etc, it's ridiculous. Fighting is a lot more interesting; they've added 
 a more strategic aspect to fist fighting that sort of includes combos. They've added a "take cover" 
 feature that works perfectly for insanely action packed gun fights. Everything runs very smooth 
 and realistically. Cars have their own individual handling and attributes which only backs that 
 up more, among other things. 
  
  Graphics: Very good. Sadly the game didn't come out for only one console, which usually allows 
 for graphics to be even better than on multiple platforms, but they are actually very well done 
 in this game. Sometimes it looks so real, I just drive around and trip out on the detail. Way better 
 than it's predecessors. 
  
  Detail/Depth: Like I said, I find something new about this game everyday. The city feels alive, 
 with all of it's rich characters, immense capabilities and things to do. The AI on the streets 
 even have their own feuds and conversations which makes the entire feel of driving around the city 
 surreal, absolutely surreal. I really can't even begin to explain all of the things you can do 
 in this game... it's probably safer to just say you can do anything you want; from making an honest 
 living as a taxi driver or vigilante, to embarking on one of the most entertaining campaigns/storylines 
 I've ever seen. 
  
  Each of these sections should have their own sub categories of important things in the game related 
 to them, everything is so widely developed. 
  
  Theres been some controversy as to the extent of the violence, language, and sex in this game, 
 but it's really not more than any of the craziest movies that come out these days and all of that 
 isn't even the point of the game. It's not like you start the game and someone comes up to you 
 and says, "Hey, go kill a bunch of innocent people and cops and at the end of the day I'll give 
 you a hooker and a line of coke." Yes, you can do most of those things as much as you want, but 
 that isn't the point of the game, it only adds to the realism. And you'd be missing out on what 
 may be the greatest video game (for many many many reasons) that I've ever played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I used to love the Grand Theft Auto series, before San Andreas came out at least. For some reason 
 I couldn't really get into San Andreas like I did Vice City or GTA III. That being said, I was 
 really hoping that GTA IV would pull through and make me a fan once again. All I can say is, even 
 though I have not finished the game, I have been having a blast playing it.
  
  There are many components that have not disappeared, but there are improvements in all areas of 
 gameplay. The shooting in this game is actually a blast. It's very easy to switch between a lock 
 on mode and a free aim mode but the guns are more realistic and due to improved physics feel much 
 more powerful and damaging. 
  
  The next big improvement is the interactivity of the environments. The people, walls, cars, everything 
 is so much more real. The cars drive like real cars, and the damage modeling is even better than 
 what we see in most racing games. There are tons of different pedestrians and even things like 
 walls can be damaged when you hit them.
  
  The last improvement, which is probably the most important, is the acting. The characters in this 
 game feel so alive with their facial expressions. Each person feels so individual as if they are 
 living entities in a game. It's one of those things where you don't really feel like your playing 
 a game but more like directing people through different events in a movie or book. The gameplay 
 hasn't changed too much, but because of the improved acting this game will draw you in and make 
 you want to play more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey4002
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game in my opinion is definitely one of the best games i've ever played. The story feels real 
 and character interaction is incredible. The city feels extremely real as people are going out 
 and doing their own thing. Playing mini games like bowling, pool and darts is fun with the many 
 friends you make in the story mode. Each friend having a special ability when they like you enough.
 
  
  I cannot emphasize how wonderful the story mode is. So far i've played 23 hours and i still have 
 a great ways to go. The story has many twists in the plot to keep the intensity and emotion up. 
 
  
  The cars chosen and made for this game are wonderful. Most of the cars look like real cars like 
 a corvette, viper, bmw m3, and 69 dodge chargers. Each car has a unique handling scheme and every 
 car handles like real life cars.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. The water is the best thing i've ever seen. Real time reflection, 
 waves and lighting are great. 
  
  The Multiplayer is extremely fun. my favorite is just the free roam. having 16 people running around 
 doing what ever i wish is delightful.
  
  This is absolutely the best of the series.
  This game is a definite must play and is a game worth $100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reic25
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Mmmm, where to start? 
  How about driving? One word, sucks. The hand brake might as well be renamed "Go into an out of 
 control spin button".
  What else? Oh, moving on foot. I mean, walking at an agonizingly slow pace, unless you hold down 
 the x button, which takes away the ability to move the camera around at the same time. I have an 
 idea! How about having an option to always run? Or any useful option for that matter.
  General gameplay. I wish they would put up gameplay tips in the corner of the screen while you're 
 driving really fast so when you try to read them, you can ass-tag a cop car. Oh wait, they do!
 
  I would like to post more comments about the game but it won't load. I'm about 4 hours into it 
 and it gets stuck on the loading screen. Thanks Rockstar. I can't wait for Saints Row 2! 
  
  Update: The previous review was based on 4 hours of gameplay on the ps3 before the game stopped 
 working. I went out and bought the 360 version and plan on selling my ps3 version back to gamestop. 
 I have yet to get up to the point where I was on the ps3 version, but it does seem to run smoother, 
 although the driving still sucks, the walking on foot still sucks and I just don't pay attention 
 to the hints while I'm driving. I'm willing to give it a valiant effort because I really want to 
 like this game. Hopefully it gets better. But there is absolutely no way this game is a 10, because 
 10 means it's perfect and you love absolutely everything about this game and have no gripes whatsoever. 
 No game will ever be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 - did anyone expect anything less? This game is incredible, and certainly a 
 worthy installment in the franchise. As far as this generation goes, it's easily been my favorite 
 game so far.
  
  *No need for a backstory, because I'm sure you've read it all already. Niko Bellic is the main 
 character, and he is a bad ass. A good bad ass if you will. He's sincere, he's loyal, but he's 
 bad ass. The voice acting of Niko really brings his character to life, and makes you really care 
 about him. That can actually be said for every character, but what did you expect? The franchise 
 boasts the names of Ray Liotta and Samuel L Jackson as voice talent.
  
  *The city is more than a graphical overhaul of the previous Liberty City, it's a completely new 
 one. It finally feels real. You finally feel guilty for fighting the innocent. You can call cops 
 on the cell phone, they arrive. You call paramedics, they arrive. You can wave down cabs and skip 
 to where ever you want to go, which is so convenient. A big part of the frustration of San Andreas 
 was driving from city to city. Here, you wave down a cab, jump in, and skip to where you want to 
 go. (Or you can sit and enjoy the ride, but it takes longer) .
  
  *The gameplay has really been tweaked. The car handles different, Niko handles different, and there 
 is a duck and cover system comparable to Uncharted and Gears. Probably not as polished, but still 
 very well done. You can cover against anything though, which adds to the realism of the game. The 
 handling of the vehicles has been changed for added realism as well. Some people have their beefs 
 with this, but it feels so much more realistic. Go back and play San Andreas, and you'll understand 
 how fake the car handling in that game seemed.
  
  *I only have a few little gripes about this game, and they arent really that bad. I first gripe 
 is, I'm not sure if such a dark, serious storyline is good for the franchise. Not that "dark and 
 serious" is a problem really, but I really loved the humor of the previous GTA games, and this 
 game is much more serious than those games. There are still plenty of wise cracks and jokes, but 
 not as many as the previous games. Also, as beautiful and real as Liberty City looks and feels, 
 there is hardly any variation between each island. There have been times where I have to check 
 my map just to see which island I am on, because it all looks the same to me for the most part. 
 I miss the varied landscapes of Vice City and San Andreas. On the other hand, Liberty City is based 
 off of New York, and I'm sure there arent any wide open fields in New York, so at least Rockstar 
 was keep true to the blueprint.
  
  *I wasnt worried about GTA IV dissapointing. The game is almost flawless in my book, and as a die 
 hard GTA fan, that's more than I expected. If GTA IV was nothing more than a San Andreas expansion, 
 I would have jumped for joy, but instead it's a whole new experince that delivers on so many levels. 
 Liberty City is still the worst place in America. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeshan810
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Criminals are an ugly, cowardly lot more worthy of pity and disdain than admiration. This is what 
 you'll learn playing through the single-player campaign in Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto IV. The 
 series cheered (and criticized) for glorifying violence has taken an unexpected turn: it's gone 
 legit. Oh sure, you'll still blow up cop cars, run down innocent civilians, bang hookers, assist 
 drug dealers and lowlifes and do many, many other bad deeds, but at a cost to main character Niko 
 Bellic's very soul. GTA IV gives us characters and a world with a level of depth previously unseen 
 in gaming and elevates its story from a mere shoot-em-up to an Oscar-caliber drama. Every facet 
 of Rockstar's new masterpiece is worthy of applause. Without question, Grand Theft Auto IV is the 
 best game since Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time.
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European attempting to escape his past and the horrors of the 
 Bosnian war. He arrives in Liberty City to experience the American dream, only to discover his 
 cousin, Roman, may have fibbed a bit in his tales of success. Starting from nothing, Niko makes 
 a living as a killer and enforcer, a bad-ass foreigner who appears to have no morals. The longer 
 we stay with Niko, the more we see that there is a broken human being inside, one who would give 
 anything to escape the person he once was.
  
  Don't worry, GTA's famed over-the-top action and tongue-in-cheek humor are intact, but there is 
 a new level of sophistication in the characters and the game world that raises the story above 
 the norm. As Niko becomes mired in the death throes of American organized crime, he begins to become 
 more self-aware. Niko's struggles with his ruthless nature never inhibit the gameplay, but instead 
 enhance the emotional gravity of a brilliant storyline. The more absurd the action becomes, the 
 greater we feel the very real pathos of Niko Bellic.
  
  Much of the credit goes to the artists at Rockstar North who created as believable a city as possible. 
 Liberty City is inspired by New York, but not beholden to it. While there are many parallels, Liberty 
 exists in its own universe and rightfully so. Many open-world games have cities that feel as if 
 they existed only from the moment you first turned on your console, but Liberty City looks lived 
 in. It's an old city and each block has its own vibe and its own history.
  
  Drive around Liberty City and you'll be able to identify each individual block. Though Liberty 
 is filled with brownstones and a myriad of similar brick buildings, you can tell one from the other, 
 just as you can in New York. Go to an affluent neighborhood and the street is likely to be newly 
 paved, the pedestrians better dressed, the cops more plentiful. But head to Dukes or Bohan and 
 you'll find streets nearly stripped of asphalt, homeless people wandering about aimlessly and criminals 
 preying on the weak.
  
  Niko is fresh off the boat.
  Watch the people and you'll witness some amazing things. At one point, I saw a woman stopped at 
 a light, looking in the rearview mirror right before she was rear-ended by a man ogling a girl 
 on the street. The man got out of his car and went to the woman, checking to see if she was okay. 
 This had nothing to do with Niko or a single action I took. These were the citizens of Liberty 
 City going about their day. And it was just one moment in a day full of incidents.
  
  Hang in one area of the city long enough and you'll see how traffic and pedestrian flow changes 
 as the day progresses. When it rains, people bring out umbrellas or shield themselves with a newspaper 
 and run for an awning. Cops chase petty thieves unaware that walking down the street is Niko Bellic, 
 cold-blooded killer. There's a perfect balance of mumbling doomsayers to remind you that the reason 
 this city never sleeps is because it's full of nut jobs. People go about their day, only altering 
 course when Niko inserts himself into their lives with his crappy driving or excellent marksmanship. 
 
  
  I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO +17 AND YOUNGER CHILDREN*
  THIS GAME GTA IV IS HIGHLY ADDICTIVE GAME 
  
  (Will soon upload the last mission of GTA IV) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait. It wasn't perfect but what game really is.
  
  Story: 10. Simply outstanding storyline. Lot's of NPC. I like how the dialog changes if you don't 
 beat a mission. Sometimes, I'll lose a mission just to hear how they change the wording. Not a 
 bad feature. The overall storyline is great.
  
  Graphics: 9.0 Not perfect but better than previous installations of GTA. The biggest improvements 
 were made to the actual city. I've driven around the city and put the missions on hold just to 
 check out Liberty City. Pretty cool looking.
  
  Controls: 8.0 This is where I have my biggest problem with this great game. A lot of the cars have 
 no control whatsoever. The regular brake sucks and please don't even try the E-brake. You'll end 
 up crashing the car or making a 180 turn when you really only wanted to make a sharp 90 deg turn. 
 Patches should fix this. The controls for flying vehicles are horrible. The SIXAXIS control does 
 not help. Again, patches will fix this.
  
  Sounds and Music: 10 Terrific. Music, ambient sounds, and sound effects are perfect for this game. 
 Those like me who bought the Collector's edition ended up with the soundtrack CD which is a great 
 mix of music.
  
  Camera angles: 8.5 Sometimes I feel the camera is too close to the car you're driving. Cinematic 
 view is useless. It's even hard to see outside the car when you're a passenger. At any rate, cameras 
 need to be slightly corrected.
  
  Sum it UP: Great game that is within inches of being the best made game ever. I think some people 
 are being a little harsh when grading this game because it isn't light years better than San Andreas 
 or Vice City. But then again, those game were so good that it is hard to make something better 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Devil May Cry 4 offers a good shooting, fighting and skill game. There are lots of things to unlock 
 and do on the PS3 version. Unfortunatly the Xbox 360 version is a bit of a disapointment when i 
 lacks the proper quality it should be. Here are the GOOD and the BAD points.
  
  THE GOOD
  -The Story is very interesting with lots of characters to meet.
  -Sound is very powerful and 
 strong (Especialy Surround sound)
  -Lots of variety
  -Lots of Guns to use
  -Great Voice acting with some celebraties
  -16 player Online makes a great addition
  -The new 
 fighting and shooting controls feel more solid 
  -More realistic characters & civilians with having things to do in their life
  -Police are easier 
 to escape from with help from the new police radar system
  -Network features add a great element to the game
  -Graphics look fantasic in some parts of the 
 game
  
  THE BAD
  -Some lag issues 
  -AI is sloppy at times
  -Getting hit by a car is very annoying
  -You cannot buy houses or businesses which is annoying
 
  
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 10
  Gameplay - 10
  Value - 10
  Tilt - 10
  
  HIGHLY RECOMEND THIS GAME!! NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: korsair13
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  The amazing story line that sucks you in, the realistic driving (like having forza 2 inside an 
 already amazing game) , the intense combat all work together to make this the most memorable GTA 
 game ever. 
  I have been a part of the franchise since the beginning and I must say that one of my biggest problems 
 was the wanton violence that was shrugged off often times but in this game that has all changed. 
 Not only is Niko Bellic a realistic character but he is damaged goods that we all gain a kinship 
 with the more we play as him. The choices he must make in the game are not only about money but 
 also moral choices that hit us right in our cores. The violence that you commit in the game rarely 
 goes unpunished and is often retaliated against quite quickly. 
  The driving system is definitely a struggle to get used to but that is simply because it is realistic. 
 Try driving around a corner in real life using the handbrake and you will find that you do not 
 go where you want to go. Sure, you can park a car all fancy-like but you sure as hell cannot turn 
 a corner at full speed using the handbrake and not smash into the wall. This improved (in my opinion) 
 driving style works to the benefit of those people who have driven real cars or spent hours playing 
 forza 2. Also, if you decide to sit and peal out for a few minutes, your tires will explode it 
 is that realistic. And if you drive off to quickly when you get in your car, you will not put on 
 your seatbelt and if you smash into something going to quickly you will fly out your GD window 
 (it sure angered me and made me laugh the first time that happened) . Anything with that level of 
 minute detail deserves full marks.
  The combat, while at times a tad annoying due to some very minor control issues with the cover 
 system work really well. The combat is not very hard and you really feel that you are a cold hard 
 killing machine out for revenge. The overall difficulty of the game is really perfect. While there 
 are very few missions that seem stupidly difficult (the last one, depending on which path you eventually 
 choose, can be a real bastard) , most of the missions are perfectly set up for you to play through 
 without problems. But that doesn't mean that you can go into a mission being unprepared. Just like 
 in the previous GTA's it is always better to start a mission with full health and armour and a 
 Schwarzenegger-load of weapons just in case.
  All in all, GTA IV is by far the best game on the Xbox 360 because of its replayability, its intense 
 action, wonderful storyline, and totally immersive atmosphere. Just stand in the middle of what 
 is Times Square (Station Square) in the game and spend an entire day watching the people and traffic 
 and you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbottiggi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Ok so I decided to edit my review and bump it up a point.
  
  First off now that I've gotten used to the controls I feel at ease getting in gun fights and driving 
 around. If you've played the other GTA's at all you will feel a bit uneasy about the new controller 
 set-up. There is an option for the "classic" controls but with the new features of having to take 
 cover and constantly having to move the camera view while driving, the "standard" ones are much 
 more efficient and practical. So there's a bit of a learning curve for that, and it may frustrate 
 the old GTA gamers who probably wanted to jump straight in and start f'n stuff up right away.
 
  
  The story line and characters are pretty cool. They definately lived up to the GTA name with this, 
 and it's almost like you're watching a movie. You will probably grab a few laughs out of the dialogue, 
 and certain characters who are kind of annoying will probably be killed off, though I won't mention 
 much more of that to spoil anything. Anyways, top notch stuff in this department.
  
  Ok, seeing as I was retarded and didn't figure out the drive-bye system before, I now understand 
 it, and it's pretty sweet. So no more gripes there. And it's cool you can use you're pistol now 
 as well.
  
  I adjusted my display settings to a better fit so that took care of the "haziness" of the game 
 for the most part.
  
  The guns and such are pretty cool. The sound effects and animations of kills are very awesome. 
 And it's pretty sweet you just have to buy 1 gun, and then you just buy ammo for about $100 bucks 
 per purchase instead of buying a guy at $1000 bucks each time. And you don't get you're weapons 
 taken away if you die so that's a huge plus. So it's better to die than be busted, but I think 
 we all want it that way anyways : )
  
  The new cover system is actually pretty cool. It does take some getting used to, and making sure 
 you face the right way. And the "free fire" feature is pretty cool so you avoid getting hit while 
 compromising some accuracy. Gun fights are even better now once you get the hang of them.
  
  As far as driving goes, this is where the shoddy aspects of the game come into play, and was 
 what I was mainly griping about in my first review. 
  
  First the good... Hitting pedestrians is even more brutal. Just cruise into some and you'll see 
 what I mean. And motorcycle wipeouts hurt you pretty badly, as well as jumping out of cars if you 
 are really cruising or if you hit in a head on crash you go flying out the front window. It's more 
 realistic now, and now that I've gotten a better handle on the driving it's more of a plus than 
 a minus. 
  
  Most of the vehicles are back from the previous GTA's , so there's certainly a lot of familiarity 
 in this one. And you can take cab rides to shorten transportation time and also take trains etc. 
 And if you make nice enough with you're cousin you get free cab rides.
  
  The Cell Phone is a nice addition, and the GPS is probably the best thing they could have added 
 to the game. I had GTA III and Vice City's layouts memorized pretty good, but San Andreas was just 
 way to big for me to cruise around without looking at the map, so the GPS is basically a HUGE time 
 saver. Everyone will love this feature along with auto-save.
  
  So I had complained about the new wanted stars system before but now I am getting used to it. As 
 long as you can get better at driving this system will benefit you. But it can still be frustrating 
 when you get out of range and a cop car appears in a block ahead of you while you're cruising at 
 100 mph and can't really make a sharp turn without wrecking yourself to avoid them. But I guess 
 that's all part of escaping the cops right? But I think there should be a way to immediately reduce 
 the amount of stars once you make it out of the circle, and if you only had 1 it should go right 
 away. Or have some sort of hiding area system incorporated to reduce stars while inside the circle. 
 It was always kind of nice to be able to gradually reduce the wanted level or get rid of it all 
 at once.
  
  Ok now the bad... There are 3 main components to driving that still drive me nuts, and basically 
 keep this from being a 10. I did read a review about perhaps a patch coming to fix these issues, 
 and I really hope they do.
  
  First, the e-break turns suck... bad. I used to do pretty much all my turns in previous GTA's with 
 them. I can manage to use it effectively sometimes, but not enough to feel comfortable to turn 
 that banshee into a small alleyway and not demolish my car. It's much easier to just slow down 
 and take the turn, or just tap the e-brake slightly so you don't do into a crazy skid. And the 
 camera views certainly don't help you succeed in doing so. Based on what I read in a lot of reviews, 
 I'm not alone in thinking this.
  
  Second, the damn camera doesn't rotate when you take a turn. So you either have to turn the camera 
 along with the "joystick" or punch in the rear view button really quick, or cinematic view to reset 
 it so that the view is of the road in front of you. This is a major pain in the ass. Basically 
 because you have to concentrate enough on turning without spinning out or taking it too widely, 
 and now you have to add rotating the camera into the mix just to see what you're turning into! 
 Huge pain in the ass.
  
  Lastly, the main driving view is tilted too far parallel to the car, so it's hard to see what's 
 in front of you. Before I thought everything was zoomed in too far, but the default camera angle 
 is just too far down. It needs to be angled a little more overhead, which would then be much more 
 like the old GTA style of view. Instead, once again, you have to keep the rotate view "joystick" 
 slightly tweaked the entire time you're driving to get a decent view. 
  
  So basically there's 2 unnecessary camera angles you need to manipulate while trying to make sure 
 you're car doesn't have a head on collision causing you to fly out of the front window! Giant pain 
 in the ass.
  
  And the motorcycles are much harder to drive. They skid out way too easy compared to the old GTA. 
 I actually have an easier time driving the "hog" instead of the PCJ or Sanchez for some reason. 
 In San Andreas it was the opposite. But now it's almost like I'd rather take a car, which certainly 
 wasn't the case in previous GTA games.
  
  The only other major gripe I have is that you can't just auto-jog anymore. This forces you again, 
 to be holding or tapping a button while trying to manipulate whatever else you need to do. And 
 it mainly sucks during gun-fights where you need a bit more concentration and are already using 
 a bunch of different button combinations, and you certainly don't want to have to be holding the 
 X button throughout all of this just to avoid walking so god-awfully slow. There should be an auto-jog 
 option available.
  
  I also miss the sneak attack with the knife. 
  
  So that's basically my edited review. If they can indeed make new patches to be download and possibly 
 fix those 3 driving boons as well as the walking problem, I'd certainly bump this up to a 10 and 
 it would be one of the best games of the genre for sure. But for now, I'll keep playing and try 
 to make the best of a great game with an annoying driving system.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ac1d-Burn
Rating: 5
Date: May 3, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe this game got a perfect 10. This is the worst GTA ever and how can anyone say otherwise 
 it has poor graphics, poor game play every thing about this game is poor apart from the storyline. 
 Think to yourselves the ting you could do on GTA San Andreas and Vice City you could buy houses, 
 cars you could even steal businesses you could even get fat and go to the GYM the range of clothes 
 in San Andreas by far out numbers GTA4 you got different terrains go out in the country side a 
 steal some tractors you had bicycles you could even get different hairs styles and tattoos plus 
 customize your cars one of the best features ever. The list goes on and on back to GTA4 what can 
 you really do but complete the missions and go online multiplayer which is ok till you get bored 
 in like 10 mins and go on COD4 best online multiplayer games in a long time. Why couldn't they 
 just built on what they already had in Vice City and San Andreas. All that I can see that they 
 have done in 4 years is take GTA3 and added a mobile phone (cell phone) and a different storyline. 
 Great work ROCKSTAR NOT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOxWarrior
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has not so far, lived up to my expectation and i often find myself frustrated with with 
 driving aspect of the game.
  Perhaps its because i'm not playing on a HDTV, but when i'm driving around the city, i don't get 
 a sense of speed. I feel like i'm going 40mph max and what makes this even more irritating is that 
 despite feeling the car is going slow, the cornering is insane and i almost always go wide into 
 the wrong lane and am having to constantly tap on the brake to keep out the wall.
  This is extremely annoying because i'm going at what feels like a snail pace, having to lower my 
 already slow speed in order to make turns. Whats even worse is, what should have been the best 
 way to avoid taking a corner too wide... the handbrake, is absolutly USELESS. Its very hard to get 
 the steering and handbrake to work properly together without spinning out of control and makes 
 drifting almost impossible from what i can tell so far 
  
  This driving issue has certainly not been a problem in the past so i don't understand why they 
 would change the driving style.
  
  
  
  Another dislike i have for the game is the poor music in this installment. The radio has been key 
 to game in the past but has failed to impress me this time.
  
  I also don't like the walking pace. I would have preferred the old style of default jogging rather 
 than this incredibly slow walking pace. I'm not certain why they would make the change, its just 
 extra hassle. 
  
  My final two points, and this is based on what i know from others, one again were making big money 
 and have very little to spend it on!! Pointless cash... and also, not enough variety of weapons, 
 i wanted more! Not necessarily guns, but just weapons
  
  Having said that all... I have no problems (yet) with other aspects of the game, which is why i 
 still rate it so highly.
  Furthermore, i am typing this having played the game for less than 4 hours, and theres still much 
 to do.
  I will edit this review later on if i have anything else to say... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dime5150
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the ultimate game. I've always wanted a game like this. From playing with 
 hot wheels, shooting fake bad guys with toy guns, we always want to express ourselves and look 
 at our dark side. Grand Theft Auto has made it possible. 
  
  Some of the highlights that I found from the jump to next gen that aren't pointed out all that 
 often and/or couldn't be highlighted enough.
  
  1. Damage modelling of cars is much much better then any other game.
  2. Enough couldn't be said 
 for what the Euphoria engine provides.
  3. The missions are much easier to do. They aren't overwhelmingly complicated but enough so where 
 they keep your interest and want you more.
  4. The story is good. 
  
  This is the first grand theft auto game where i've actually felt bad for shooting someone. Thats 
 how much the Euphoria engine brings to it. People react in horrible ways to horrible acts. Shoot 
 them in the leg and they collapse on it in pain. Shoot them in the head and its a quick end. 
 
  
  This game isn't "perfect" like many game sites want you to believe. I have a hard time believing 
 they really played through it enough and even noticed the glaring items.
  
  1. There are quite a lot of visual quirks. Niko goes into the walls like a sponge. Character detail 
 often goes down (in the cabaret club it kept cutting to niko and his date. When it did they lost 
 so much detail in there faces they looked like they stepped out of Grand Theft Auto III. 
  
  2. Constant freeze plagued the game. This could be due to the online infrastructure. It has 
 since remedied.
  
  3. The hype of the music was false. Hardly any of the songs are bands or big names and most repeat 
 over and over again. 
  
  4. Niko's accent as well as others from Eastern Europe can sound really campy at times. You can 
 tell the voice actor that played Niko does not have a genuine accent. It can sound very stereo 
 typical sounding an unnatural at times. 
  
  All in all this is an excellent game. It will be played more then any other game I have and will 
 have an incredibly extended shelf life with the online functionality not to mention just playing 
 around in the single player world. It's a true living world with thinking people. Euphoria is the 
 best thing that happened to this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowkarver
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Since I've been gaming for 25 years, I've also watched the controversy and hype surrounding each 
 GTA title since the first one came out - from the sidelines. Although I typically find sandbox 
 play and open-world exploration immensely entertaining, the idea of doing so as a soulless gangster 
 rewarded for perpetrating essentially random acts of violence without compelling reasons never 
 appealed much to me; watching friends play through various parts of GTA I-III, I consistently lost 
 interest within about 15 minutes.
  
  What I am is a huge sucker for good storytelling, especially with a sympathetic main character. 
 Call me overly principled, but if you're going to make me play a criminal killing machine, at least 
 give me a good reason to empathize with the guy. In my mind, it's a compelling backstory that elevates 
 characters and titles like Max Payne, the eponymous Hitman - and now GTA IV's Niko Bellic - above 
 and beyond your typical shoot 'em up. And that's enough to make me take a second look.
  
  With this latest release, Grand Theft Auto has grown up in a way to become the very definition 
 of what an open-world game should be. While its bad-boy style and M rating mean that you can still 
 perpetrate just about anything - sometimes to hilarious effect - nothing in the plot or game mechanics 
 either forces or steers you to do so. Sure, missions are usually to take out some mobster or another, 
 but how surgical you are about it, whether you go for maximum body count or zero collateral damage, 
 and whether you stop by the strip club on the way - is entirely up to you. And that's the way it 
 should be. 
  
  Issues of morality aside, the game itself is a wonder to behold. The level of detail and internal 
 consistency in the virtual world, coupled with fabulously satirical writing that takes dead aim 
 at just about every media, consumer and political target you can imagine, fuse together perfectly 
 to form a living, breathing city that's simply a joy to explore and simply soak in. No detail, 
 from radio weather bulletins that correspond perfectly with the dynamic conditions outside, to 
 television and internet news articles that report on your previous actions, has been overlooked. 
 The humor, while often crude, is nevertheless cynical, biting and sophisticated.
  
  Having never played a GTA console game previously, the control scheme and playability seem fine 
 to me - although with a multitude of contextual button mappings (for phone use, fighting, driving, 
 and so on) it does take some time to get used to them. As expected, the graphics are top notch 
 given that this is an open-ended exploration game, and the vehicles have phenomenal physics and 
 damage modelling. Audio, too, is used to excellent effect, with multiple layers of SFX, music from 
 the radio, and passing conversations all blended well to create the ambient noise wall that is 
 so common in real-life cities.
  
  With a compelling, detailed story, audiovisuals that are either commensurate with the current crop 
 of games or better than average, the most consistent and detailed game world ever created, and 
 a more mature approach to violence, actions, and consequences than its predecessors, Grand Theft 
 Auto IV is definitely one of the most revolutionary, well-designed and simply entertaining games 
 to be released in years.
  
  Whether you're a sociopathic, homicidal maniac or a reluctant hitman playing through the plot without 
 beating up a single hooker, or even, to put it bluntly, just a tourist soaking in the sights and 
 sounds without ever lifting a finger, your $60 entrance fee to Liberty City will probably be money 
 well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrains
Rating: 1
Date: May 2, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Rockstar should have had time to test GTA IV on all consoles and have it debugged prior to shipping 
 it out. They knew this release was going to break records. They post-poned the release 6 months. 
 So what was the long wait for. The wait sure doesn't seem like it was used to test the game. It's 
 also frustrating to not receive an official response from them stating that they have a problem 
 and that they are working to get it fixed. It took them 2 days after the launch to respond and 
 their response is that there is a small problem...... If you browse the Playstation forums you 
 will see that this is no small matter. Who knows how long we will have to wait before we actually 
 get to play the game. I hope they learn from this huge blunder and make sure their next release 
 it solid before putting it in the hands of their loyal customers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Review of all reviews.
  Today, if someone likes something they rate it a 10 and if someone hates something they jump and 
 rate it a 1. Without taking the time to really think things through. So hopefully this review will 
 give you a better insight of the game instead of this game stinks or this game is the best thing 
 since sliced bread. Oh yeah, nobody is paying me so I have no influence in giving it any type of 
 score.
  
  1. Gameplay: 8.5
  Okay, so now we can take cover while being shot at, but is this executed like Gears of War or Rainbox 
 Six. Not even close. While it is a great feature it could be flushed out more, and that is the 
 theme when looking at the gameplay. Targeting people works okay, but sometime in the moment of 
 a fire exchange your end up targeting a wallhmmm that probably will not help much. 
  
  At the same time being given the ability to go around the city and drive around is great, but the 
 problem is that there is less to do then San Andreas. While some people are happy with that, I'm 
 not. I want the ability to do more and then choose what I like to do or not do in the game, but 
 I prefer to have that choice. 
  
  One pet peeve is that if you are going to allow us to go in a handful of buildings then let us 
 know that you can go in a specific building. I feel like I spend more time running into fake doors 
 than anything else. So I would have loved to been able to go in all of the building, but I know 
 it isn't possible. Thus, they should have created some marker or lighting scheme that highlights 
 those doors.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game play is not horrible, but it isn't so ahead of its time as some people 
 would like you to believe
  
  2. Graphics: 8 (XBOX 360 only)
  I expected more from the graphics and I wonder if it is because I have an xbox 360 instead of PS3. 
 Still, on my HD, this game does not look as crisp and detailed as some other games like Oblivion 
 for example. Once again, nothing ground breaking, but definitely above average. One thing that 
 I really enjoy in this game is the lighting engine. From the lamp post to the rising sun, it really 
 creates the right feeling.
  
  3. Story: 9.5
  Man, the story is very captivating. All the characters are well acted, and the plot and sub plot 
 make me want more. That is probably why for the first time playing GTA I'm spending more time playing 
 the plot then doing other stuff.. then again it could also be because there isn't much else to do 
 like SA. Either way, the story is tight, the acting is tight. To make it a perfect score, they 
 needed to create a more interactive experience like Mass Effect, which in my opinion is the pinnacle 
 of storytelling thus far.
  
  4. Sound: 9
  The sound in this game is excellent, and few times I thought someone was behind me only realizing 
 that it was my surround stereo. The sound effects are great and very detailed and realistic to 
 the situation. Now, the sound track is great, but not excellent. Let me start by saying that I 
 enjoy every genre of music except Christian Rock.. not sure why, but never got into it. Thus, anything 
 from rap, to Rock, to Electro, to Country.. whatever, I enjoy all genres. However, unlike SA where 
 I Felt that 90% of the music just fit the game, in IV I think only 50% does. What I look for in 
 a song is does have a place in the gamemaybe it is a great cruising song, or a song that is awesome 
 to hear when you go on a rampage.. does it bring some emotion somehow. Like I said, in IV some songs, 
 no matter what actions you take, don't really match with the atmosphere.
  
  5. Tilt: 9
  I always look at the value of a game based on the ability to keep me entertained for at least 40 
 hours. I have already put half of that time in it, and still far off from finishing the game, and 
 still wanting to play the game.. so it meets that criteria. I also then look at what the game offers 
 in comparison to other gaming experiences. Does it have the fighting mechanism as Rainbow Six, 
 the story telling of Mass Effect, and the graphics of oblivion, plus 1. In this case, it comes 
 close but it doesn't lead in providing you innovation in all of the different criteria compared 
 to other games. Either way, the game is worth the money so I give it a 9.
  
  Final Score:8.8
  
  Preference:
  I know that everybody is different, but I would have preferred 
 to see more role playing elements in the game. I liked it how they introduced in SA, because it 
 only adds to character development.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcandy
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  To give a game a perfect 10, I expect perfection. Thats the idea of giving a game the highest score, 
 correct? Well, Gamespot must have their tilt score cranked up to 13 to justify themselves. GTAIV 
 is a great game and lots of fun, the best in the series to date, but anyone who's played the game 
 knows the light of perfection glows a little dim. The story is great and I won't ruin it by talking 
 about it, and thankfully the game won't take you 90 hours to complete like San Andreas, in fact 
 it really won't take you half that time to complete. Liberty city has been done very well, having 
 just moved from NYC last year I was instantly homesick when the game opens up in Brighton Beach... errr 
 Cove Beach. Don't expect to be able to explore NYC street for street here, as the neighborhoods 
 have been generalized and try to capture the 'feel' of the burroughs, which it does well. The graphics 
 are not going to stun you. The best way I can describe them is by taking a look at the Bully port 
 from PS2 to 360, polished but not perfect. When you take into consideration the scope of the city 
 however, I can overlook a few poor textures. Camera and control are the biggest problems areas 
 I see. The driving camera requires constant attention unless you switch the view to first person, 
 which I prefer anyways, but others who are used to the 3rd person driving camera my get frustrated. 
 The controls seem a little sluggish as well, which could just be my preference for a high joystick 
 sensitivity. Multiplayer is fun and there are several different modes, from team deathmatch to 
 cops and robbers. All in all, a good game worth buying, but the obvious money vacuum that R* has 
 created for itself means reviewers may tend to find perfection where it isn't. You have to stay 
 on friendly terms with the king afterall.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Does anyone knows why the video output says 1080i, 1080p, and 720p but automatically plays it in 
 720p and not 1080i/p? 
  
  Okay for starters I am a full-time college student at Kent State University. My finals are coming 
 up next week the 1st week of May. And I got the game on Tues the 29th, I made a promise to myself 
 not to play till after finals! I failed when I just wanted to see it for a second. And that is 
 all it took. So now I have to remind myself how important my finals are coming up next week and 
 that this game I have called GTA 4 will be with me all summer to play. Enough said!!!!!! The game 
 is just awesome!!!!! So for all u players who are hating on this last edition of GTA 4 remember 
 this fact. What game can cause so much media atrention sales records, and even cause the movie 
 box office to loose sales? Not HALO!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaze323232
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  After playing GTA4 (on Xbox 360) for about two hours, the game became easier to go with the flow. 
 The missions were not repetitive enough to make you not want to do them, and there are so many 
 missions to pick from, you really have to organize between which characters you prefer to play 
 for. The cut scenes always give a little bit about the characters, and they are not something you 
 want to skip (like in many other games) . Grand Theft Auto 4 is very similar to the other GTA's. 
 Very, very similar, but the graphics, characters, and story bring it together a bit better. If 
 you are thinking about getting Grand Theft Auto 4, and can't make up your mind, go rent it. Whether 
 or not you are willing to spend 60$, it is still a must play. Go bother your friends (if you have 
 any :P) to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpfish
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to say too much here about the pros or the gameplay as there are so many gushing 
 reviews already about the good points. Yes it's a phenomenal game in it's scope and detail, yes 
 it has all the good GTA bullet points that past games have (albeit with a lack of certain customisations 
 that detract but don't fully spoil the game) and yes it's got an amazing setting in a fictional 
 version of probably my favourite City in the world (New York in case you are in the minority that 
 didn't know) .
  
  On top of that it has great characters, good story, lots of decent (if sometimes a little too corse) 
 humour that Rockstar always puts in it's GTA games. Watching the TV shows in game is more fun than 
 many real life TV shows. Add in virtual internet and consistent fictional branding/adverts and 
 you get a fully realised, living, breathing world full of imagination and possibilities.
  
  If that was all delivered in an technically apt way then this would be a 10/10 review.
  
  Unfortunately 
 having seen both versions (Xbox 360 and PS3) and having played many hours on the PS3 version I 
 reached the point where I couldn't play any longer. For me, but certainly not for everyone, the 
 problem lies with the graphics. Not the level design, the colours, the art direction or animation; 
 that is all top notch, what lets it down are two fundamental flaws that are there due to the lack 
 of power of the systems the game has been targeted to.
  
  Firstly there is (esp on the PS3 version) a massive amount of blurring in the middle distance (too 
 close) . This causes loss of detail, or detail breakdown very close to the players point of view. 
 In the immediate area it's fine but as you spend a large time in the game looking at a distance 
 to goals, areas etc it becomes a problem for those who are prone to noticing it. Basically it gives 
 the impression everything is out of focus (soft) which really becomes tiring on the eyes and the 
 brain after a while. It's like having poor virtual eyesight and genuinely did induce a headache 
 in me, and i'm the kind of player who loves immersion and massive gaming sessions on PC FPS games 
 (for example) , I've never got motion sickness or headaches purely from looking at a game even though 
 others get it quite often even with decent look/fast games. 
  
  So the blurring is bad in my honest opinion, I understand fully why they've had to do this and 
 in part it's because the PS3 version is scaling up from a non native HD res (640p) , it's subtle 
 but it's there and to me it ruins the visuals in a tangible way. I'd prefer to wait and hope for 
 a PC version that can run in higher resolution with less blurring and better anti aliasing.
  
  Now if it were only this blurring I wouldn't complain, I'd accept it as a compromise given 
 the vast scale of the city in the game, the City is truly stunning do not get me wrong, if you've 
 come from lower res consoles or rarely play higher res PC games you may not even notice it and 
 enjoy the game fine. However on top of this graphical compromise there is also the fatal killer 
 flaw and that is frame rate. 
  
  While walking around the city, it feels good enough if a little laggy when you turn or use the 
 camera. Once you get into a vehicle though the frame rate falls drastically, easily sub 30 frames 
 per second and possibly far lower, in fact in certain areas while in car and attempting to interact 
 with the game the frame rate feels as if it falls into single digits, it gets very choppy indeed. 
 This combined with the blurring makes for a very tiresome visual experience and in fact removes 
 a vast amount of the fun as you feel abstracted from the game, immersion essentially numbed by 
 the slow frame rate and the blurred graphics (not to mention the aliasin and pixel swimming) .
 
  
  So, if you've not bought the game yet I urge you to try it before you buy it because to, perhaps 
 a small percentage, some people like me it becomes annoying and tiresome enough to actually stop 
 almost all the fun dead in it's tracks.
  
  make no mistake there is a brilliant piece of software underneath these technical shackles but 
 my brain just can not cope with that slow input to update + blurring loop that goes on. It's good 
 for me for ten minutes then I feel like I have go outside and look at real environments just give 
 my eyes a rest. Many many games manage to not cause this effect and it's because they have at least 
 a 30fps constant (or higher) rate and they have sharp resolutions (even if that brings more aliased 
 edges which are not as bad) .
  
  In it's defence it doesn't appear to have 'tearing' which I detest in games, this is most likely 
 because VSync is on (don't quote me) and this makes it smoother but also lowers the performance 
 by some way.
  
  I'd love to comment more on the gameplay (which is great) but it was too hampered by the feeling 
 I was playing looking through a veil on a sattelite link up (delay) in too many areas.
  
  I will wait for a PC version as the 360 version has it's own number of faults too though the bluriness 
 isn't as bad in that version it's still not as good as it should be to deliver this stunning game 
 and do it justice.
  
  I'm dissapointed, I didn't want the earth, I knew open world games are never the prettiest because 
 of their scale and that's the thing, this game actually is pretty, it's detail, it's got great 
 level design and looks almost real in places (depending on time of day) but let down in delivery, 
 performance and clarity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oclor
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Everything is great about this game. The music, the gameplay, the story, the graphics... It's just 
 a blast to play and it's very very long so you definitely get your money's worth. The multiplayer 
 is excellent as well. The cover system makes it realistic and awesome to play. I'm a person who 
 usually only rents video games because I think they are way too expensive. I never saw the point 
 in spending 60 dollars on something I can beat in two days. I had a lot of fun with gears of war 
 and assasin's creed but those only lasted a couple of days, that's why I rented but didn't buy. 
 With this game, I can't see myself putting it down ever. I think I'll be playing it until the next 
 GTA comes out. This is the best game to ever be created. The amount of detail is insane. Just to 
 show you, many of the songs in the game were redone to include a reference to liberty city. GO 
 BUY THIS GAME IF YOU HAVEN"T ALREADY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadeofChaoS
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  It's not a 10 for me but a 9.5.
  There are some issues with the new target system and combat system, the commands are a bit confused 
 and things likeFirst dateetc works bad, like your girl wearing always the same things and 
 your relationship with ther doesn't change.
  Also the police sucks, you can steal a car where you want, you can go over the speed limit and 
 police will do nothing, you can kill anyone and police won't come.
  Rockstar gave GTA too much liberty this time while losing onrealitypart.
  
  The game 
 anyway brings a great graphic for being a so massive game, sometimes loading times are a bit tedious 
 but it can be handled.
  Another bad thing about GTA is that you have to repeat the whole mission everytime you fail it, 
 there are no checkpoints or things like that, like having to drive all the city just to try again 
 the mission....
  
  The target system makes the game too easy and sometimes too hard. It bugs up sometimes on another 
 target or doesnt go to another.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgarchong
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.9 (Graphics are pretty good for a game of this size)
  Story: Not that original, nor compelling
  Sound: 8.5 (Comment: A lot of the music that was included 
 in the game was not to my liking)
  Difficulty:8.0 (Not too hard not too easy, as a comment it is so tedious when you fail a mission 
 you must restart it from the very beginning off it making you get frustrated, by a pointless waist 
 of time)
  Controls: Don't feel right, especially the vehicle controls they seem broken)
  
  I believe it is a pretty good game, but not all that great. I do love how the taxis actually 
 work and leave you pretty much wherever you want. There were too little weapon options, and so 
 little to do compared to SA, too little dating, no gym, no stat build up, nothing that GTA hasn't 
 tried before. It get's repetitive after a while. You can't really do anything with your money. 
 Frecuent loading times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wendiny
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Oops, I hope there isn't any of my managers here. But this game works like Nicotine, highly addictive! 
 Improvements on Graphics, Features, and it's simply Realistic! There's one thing I mind about is 
 their driving system. I hate their brakes, it doesn't brake on time! I guess they change their 
 driving system so that to prevent often car collision, unlike the other GTA Series, that you can 
 be 100% safe inside the car, even with the most fatal crash.
  
  Crossing the road is another cool point. GTA make you make sure that you don't do Jaywalking, especially 
 in highways!
  
  When I was idling on the streets, I can even see people picking up their mobile phones and TALK! 
 -_- The mobile phone function is also another cool feature! Well, it makes the game much more realistic! 
 These simple features made the game looks.. WOW!
  
  Ahh, won't reveal much. But I say, the game is highly, highly, highly recommended. Buy it, Play 
 it, Enjoy it!
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mqq
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is flawed but all games have flaws. The fact this game contains so many features while also 
 keeping up with games that have a much narrower focus (eg. racing games/action games) is awesome. 
 Combat is great compared to previous entries and a good combat system is all I've wanted added 
 to GTA for so long. Graphics are great, but for some reason the graphics are just 'pretty good' 
 at night time (unless your in star junction) while during the day it looks amazing. The world is 
 incredibly detailed and great lighting effects give a heightened sense of realism to the city street. 
 For once the city feels like a real living city. Flaws I've encountered are minor and barely disrupt 
 the gameplay. Driving takes a while to get to get used to, mainly because getting round corners 
 at high speeds can be difficult. The cover system can occasionally have moments of awkwardness 
 where you accidentally push up onto the dangerous side of an object (the side facing your enemies) , 
 but this is also the case often in Uncharted and that's one of the best examples of a combat system 
 using cover. There are a few other minor niggles but they are all overshadowed by the engaging 
 story, the smooth controls and the awesome cityscape in which its set.
  Kudos to Rockstar for making one of the only games ever to be a definite must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendricks55
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing GTA IV for about 15 hours and absolutely love it. the voice acting is superb 
 and flows with the excellent lip syncing. I was afraid that the game would have dramatic drops 
 in FPS because of how much it is processing at once but surprisingly its barley noticeable unless 
 you are speeding in hard to reach mph and crash through a huge crowd. best script ive ever seen 
 in a game before. characters are realistic especially niko. They are unpredictable and will make 
 you have feelings towards them. 
  
  The game definatley surprised me when i saw an execution. i think that should have been taken out 
 because it was surprisingly violent and caught me off guard. I have played every GTA but that was 
 still an unexpected scene. i remain unaffected however they probably should have toned it down 
 a bit. I don't find the rest of the gameplay much different from San andreas. just driving around 
 in the incredible model of new york will make a new game experience. 
  
  it is obvious that you should not play it if you are disturbed by the termination of simple AI. 
 I am not affected by violence in games because i know its simply a game and not even a simulation. 
 
  
  If you are looking for an interactive movie then here is your game.
  i haven't tested multiplayer yet because the dorm connections are terrible at CU. 
  the violence 
 is no worse than it is in films and the game still has that classic GTA comedy that never ceases 
 to entertain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eavqeavq
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a perfect one is like an updated from the others GTA games and if you played the 
 other ones soo much this one will be like a great game that you already played. 
  
  This game, at times, approaches that level of ridiculous difficulty. For those unfamiliar with 
 the reference, more specifically I should say that in attempts to turn the genre more realistic, 
 two main pieces of the game have been changed. While I saw it mentioned in other reviews that vehicles 
 handle more realistically, never have I seen anyone make this connection: because the vehicles 
 handle more realistically, it's damn near impossible to outrun the police. Literally, whenever 
 I get a 3 star wanted level, I simply reload my last save. You cannot drive cars fast enough and 
 accurately enough to evade anything. Developing this skill may come in time, but in my mind no 
 game can ask it's player to work through a six hour + learning curve.
  In addition to the driving, the cover mechanic has been added to make shootouts more realistic. 
 This only works when there is cover to be taken. Playing through some of Little Jacob's jobs in 
 the first few hours of gameplay will most likely have you ready to throw your controller. Several 
 of the missions are literally ambushes, with guys on roofs, or people coming in from both sides 
 as you stand helpless underneath a bridge. Be prepared to buy body armor frequently.
  Of course, the story is good, etc. etc. -- I am not disagreeing with the merits of the game as 
 espoused by other websites. All I am simply saying is this: if you are not a HARDCORE GAMER, I 
 seriously doubt you will enjoy this game. My fiancee loved Saints Row, but she doesn't enjoy GTA 
 4. My brother called me and said, "This sucks. I can't drive the cars. Do you like this game?" 
 And I had a similar conversation with another Xbox Live friend of mine.
  I do like this game, and believe it deserves high marks, but again I think it is very important 
 to point out that the learning curve and overall difficulty is extremely steep, and is the sort 
 of thing that in my mind could very easily put off more casual gamers. I'm sure I'll be ridiculed 
 by the GTA hardcore for saying this, but if you're on the fence about it, or don't already have 
 the first-person-shooter skills necessary to pull off quick headshots, rent this game first before 
 going out and buying it. There is a chance you may not enjoy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lou_Menace
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was definitely worth the wait, and the plethora of online games are a plus. Spent 4 hours 
 just playing Free Mode alone. Story is great so far, and very well put together. The graphics and 
 the life-like appearance of the city make me feel as if I'm actually in the game. Revamped fighting 
 mechanics are great (I can't think of how many times I wanted to get into a fight just because) . 
 The AI of the citizens of Liberty City is enhanced as well, and make combat and chases a great 
 challenge. I even feel bad shooting some of them...
  
  And last, but not least... The dummy physics... You gotta love the dummy physics. Shooting someone 
 in the head with a pistol never felt so bad... But yet... So good.'
  
  Graphics definitely take advantage of the PS3 system. Though I felt some things could have been 
 better (such as some of the characters) , It may also be that I am a perfectionist and see some 
 things that really don't matter.
  
  All in all, GTA IV will definitely have me procrastinating for months to come... Hopefully Playstation 
 HOME will make me as grateful as this great game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  With the hype that this game has been given you wouldn't be expecting anything less then a perfect 
 score, and GTA 4 certainly deserves one. The game has improved on every level, and then some. The 
 storyline is absolutely spectacular as is the cast to say the least. The gameplay may take some 
 time getting used to but you will fall in love with it no doubt. the graphics are pretty good although 
 GTA has never been known for having amazing graphics. The game sticks to the basic mission scheme 
 but they all vary and are very different. the game may not be as difficult as past ones but it 
 has its hard moments. All the new features are simply spectacular. The storyline like i mentioned 
 previously is simply amazing. Without a doubt it is the greatest to date, as this is also the greatest 
 GTA game to date. The troubled Serbian war veteran Niko is also a great character and one that 
 is very loveable and that the game will no doubt get attached to. In conclusion this is a must 
 have game weather for the Xbox 360 or the Sony Playstation 3. If you do nto have it go out and 
 get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicWar
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is simply put is awesome! There is many things to talk about, but first I suppose 
 would be the single player story which is alittle tougher then San Andreas. The story involves 
 Niko a guy from Europe who comes to make a new start, but as always with these games something 
 always hits the fans and leaving you the person to shot, kill, stab, and blow up stuff to get your 
 point across. The weapons system is revamped, and is also nice to see that if you do die you don't 
 lose your weapons and you can even run from the cops if they try to arrest you unlike other games 
 that you have no choise but be arrested. The driving in the game is alittle more different and 
 with the tarffic making this game feel like the real New York city. A nice added feature that everyone 
 loves is that it has multiplayer matchs that all you need to do is flip out the celly, go to multiplayer, 
 and your ready to go. The multi player matchs are always interesting and give you time to get away 
 from the main story single player missions to refresh yourself some. This game has lots of replay 
 value, as this game has you work your way into in to the better safe houses, guns, women, and cars. 
 This game also allows you to hang out with friends and girlfriends on the side to play mini games 
 or go to restraunts and strip clubs. The game keeps you wanting more and as you play though you 
 get more, so this game is a must have for the PS3 no matter what. So enough of looking at this 
 review and play the game, and if you don't have it, then BUY IT ALREADY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rex369
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This new installment into the series is my favorite since 3. This game pushes GTA to the nest level. 
 The game play is great and there id definite replay ability. There are almost no flaws about this 
 game. The only thing I criticize is that it has frozen on me twice and the online can be pretty 
 glitchy. The only other problem is I can't choose what I want to do first. The story took me about 
 30 some hours of solid playing. It is extremely hard to only play the main story. You will find 
 your self doping side missions and getting in wild shootouts all the time. The graphics are pretty 
 fine. Not the greatest but good for the GTA series. This is easily my favorite game I own. I have 
 not had this amount of enjoyment since I first played GTA 3. This is a great installment into the 
 series and to anyone library of games. i highly recommend you to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlineit77
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that took some getting used to was the camera angles, especially in gun fights, 
 but with a little time it is no problem. I cannot say enough about the damage model, from just 
 scraping paint, bullet holes, the back tires shredding from too much wear, and hard crashes you 
 can lock up a wheel or you can see it gets bashed in and on an angle, very realistic but in a video 
 game friendly way ( they take a lickin and keep on tickin) . I also like how the old junky cars will 
 spit and spudder black and rust colored smoke from the tail pipe. That is just scratching the surface 
 for this game as a whole. The rag doll effect as people try to hold on to the door handle as you 
 drive away or when you crash head on and launch out the windscreen. The developers really went 
 into detail here and it shows. If you sit down to play this game, I hope you have some time to 
 kill, its very addictive. Its nothing to spend a few hours and not even realize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV takes everything that made the other GTAs cool, improves it, and adds a lot 
 more stuff. 
  
  First of all, it's a lot more realistic, if Niko is running through the street and a car comes 
 at him, he won't just fly away and then get up, he'll bump off the car and remain on the floor 
 for a couple of seconds before he gets up, while the car will get blood over it. Also, you won't 
 be able to just run straight to your enemies and kill them, if you try to do that you'll just get 
 yourself killed, you'll have to take cover and start shooting from afar.
  
  The city feels alive now, in other GTAs, you could see up to 3 guys who look exactly the same walking 
 past each other, now you'll hardly ever see that. People now read the newspaper, eat stuff, drink 
 cups of coffee, etc. When it's raining, they take out their umbrellas or run away from the rain. 
 You'll actually feel you're in a real city, and not in a video game world.
  
  Even with all this realism, the game hasn't lost its sense of humor, there's a ton of jokes and 
 pop culture references everywhere, and while the game is somewhat more serious, you'll still be 
 laghuing every now and then
  
  You can go to bars, strip clubs, restaurants, you can go play pool, darts, bowling.... and some 
 other stuff. If you don't feel like stealing a car or driving home you can call a taxi for it to 
 take there or anywhere you want.
  
  Niko Bellic is probably the best GTA character ever, he has a troubled past and his cousin Roman 
 dragged him over to Liberty City, and he owes money to the wrong kind of people. You can really 
 feel sorry for Niko and you may end up HATING some other characters. 
  
  There's some other stuff I could complain about, like a lack of Cluckin' Bell restaurants and the 
 radio station Double Cleff FM... ok seriously, you may have some problems when driving, but I can 
 overlook that.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV is one of the best games ever made, and absolutely the best in its 
 genre. You should definitively buy it, unless you ahve problems with violence, cuz there's a lot 
 of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday and played it for 4 hrs. Wow! its an amazing game. With all the password 
 provided, i am able to hit the LCPD with RPG, Shotguns and a wide range of weapons.
  
  Tried using SIXAXIS to control helicopter, but still trying hard to get it right though training 
 had passed. Driving around liberty city is fun though most of the time chase by cops and SWAT teams, 
 but still managed to get out of it most of the time.
  
  Taking SWAT team on the roof of a building is great too, using RPG and snipe mode to get a head 
 shot. The cars used in GTA 4 are quite realistic and also the cut scences are pretty cool.
  
  GTA 4 is a superb game play than the predcessor series on PS2. The graphics looks great and 
 the cursing and swearing of different characters sound real too. 
  
  I have tried waiting at the ATM machines and killed a few ppl who are withdrawing cash, its fun 
 but cruel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nap_time
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Great game, don't get me wrong. Im a fan of the Grand theft auto series. I'm very disappointed 
 to see it on something other than a playstation. Grand theft auto IV is a good game, but a game 
 doesnt have to be that graphic to be good. Graphic as in intensive swearing, getting smashed and 
 having your character stumble around drunk, getting hookers. it's novelty will wear off soon, but 
 still worth getting. Good game if your not into beeting games. Run around shooting things, stealing 
 cars, all of the usuall Grand theft auto stuff is here. nice to have a multiplayer, kinda.. its 
 not a great multiplayer, but its allright. Aside from all that, its Grand theft auto, so what can 
 you expect? Exactly what wou will get. Grand theft auto is not for everyone, thats for shure. Everyone 
 is turning into violence addicted animals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelatinator
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off, let me address one issue. I own ALL THREE current gen consoles and love them 
 all. I went ahead and picked up GTA 4 for my PS3 because most of the online reviews I had read 
 before purchasing said that the PS3 version of the game had less pop-up and shorter load times 
 than the 360 version. This is the ONLY reason I picked it up for PS3. Other than that, I am sure 
 the game is an evenly awesome experience on both consoles.
  
  With that being said, this game, after playing it for about 12 hours, is nothing short of VERY 
 revolutionary. I had NEVER played a GTA game before this, so I admit that the game is probably 
 much more fresh for me than it is for previous players. But, it is a VERY entertaining, highly 
 addictive and immersive experience so far that is somewhat hard to put into words. 
  
  You know those games that COMPLETELY take you into another world and don't let go?? GTA 4 has this 
 in spades! This is its most rewarding quality and the most entertaining aspect of the game. Sure, 
 driving, combat, side missions, etc., have all been a blast so far. Lots of details in this game 
 too, from watching TV and going on the ineternet to many others. But, THE CITY in this game has 
 a life of its own! SIMPLY PUT, THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE CITY, THE EXPLORING OF IT (on foot and by 
 driving) AND THE CHARACTERS THAT INHABIT THIS METRO STOMPING GROUND ARE NOTHING SHORT OF AMAZING!
 
  
  Also, story wise, this game makes MOST games look very dull and thrown together. In my opinion, 
 the community of gaming developers and publishers could, and should, learn MUCH from games like 
 this, in terms of how to tell a compelling story and keep the story fresh and interesting for the 
 WHOLE game. This game (12-13 hours in) just ROCKS in terms of story and plot. Story-wise and dialogue 
 wise, this game is right up there with other well written games like Bioshock, Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune and God of War. I am completely excited to continue playing and see where the story goes. 
 That is the HALLMARK of a great game story.... when you can't put the controller down..... not just 
 because of great gameplay, but because the story PULLS YOU IN and won't let up. In fact, great 
 storytelling like this is a benchmark to be reached for in any medium, be it books, comic books, 
 movies, animation, and/or games. 
  
  Gameplay wise, the controls are just right. Close quarters hand-to hand
  combat could have been 
 polished and tightened a little more, but this is hardly anything to cry about. It still feels 
 just fine and is fun too.
  
  Graphically, this game just stuns! At first, from the online screen shots, it looked to me like 
 this game might have human figures that moved kinda stiff and last gen and I thought that might 
 ruin the game for me. Well, I was wrong about that stiffness. The characters are animated very 
 nicely and what they lack in polish, in terms of texturing and nuances, they make up for in terms 
 of attitude, dialogue and physics of movement. Granted, in some other games-Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune-comes to mind, the characters and animations ARE better. But, the character models in GTA 
 4 are STILL current gen and done very well. 
  
  A note about the graphics: I mentioned earlier that the city and atmosphere in this game are incredible. 
 I will further extrapolate here and say that the city IS a character in this game, and is actually 
 the MAIN character of the game.... even more than Niko Bellic. Also, with the new Euphoria game 
 engine that has been used for this game, we get a very "noir" and "cinematic" look to everything. 
 Films like Martin Scorsese's 'Taxi Driver' and 'Raging Bull' or 'Mean Streets' immediately come 
 to mind. Comic books like 'Criminal' or 'Sin City' also spring to mind when viewing and playing 
 GTA 4. The look of this game is a GREAT combo of crime-noir and surreal comic book goodness. Believe 
 me, the almost hyperreal look to this place puts you in a trance and is in turns mesmerizingly 
 beautiful, amazingly haunting and ALWAYS incredibly captivating. Just wait till you explore the 
 waterfront looking out at downtown as you drive by during sunset. You will see what I mean. A decaying 
 city that is framed by the beauty of the glistening waterfront..... pure bliss! 
  
  Okay, those are some of my praises. Here are the negatives so far for me in this game:
  
  1. 
 Driving: Although driving is a blast in first person mode, if you drive cars in 3rd person camera 
 mode, be prepared for MUCH trail and error. The controls for this mode of driving take lots of 
 practice, and frankly, should have been done better.
  2. Interiors: With a city this sprawling and epic to explore, I can totally understand why Rockstar 
 held back on creating too many interiors to explore. If they had, it would probably have been neverending 
 and the game may never have gotten finished. With that being said, I TRULY do feel though that 
 this game so far is lacking in this area. If they had gone
  the extra mile and had created even only about 10% more interior space of buildings to explore, 
 it would have put the game over the edge in the area of explorability in the city. Don't get me 
 wrong the game still seems very real and has enough to explore, but dang if I don't want to explore 
 MORE of those cool looking and dilapidated building facades! Anyone else agree with this? Think 
 about the Game Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. That is a killer game world just like GTA 4 is. But, 
 in Elder Scrolls, you can pretty much explore most buildings in the game. 
  3. Aliasing: At times, there is aliasing, which is especially noticeable on cars driving by. Not 
 enough to ruin the graphics, but a little annoying and "last gen" feeling in this area. But, thank 
 goodness, this aliasing issue is only minor. Especially once I set my PS3 HD output for the game 
 to 1080p. Looks KILLER with a capital K!! Still has aliasing, but less in 1080p mode. 
  
  Before I close out, I wanna address the freezing issue for PS3 systems in regards to this game. 
 12 hours or more in and I HAVE NOT HAD ONE freeze up! I notice in reading forums that one of the 
 reasons for the freeze ups is being attributed to an uncleared cache, and also to having the PS3 
 connected to the internet. Well, I am mostly an offline gamer. So, maybe this is why I have had 
 no issues. Other than that, maybe it is luck of the draw. Or, finally, maybe it is just that this 
 problem is being blown WAY out of proportion and MOST people who bought the game have had no problems. 
 I really could not tell you for sure obviously, since I don't know. But I do know this: I HAVE 
 NOT HAD ONE TECHNICAL GLITCH OR PROBLEM WITH THIS GAME PLAYING ON MY 60 GB PS3! Thank goodness........ Oh, 
 and when I have played the game I have NEVER once yet had any pop up. Many reviews mentioned this, 
 but for me, NOT ONE TIME...... Hmmmmmmm 
  
  Okay, in short, this game is heads and shoulders above any game out so far this year. In fact, 
 I am gonna be so bold now as to predict that this game, no matter what else comes out this year, 
 should HANDS DOWN win GOTY already. This is a defining moment for gaming, and GTA 4 has made its 
 mark. It is JUST THAT GOOD. I HEARTILY recommend it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Oh my! It's finally here, Grand Theft Auto IV, and it easily lives up to the hype. Most of you know 
 the driving has been revamped, and it's better than ever. The shooting is changed a little, and is 
 better. But my thing is the new character Niko, he is easily my favorite character not only on any 
 GTA game but all together the best ever, yeah better than Marcus Fenix, Masterchief, and Carl Johnson. I 
 have yet beat the story but its interesting and going to be long. This game has gaven us the best 
 set of characters ever, even though you dont understand a word Little Jacob says. He is definatly 
 my favorite though, I think I've understood him say cafe, Roman, and window. The graphics are great. But 
 like Bully there is some gliches and bugs, but Bullys is far worse. The damage on the cars is better 
 than ever. If you flip on top of the car then back on the wheels, the roof will be crushed. The explosions 
 are in one word SWEET! You will just want to sit there and blow up everything in sight. It's cool 
 you can get on the internet and meet new girls. The weapons sound better than the ones on San Andreas. You 
 can still date girls, the first is Michelle, and you can still go in and get "coffee". You can now 
 choose if you want to kill certain people during a mission. The cell phone is a nice and easy way 
 to navigate through the game. Yeah for all you "cheaters" there is still some good cheats. The enviroment 
 is great from Times Square to Statue of Liberty oops I mean happiness. The multiplayer is flawless. There 
 is more than a few game types. To me the funnest is Cops and Crooks. There is really no lag to slow 
 down you experiance. My real score is 9.9. I usally round up or down. But to me 10 is perfection. And 
 with all the things they took away from San Andreas, I just cant give this a 10. Niko Bellik will 
 be forever remembered as the man. Maybe I can give Metal Gear Solid a 10 but sadly not this game. If 
 you dont hae this game then go pick it up.
  
  Real Score:9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danijami23
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, gamespot, wtf?! Stop sucking big companies' balls all the bloody time! You even cited 
 flaws?! Goodness gracious. The only reason this game could ever deserve a 10 (incidentally, editors, 
 that would be a perfect score) would be the lackluster competition of late. I have also made a 
 little pros and cons list for those of you with less-than-massive attention spans at the end.
 
  
  Anyway.
  
  The newest addition to the franchise leaves me feeling rather warm and fuzzy. The gameplay is smooth, 
 snappy, and so hilariously funny on the multiplayer when you're running round liberty city during 
 the often completely flying-mammal-guano-insane (screw your censorship gamespot, this game is M 
 rated anyway :D ) deathmatches. The mixture of sonic pleasures - Epic music for just about everybody 
 (even niko - lol!) , super voice acting, excellent vehicle/gun sounds, and ambient sounds that make 
 LC really seem alive - totally immerse the player. The story is satirical, laugh-out-loud funny, 
 and is compelling enough to make you play through 'most all of the story before you run off on 
  rampages. The visuals may not be up there 
 with Uncharted or CoD4, but they are still pretty impressive, and considering the scale of the 
 game, have had a lot of effort put into them. The Single-Player mode in general hasn't really added 
 much in terms of core gameplay, but the little details that have been added, while fewer in number 
 than GTA: SA, have been excellently fine-tuned, with the addition of an inuitive cellphone, internet, 
 improved friends system, and new wanted level make playing through the game just as stonking as 
 GTA has always been. The combat system, which has been the game's biggest weakness since number 
 3, has been improved slightly, with a cover option and the ability to fine tune your lock-on. However, 
 it isn't without its occasional clunkiness and 'wtf, lock onto THAT GUY!!' moments. The game has 
 modernised very well too, with cars looking as cool as ever, the internet/emailing, and the subject 
 matters at the butt of Rockstar's pisstaking are very accurate and very amusing. I won't go into 
 the story, you can find out for yourself, suffice it to say, it is brilliant, and rife with hilarity, 
 depth and superb characters.
  
  The Multiplayer mode. Well. Never before has this been SO needed, nor so welcomed, in a game. You 
 are given several modes, which include deathmatch, of the freeforall and team variety, races both 
 for wusses (no guns) , and for the brave and dashing heroes such as myself (pooploads of guns and 
 madness) . There is also a free mode, which i suppose is much like the deathmatch mode without a 
 timer. Additionally, most of the modes are actually better than those of games designed specifically 
 around their genre, like racing, or whatever. Overall, due to the options you have, the brilliant 
 execution and the sheer fun factor of blowing the proverbial poo out of your peers makes for a 
 good few million hours of replayability in a very replayable game. The only issues I have encountered 
 are occasional frame drops, and prat hosts who refuse to start the game if there is anything less 
 than a full lobby.
  
  The game isn't perfect though. As I have stated, the combat system is occasionally extremely frustrating, 
 the AI often blunders around getting itself shot/run over, leaving you wiping tears of frustration 
 as you have to restart the lengthy missions, and after you have completed the story, there is only 
 so much fun you can have causing utter carnage about the streets of Liberty City. To Rockstar's 
 credit though, GTA 3 was one of the biggest leaps, and was so complete there isn't much more they 
 can really do to make it better, other than not fixing what isn't broken
  
  So.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Brilliant story mode keeps you sucked in
  -Most of the vehicles are fast and fun
 
  -All of the sound is expertly integrated into the experience
  -Nowhere near as much pointless crap was tacked on like in san andreas, and what was added was 
 cleverly done
  -The graphics are good
  -Rockstar have ignored all of the media bull to make a funny, controversial and outrageous game
 
  -The multiplayer is varied and chaotic
  -Shooting innocent people is insanely funny (pixels only, people!)
  
  Cons:
  -Occasional 
 graphical hiccups are a little bit annoying, more so in the multiplayer
  -Combat is sometimes massively irritating
  -Friendly AI is, well, thick
  -It's still very much 
 the same as its namesake's franchise
  -Some of your friends are clingier than limpets
  -The unavoidable samey-ness of its predecsessors
  
  So, all in all, GTAIV is a brilliantly 
 made game, with lots of options, more playability than most games, and is arguably the most complete 
 game of the genre and series. My recommendations are: If you have never played any of the previous 
 installments in the series, get this game. There is a good chance you'll love it. If you are a 
 veteran that still loves GTA, then get this one, it sticks to the tried and true formula of making 
 killing people pretty funny, while adding some extra features that make it well worth a shot. If 
 you are growing tired of the franchise, but liked the first few games, then I would recommend borrowing 
 it of a friend or something before you slpash any cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers-heaven
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  It took one year to make Vice City after GTA III was released. It took two years to make San Andreas 
 after Vice City was released, and each game has got progressively better from its predecessor in 
 various aspects, and with a three and a half year gap since San Andreas was released, GTA IV was 
 sure to pack a punch.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when playing GTA IV is the game's stunning visuals. The graphics 
 are simply gorgeous - from the complex facial mapping to the reflections in the cars, you can just 
 see the time and effort that has gone into this stunning game. Can I flaw one thing? Of course 
 I can. I don't like the draw distance of the graphics. When you're looking at the game on a 32" 
 HDTV like me, you can notice everything - and the paintbrush-effect graphics in the distance are 
 not to my liking. They do not affect the gameplay at all, or stop me playing the game, but you 
 can't help but notice it and wish they'd fix it.
  
  Secondly, you'll notice the sound - something, in the GTA series, which has become as important 
 as the actual gameplay. GTA IV boasts sixteen different radio stations each with their own style 
 and character, and each one is fantastic. The radio alone makes the game worth buying, because 
 there is nothing more entertaining on a GTA game than to listen to the in-car stereo.
  
  Controls. In fact, the only thing I've really heard about GTA IV that is negative is the control 
 scheme - some publications are calling it "awkward" but I strongly disagree - it simply has a LEARNING 
 CURVE. It seems that many aspects of GTA IV now do have this "learning curve." Driving, as an example, 
 is now slightly harder to do because of the physics-based cars - effectively forcing you to LEARN 
 how to drive. This is the same with the control scheme - I feel that it merely needs time and practice 
 to get the hang of it.
  
  Multiplayer - From what I've played of GTA IV online, I wasn't particularly enjoying it. It feels 
 quite difficult online, and no-one really seemed to have a CLUE what they were doing. I played 
 quite a bit of Cops 'n' Crooks, but no one could really work together to complete the objective 
 because no one was wearing a headset other than me. This is no fault of R*, this is the fault of 
 Sony not supplying a headset with the PS3 as standard.
  
  To round this little review up, I believe that Grand Theft Auto IV is a pure piece of gaming brilliance. 
 The effort that has gone into the game - the three and a half years of work - have really paid 
 off. Rockstar Games have proven to game developers around the world that, if you can put your mind 
 to it long enough, you really can achieve something brilliant. GTA IV is a showcase of what you 
 can achieve in videogaming when you stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jab7604
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all i disagree with Gamespot giving this game a perfect 10, but by far this is the best 
 GTA in the series. Im not going to bore you guys with the plot as we guys already know about Niko 
 his cousin and all that stuff but i will add the Main story is very nicely done as far as i can 
 tell. 
  
  The Graphics in this game are a pleasant surprise due to the fact the other GTAs kinda looked like 
 an episode of southpark. The attention to detail is noticable right off the bat. from the NPCs 
 facial expressions to the way their tongue moves when they speak. Blood stains on a car after ramming 
 somebody is a nice touch and the car collisions are somewhat burnout esque. the Lighting in the 
 game is very good and the enviroment is well ill juse say it its a stereotyipcal New York. They 
 put just as much attention in civilians as they did with the main characeter. the graphics teams 
 did i really good job.
  
  as far as controls go, they get a little sticky at first because it does feel like a new game and 
 is ver much unlike the previous GTAs. The camera can be frustrating at times but i not about to 
 let something that small ruin the game for me. The targeting system has been approved but then 
 again i never really had any problems with previous targeting games. Driving can be very frusterating 
 at first but with all the driving missions in the game you will be able to pick it up as you learn 
 how to maneuver your vehicle. Also With all the new features and twinks in the game the controls 
 mesh very well.
  
  The gameplay is very solid and fluent. the story line is verywell poot together and the loads of 
 extra stuff is very nice especially if you want to take some time off. The addition to the celll 
 phone is very helpfull and GTA improved on it compared to Saints row and its easy to use the cell 
 phone and drive, who would have thunk it right lol. 
  
  In conclusion if you are either new to the GTA world or a seasoned Vet this is a very good game 
 and for 60 bucks it has tons of replay value. I guess i got lucky and didnt get a bugged copy of 
 the game. All in all this maybe by far one of the best games of the year and the only thing i see 
 beating this game is MGS4, Rockstar has made another classic for us to enjoy and for the people 
 who dont like the game and want to bash GTA, Just let us enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidsnakemgs
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, where to start..... This game has been the biggest hipe for a long time now and dont get me 
 wrong i love this game to say the least but critics made this game to seem like it has no flaws 
 at all. The driving for one is not that great i think that they should have left the driving from 
 San A. but thats neither here nor there the graphics a awsome and i am completly happy with them 
 i also dont know if i like the targeting i meen its cool but like i said they mad so much hype 
 about this that you have to expect that if its not perfect people will be mad. I guess the worst 
 thing about this game has to be the driving because it just plain sucks you cant even go more than 
 like 20 mph and if you do you either flip the thing or you crash into another car, also the turnigh 
 is crap and so are the breaks in all cars and dont even get me started on the bikes you cant even 
 turn at all in them and that is one of the most fun parts of the GTA games. Im not saying that i 
 will be bored any time soon im just pointing out some key falts that this game has But aside from 
 the drivng this game is sick it has everything els in it to keep us happy so over all i think that 
 Rockstar did a great job but next time around think about the cars and driving a little more. I 
 dont think im goin to stop playin any time soon and if you want to play multi with me my PN is 
 STICKUPKIDNS13 hit me up guys thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDnD-Mtm121
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  O. K. supposely the greatest game of the year, well it is a good game, BUT for a 
  GTA it's not perfect, no game is, you will always find a flaw in every game you play. GTA 4 has 
 a lot of GOOD things that I enjoy, as follows - very detailed ( to the point where you can see blood 
 on your car after hitting somebody with a car) . Graphics are ok, but what can you expect for a 
 game that long. I mean they could have made better graphics, but then the game would be shorter, 
 and it would probably work slower. The city is very developed, and the game is fairly easy. Some 
 will enjoy this game more than the others, because it is very realistic, many people don't like 
 that, because the games are harder, I say this game is very easy. I don't know how could it be 
 hard, because all you have to do in order to do well in that game is to take your time, well except 
 in the missions in which you have a chase.
  
  Now for the BAD
  - for some it freezes, but there is a patch all you have to do is download it
  - no more parachutes, 
 planes, and jet packs, well i didnt like the jet pack this much, but a lot of people enjoyed it.
 
  - the weapon variety is missing, for example where is the katana (what I missed) my friends missed 
 the following - the minigun, the fire gun thing, the remote granades, and the different kinds of 
 pistols that you could equip yourself with.
  
  
  NEUTRAL
  - Some miss the stats, like muscle that you had to gain, and stamina and crap, I know I didn't 
 miss that, it was for me somewhat annoying. I do not like the fact that there is much fewer stores 
 than in SA, but that's not something big to complain about. The story mode-the best in series jet, 
 unless you are the type that likes the fact that every time the mission starts with "kill this 
 guy", well here the story is much more developed, and there is two endings, so you can say, that 
 to really enjoy the game fully you should pass it two times, I am currently working on that. There 
 is two endings, and you decide which one to pick, because you are given the choice of where to 
 go.
  
  OVERALL
  GTA 4 is an amazing game that most people should enjoy, but many will be dissapointed in the stuff 
 that was left out of SA, but there was a lot added in exchange. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is filled with so many things it's impossible to review it all. That itself 
 makes it the best game ever made. My complaints are, that the driving controls take quite a bit 
 of getting used to. At first I found myself with a turning radius of a Buick Skylark in any car, 
 braking seemed impossible and getting going was really annoying. But then I got used to it after 
 driving a lot. Cars have different handling, some cars a awful, some aren't, some are front wheel 
 drive and some are rear. You can't smash the accelerator and expect to turn well, and you can't 
 make a turn at full speed. You'll have to accept that, it's realistic... a little annoyingly realistic 
 at first but it gets really easy when you realize you have to brake (left trigger) , and E brake, 
 if you are going full speed. It took me a lot of hours to realize this probably because I just 
 wanted to be a movie star driver the whole time without having to control the car realistically. 
 After you get used to it, it makes it a lot more satisfying. Sometimes though... it's just ridiculous, 
 you can be going 10 mph and hit a bump and it'll launch your car in the air and flip it over, or 
 you'll just barely tap a wall and you'll go through the windshield losing health, and then you'll 
 have to go get some food which can be frustrating when driving to complete a mission.
  
  My major complaint is when you get well into the game and you have a lot of friends and girlfriends 
 who have special abilities, you have to keep them all happy in order to use them... but there are 
 so many of them it's too hard to keep up! I gave up on some of them because it's too ridiculous 
 to keep them all happy all the time and drive to a mission without getting a phone call and a drop 
 in "like" and "respect," not to mention some of them if you choose to take them out, are half way 
 across the city and they don't even live there. So if you were heading to a mission and they call 
 you accept then you have to go way out of your way, and you only have an hour to get there. Which 
 to me... seems like they didn't really think that through like the bulk of the game. There are 
 times when I'm going to a mission I get a call for one friend, then I accept then I'm driving to 
 them and another one calls and I lose respect... but I can't take them all out at once, I tried. 
 At some point it says you can schedule 3 activities, but I haven't been able to do this. You can't 
 call three people and set up the same actitivity either. That's annoying, and it's impossible to 
 keep up with them all. Oh well, who needs the stupid health boost anyway, the retard girl never 
 gives it to you, and I'm not even sure what it's supposed to do because when she actually finally 
 let me have it... it didn't do anything! What a waste.
  
  Some missions require that you have body armor if you hope to complete them, there is one mission 
 where you go to the ruins of a hospital and recover a package, theres tons and tons of guys in 
 there, you can't possibly get through it without taking a lot of damage so body armor is a must, 
 and Rockstar decided that they would hide first aid where you can't find it easily or even be able 
 to get to it without dying. The bad guys can kill you really fast too. Which brings me to a smaller 
 complaint they seem to be able to hit you when you can't even hit them or see them. Taking cover 
 is a must, but it can also be very frustrating. For example, the auto aim, it's good... and bad. 
 It's acts really annoying when theres more than one guy down a hallway, and if you kill one it 
 will stay locked on to him and you won't be able to move it without releasing the target button. 
 Then you got to zoom in again, wait for the bad guy to stick his head out which can take forever 
 sometimes... because if you go running in all gung ho you'll definitely be killed. Also, forget 
 about stealthfully killing anything, because when you move in and target someone with auto aim, 
 they somehow know you've targetted them and the whole place gets alerted to your presence. The 
 replay system. You get a text message after failing a mission and you can start over, but you'll 
 have to make the drive again to where ever the mission is (but at least you don't have to go drive 
 from the hospital) , usually there are no cars around when you start too so you'll have to chase 
 down a car which can sometimes be SUPER annoying when you want to get the mission over with. But... 
 you don't start over really... because you lose all the ammo you used, body armor, and so on. So 
 you'll have to stop at the gun store if you hope to survive a mission like the old hospital. You 
 can never tell when you need body armor so you might as well always have it. Which is... realistic 
 again. If you want to feel like a hollywood movie star action hero then this isn't the game for 
 you. It requires a lot of time and patience, I don't see how it could satisfy a casual gamer, besides 
 the multiplayer which I haven't tried yet.
  
  Still though, even with those complaints... this to me is the best game ever made. It's a true 
 open world, you can follow the story, or do whatever the hell you want, and explore the entire 
 city given to you... and what's best about that is you have so much to do while exploring unlike 
 other games who claim they have an open world with NOTHING to do... (for example Ass Creed... that's 
 the biggest joke of a game I've ever played. Typically hyped and marketted just to sell the game, 
 and I don't know how such a repetitive, boring game got such great reviews) , with GTA4 you can 
 satisfy those everyday frustrations that you can't do anything about. Someone pulls in front of 
 you? Blast them, beat the crap out of them, smash their car, shoot out their tires, take their 
 money... so on. Feeling adventurous? Go get a helicopter or a boat and explore the huge city, and 
 it's a beautiful... it's creative, it's a hilarious city at that. Go sit in your apartment and 
 watch TV until your sides split open with laughter... (especially with Bas Rutten and Jeremy) , 
 or sit in your car and listen to the radio loaded with tons and tons of songs and talk shows. Go 
 out to see some stand up which is awesome, or watch magic shows... or play darts, the possibilities 
 are endless with the amount of things to do... get in a helicopter, fly to a skyscraper and commit 
 suicide. Be anything you want, a mass murderer, a nice guy, mess with people, call random phone 
 numbers (even the cops) , see how long you can survive with the police and FIB after you... I could 
 go on for days.
  
  The story is incredible, and the actors range from believable to amazing. Some of the girlfriends 
 could have been better but, it's downright hilarious to get Katie drunk and fall all over each 
 other in the middle of the street while she **** about life. The personalities of the characters 
 are lovable or so stereotypical it's hilarious, it's a lot of fun to go through the game... it's 
 beyond fun. The level of detail and the endless possibilities of the game are just... impossible 
 to put into words. It's something you have to experience, but also expect that you have to put 
 a lot of time into it to enjoy it. This isn't a game you pay 60$ for and then trade it in a week 
 later for not even half that price. This is a game that's meant to last you a long time, and you 
 may not ever get to see everything in it. It takes a long time to learn how to appreciate the game, 
 but it's worth it... and I'm not even 40% complete. This game deserves nothing less than a 10, 
 not only can you live out every road rage fantasy, you can also live out the (twisted) dreams of 
 murdering morons and robbing banks, or just messing with the police. While the game is a little 
 more realistic in a way with it's mechanics, it also defies reality by giving you the satisfaction 
 of fulfilling your dark desires for violence and mayhem. Then, you can micro manage a bunch of 
 really fun friends with personalities that you can or can't find in real life. For all the people 
 who hate the game because they can't control the vehicles or get a headshot, trade it in and let 
 somebody who will actually enjoy the game for everything it has to offer for a cheaper price. Thanks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javon_cK
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  there are very few words that can discribe a game like Grand Theft Auto IV
  there are very few flaws none that are even noticable or important gameplay, graphics, storyline, 
 voice acting, everything perfect. there was not one time where i put the game down to do something 
 else, the first day i played it i went through 2 entire days playing it (6 hours of sleep) skipping 
 school and other activities just to be with GTA IV with all the time spent playing i am still not 
 even close to beating it because of how much there is to do in the game. if you are a GTA fan scratch 
 that if you are a fan of any game you will absolutely be in love with this game. GTA IV is the 
 best in its series and one of the best games ever created (not an opinion) . sorry that this is 
 just a review of how much i love the game and all that but you just need to pick it up and see 
 what i am talking about for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KougerKing
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  same old style as the previous 3 entries to the series, graphically its definetly better, shooting 
 uhm its ok, cant say its gotten much better it could have been improved. 
  
  I yet to find this "vertical element" that was supposed to be so critical to the game, climbing 
 a fence is not exactly an achievemet to boast about. hate how some of the missions come while u 
 are still working on a different mission. Maybe rockstar should remember its perfectly possible 
 for a person to pick up the phone while running lol niko slowing to a crawl while on the phone 
 is simply ridicolous
  
  Another unforgivablebug is the ungodly crashes all over the place! and last but not least... sure 
 I buy niko new ghetto clothes but why can't i work him out to loose his beer gut? keeping my toon 
 fit was half the fun in st andreas :| so ya lets hope some of this bugs are worked out with a lil 
 download patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocalMotion
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Just like everyone else I bought this game the first day it came out. Of course just like everyone 
 I was expecting to be blown away!!! Instead I'm left scratching my head as to why everyone is raving 
 about this game? 
  
  No doubt the game is fun but really I don't feel like it's much different then San Andreas (which 
 is a dope game!) Yes better graphics more things going on of course it's on the PS3 so we'll expect 
 that. 
  
  The other thing that just bugs me is that the online feature is just really buggy right now. Sometimes 
 I can connect and play other times the server is not available. The first night the game came out 
 the servers weren't up! Wouldn't you expect the online servers to be up by the time the game launches???
 
  Why do people over look these issues when they bash Team Fortress 2 on Orange Box for having off 
 and on connection issues?
  
  I'm still glad I got the game but I'm trying to figure out what the hell I'm missing. I want to 
 be just like everyone else saying THIS GAME IS A 10!!! THIS GAME IS GAME OF THE YEAR!!!!..... but 
 I can't I'm left scratching my head wondering why I'm not very impressed by what I see.
  
  I could see why people would be happy from going from GTA2 to GTA3 but from GTA3 to GTA4 I was 
 definitively expecting much more.
  
  
  Update
  
 
  It's very interesting to see that whenever someone rates this game less then a 10 their review 
 is quick to be given the thumbs down.
  This game is definitely not a 10 and a major step back from San Andreas.
  I just wonder how many 
 of these reviews that are posted giving the game a 10 are legit.......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biocide69
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Where to start when talking about this game. I guess I'll start with the problems, and get that 
 part out of the way. While this game has a few glitches and bugs, it's really no different from 
 any other GTA game. The few I have seen are, rare problems with the cover system and finding the 
 right wall you want to go up against. I had my game freeze up on me, like some other has had. I 
 simply disconnected the Internet from my PS3 and it has worked fine since. There has been pop ups, 
 but it's very few and far between that this actually happens. Also once the waypoint has not shown 
 up in a mission. But that's all the problems I have experienced. I have not played any Multi-Player 
 online yet. I want to finish the story and also learn the layout of the city a bit. 
  Ok, Graphics. While they aren't the best I have ever seen. They are phenomenal, they remind me 
 of Silent Hill 3, I was amazed when I saw those graphics on the PS2. I'm not saying this is a bad 
 thing, especially when you take in consideration that it's this same level of detail through out 
 the city, buildings, vehicles, and it's citizens. I remember crossing a bridge at dusk, and seeing 
 the main island on the other side of the bridge, the light yellow glow of the sky, and the little 
 lights in the high rise windows. It was simply breath taking. Another was when I had just chased 
 down another character, and while he drops his gun, and starts to yell at me. It starts to rain, 
 lightning and thunder. It just added to the scene. I wish I could say more but it would ruin a 
 portion of the story. 
  Speaking of the story, so far it has been one wild ride after the next. The voice acting is superb, 
 the person who voices Nikko Belic deserves and Oscar. Along with the people who designed him. His 
 facial animations really convey his emotions. The aforementioned character who I shot in the rain, 
 is another example of great work in writing and emotion. I felt bad when I shot him, something 
 that doesn't really happen when I play games. Sure the guy was bad, sure he tried to have me killed. 
 But I really sympathized with who he was, and why he did what he did. 
  The sound in the game is top notch as well. Gunshots, sirens, and people going about their lives. 
 All of it, really makes you feel like your in a living breathing city. Other little things in the 
 game, that add to the ambiance the radio stations, and there commercials. The internet, with there 
 adds, and web sites. 
  Many of the missions are the same type of thing as other GTAs but with the addition of the cover 
 system, and the occasional ally with you. Makes them seem less like you on your own. The dating 
 and friendship building, is a nice distraction from the normal criminal world you exist in. 
  While this game is a great addition to my collection of video, it's not perfect. But it is pretty 
 darn close. Fantastic game and I will be enjoying it for a ling time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I am having mixed feelings about the new Grand Theft Auto. You know that it is a great game, as 
 i have figured that out, but i just dont feel the same kind of virtual ownership over the main 
 character as i did in San Andreas. Without car customization, fitness levels, weapon efficiency, 
 or planes this game feels like a lot was sacrificed for a next gen polishing. This makes me wish 
 that Rockstar would go back and rerelease San Andreas with next gen graphics and a better shooting 
 system. If that were the case San Andreas would be a superior game. But because of the sheer beautiful 
 nature of the new game i have to say that it is something any fan of the series must own. There 
 is simply so much to do besides making your guy buff and changing the rims on your cheetah (most 
 of the cars in GTA VI have 20's anyway) , that you most of the time dont even miss the old games. 
 That being said i say to you that you must own this game, but dont expect the same level of virtual 
 ownership over the game. Rockstar will need to go even higher next time to give us a game with 
 the sheer size and level of detail of San Andreas, and the next gen graphics and design of GTA 
 VI. Please go out and get it, im going to go jump out of a helicopter now. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REcrazyfan
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is a good game, but to all honesty, it does not deserve a 10. Anyone that gave it a 10 is 
 a complete idiot. This game has the worst driving controls ever. The camera angles, acceleration, 
 aiming, vehicle control are worse than any other GTA game ever made. Everytime I turn on a road 
 the care always does the same thing spins out of control 45 degrees to the side. Niko is an idiot 
 and takes his loveley time to get back into a crashed vehicle. And the most frustrating thing is 
 that the game has no creativity! I have played about 25 missions and of those missions probably 
 half were "chase him down on a bike, care, plane, boat" whatever. The creators of GTA4 should have 
 used their brain and expanded on the stroyline instead of AI, which BTW are idiots. This game gets 
 a realistic 8/10, and not 10 which everyone seems to give. Remember 10 is perfect and this game 
 is anything but perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nissac830
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  To give you a sense of my gaming ability, it took me awhile but eventually I was able to earn the 
 Call of Duty 4 Mile High Club Achievement. This game, at times, approaches that level of ridiculous 
 difficulty. For those unfamiliar with the reference, more specifically I should say that in attempts 
 to turn the genre more realistic, two main pieces of the game have been changed. While I saw it 
 mentioned in other reviews that vehicles handle more realistically, never have I seen anyone make 
 this connection: because the vehicles handle more realistically, it's damn near impossible to outrun 
 the police. Literally, whenever I get a 3 star wanted level, I simply reload my last save. You 
 cannot drive cars fast enough and accurately enough to evade anything. Developing this skill may 
 come in time, but in my mind no game can ask it's player to work through a six hour + learning 
 curve.
  In addition to the driving, the cover mechanic has been added to make shootouts more realistic. 
 This only works when there is cover to be taken. Playing through some of Little Jacob's jobs in 
 the first few hours of gameplay will most likely have you ready to throw your controller. Several 
 of the missions are literally ambushes, with guys on roofs, or people coming in from both sides 
 as you stand helpless underneath a bridge. Be prepared to buy body armor frequently.
  Of course, the story is good, etc. etc. -- I am not disagreeing with the merits of the game as 
 espoused by other websites. All I am simply saying is this: if you are not a HARDCORE GAMER, I 
 seriously doubt you will enjoy this game. My fiancee loved Saints Row, but she doesn't enjoy GTA 
 4. My brother called me and said, "This sucks. I can't drive the cars. Do you like this game?" 
 And I had a similar conversation with another Xbox Live friend of mine.
  I do like this game, and believe it deserves high marks, but again I think it is very important 
 to point out that the learning curve and overall difficulty is extremely steep, and is the sort 
 of thing that in my mind could very easily put off more casual gamers. I'm sure I'll be ridiculed 
 by the GTA hardcore for saying this, but if you're on the fence about it, or don't already have 
 the first-person-shooter skills necessary to pull off quick headshots, rent this game first before 
 going out and buying it. There is a chance you may not enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteice1971
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  When i started to play it i thought of right away the driver series. I mean i was like wow am i 
 playing driver all over or what .Sure the graphics are a little better but after paying 499.99 
 for a ps3 and the graphics and game being the same old stuff it is a little heartbreaking dont 
 you think .Lets face it all the game companys know they have our money so what the hell lets just 
 make known titles and shut them up. This game is a big flop and for all the ratings of a ten lets 
 get real this is no ten not even a 2 it is simple a remake of driver. And if you have never played 
 driver do so and you will see what i am saying you will be shocked with all the same game play. 
 Oh and if you are saying why did i give it a ten i give all games a ten why so they can get encouraged 
 about making better games becasue they will say wow a ten from this game we can do alot better 
 then. 499.99 for a ps3 59.99 for the game a long wait for the game and then the game wow not even 
 pricless just crap. not much more to say but god i hope when re5 comes some year it is way better 
 then this but from what it looks like re5 will be out when i am 102 some damn slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silv3rSt0rm82
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I'll make myself clear right off the bat,
  I didnt have time to play it much yet because I have a life and work too much (played around 5-10h 
 till now) but from what I've seen till now, GTA IV is indeed a great game and I didnt even have 
 time to test out Multiplayer yet!
  
  However, I guess a lot of you people rating it 10/10 must've never played Saints Row or not enough 
 to discover what this game had that GTA is missing that makes this game (GTA IV) NOT perfect!
 
  Saint's Row rocked much more than any GTA before GTA IV.
  Sure it had some framerate issues but still was playable, if you could get over that minor flaw, 
 the game itself was awesome.
  
  Now GTA went next gen and took back its crown but I think it's only a matter of waiting for Saints 
 row 2 to be released and see.
  Saints Row was fun because of all the side missions that GTA doesnt have.
  Insurance fraud was 
 hilarious, Escorts were fun and there's a lot more that I pass on but all that was better than 
 playing bowling, pool or whatever minigames GTA has.
  Another thing nice about Saints Row is that cops weren't always only after YOU!
  Some times you'd 
 just pass by and see cops fighting different gang members. They say the city is alive in GTA... heck 
 it was even more in Saints row! At least everyone wasnt there only to get in YOUR way.
  
  Now about GTA IV I gotta admit the very first thing I noticed about it is the very weird Walking/Running 
 animation which I still don't really understand... it's totally unrealistic! Second thing I noticed 
 is the radical change in car driving and I totally love it !!!
  I think people saying they screwd it and ruined it are a bunch of noobs!
  You can't expect a 
 car to go 130mph and brake within' 10feets and turn 90!
  They made the driving challenging! No more pedal to the metal.
  The graphics are awesome, the 
 framerate is not much an issue this time.
  There's a lot more things I love about GTA IV but I wont be telling them all cause my review would 
 be 20 000 charcters long.
  
  As a final word, even tho I grabbed GTA IV, I still play Saints Row even today. When I want to 
 spend like 1h of just plain fun I pop it in and do some insurance fraud, it always makes my day 
 and when I have some more time to help out a stupid cousin that always seems to get into troubles, 
 I load GTA IV! =)
  GTA IV tho is probably the game Im gonna play the most until Saints Row 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokeisfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I am a super fan of the series for the PS2. I purchased my PS3 in anticipation for this game. I 
 haven't been let down by a long shot. What I Love? The environment. They couldn't have done a better 
 job. They really did a superb job recreating New York City in every aspect down to diversity of 
 characters, building structures, dialect, and even the "feel". I can say that justifiably so being 
 a native New Yorker, born and raised. The new "Cover System" is the best addition to the series. 
 The realism in terms of.... everything is scary, almost to the point where it doesn't feel like 
 a game anymore. Random acts of violence on innocent peds almost makes you feel guilty because of 
 the realism. Oh yeah, don't run in front of moving vehicles like you did back in other GTAs. Just 
 a kind warning. The vehicles are a dream. The way they look at least and their new thresholds for 
 damage. The way they drive now?... leaves much to be desired. The missions are nothing new, however, 
 the "Cover System" adds a little salt to them. I guess because driving isn't as fun as in other 
 GTAs. Most missions require driving so it can make some missions tedious, especially if you fail 
 and have to start over. What I'm not a fan of? The controller configuration is flawed when you 
 change the set up to "Classic". Say goodbye to touch sensitivity while accelerating and braking, 
 and your "rear view" camera to see the cops behind you. Why give us the option of "Classic" if 
 you won't give us..."Classic"! The speech on missions when driving is drowned out by engine noise. 
 Did I mention the controls are my least favored in this series. I love GTA 4. They came close. 
 But I don't know if they deserve the cigar for this GTA. 10?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnumPI
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is good, but... 10/10? This rating only reflects the lack of good games. available. 
 I say this because nothing ever gets a 10/10 unless there is an abscence of competition. Plus the 
 fact that it's not possible to make the greatest game ever. 
  
  I think everyone jumped the gun on this. They call it a review because it's not a permanent view, 
 it can be reviewed again and again. Opinions change overtime, BUT GS won't review it again. This 
 should have been considered when they reviewed it.
  
  I know the constant barrage of commercials heavily tilted this rating. It's been D-Day for the 
 past week. But instead of walking onto a beachhead being peppered with machinegun fire... it was 
 my living room & GTA commercials. I had to run out and play it. I knew if I didn't the curiousity 
 would drive me mad and I would have blown my brains out. Literally, because there is a shotgun 
 in my closet.
  
  Other than that it's another great game. I figured it would be epic. The series has been around 
 since I was a kid and throughout the years I've only given two GTA titles recognition. The first 
 is Vice City and the second is Grand Theft Auto IV. 
  
  I'm not gonna spoil anything for you because I want you to enjoy the story, but someone propably 
 has already spoiled it for you. Other than the story It's just like GTA3 and it's spinoffs, but 
 much better. A new version with new characters that brings GTA3 back to life, but this time it's 
 much better than before. 
  
  Noir doesn't get any better than this. Sordid affairs through the perspective of a man who doesn't 
 have the luxery of living our black & white lives. He's just drifting through the gray getting 
 by on dirty work. Hoping that one day he will get his hands clean.
  
  It maybe overated but it's not an overated piece of junk. GTA4 is worth the price. It's worth more 
 than the MSRP simply because there is a shortage of games worth playing and the majority of these 
 lackluster games share the same price tag. 
  
  Even though it's one of the better if not best games available for the consoles at this time it's 
 still a bit sloppy in the performance department. Which is typiclly expected from consoles but 
 I deducted a point because of the performance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Okay first let me say this. I didn't finish beating the game yetbut what I've played so farman 
 oh manGAME OF THE YEAR THUS FAR. I luv this game. game play=great, graphics=good, gunplay=great, 
 story mode=off the frickin hook. This is a must by gameI'm happy that they push this game back 
 when they didRock star id a very good job with this oneI'm really enjoying this game a lot. I 
 would luv to talk about what goes on in the game but I don't want to spoil it for people who haven't 
 brought it. All I got to say isyou need to get off ya butt and go buy this gametrust and believe 
 you would not be disappointed. The best thing I luv about this game is the storyI've said this 
 beforein order to have a great game you must have a good story to go along with itor you just 
 have another Dark Sector. All I got to say isthis is a must buyworth every pennySO GO GET IT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_G_Da_Hustla
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is one impressive game, with the coolest graphics and gameplays, the graphics 
 are very realistic and the latest songs in gta iv's radio stations, in Beat FM, the latest song I 
 know is Flashing Lights by Kanye West, it is a new song, and I actually like Hip Hop...... And the 
 cops are more tempered....... I juz played GTA IV this morning at a game shop, I played it on XBOX 
 360, its the coolest game I have ever played!!! and Im actually from Malaysia, that shop is at Malaysia 
 so, if there are memebers in Gamespot from Malaysia, u want to play XBox 360, go to The Summit, Subang 
 Jaya, u can play X360 games there but u must pay RM5 each hour and u cant play GTA IV in PS3 so 
 better play X360.............. And I encourage you guyz out there that has X360 or PS3 or both.... 
 PLAY GRAND THEFT AUTO IV, IT WILL BE THE COOLEST GAME IN UR LIFE!!!! Although its hard, but Its still 
 da coolest game homie, and try to get used to dis game......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair_33
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  The cars are nice, the graphics are great, the game play is fun, and the city is BIG. The only thing 
 is that you cant fly an airplane, but the story line and the cars make up for that so. Also the 
 clubs, pool and all that is really nice. I just started to play, but its really fun. What I find 
 hard to control a bit is the driving, cause its hard to turn wen your going fast or trying to escape 
 from like five stars cop, with a helicopter. I did not have time to try out the helicopter yet .But 
 this game still deserve a ten out of ten. Its probable going too be one of the best Grand Theft 
 Auto game ever cause its more realistic and like I all ready said it's really fun. I didn't try 
 too drive some boats yet they seem fun to drive so yea. A n'other thing that is missing is bicycles 
 like in San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigr2k5
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Takeing a look at alot of the reviews i get a mixed idea of what people think about this game. 
 Playing it myself, however i believe i can tell you exactly what you need to know.
  
  First off, the storyline. Great storyling. Out of all of the main characters in previous GTA games 
 i believe Niko is the most notable. The storyline so far runs pretty deep, I wont spoil anything 
 but its more in debt than previous games. The scenes and voice acting are great.
  
  Second off the gameplay. If anything were to be lacking it might be in this feild. I have to say 
 i am not too fond of the walking speeds. a basic walk is extremely slow and in order to speed up 
 you must press A (on 360) and tap it to speed up even more. Even the highest speed is a bit slow 
 though, and it gets tiring. I think they should have just made the joystick sensitive to how far 
 you pressed it as they do in other games to determine the speed. Driving was a bit hard to get 
 used to. Cars handle differently depending on each car so you can't expeect every car to handle 
 perfectly because this game is trying to go into a more realistic direction, however they all had 
 one common problem and that seems to be traction. Don't take these two faults too heavily though 
 as you do get used to the driving and tapping to sprint. the good improvments are the targeting 
 is pretty cool, and there is all kinds of cool missions and things to do. They really put hard 
 work into making you able to do so many things such as play pool, arcade games, bowl, etc. You 
 can even go on the internet. You also have a cellphone in which actually has alot of functions. 
 All your contacts are put onto it, and you can call them and either hang out with them, or possibly 
 get new missions. You even get texts on it, and can buy ringtones and themes for it. You can watch 
 tv. Theres just so many little things they put in the gameplay.
  
  Ok as far as graphics, animations and physics go. I think that something that people need to realize 
 is how far a game can actually go. I have seen complaints about graphics not comparing to games 
 such as COD 4 or other high end graphics games and if you truly want to know where this game lies 
 in graphics you have to realize, that for the amount of missions, side missions, and events available 
 to do in this game, the extensive amounts of cars, maps, music, and scenes, this game did phenominal 
 with the graphics, especially compared to previous gta games. Rooms and scenery looked more realistic 
 and full. Lighting is great and the water is amazing. I honestly don't know how they fit everything 
 on those dual layed DVD's because its just jammed packed with content and still has good graphics. 
 They may not be the best the systems have to offer due to the emense amount of content, but they 
 are most likely as good as they can get. The annimations and physics are very good too. Very few 
 games even newer lack the realism this game has when going up stair cases and climbing. Even the 
 water fluctuates and moves as real water does. Facial and hand gestures are good and the overall 
 appearance is awesome for this type of game. I have played spiderman 3 for the xbox and it nowhere 
 near compared to the visuals of this game.
  
  Overall this game is worth the buy. 10/10? i think that depends on the person, but just remember 
 when rating games on graphics you have to consider the content and how much of it there is, how 
 much time and space is used and etc. No game can ever truly be perfect because we all like different 
 things, but hey it can get close right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscled_arbiter
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  There is just something endearing and so well-thought out about what Rockstar did this time. It 
 is GTA gone Wild! They really pulled out all the firecrackers with this one. And I am now a GTA4 
 addict. You gotta love the characters. I love Niko from the moment he stepped off the boat. You 
 just gotta love a character who has nothing and emotes it while making a name for himself. The 
 Rockstar team have to be commended, they made a video game where you actually CARE about the characters. 
 The graphics: AMAZING. The driving sucks you in: Try picking up your girlfriend Michelle in a Big 
 Rig, lmao. The depth of the missions: SUPERB. The friend/girlfriend changes: FANTASTIC. The TV 
 shows and Radio playlist: PHENOMENAL. The multiplayer: An unexpected & GREAT addition. I can't 
 find any wrong with this game. I was going to say it is hard to drive the car, but it is nothing 
 too distracting as I just bought it yesterday and have clocked 10 hours on it and I am not a big 
 gamer like I was in my 20's (30yr old here) . This is a MUST PLAY by anyone who has a PS3 or 360. 
 AND ELECTRONICS ARTS... LISTEN UP... STAY AWAY FROM TAKE TWO. Rockstar is golden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuslas
Rating: 6
Date: May 1, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  
  Starters, the game is good. However, if you are a GTA veteran then you will get the same feeling 
 if you fell for the Turning Point: Fall of Liberty trap that came out earlier this year. I'd like 
 to talk to whoever decided to make the driving as frustrating and possible. When I went to the 
 bar in the game, and got ripped, I found it actually easier to drive then in game sober? The ebrake 
 almost always resorts to doing mindless 360's, or simply just slidding into everything. It's like 
 there is a permanent oil slick over everything your driving on. I luckily didn't receive the glitch 
 infections that have been hitting PS3 users, so who am I to thank that I got the game everyone 
 was supposed to get? Also, either COD4 came out to early, or everyone is just that much behind 
 when it comes to next gen graphics. Although the graphics are decent, not even comparable to COD4. 
 Sometimes at night, in game, you just don't see what is going on. (Constantly playing with my TVs 
 brightness and contrast is a bummer) Also, this Niko character is as slow as a turtle, and that 
 is not a metaphor. I've been faithful to the gta series since the birth of it, and this is the 
 biggest disappointment yet, actutally, the only disappointment yet. I can say this, that I do think 
 thier is something behind alot of reviewers saying that the major networks are paid for positive 
 reviews. If you look at it, why would someone have gta4 on the opening of thier website and not 
 rate it a 10? Maybe I just expected to much, or maybe its some gamers first step onto the gta gridiron. 
 Whatever the reason, this game does not live up to all the hype for you seasoned gta users. After 
 this game, and TP: Fall of liberty, I do not trust the critics anymore, and am only placing faith 
 amongst the users. Overall, the game is worth the purchase for the experience, but a 10 is simply 
 just overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke9113
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, when i got home from the midnight launch, the first thing i did was PLAY 
 IT, and boy, was that a mistake, I was up until 4.00 in the morning, I was totally addicted to 
 it!.
  
  So, what are the good things in the game?
    Amazing Visuals - The visuals are so much more detailed than previous GTA Games, the attention 
 to detail is immense, just as an example; i was walking down a canal area and i saw some oil drums 
 on the path, i shot one and oil started pouring out of it, I was surprised. The lighting effects 
 and reflections in the game are just outstanding, Rockstar have just gone the full on this game. 
 From the Reflections on the windows of the shops, to the streaking light beams from the sun through 
 windows, every detail ha sbeen **** for, it's just amazing and makes the city feel more alive.
 
  
    The movements/physics - Everything from the movements of niko, to the cars are realistic. The 
 damage model on the cars is awesome! if you smash a car bonnet with the cricked bat you can actually 
 see it denting as you hit it! and if you jump onto a car roof it actually dents!. Also the building 
 damage is much more detailed, if you just happen to crash into a building at 100 mph you actualy 
 damage the buildings, they intent like you owuld expect in real life.
  
    The sheare size of the city - You don't realis ehow big the city actually is until you jump into 
 a helicopter and experience it for yourself, you will be amazed.
  
    The storyline - I have only just started the missions but from what i can see so far, the story 
 is very in-depth and strong, the good thing about it is that YOU choose how the story unfolds, 
 you can do jobs for certain people and twist the story how you want. truely an amazing achievement 
 from rockstar.
  
  Overall the game is amazing! and was well worth waiting up until midnight for! I would reccoment 
 it to anybody over 16 even though the game is rated 18+. The violence is not 'Violent' enough to 
 be an 18+.
  
  The violent in the game is not 'Too violent' it adds a humorous touch to it to make it 'Less violent'.
 
  
  There are really no bad points i can think about to say about GTA IV. i was pleased with everything!
 
  
  10/10 from me!
  
  Enjoy GTA IV! I Know you will!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSite
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Be careful, you can loose yourself in this game it is that much fun. It has everything that the 
 old Grand Theft Autos had, plus the graphics of today, an all new story line so even though game 
 play is similar the adventure is new, fun, and exciting! Have fun playing however you want, and 
 get ready to be the baddest M*F* you want to make yourself. I can't wait to get back on! 
  
  If you were considering this game... STOP thinking about it... It is the game you were looking 
 for! 
  
  Buy the PlayStation 3 version though unless you don't have a PS3 because it's simple; Blu-Ray: 
 holds 25-50 Gb which allows for the uncompressed quality in video, and full HD audio depending 
 on your sound equipment! This game was designed for HD so make sure, if you can, to have the right 
 equipment so that the effects in video and audio can be taken advantage of. 
  
  
  If you have to, pick up the xbox version no worries it's still the same game through and through 
 just not as impressive on the Full HD side in video and audio. You will however have down loadable 
 content available to you if you decide to pay Microsoft for it. 
  
  Great Game on either console, Enjoy the mayhem. 
  
  To address certain people's complaints 
 about the game being too dark, and the jumbled audio problem: Most of this is because of the quality 
 in equipment. ie. The certain TV used, and audio equipment. HD is recorded in a full 360 degree 
 sound, and video for highest possible quality should be viewed in a full 1080 Progressive Scan 
 line resolution. A quick fix would be to obtain a full HD TV with a "good black level" to be able 
 to view more detail in shading, and also an audio receiver that either has DTS HD/DolbyDigital 
 True HD decoders or good Pulse Code Modulation. Any Questions feel free to ask  I am a Certified 
 Home Theater Specialist. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatexx
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Well here we go again. Gamespot and other companies have been known to boost games and promote 
 them because they get paid. Fan boys and tards hype up the game even more . Not only that but fanboys 
 or kids I should say like the game more than they really do just because of they want it to be 
 good. Its just like the zelda games. 
  
  9.5's - 10 on most game sites WTF . are you kidding me. I saw game spot give it a 10 . I have now 
 played it for 2 days and its good but defenetly not worth a 10. OH hell no defenetly not worth 
 that , But ofcourse just because you hear its great and see that the game is a 10 then you like 
 it more.
  
  You also get all the fan boys posting 10's for this game just to hype it up even more and regular 
 guys like me belive them . I thought the game was ok.. got a little bored of it now and I think 
 im 40% into completing it. I should have waited for the pc version I guess.
  
  I would say its a good rent , Dont listen to the hype , its most promotion, think about it why 
 would a site devote their whole front page to a game with this quality of graphics and gameplay
 
  
  Games that deserve hype dont get it and thereore they dont sell millions so devs dont get to buy 
 a new vette. Well this games hype will make them a lot of money that they dont deserve . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotoex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  First off tons of extra things to do compaired to GTA 3. 
  
  The meida is great on here for the most part. The addition of a GTA internet is great. The television 
 is over the top. I have not watched all of it yet, but from what i seen it is good and unexpeceted. 
 The radio is the only part where I have trouble with this game. As far as the music goes alot of 
 choices, but none that many care for (or at least me) . 
  
  GTA 3 had almost no music selection, but that did not matter that much with Chatterbox. GTA 3's 
 Chatterbox is the best radio station I have heard on a GTA game period. 
  
  Vice City had V rock that played great songs by Twisted sister, motley crue, quiet riot, iron maiden, 
 megadeth, anthrax, slayer, judas priest, Ozzy and the had their own Love fist. Emotion that Farnando 
 was funny and had Foreigner, REO speedwagon, and mr. Mister. Farnado singing died in your arms 
 was great as well lol. Wave 103 had Frankie goes to hollwood, Blondie, Kim Wild and flock of seagulls. 
 VCPR wich was almost as good as Chatterbox. They also had K-Chat, but it was not that great. 
 
  
  San Andres radio was better as well It had Radio Los Santos with 2 pac, Dre, NWA, and Easy-E as 
 well as Radio X wich had Black Sabbith (ozzy) , G & R, Soundgarden, and Faith no more.
  
  LCS had Chatterbox with Lazlow. The liberty Jam with method man, Redman and DMX. Not to much on 
 the rock side however.
  
  VCS had possably the best radio or Vice City. V-Rock with Dio, Kiss, Scorpions, Ted Nugent, Ratt, 
 Judas Priest, Motly Crue and Quiet Riot. Emotion had Foreigner and Phil colins. VCFL had Marvin 
 Gaye and Rick James. Wave 103 had Depeche mode, blondie, frankie goes to hollywood, japan, the 
 cure, and a flock of seagulls. To top it off it had VCPR as well with it.
  
  Now for GTA 4. LRR has Smashing Pumpkins, Black Sabbath (thank god) , Thin Lizzy, Queen, The Who, 
 Elton John, ZZ top, and R. E. M. Massive B with Shaggy. The Beat with Busta Rhymes, NAS, Kanye West 
 (don't like) , lil Wayne, and Ghostface Killah. Vibe with r. Kelly and the Isley Brothers. Tuff 
 Gong with 8 bob marley songs. And to top it off it has three talk raido stations. WKTT Radio, PLR-Public 
 Liberty radio and Integrity 2.0 with Lazlow.
  
  Having said all that there are 19 radio stations for GTA 4. There are 14, 10, 12, 10, 10, 10, 22, 
 14, 19, 8, 17, 10, 19, 9, and 13 tracks on each respective station wich adds up to an impressave 
 197 tracks and the three talk radio stations. There are only 17 people worth mentioning that makes 
 24 of the 197 songs. Neadless to say that is a very small precentage and with them so spread out 
 it takes forever to get to them. 
  
  On the + side there are THREE talk radio stations!
  
  On the - side, NO custom station and too much bulk for me of stuff I would not listen to and 
 don't belive the genral pubilc will either.
  
  The web is big and adds a nice touch of modern life. There are 8 tv chanles to watch. Have not 
 watched them all but about half of what i seen was worth watching. The comide shows have Katt Williams 
 and not sure if any other name stars are in them. 
  
  Graphics great, the draw distance is the best and no loading time other then on missions. No more 
 invisable ramps! ! Cars look great!! People don't look PS3 standard, but are great PS2 standard. 
 GTA has never been known for great graphics on people though. Wish I could pick up more stuff and 
 more weapons. Cheats are nice on the phone. 
  
  I wish the camra phone could save pictures, or it can and i just don't know how to do it.
  
 
  The police chaces are not as intence as I rember them being. It is also much harder to get stars, 
 but it is hard to lose them at 3 and 4 stars. At 5 and 6 it is almost impossable. (not gotten 6 
 yet) . 
  
  Physics are the BEST, enough said. 
  
  What would i add: Custom radio and more weapon selection.
  
  Final thought: Tie for Best PS3 
 game with Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (Game of the year) . A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2Dude89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Initial Thoughts- Right when I first put the game in I was so excited to play, and after the first 
 time I saw the city and got to interact with it I was blown away. The city and everything in it 
 looks so amazing and the game is awesome.
  
  Game Itself- I had been waiting for this game for a very long time (years) and the wait was definitely 
 well worth it. The game play and controls are great and very easy to get used to even if you have 
 never played a GTA game before. Everything is so realistic sometimes you just want to stop and 
 look around. Everything from the way the cars react to the way you drive them to all the different 
 characters facial and body styles to the way weapons look when used (gunfire and such) . This is 
 probably the best if not one the best looking games I have ever seen and/or played. If you are 
 a longtime fan of the GTA series or a newcomer to the GTA universe this game will please anyone 
 that plays it. I give this game a 10/10 and I'm sure you will to. Game of The Year material here 
 that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I got my game today, a day after the game was released. I got it on the mail and man, was I excited 
 to play it.
  I got the PS3 version and I was so into it that I spend a little bit reading the booklet getting 
 familiar with the buttons. I finally inserted the BR disk in the console and it took like around 
 10 minutes to save data or something that I don't remember exactly on the system.
  It loaded and I put my surround system on high volume, for my surprise it didn't sound like I thought 
 it would. I thought it was something with my TV or surround system but not it was the game. The 
 sound was not as loud as I thought.
  When I first drove the car to take back the cousin to his house, man it was hard to control.
 
  Now it took me a while to get used to but I made it. Don't take me wrong but so far I played about 
 4 hours and personally I give it a grade 9.5.
  Sound tracks are great, sound doesn't hit to good on a surround system. Easy to get the police 
 alert and that doesn't make me too happy seriously. Easy to get confused when controlling my person 
 because you don't really use the right joystick and I keep confusing you got to guide him mostly 
 with your left joystick.
  Anyway, I read some bad reviews about this game and I think this game doesn't have much bad thing 
 to find. It is a good game, but not perfect for my opinion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hervens
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto is an overall good game, thats definitely worth getting. 
  
  However, to me, this game has some minor issues, wich stops me from giving it anything over an 
 8
  
  ===cons====
  
  First of all, its wayy to dark., on my 52" Hitachi hdtv lcd screen. Sometimes, especially at night 
 time, you cant even see the cars in front of you.
  
  Second, the cars seem to bounce off like crazy, like their suspensions are too loose.
  
  Third, 
 when your driving a car, the camera is not automatic, So on my xbox 360, i constantly have to move 
 the R stick to be able to see in front of me.
  
  ===Pros====
  
  Game seems to have a great story, just like the original gta's
  
  Great cellphone addition, 
 and the cars look much nicer, and modern than in san andreas.
  
  Fighting and shooting is greatly improved
  
  Overall, game looks and feels more realistic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkb5hum2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I love that in the first of the next generation Grand Theft Auto games, rockstar games brings it 
 back to the old style of killing, shooting, destroying and looting, that had us all addicted in 
 the first and second installment. The ability to drive the cars is lacking as the steering is bad 
 but the graphics are much smoother and the soundtracks are better, adding a personal favorite in 
 the All BOB MARLEY radio station, joining the fun shoot em up missions, and much appreciated addition 
 of niko flying through the window in head on collisions. Here i go again, back to murder and  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buccy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I am sure everyone is going to try and compare SR and GTAIV. But I am going to make some points, 
 comparisons and possibly a wishlist as well.
  
  -The fact that there is little to no customization in the game is VERY disappointing. The bread 
 and butter of Saints Row, GTA IV all but ignored this feature and I was VERY disappointed. The 
 reason WHY SR has longevity is it's customization and to be Honest, the last 2 GTA's got old quick 
 BECAUSE they had little to no personal interest i. e customization.
  
  -I am strugglign finding the missions, and is there side missions, can you piss off more people 
 then just the Cops? The games graphics are great IMO, but I feel like the flow of the game, etc... 
 is poorly put together. Saints Row was so structured, I enjoyed that. But G. TA IV doesnt seem like 
 that and a bit more linear then I like.
  
  -Love the little games you can play in the game, pool, darts, bowling... drinking. VERY fun, like 
 the fact you can hang with someone or take some one on a date. That is good stuff. I just don't 
 know how to meet someone else then Michele? Can I talk or get to go out with ANY girl? or just 
 Michelle?
  
  -THe driving is fun, a bit "screeching" and hard to control, but fun. I realize it maybe "realistic" 
 but since I can shoot a cop and just drive a mile away and get away with it makes the game a little 
 unrealistic. I was hoping for a little more control in steering, etc. Some of the old junkers is 
 a little over the top loose.
  
  -GTA has to goto customization. PERIOD. It is a big hit in the gameplay IMO. That is my #1 Wishlist. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemeister83
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first announced I wasn't to thrilled. Sure I've played GTA III, Vice City, and 
 San Andreas, but overall I'm not a huge Grand Theft Auto Fan. However the more I would hear about 
 this game the more I was excited to play it. 
  Being someone who still plays SNES games on occasion, graphics aren't something I really look for 
 in a game, and not to mention the GTA franchise hasn't been the poster child for amazing graphics. 
 But GTA IV literally took my breath away. During one of the missions I was chasing a guy and he 
 ran into the harbor area. When I saw the city lying there on the horizon I almost forgot what I 
 was supposed to be doing. Sure there are glitches, but nothing so bad your going to be distracted 
 by. Overall Amazing graphics.
  The sound in GTA IV is very well done. Every sound belongs in this living breathing world. The 
 cell phones were a nice touch. They ring with different ring tones and some of them are pretty 
 cool. I was a little disappointed with the radio stations. I really liked how there were songs 
 that I knew in Vice City and San Andreas, but I haven't heard any of these song in GTA IV and after 
 a while they kinda get old. The Guns sound great, and the voice acting was superbly done.
  The controls are great. It feels like it should. They wanted to make a more realistic experience 
 and they did. Niko doesn't run like a freaking cheetah and the cars are kind of hard to stop, and 
 I think thats great. I hate it when your character runs so fast you cant see what's going on around 
 you.
  The overall game play is great. There is SO much to do it's almost easy to forget where your supposed 
 to be going. I cant remember the last time I had so much fun just running around and blowing stuff 
 up!! And thats what playing a game is all about in my opinion. Having a great time. 
  Probably the coolest thing that they added to the franchise was online multi payer. And it is flawlessly 
 integrated into the single player mode. If you get bored of running around the city, then just 
 call up your friends on your cell phone and jump online. With 14 different modes to choose from 
 I HIGHLY doubt you'll be bored very long. My personal favorite, besides Deathmatch, is the free 
 mode where you can jump on with your buddies and cause some real havoc on the wonderful city of 
 Liberty. 
  So overall the entire game is superbly done and well worth the push back from the original date 
 in October of last year. I don't think that as of right now, there is a better Next-Gen game to 
 own. It is WELL worth the money and I can guarantee that you will have fun with GTA IV for a VERY 
 long time.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Graphics: 9.8/10
  Controls: 9.9/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Mulitplayer: 10/10
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celinelust
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Whenever you turn to the other side it is impossible to see whats in front of you which will either 
 make you hit people and attract cops every second or will get your car stuck somewhere and you 
 will have to replay the mission from the beginning. Might sound like a small problem but it gets 
 very very annoying very very fast.
  
  The frame rate is very low, I can't believe they have given this game a 10/10 and left shadow of 
 colossus with a lower score "because of the frame rate". This game is just horrible and I am going 
 to sell it back as soon as I have a chance.
  
  If you were bored with any of the previous GTAs then this game is definitely not for you. You still 
 have the same type of missions and same style for everything. Just improved graphics and rewritten 
 story.
  
  There are so many sound sources at the same time which makes the game very noisy and you cannot 
 hear what your mission actually is. I got a headache playing through the game for barely one hour.
 
  
  my actual score for this game is 7. But I am going to give it 1 just to help bring its score low 
 to truly represent the quality of this game. I seriously have no idea why many reviewers gave it 
 a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric3441
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 is, what i think, the best game in the GTA series. Just for a second, forget about the graphics 
 and think of the game features. Obviously, GTA3 didn't have online capabilities, but then again 
 neither did Vice City, or San Andreas ( before the SA : MP mod ) . Lets say that you're playing 
 San Andreas right now. The characters are funny, you're used to the driving from past GTA games, 
 and the story is long and hard. Now play GTA4. GTA4 is easier than other GTA games because it has 
 the cover system that past games didn't, it has a great story like that of GTASA, it has humor, 
 and driving is almost the same, with the acceptance of minor changes.
  
  When GTASA was released, some were hoping for the new ragdoll system, and were slightly disappointed 
 with the fact that running someone over or making someone fly into the air just made them stay 
 in one position. Now, the ragdoll system has been implemented and is great. 
  
  Have you ever crashed a car big time in GTA and have only seen it start to smoke? Well, you can 
 still do that, but have fun watching Niko break the window and fly out.
  
  In GTA4, you've got the PS3 version, and you've got the 360 version. Which will you choose? Normally, 
 games like these would be favorable on a PS3, but gamers are advised to get the 360 version. Why? 
 Because the PS3 version has a native resolution of 640p, whilst the 360 version has native resolutions 
 of 720p, 1080i, and using the upconversion chip in the xbox, you can bring that up to 1080p. The 
 fact that the resolution is like this is not a problem with those with smaller TVs.
  
  All in all, GTA4 is the best in its series, deserved the wait, and is waiting for others to buy 
 the game and play it. If your a true gamer, you'll be done in 30 hours. Happy Gaming :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is, the best game you can own. The overall amount of things to do is endless. 
 You can socialize, kill participate in bank hiests, drive around, date, skydive, swim, take tours, 
 go bowling, play pool, hire hookers (lol) , eat at resturants, go to a cyber cafe with over 200 websites 
 (fictional) websites, run over people, oman ojndsgi anomodk msiam cplas. cp lasokf maso kmf okasmo. 
 sorry there are to many things to write down...
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in GTA4 is alot different than previous games. Aiming is no longer a annoying spazim, 
 theres a new coversystem, the euphoria physics engine makes for realistic car crashes and intese 
 firefights, and there are so many mini games that could be full games, and 16 player multiplayer. 
 That alone should make you want to buy this game. My favourite thing they added was making it easier 
 to shoot and drive, the right anolog controls the gun aiming while you steer with you left.
  
  Graphics
  
  Usually you have to forgive an open world game for not having gears of war 
 quality graphics... Not with GTA4. This game is an all out stuner. Wheither you on the top of the 
 chrysler building looking at the city and rivers or in times square looking at all the pretty flashing 
 lights this game with drop your jaw multiple times. Not to mention that the character models and 
 facial animations are the best in the bussiness.
  
  Sound
  
  In the past Gta's I've had a problem with the sound design. But not in the perfection of Grand 
 Theft Auto 4. The guns sound painfully powerful the voice acting is top notch and the cars radio 
 stations are perfect. 
  
  Story
  
  The story in all the Grand Theft Auto's have always been amazing but this one is by far the best. 
 It could actually have made a boxoffice hit and academy award worthy if it were a movie. Your Nike 
 Beleck and you have come to america to live with your cousin in Liberty City, were the streets 
 are paved with gold and it's a land of opertunity. Turns out not so much. The mansion he promised 
 is a Ghetto apartment and the rich bussiness is a taxi cab. So you must move up in liberty city 
 and make a living with the thugs and gangsters so it continues. I don't want to give anymore away 
 so I'll leave it ther because you need to play it for yourself.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9.8
  Story: 10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fightgar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  i have only played a few hours into the game..... less than that if you count only the missions... i 
 keep finding myself wandering around in amazement of how detailed this game is..... it took me a 
 little getting used to the way he moves, not to say its bad, it much more 
 
  
  im happy to see it getting away from that arcade style..... its starting to lean more and more towards 
 being a simulator which is 
  
  great job rockstar keep them coming and ill keep buying 
  
 
  ..... and please dont just do expansions only for 360, your ps3 fans want some stuff too.... not 
 that im ready for it yet.... haha... i dont think ill ever see everthing that this games has to  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattyrock
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I Do think Grand Theft Auto IV is a great game, but when it comes to giving it a high 10 on Gamespot. 
 I find that hard to believe. So here's my verdict after playing 3 days on it (over 2 hours each) .
 
  
  Story: 8.5/10
  The player plays Niko Bellic, an immigrant from Europe travels to Liberty City to see his cousin 
 Roman living the high life, but that was all changed when the words from Roman were all lies as 
 he lives in a crappy apartment and works at a Cab company, So Niko goes and tries to build up and 
 live in the high life of Liberty City while a few hidden plot holes come up to turn the story (No 
 spoilers) .
  
  A Decent story, nothing too spetacular but great enough for a GTA game, but the best thing in some 
 missions, it's non-linear, but not sure about the ending though.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Not the best graphics in on the PS3 (niether the Xbox 360) , but gets the job done and a nice upgrade 
 from the PS2 era GTA titles. Liberty City has been given a face lift, so forget everything if you 
 played GTA III.
  
  Controls: 6.5/10
  The weakest point of the game, the control scheme at first on the PS3 is more of a Xbox 360 control 
 scheme than the usual PS2 controls, what bothers me is that they swapped the buttons, R2 is shoot 
 and L2 to aim, WHY THE HELL CHANGE WHAT WE'VE GREW UP WITH?! But luckily you can change it to a 
 "Classic" control scheme, it's still tough but adaptable.
  
  The Controls in the game is a little wonky, the moving seems too stiff and just weird and slippery 
 when driving but when shooting, it can piss you off. You use the Right analog stick and the Left 
 to steer but that's hard with driving and shooting. What the hell is this? Saint's Row? (No, Saint's 
 Row is a good game, I ain't bashing it!) . So, in the end, the controls are frustrating but adaptable.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Everything you know and love about GTA is still here, with alot more variety, less load times when 
 going in and out of places and cities. You can use a phone to call people, go on the internet to 
 buy things and check e-mails, go on dates, go at places to play pool, bowling, darts, Strip clubs, 
 etc. You can even get drunk in the game :D
  
  So, even though the gameplay is pretty much the same, but it's improved with alot more variety 
 of things to do. But may taken out one or two things I've heard.
  
  The online mode is quite fun too. As I've tried playing Deathmatch, but it does have online flaws 
 such as lagging and delayed kills, but it's still fun to play online and go against each other 
 (Haven't tried any others) .
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  The music in the game is quite solid, haven't heard much but quite intriguing, always a mixed variety 
 and so on. I really can't complain.
  
  Sound effects in the game is a mixed bag with the pistols sounding more crisp and weird in someways, 
 but it really doesn't matter.
  
  Voice acting in the game is pretty solid and quite awesome with the dialogue as they act serious 
 and funny at the same time. Like a real crime movie.
  
  Total: 9/10
  While it may not be the Perfect Game that everyone is expecting, GTA IV will blast you away once 
 again with it's awe and empowering gameplay, story and dialogue. It may lack on what the past GTA's 
 had but it's adaptable and still a great game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr618
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Being the most anticipated game this year makes me expect it to be hated just because of how popular 
 it is. This is not the case. So I assumed people were seeing the game for what it is, that is wrong 
 too. People are blindly giving this game 10 out of 10. Its good, but not that good. Anyway on to 
 the review...
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good. Nothing special but at least it looks rather realistic.
 
  
  Sound: Voice acting is rather good and the sound effect make the game seem more realistic.
  
 
  Gameplay: I feel that gameplay makes or breaks a game. The gameplay in this game is extremely 
 fun. Shooting cars with a rocket launcher will never get old.
  
  Control: The controls are easy to get used to and pretty smooth. The only problem is aiming can 
 be kinda annoying.
  
  Story/Single Player Mode: The story is rather good. Basically you are an immigrant who wants a 
 new start in America. The single player missions are repetitive, boring, and (in some cases) rather 
 difficult. On multiple occasions you will be forced to chase someone and kill them. While the killing 
 sounds fun, it is but a very small part of the mission. Chasing the targets is very annoying considering 
 every car in the game has terrible handling (Though the AI manage to drive well somehow) .
  
  Multiplayer: I was really looking forward to the multiplayer in this game and it is pretty 
 fun. Basically you run around Liberty City trying to get a weapon capable of killing your opponents 
 (which is hard considering they are doing the same thing) . What is really fun is the multiplayer 
 mode in which you and 15 others roam Liberty City causing as much chaos as possible. Unfortunately 
 that is the only multiplayer mode that I recommend you play. You're better off sticking to Halo 
 3 or Call of Duty 4 for multiplayer fun.
  
  UI: The game has no main menu. Everything you would do at the main menu must be done in-game. This 
 can be annoying considering it takes 2-4 minutes to get into the game. 
  
  Well overall this is a great game and a must buy. The only reason I reviewed it was because it 
 doesn't deserve a 10 out of 10. Now go buy it... seriously go right now...
  
  
  IN SOVIET RUSSIA, GAME PLAYS YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uNSeenHero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest here many things related to Grand Theft Auto games have just straight up angered 
 me. I look towards playing games for fun and not a vigorous painstaking challenge that makes me 
 stick random fingers up at a screen and yell at the top of my lungs when something goes wrong.
 
  
  Gladly GTA IV delivers in such a way that frustration is a thing of the past. 
  
  Why previous installments haven't caught my eye as well: missions sometimes linger to become too 
 difficult that it may drag on and make it a pain to redo, which meant failing the mission, restarting 
 from an original location, and driving to the mission area, etc. Also ugly graphics just seem to 
 melt my eyes. When I saw fingers and hands having joints in trailers I jumped for joy; the old 
 school meat patty of a hand are gone and now I can actually concentrate on what they are saying.
 
  
  Whats different/better: The cell phone. A+ to the nerd who thought that one up. Joke. But a great 
 feature none the less. I love the realistic car driving, it just gives the game a more authentic 
 feel and actually lets me drive in one lane becoming part of the traffic, unlike other installments 
 just all over the place driving. The over the shoulder perspective of shooting in 3rd person give 
 it a sort of "The Club" feeling to it and is just down right smooth and better than the rest.
 
  
  Faults: The graphic just neeeeed to reach the standard of today's games. However, it is a great 
 improvement over other GTA titles but it was a great turn down for me, and it would have been a 
 perfect 10 if it was not for the mediocre at best visuals. But not saying its not an improvement, 
 once again good job Rockstar, pat on your back, great emotions on the characters. Just try a little 
 harder =) ANOTHER fault was the fist fighting, just wasn't as enjoyable as the others, and at some 
 points it felt like I was punching through the person's face, and there would be no contact.
  
  What I liked: The story, brilliance at its best art form. The direction and characters keep 
 me drawn in and focused. Fun missions, and a restart mission choice that keeps me into the story. 
 Improved Graphics and Gunplay, and NIKO!!! of coarse. One of the greatest protagonists to date. 
 ANDDD I don't understand you sleeze balls who say the Xbox 360 version is better than the PS3 when 
 both run at identical optical values, and 1080p is available for both and is running on my PlayStation 
 at the moment, so please keep your false remarks to yourself. Your not fooling anyone. Not trying 
 to be a fanboy here but truthfully I here from distinguished sources such as Gamespot that the 
 PS3 version actually runs better. Hmm who woulda guessed it. But anyways, the style, the art, basically 
 everything makes it a game too great to miss.
  
  Niko is a great character, and his portrayal was perfect. This game is a no-brainer if your mature 
 enough to handle it, that is. I love every second of the living breathing atmosphere, and I can't 
 wait to get back to it after I'm done with the review. I would love to ruin the story for you but 
 thats the fun of it so get at GTA IV. THANKS ALL! Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flying-Eagle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I raised questions in my head to whether this game is perfect and if it deserved the full blown 
 ten. However, after much argument with other gamers, I agree that it is "prime", yet it is not 
 perfect. As the rating system suggests ten is "prime", I therefore strongly agree with game-spot's 
 and many gamers' decisions. 
  
  Hopefully, if it is released on PC or developed with future patches, the minor glitches and the 
 problems with the AI system will be fixed immediately. I also hope that if a release on PC will 
 take place, there will be room for graphical enhancements, such as anti-aliasing and anisotropic 
 filtering. In the long run, I guess DirectX ten would be nice. 
  
  There has been a huge improvement on the previous games; graphic-wise and how the story pulls you 
 in from the start. I must state again that ten is deserved because there are no "meaningful" improvements 
 which need to be made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrightEyed
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I simply must voice myself and say I love this game to bits. The dialogue is superb and the character's 
 are extremely likeable even though they don't look real, they're personalities don't seem fictional. 
 These feel like real people you'd meet off the street and not someone, like most games are of complete 
 fantasy, and thats what I like about GTA games, they're very grounded and their humour is spot 
 on. The radio talk is hilarious although probably the most crudest to date (defintely do not let 
 kids/people underage to play this, there's a age certificate on it for a reason) . 
  
  The minor complaints from what I can see, is the cover system is a little fiddly to deal with, 
 especially when under pressure from foes, the handling of vehicles is a tad on the unmanageable 
 side (if only they could've sharpened the corner controlling so that it were easier, it's ridiculous 
 how far I can misjudge a corner and I'm usually quite good a driving games etc) and the difficulty, 
 is easy - not very easy, just easy. You won't get arrested too much unless your careless or your 
 trying to get your wanted level past 4 stars, which I haven't done yet. 3 stars is quite difficult 
 as there's a helicopter following your every move.
  
  The positive's are - well lets just say you have nothing to worry about, just buy the game and 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfinityMugen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I fondly remember the days I bought mature rated games at my local gamestore with no reprecussions. 
 GTA 3 was one of those games. The times back then were simpler and I only enjoyed the game on its 
 surface level gratuitous violence. Years later Rockstar releases GTA 4 and this time around I'm 
 able to appreciate the ambition and quality that goes into R*'s materpiece. The storyline itself 
 will keep you hooked as you explore the ins and outs of Liberty City. The finer details of the 
 game such as Niko's walkling, and ambience that overloads the senses with that feeling that you 
 are almost in a living, breathing metropolis. The cars in the game are true eye candy and each 
 one feels distinct from the other. Of course the game is not perfect, but no one can deny the consistant 
 care that goes into the series. Sure its not the Liberty City you remember, but its a rare treat 
 to enjoy a familiar series that services us with unforgettable nostalgia and yet feel as though 
 we are playing the series for the very first time. For those who enjoy excellant gameplay combined 
 with engaging storytelling, this is the game you've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilElsen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is very different to previous GTAs its more of a single player game with an impressive 
 story line instead of a mess around do whatever you want game. It feels much easier to die too, 
 however its nice to heal your health every time you see a hot dog stand. Compared to Saints Row, 
 there isn't much of a difference. In some ways Saints Row is a better game it looks better and 
 feels better. It also came out 2 years ago, which makes me wonder why GTA IV needed 3 years to 
 make because its soo short, there is a lot missing like tanks, plains, guns, and good rewards for 
 Hidden Packages. The game is still fun to play and multiplayer is amazing but would have preferred 
 32 players not 16. Hope to see a sequel in at least 2 years. Till then ill be playing GTA IV and 
 the 2 exclusive downloadable content for the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_spot_run
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Well. after waiting what seemed like forever for this game, I'm not as impressed as I thought I 
 was going to be! The main features of GTA that I LOVED are gone! No more blowing off body parts (I 
 mean COME ON that is what made this game GREAT!) , tanks, planes or even having the option to workout. 
 It's only my first impressions (I only have 3 hrs of game play in) . The dating is really annoying 
 and driving is really cumbersome! Graphics are amazing and have not ran into many bugs at all! 
 The city is huge and almost does seem alive!! Also the mini games are a lot of fun! Great game 
 but definitely lacking! I have a 360 and they are able to update the game via patchesso maybe 
 things will change for the better! Better meaning bringing back the features that made GTA my obsession!!! 
 Here's to hopein! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhauskinz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is great. Believe MOST of what all the perfect reviews have been saying. 
 However all I seem to see in the player reviews is "blah blah too hard to drive blah blah blah." 
 Well, while I admit TOO much realism in a GTA game is a bad thing, This is the one place where 
 I wanted to see a lot of realism. So, to those concerned, yes the game drives more like Gran Turismo 
 now, but its a GOOD thing, for me at least. I always thought driving in san andreas was watered 
 down. every car handled the same... no anymore. There are drastic differences between cars. which 
 I like. The choppers still handle like dreams, and its fun to gun people down from the sky online. 
 All thats next is in-car dash view...... and A metal station.. and just maybe the return of the 
 mighty jet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthonyTG
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  i loved playing san andreas with my friend and having a good time i don't want to play on some 
 lagging ass peice of crap with people i don't know yeah i know i can just envite my friends but 
 they should have made this game to where (ps3) you can use all 7 remotes (6 friends playing) working 
 and sitting there having a good time forget that online crap splitscreen. well i can't lie the online 
 is awsome 16 people thats cool but for those days it'll be so awsome to just sit with some friends 
 and role deep with some of your friends in georgia or somthing come on you know i'm  
 i had to take up characters
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mb423752
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are better thats for sure but not nearly as good as some other games out right now. 
 Gears of War had way better graphics. The city is much improved but theres not nearly as much to 
 see. For me the story is ok nothing special really and I actually don't like the voices as good 
 as vice city or san andreas. Honestly most of the time I can't understand what anyone is saying. 
 The missions feel pretty much the same as always maybe a little easier but basically the same. 
 I am dissapointed after reading all the perfect scores yesterday. I would say it is the 2nd best 
 game after san andreas. The extra stuff is pretty cool the tv shows are good the radio channels 
 i like less I can't find any real rock station. The cell phone is ok but they stole that from saints 
 row which I feel is just as good a game as this if not better. The mini games like bowling and 
 pool are cool additions but suck to play. I think everyone is rating this game so high because 
 thats the in thing to do. Its not a bad game by any means but not deserveing of a 10 either. If 
 you like GTA seris then you should love this game as well. If your tired of it then don't go get 
 this cause its really not that much different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggs92 --
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  So far i can't fault it. The graphics are awesome, gameplay is awesome, audio is awesome.... you 
 get the idea its awesome. 
  
  There is so many new things that make the GTA sesries twice as better as it already was. The cell 
 phone for example is a amazing new feature. Being to call for a cab on your cell or just whistling 
 for one. Its great. The multiplayer is pretty awesome, It may not be the best online ever but they 
 is defianlty worst online games, and just having online is a bonus since the single player is awesome 
 (I'm using that word to much)
  
  The new wanted level system is amazing, trying to escape the 'circle of death' without being seen.: D 
 The cars look real good as well. If you don't own one of the 609 000 copies sold in first day, 
 WHY NOT?
  
  This game is gaming history, but there is one bad side, ever other game you have been looking forward 
 to will look like online flash games compared to this. Well done Rockstar on ending the jobs at 
 other devolpers, lmao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipchase
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  First off let me say this is my first actually purchased GTA title. The previous games in the series 
 while good for a quick laugh for me never really grabbed me as "must have". Mainly because of the 
 lack of story elements which I as a player need to draw me in. Having followed this one and hearing 
 about the story and characters being much more of a focus. I of course was curious. Well I'm happy 
 to say that Rockstar has nailed it completely. GTA4 is like a movie that you play. 
  
  Instead of focusing on the violence and adult content folks should be looking at what great interactive 
 story telling this game provides. From presentation to the many different and varied characters 
 you meet GTA4 simply provides a experience unmatched in gaming. 
  
  
  Niko character is awesome and totally believeable. Roman is my personal favorite so far being obsessed 
 with sex and big breasts. Their interactions are downright funny. Like I said if this is any indication 
 of the future actors are going to have to really watch there backs. Cause video game industry is 
 starting to rival movies for story telling and character development. Even the average citizen 
 is a character in this movie. From a bag lady on teh street to a buisness man pulling out his umbrella 
 during a rain storm. Everyone is living there personal lives for you to observe. Sometimes it's 
 cool to just sit there and watch what people do around you or the conversations they have. The 
 stuff going on at anyone time is amazing. 
  
  
  There are a lot of nit picky people who down the graphics but considering the scope of the game 
 they are top notch. There are hitchs here and there with draw in but actually I never really noticed 
 unless I sat and tried to. 
  
  Sound is where this game really shines in my opinion. If you have a decent surround system liberty 
 city actually comes to life. From car horns to the sounds of a busy airport GTA4 puts you right 
 into Nikos world. 
  
  On to multiplayer. Which I feel has not been given near enough praise. It's simply great sinful 
 fun. From death match to the race modes you simply grab some friends and jump in. Laughing all 
 the way at the many different things to be done. The multiplayer does not put you in a level taken 
 from teh game you are in liberty city. The whole city is your playground if you wish. Which makes 
 for a awesome experience. 
  
  On to some issues. Minor if I say so myself but still something to be touched on. The driving and 
 controls are a bit wonky. Driving especially is a lot tougher then previous GTA's. Which I kind 
 of like mainly because the cars have a feeling of true weight. This with the physics engine really 
 challenge you to maintain control during a highspeed chase. There is a learning curve with it tha's 
 for sure. Which may throw somepeople off. Combat controls while much improved are still not the 
 best. Especially melee which is clunky to say the least. Still the cover system and gunplay is 
 much improved from before. 
  
  
  Buy it. I can honestly say this game is completely worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junglebrah
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I was one of the many people who decided to partake in the midnight festivities to scoop up Grand 
 Theft Auto 4, and I immediately went home and dove in. (Luckily I wasn't mugged or stabbed on my 
 way home from the store.) After a few days of playing, here is what I have come up with:
  
  Visually, the game is predictably awesome. I mean, was anyone really expecting anything better? 
 The faces are animated very well (at least they are in HD; I haven't played it in standard definition 
 yet) , and the characters actually have hands this time around... rather than little stumps on the 
 end of their arms. The visuals get the job done, period. Besides, anyone who is a longtime fan 
 of the series has had to deal with less than stunning visuals on all of the games before this, 
 so (in my opinion) any improvement was fine with me.
  
  The controls are where I have the biggest issues with this game. Thankfully, they gave us the option 
 of using the classic control scheme, as I almost had a heart attack when I first tried to control 
 Nico. The best thing about GTA 3, Vice City and San Andreas was how much fun it was to rip through 
 the city at 900 mph and screech around corners like a psychopath. Well, that type of unadulterated 
 mayhem has fallen by the wayside this time around, and you will definitely become aggravated when 
 you are flying down Mohawk Avenue and go to turn, only to find yourself over-shooting the turn 
 and spinning out in to a light pole, while your quarry seems to have the car handling cheat code 
 already in place. Car handling in all of the different cars that I have tried is just flat-out 
 way too loose. And why did they ditch the R2-L2 rear-view control while in a vehicle? How are you 
 supposed to look behind you with the right analog stick while driving with your right thumb and 
 steering with you left thumb?! The new enhancements to the controls are average at best. I mean, 
 it's a cool idea to have the moving reticle for creating headshots, but how are you supposed to 
 move the reticle with the right analog stick when you are firing your gun with your right thumb 
 and getting ready to walk with your left thumb? It just seems way too awkward to me. And I have 
 to say that fist fights were much more fun in San Andreas since it takes a good 1-2 seconds for 
 Nico to actually throw a punch when you hit the circle button. The last (and probably nit-pickiest) 
 thing about the controls is pausing the game. Why does it have to take 2 seconds to actually pause 
 after you hit the button?!
  
  The storyline seems pretty cool so far, and I have never really had any complaints about any of 
 the previous games' story lines, since the coolest thing about these games is causing chaotic mayhem 
 without any particular reason. One thing that I have always wondered about this series: Why is 
 it that the main character is the only one who seems to have any common sense whatsoever?! I definitely 
 think that it was awesome to put in the decision-making feature, as it will add greatly to the 
 replay value of the game. And I have to say that the cell-phone idea is super-fresh!
  
  The music is killer, as usual. There is a ton of radio stations (I wish the reggae channel had 
 something besides Bob Marley and his kids, though.) I was definitely surprised to hear some classic 
 early 70's funky-jazz like "Stratus" by Billy Cobham ("Spectrum" was one of the dopest jazz LP's 
 of all time) and "Sneakin' in the Back" by Tom Scott and the L. A. Express (which, incidentally, 
 was sampled by Dr. Dre for the drums in N. W. A's "Alwayz Into Something" from the San Andreas soundtrack.) 
 The television shows are hilarious, and the talk radio is as funny and witty as it ever has been.
 
  
  Overall, this is a great game that I will play for hours on end, and I am sure that the things 
 that are currently annoying me will grow on me. I can't believe that this game got a perfect score 
 from GameSpot, because they are usually pretty good about pointing out the obvious faults of every 
 other game that they review, and this game does have a few. It's a solid 9 out of 10, but I can't 
 go any higher than that without feeling like I am just feeding the hype.
  
  Later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_Bleed
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 has definitely been the most anticipated game of 2008. (If not the last couple 
 of years) Rockstar has spent months wetting our appetites with demonstrations and videos but all 
 that doesn't count for anything if the final product is no good. So, does Grand Theft Auto 4 really 
 live up to all it's hype? You bet it does. This is not only the best Grand Theft Auto game to date, 
 but in my opinion it is a contender for the top greatest video game ever made.
  
  Lets start out by examining one of the biggest things about this game. The visuals. Needless to 
 say Grand Theft Auto 4 is beautiful. Every little thing is so richly detailed and I can guarantee 
 it will probably overwhelm you at first. Lighting and shadows have all been greatly improved. And 
 one of my favorite things is that during the night, it is actually dark and difficult to see what's 
 going on around you. I hated that in past Grand Theft Auto games it was still very easy to see 
 even after the sun went down. Admittedly there are some graphical glitches here and there but they 
 are barely noticeable and don't detract for the visuals at all.
  
  Now lets look at, or rather listen to the sounds. (I know it's a bad joke) This is exactly what 
 I would expect a big city to sound like. You can constantly here the wail of police sirens and 
 the blasts of angry motorist's horns in the distance. And everything from the trains to cars gradually 
 get louder as it moves closer to you. The soundtrack for the game is excellent. Rockstar made sure 
 that put something for everyone on the radio. Though I admit custom soundtracks would have been 
 a great addition but perhaps Rockstar will add that later on through an update.
  
  Gameplay is the same as it has always been for Grand Theft Auto so veterans of the series will 
 have no trouble getting used to it. Basically you're let loose in Liberty City to do whatever you 
 want. Jack a car and go on a joyride, get in shootout with the cops, or do missions to advance 
 the storyline. The city is your playground. There have been some alterations that change the gameplay 
 somewhat. For instance the car handling has been reworked so cars are more likely to spin out and 
 crash if you try to take a turn too fast. So don't be surprised if you find yourself moving a bit 
 slower through the city the keep your car under control. The HUD has been changed as well. Things 
 like your weapons and money are only present when they need to be so the only things that are constantly 
 present are your map and health. Some will find this annoying because it can be hard to tell which 
 weapon you have equipped at times but others may like not having all that clutter on the screen.
 
  
  One thing I really wanted to talk about are the ragdoll physics in this game. That's right. Ragdolls 
 in a GTA game! No longer do people have prewritten death animations. Now when you hit someone at 
 50 or 60 mph they go flying over your car with their arms and legs flailing through the air. And 
 when you gun people down they don't fall flat on their back every time. They can fall face forward 
 or slump over on their side. It really adds to the realism of the game.
  
  As always Rockstar has provided a very colorful cast of characters for the game. Niko, the main 
 character is probably the best GTA protagonist yet. He seems like he would be a really likable 
 guy. Someone you could actually have a pretty friendly conversation with. But he knows when to 
 get tough and will not put up with anyone messing with him or his family. No matter how dangerous 
 or powerful that person may be. Niko's cousin Roman could best be described as fat, lazy, and a 
 total coward. Always trying to get Niko to do the dirty work for him. But since Roman is family 
 Niko is always willing to help him out. I could go on for much longer about the characters but 
 I don't really want to spoil it for people. And I also still haven't met all the characters yet.
 
  
  The storyline is excellent. It is probably the best storyline a GTA game has ever had. Again I 
 don't want to go into depth about it because I don't want to spoil it for people who haven't played 
 the game yet. Lets just sat Niko has come to Liberty City searching for someone from his past. 
 Someone who did a terrible thing to him.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is a superb gaming masterpiece. It is everything we were promised and so much 
 more. If you don't own it yet (shame on you!) then get out there and but it right now. I guarantee 
 it will be the best $60.00 you have ever spent on a game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODOFWAR03
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  GTA 3, Vice City and most of San Andreas were nothing but cruelty, killing, car chases and races, 
 with fun side and odd jobs, you know the things that made the GTA series so much fun to play. GTA 
 4 on the other hand is a real life dating game centered on Niko's online dating escapades. Most 
 men will agree, its hard enough keeping a woman happy in real life and now you have to keep several 
 happy in the game?? That's not fun. What happened to this game to make it so completely different 
 from the previous versions and that much more different than GTA SA? They've taken a great game 
 idea and perfected it in VC then turned it into a Sims game (4) . Get rid of the dating and the 
 whole reality theme, we live in reality everyday and most don't want to go home and live it again 
 in a game. That's what made GTA 3, VC and SA so much fun... they were so close to real life but 
 yet so far. Hopefully, the game can still be beaten without having to maintain in game girlfriends 
 and going on dates unless you find out their really working for the other side in which case you 
 have to gun them down or rig explosives to their cars and then watch the fun... yeah.. no really 
 I wouldn't do that.
  
  The game play is decent with the controls quite different on the PS3 than the previous versions 
 on the PS2. The graphics are amazing in full 1080p. Driving and shooting take a little time to 
 get use to the new controller layout but can be picked up on quickly. Voice acting not quite as 
 good as the previous versions but is executed pretty well and the music is ok but nothing special. 
 In my opinion it was the hype of the GTA series that landed this title a perfect 10 in nearly every 
 game review magazine and website but it is hardly a perfect 10 and that is hard for me to have 
 to say because I own all 7 GTA games and 3, VC and SA are 3 of my favorite games of all time. I 
 think RS was close in creating a perfect game but really added to much unneeded garbage and lacked 
 some of the content that made the previous GTA series loved by many.
  
  So needless to say I am disappointed so far with this game and the whole fix on reality RS had 
 when developing GTA4. The game wouldn't be so bad if the story wasn't focused on the dating system. 
 Lose the dates, relationships and non violent content and get back to the GTA series and for those 
 of you who like the whole relationship / dating / strip club / strippers in the game, put down 
 the game controller and go find yourself a real woman and leave the digital replicas alone.
  
  Haven't tried the online play but it sounds like its going to be pretty fun just as long as 
 there is more blood and guts and a lot less dating and maintaining relationships.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squid85
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  I was excited for the game as all of you fine people were and so I showed up at my local Gamestop 
 early to get in line and I became the first in line. So then i get it and go home then start to 
 play it and it freezes when i am driving to Niko's new apartment and so i unistalled it then reinstallen 
 then it still had the freezing problem... so I reinstalled it again and it works!!!!!!
  I almost had to sell my PS3 and all my games to get a 360 and 360 version of the game... so glad 
 i didnt being as that i am a playstation fanboy.
  
  Anyway back to the review. I am now on the second island and i love the game, except the crappy 
 soundtrack. its is so worth the money, and maybe anger, and even the price of having one of the 
 best games  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingChainz31684
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I think this is the best game of this type open world style to ever graze the plain of the earth. 
 That being said their isn't much competition outside of past GTA's. This game did what it is supposed 
 to do though. It improved on a solid formula. Now it is a great game but i am not as easy to get 
 a 10 out of as most of the game critics around. if a game has glitches and flaws which this game 
 does in its visuals and some of its AI and really as new as some of this feels it doesn't feel 
 that insanely different from the past GTA's for the most part but it does seem deeper than in the 
 past to this point. But like i was saying in no way can a game with flaws ever get a perfect score 
 from me. It has few enough errors to score it as high as any game on the market. 
  
  Is it the best game on the market? Not for me. Its the best game of its type though and to this 
 point i would say its as good as any game released this year about equal to me as a couple of them. 
 It will provide tons of entertainment more so than any other GTA has to date. But for me believe 
 it or not the life of crime does eventually kinda get a repetitive feeling i haven't reached it 
 yet and with the multiplayer it should be a long long ways off.
  
  The controls are good i mean i don't know that the controls for this type of game could ever feel 
 perfect these don't but at least they are close. 
  
  Like i said and a lot of serious reviews say 10 or not is occasionally the visuals suffer from 
 the same type of things all GTA games suffer from. Its not the best graphiced game for its particular 
 systems but its great considering the amount of content in the open world.
  
  sound is good its not going to win any awards i don't think well maybe effects or something but 
 i don't see it getting any artisticle merits but its good certainly nothing that can be complained 
 about and its excellent with 5 speakers and a nice woofer.
  
  um I guess i can't speak of replayability yet but its a GTA game i have never had a hard time picking 
 up any GTA game a year down the road and at least getting another fun couple of hours here and 
 then. Its one of those games i will consider a keeper i am sure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepsan5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  wowwwwww, seriously! why u guys hatin on dis game. lemme ask u this question first, did u like 
 like the previous installments of the game? If yes you would love this game and spend hours playing 
 this game and if No, go rent the damn game and shut up abt it or wait for MGS 4 or socom. 
  
  This is Masterpiece made for gamers who wants shoot sh*t up and blow sh*t up and it does pretty 
 damn good job at it. This game is just to have fun and u know what's better to have fun than robbin 
 banks, killin cops, blowing sh*t up, and last but not least picking up hookers and telling them 
 what to do. And multiplayer is just an added bonus, so dont get so stuck up on multiplayer laggin 
 cuz its Rockstars 1st time so giv'em a break and laggin cuz of the huge maps that are given.
  
  So, there u have it, if u like all those things, u will love this game or go play COD4 and 
 wait 4 MGS4 and Socom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I've played every GTA game and only finished Vice City. I was hesitant to buy 4 since I felt like 
 it would just be the same experience on a new console. After reading the early reviews all praising 
 the game with a 10 (something I haven't seen happen in years) I gave in and I'm so glad I did. 
 Not only does this version look amazing it corrected the biggest problem the games had since the 
 original. The combat works now, it really works.
  
  I haven't been able to try out the multiplayer yet due to the in game cell phones message that 
 it can't connect. I have to think this is a problem with Rockstars servers since there was nothing 
 wrong with PSN. This may be an indication that the PS3 version is selling more than the 360.
  
  I have so much more game ahead of me but so far I'm enjoying the story, especially for the 
 choice of nationality in this game. We've gone from wasp, to wop, to hood rat, to ex-commi. Huh? 
 Did that offend? Why? This is GTA!! The hallmark game for racial stereo types!!!
  
  I love this game and I think it'll be the 2nd GTA game I've completed. Now I just have to wait 
 for the multiplayer servers to go back up and I'll never be seen outside my home again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToughNuts74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  GTA IV, the long awaited sequel from Rockstar and Take-Two, has hit the shelves, and with no surprise 
 at all, it lives up to the hype. Pulling you off the boat as Miko, you are free to explore Liberty 
 City for all of it's NYC-inspired glory, but do some missions first, as you will need cash to do 
 some of the activities provided.
  
  Visually, this game is tops. The characters move more fluidly, the cars are gorgeous and the environment 
 is almost 100% interactive by having the ability to run over mailboxes and send letters flying 
 or fire hydrants gushing, even shooting out street lights is enjoyable.
  
  The storyline is the most intriguing of any GTA game, and I can't wait to see where it goes from 
 here.
  
  My biggest gripe is the driving mechanics, which too Gran Turismo. The e-brake is uncontrollable, 
 the foot brake is ineffective and steering cars at high speeds is a huge pain in the ass. If you 
 want a joy ride game, pick up Saint's Row.
  
  But don't let one little thing turn you away. This is a great game with a lot to do away from the 
 missions and story. I'd like to see what Jack Thompson calls the bowling mini-game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I have NEVER liked the GTA series. Honestly, I just don't really care for sandbox-type games. I 
 need some structure when I play some games so I don't get lost, distracted, or lose interest in 
 the story. This game however, is different.
  
  I don't know exactly what it is. The game, despite some minor flaws, is nearly perfect. Liberty 
 City is absolutely gorgeous, though the graphics aren't photo-realistic. The detail in the game 
 is mind-boggling, everything from billboards and graffiti to the sounds of the city. I've never 
 seen anything so ambitious that succeeds in fulfilling those ambitions almost whole-heartedly.
 
  
  Stealing cars is fun. If you see a vehicle, you can steal it. Car-jacking is fun, and it's funny 
 when the person you jacked is bold enough to try and drag you out of his car. If you take off while 
 they are grabbing onto the door, they'll often hold on for dear life as you drive off. It's that 
 kind of detail that makes the game so stunning.
  
  Of course, there is all the other GTA standards. You can pick up hookers, kill cops, and in this 
 game you can even date (and try your luck to get her to invite you inside, where you hear the sex, 
 controller vibration and all) . These aren't the main attraction though.
  
  The story is the main attraction, at least for me. It's a superb story, and when you complete missions 
 and advance through the game, it's very satisfying. You'll start out poor with no weapons, and 
 advance to become wealthy, and have a full arsenal of weapons to defy the cops and kill other gangsters 
 with.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast. It's standard stuff for the most part, but what makes it so good is that 
 you get the living world of Liberty City to play in, which is the PERFECT multiplayer playground. 
 It kind of makes you feel like a mobster fighting other mobsters over turf and glory.
  
  I've only scratched the surface, but overall, the game is nearly perfect. There are some flaws. 
 One is that you could be speeding and ramming other cars in front of a cop, and the cop won't bother 
 with you. It's kind of silly and a little bit weird, but it's not a big deal. Another is that there 
 are a few graphical glitches, and poor textures throughout the game. But overall, the game looks 
 beautiful.
  
  This game is a must buy for everyone, even if you don't like this kind of game. It's fun on almost 
 all levels, and everyone can find something in here to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game got released only yesterday, i'm around 4 hours into the game only, but i'll just hope 
 up my short review and edit it again when i've finished it.
  The game takes place in liberty city, i'm not sure if structures are the same as in the liberty 
 city stories GTA, but it sure looks good and given a HD improvement.
  You take the role of a guy who came from oversea, he actually hopes to make it big in the city 
 only to find out troubles when he started.
  
  Graphics:
  Very good, perhaps up to GTA standards, but it surely isn't the best. The best still remains with 
 uncharted. GTAIV isn't without it's graphics merits, just that many thing do happen on screen, 
 more based on gameplay which i understand. If graphics are like uncharted, it'll probably be having 
 slowdowns. But overall, it's great, but certainly can be done better especially ur handphone modelling.
 
  One complaint here is the map, it's quite hard to read, so is ur handphone, words appear quite 
 small even playing on my 32inch hdtv.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where the game gets it's full merits, although the formula is the same, there's many things 
 improved, probably u had wished in vice city is now happening on this game. Ur handphone is something 
 new, u sms, call, date people and also do task, something really new and a surprise to me initially.
 
  Now to the driving mechanics, it's great, play similar to NFS prostreet, the handling is more 
 realistic now, where u can't take a 90degree turn with high speed.
  Tutorial are great, at the start, u can already practice helicorpter flying with sixaxis, there's 
 even option to select if u wan sixaxis usage for each vehicle. 
  Another major change is the exploration of the city, now you're no longer restricted, u can free 
 roam the whole place without completing all th missions.
  For vehicle, u have CAB, trains etc etc etc, it's also available in vice city, but now u can actually 
 hail a cab and sit inside until it reaches ur destination, maybe glimmick but it certainly improves 
 the game on it's own way.
  Well this is where my positive will end, now to the bad, i have one, it's the camera angle, although 
 u can adjust sensitivity, there's just something weird about the walking, running and sprinting, 
 they don't work as well like the past series, it controls and feel abit awakard for walking.
  
  Sound:
  It's great, but i was expect DTS format from a huge release like this. But that complaint 
 aside, the radios music, variety are really huge. Dialogue are clear but a tad soft at times. Also 
 note there's plenty of vulgar everywhere. The vehicle sounding like the engines is really improved 
 on, u stop, u get screetching sound.
  The sound compartment is close to perfect but the default volume should go higher. And maybe add 
 in DTS format.
  
  As conclusion, i saw lots of 10/10 ratings, it certinaly don't play That great, i'll give it a 
 9 now. If you've played the series before, you will feel many similarities, if ur new to the series, 
 this will be a 10/10 collection, but like i've said it borrows some elements from the past series, 
 although it added lots of things, compartment like it's graphics sure don't score perfect to me. 
 Yes, although it support 1080p, graphics is also about lightings etc.
  
  Certainly a game worth purchase, i'll update again when i've completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsus8091
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  There is nothing wrong with this game. It has absolutely everything. The story is intense and fullfilling, 
 the characters are smart and witty, the voice acting is superb and done by many character actors 
 of Hollywood, the vehicles all handle like real life with a bit of Hollywood action flicks added, 
 the guns are plain and simple the best ever in the GTA series, the guns actually feel like they 
 do damage and feel powerfull. 
  
  Finally the old stereotype of mafia or gang banger or whatever is over. Now we get to look into 
 the life of an character with a real past and real emotions. It's great to see people from Niko's 
 past pop up and to see his reactions really pull you in and make you want to see what happens. 
 The different characters you meet through out the game are so interesting that you can't help but 
 keep playing so that you can develope a realationship with them. Your everyday choices of hanging 
 out with this person or going on a date with this girl actually matters on how much depth you can 
 develope with a character. It really is a great concept. 
  
  Even though the stroy is absolutely amazing, the other stuff, like small things willl keep you 
 busy for hours. I watched a video game TV last night about 45 minutes. I thought it was just awesome 
 how Rockstar did this. I mean, we all know about the top notch radio on the game, but TV? I was 
 just awe struck when I saw it, but thats not the half of it, there is even a full fledged full 
 working internet in the game. Yes internet, with GTA's own websites and web browser. Its just so 
 cool that Rockstar made the game perfect to the last detail. 
  
  
  BUY THIS GAME, THERE IS NOTHING BETTER COMING OUT THIS YEAR BESIDES METAL GEAR. THIS AND METAL 
 GEAR WILL BE EASILY THE BEST GAMES OF 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalki_Avatar
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 isn't just an achievement in gaming, it is a huge step forward in computer generated 
 art. I have stayed up playing my fair share of games late into the night, but this game is an entirely 
 different beast. The new physics engine is the first thing you notice. When you get into a car 
 and you can feal the pull of gravity and see it move like a genuine automobile, it can be breathtaking, 
 not to mention motion actually comes into play with gravity and inertia. The main storyline takes 
 hours, not to mention the ability to put your phone on sleep and free-rome. The online is what 
 sets this GTA apart from the others. There are multiple online modes for up to 16 players including 
 freemode, cops and robbers, and many more. Many of the environments are photorealistic, and the 
 map is large yet navigable. They added a cover system that blows my mind and the minor details 
 keep impressing me. The voice acting is superb through and through. This game gets a 100%. I can 
 think of a few things that I wished they would put in the game, but I can think of more that they 
 did feature, and I didn't even expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanDavie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  So far this seems like a great game, online is pretty fun also.
  
  However, the graphics, whats up with them?
  
  It seems a little pixelated round the edges and 
 blurred here and there, i run it on 26" 720p HDTV via HDMI and have no problems with any other 
 games, just this.
  
  But it is also a slightly dark game, like the GTA Liberty City, but hopefully the second next gen 
 GTA will be brighter like they did on PS2 with the release of Vice City.
  
  Other than that this game is really good. Just which they had sorted out the visuals.
  
  I 
 think this game is well worth the hype and is a good all round game that will last.
  
  I really dont know what they have done with the visual side though, it really bugs me when ever 
 i switch it on after playing something like COD4 or Metal Gear Online... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I wasn't expecting TOO much out of this release. I was expecting a larger and better 
 looking San Andreas. Maybe a few more abilities and features. But, I was not prepared AT ALL for 
 what I experienced yesterday when I played this for the first time.
  
  Everything has been reworked from the ground up and it shows. I don't have time to be detailed, 
 and I would say that Gamespot's review is right on. But, I have to say one thing that may help 
 you understand this buzz if you haven't already gotten this game....
  
  Remember way back when you read about GTA 3 coming out for PS2 and said, "Eh, that game is going 
 to suck. There's no way they're going to be able to pull that off and make it good." Then, you 
 got it and couldn't believe what you were seeing? Yeah... When you see this game in action, not 
 only will you be suspended in disbelief that a game can go this far in quality and content, but 
 you may even forget there was any GTA game before this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nexus_nero
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  What can be said! This game has sent me into an insomniatic like state, like a Japaneses gamer 
 on valium, not saying that I'm finding it boring, far from it. since Monday I have managed 7 hours 
 sleep, waking up each time to find the controller still in my hand, TV making that irritating high-pitched 
 noise (yes unfortunately I don't yet own one of those eye-piercingly-sharp life-replicating over-priced 
 TV's that send small children into comas) and a solitary Malteser stuck to my lower lip. The more 
 I play the game, the more I wanna go out, rob an old lady of her Mercedes, kick her a few times 
 and any innocent by-standers, perhaps pull out a 9mm if im in a particularly destructive mood and 
 commit mass homicide. THIS is the reason why the game is so great, you can do all things imaginable, 
 with the biggest consequence being a slight concussion and a small dent in your wallet, waking 
 up outside a hospital. What seperates this installment from its predecessors is the aesthetic splender, 
 harnessing such technology as HDR, motion blur and high-definition output (for those lucky ones) . 
 All these elements are woven together with an immersive story-line to create a game that has a 
 serious amount of playability. Not only does it set a new benchmark for games as a whole, it is 
 one of the first games that pushes the power of your xbox 360 into an early retirement.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hova63
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  They usually make a very big deal of a game then it turns out to be crap but for the GTA series 
 I can say they never let us down same game play new features with excellent stories kind of long 
 but excellent stories. This game doesn't deserve anything under a 10 GTA has always deliver for 
 the users of GTA in every series. My only question is how long will it takes before some little 
 old grandma buys it for her grandson and then finds him playing it and see what they do in the 
 alley with the different angles. This game isn't made for the kids I hope we don't have another 
 San Andreas on our hands. But for the mean time play on playas. I wonder will the have new maps 
 or even weapons and vehicles I notice alot of the vehicles are cars we see on the street but the 
 need to put more of the top line cars on to I would love to see a bentley, aston martin or even 
 ducati's for bikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  This is the most addicting Grand thef auto yet.. I will not lie to you I have all the grand theft 
 autos from Part 3 to Sanandreas and haven't beaten any of them from pure frustration and boredom. But 
 I decided that I would come back to the series by purchase of the newest to the series I have to 
 say after playing six hours straight the only reason I turn this very addicting master piece off 
 because i got sleepy not from boredom. This time Rockstar went all out and did everything that gamers 
 had a demand for in this series. This game has something that every one of them should have had 
 easier ability to lose the cops and my favorite GPS every car in the game has this with the choice 
 to turn it off. Theres so much to do its ridiculously fun even after six hours of play I only completed 
 8 percent of the game so far. The graphics manage to maintain that unique Grandtheft auto artistic 
 look while keeping up with the pretty high deft competiton out there. Spending $60 bucks on all 
 these improvements Rockstar did is well worth it I haven't even skim the surface of half the improvements 
 they made Im not one for hyping up anything that doesn't deserve it but if you have only one game 
 you can afford to buy for your PSN or 360 make this one your choice. I have to say to all of Jack 
 Thompson's personal friends and family you need to stop posting all the negative reviews on this 
 site or anywhere else because this game is what all the hype say it is fu...... king dope. I haven't 
 even started playing multiplayer yet from playing the story and multiplayer is my favorite thing. One 
 word left BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogman666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  the freedom you have to do is simply amazing the features they have added are just totally redicuous 
 (in a good way) the AI is megatons better. The only improvement they needed is. They should not 
 have lied on the back of the saying its supported 1080P when it only runs at 640p which is barely 
 HD at all. but do not misqoute it still looks B-E-A-utiful on a big screen but it would have looked 
 even better had they pushed the HD further. the outside things to do such as seeing the girlfriends 
 and hanging out with the family member in the game seems much more natural. I have the PS3 version 
 it runs smooth I hope it looks the same on the 360 as well so no one is less fourtunate. in seeing 
 what this game offers. The car damage seems alot more real also it does not break apart as easily 
 as before. one thing that makes it harder now is trying to evade the police which is a good thing. 
 well I have got to get back in the city it was hard staying away the few mins just to type this 
 up. If for some reason you do not have this title go get it RIGHT NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cereo1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I bought this and want to write a quick review for those on the fence.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  They are okay; the face and character models are decent at best. The story flows off the characters 
 and I find it disappointing the models are only mediocre. They are hardly high-class next generation 
 graphics but the graphics are acceptable, just not amazing.
  
  Game play: 8
  
  Same game as before basically. Why fix what's not broken, right? Well the game play is fun, but 
 it is a little repetitive. Especially if you played the other games in the series, it's just not 
 revolutionary by any means. 
  
  Sounds: 10
  
  Sounds are great, really makes the town feel alive. There are almost too many great sounds at some 
 points. People are talking to you, the radio is playing a nice song, the environment is buzzing 
 with interesting sounds, it is really easy to appreciate this.
  
  
  
  That is all I am going to review, we all know the replay value is a 10 for a sandbox game. But 
 the main point here is this game is not a 10 in my mind. A 10 goes to a game that doesn't just 
 do everything right, which this game more or less does, but it breaks past new barriers. This game 
 just builds off what it has already done and adds a couple new elements, while dropping some old 
 elements.
  
  Like most, I can't review the multiplayer yet because it wouldn't work for me yet. That however, 
 doesn't have bearing to my score. I don't denounce the game because of a small bug that will be 
 fixed shortly.
  
  
  Final verdict: 
  
  This game is great if you appreciated the other games in the series. It's not a "must buy" though 
 if you never did care for the series. It's just an old game that improves on a lot of aspects and 
 is lost in some others.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: torg123
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  This is a good game and when they fix it it will be great, but Certainly not a ten. How can a reviewer 
 say in one breath its "not without its flaws", and then give it a 10. I thought 10 meant perfect. 
 I have only played this for 10 hour and have been plagued by lock ups and realy bad camera shifting 
 which make it extremely dificult to drive. even so I do see greatness in this game, when they fix 
 it. Remember Lair. That game had massive hype and then reviewers bashed the *** out of it because 
 of bugs in the game play. But they did fix the game and now it is very good. Not to compair this 
 to Lair, but who paid these guys off to give it a Perfect 10. This game does not have the "I just 
 can't put down the controller to go eat dinner" feel to it. It's good, and fun, even a great game 
 well worth its money, but NOT PERFECT, NOT EVEN THE BEST GAME OF THE YEAR.
  
  I give it a 8 when its fixed . May be I'll change my mind when I play more than 10 hours, but I 
 just don't see it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  rockstar games always fails to displease us with video games unless there delayed but GTA IV is 
 the best I've played it's better than oblivion better than saint rows better than all know video 
 games Evan the sims the 2008 or 2007 setting wait maybe thats why it was delayed but i kept asking 
 where they lambos and they where i like lambos nice cars but need to unlock bad for that but the 
 radio Lazlow Jones u may know him you may have read hes not in gta iv but he is i am a fan of lazlow 
 not that much but when they whee music of my taste lazlow was there evan in vc my taste and lazlow 
 = great radio yep but in san andreas laslow had only 5 min but there where more humor like the 
 dude who shot the guy thinking it was on safe lol but the detail is great and the plot i like it 
 that it is in 2007/08 but the bad thing is its the best and hard to get sometimes and Evan Jack 
 Thompson has a copy yeah go to google and put in his name then go to wikipedia then you see lol 
 ok this is the end of the review thumbs up cos you know it its so good its hard to describe and 
 if your a gta fan give me thumbs up cos thats an real gta fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonygamerchick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  I could not wait to get my hands on this game... and watching the launch video the night of the 
 release hastened my anticipation of the release. And it was well worth the wait.
  
  I only gave it a 9.5 because there are some glitches. I've had a couple of freezes already, they 
 were minor, and the game came right back after a few seconds... but it's annoying none-the-less.
 
  
  Liberty City comes alive. Every detail has been precisely created to mimic the mini-world of NYC. 
 From the sounds of the horns in the street and the slight squealing of breaks... it reminds me 
 exactly of NYC. 
  
  And detail is what this game brings to the table to enhance the gameplay. Even when you brake abruptly 
 or turn sharply, if you have a backseat passenger (Michelle in the beginning for a reference) the 
 characters bob with the force, just like in the real world. The cars react to the weather, the 
 asphalt glisens in the headlights... it's just truly amazing to see how far games have come.
  
  Niko is a likable character, even though I'm sure we're going to do some despicable things 
 with him as a character in LC. But as a screenwriter I know, even if your "bad guy" is the main 
 character, you have to make him likable in order for anyone to root for them. He's funny, he's 
 smart, and he's fun to listen to.
  
  Definitely a game you must have for your collection of PS3 games. The money is well worth it as 
 well as was the wait.
  
  Now if they could only get the online thing fixed so I can test that out... maybe I could have 
 inched it up to a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best Grand Theft Auto experience to date but falls short of perfection. Check 
 it out below...
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics are much improved over the last gen games but is not as good as other games on the 
 console. Rain effects look fantastic and the change from night to day is pretty nice. Character 
 models look decent as well.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Outstanding voiceovers and free world conversations can be heard all over. Many many more radio 
 stations and songs to listen to. Rockstar did a good job here.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Vehicle controls can be a bit wonky at times but the overall feel of the game is pretty damn good. 
 Use of the cell phone is a great idea and really give this game a more realistic feel. Especially 
 the dating and such.
  
  Overall 9.25/10
  Its close but the game is not perfect. The game has froze twice on me now which obviously stops 
 me from giving the game a 10 right there. Hopefully a patch is out soon but if you want a game 
 that will keep you busy for months on end then this game is the game you want. Even with the random 
 freezes I can't stop playing this game. Thank god for autosave!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coa17ch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Once you finally manage to get past the loading, the game starts to take off. The controls are 
 more or less the same as the previous GTA's. The driving controls however, I thought left a little 
 more to be desired. To me the controls seemed a little sluggish in certain points and too tight 
 in others. If you try to take a turn, most likely if you are new to the game, (which we all are 
 at this point) , you are going to spin out and take out a few pedestrians. If you don't mind spending 
 some time trying to figure out how to control the cars before starting on the missions, I guess 
 this isn't that bad. If your anything like me, you want to just jump right into the missions. On 
 a good note, I noticed the transition from area to area was a lot smoother. The graphics were crisper 
 and smoother. Although, like many others I was unable to play online. With that aside, I give this 
 game an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Act-Naturally
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game a while back and picked it up from gametraders on the 29th (its release) 
 when i got home i played it for 7hours non stop. not even for food. i just couldn't put it down. 
 it put a $120 dent in my pocket but it was completly worth it. 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  i gave it ten out of ten because this game is massive. the map is HUGE the detail is dence and 
 this game even close up looks amazing. for its size it is a huge feat.
  
  Story 10/10 
  the story in this game is one that pulls you in from the very beginning. your main character Niko 
 Bellic its an eastern european immagrant who is looking for a new start in liberty city. im not 
 going to say anything else mainly because i can't be bothered. with that said the story line is 
 alot different from VC SA an III because all the missions are realistic but still challenging and 
 fun.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Yes, i am dissapointed to that GTA IV still didnt get perfect tens. but no game is perfect, GTA 
 IV come pretty freakin close but no. the gameplay is one that takes abit of dieing and practice 
 to get around. because you always walk unless you hold down the sprint button. it can be frustraiting 
 in fast paced gun fights when you want to move from cover to cover qwickly. driving once again 
 takes alot of crashing to get your head around but i think its better because its alot more realistic 
 than all the other GTA's.
  
  Over all 10/10 
  even though the gameplay is a bit stiff this is still an amazing game. every Playstation 3 and 
 Xbox 360 owner should have this game. its beatutiful, fun, funny and extreemly worth what you pay 
 for. every one at rockstargames deserves a medal and this is defenently a fast runner for game 
 of the year.
  
  Act-Naturally 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theducksfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  if u love gta, u will love it. if u didnt like other gta then dont bother. its not enough diff to 
 change anyones mind about the franchise. it is better in every way to previous gta, but still the 
 same. the biggest improvment to me is how immersive the game is. i say for sure a buy but im a 
 gta fan. by the way im sick of the 360 and thier owners. crappy system. way overhyped games. like 
 gears, 6 hour game, run take cover on something u didnt want to, shoot a guy 8500 times and repeat. halo 
 3 is at least fun, but is so arcade like that it gets old quik. mass effect had a good story but 
 a terrible terrible 3rd person shooter element. i used to own a 360. traded it for a ps3. love my 
 ps3. 360 best games are also on ps3 cod 4, gta 4. now with the ps3 having by far the most exclusives 
 comming out u would be an idiot not to get one. the reason the ps3 came out when it did with a 
 small amount of games was to win the blu ray war and they did, and now the most biggest and best 
 games are all coming to ps3. like mgs 4, killzone 2, resistance 2, final fantasy, socom, god of 
 war 3, little big planent, and so many more. i love it. not to mention home that blow xbox live 
 away, plus its free. ps3 rules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Criminals are an ugly, cowardly lot more worthy of pity and disdain than admiration. This is what 
 you'll learn playing through the single-player campaign in Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto IV. The 
 series cheered (and criticized) for glorifying violence has taken an unexpected turn: it's gone 
 legit. Oh sure, you'll still blow up cop cars, run down innocent civilians, bang hookers, assist 
 drug dealers and lowlifes and do many, many other bad deeds, but at a cost to main character Niko 
 Bellic's very soul. GTA IV gives us characters and a world with a level of depth previously unseen 
 in gaming and elevates its story from a mere shoot-em-up to an Oscar-caliber drama. Every facet 
 of Rockstar's new masterpiece is worthy of applause. Without question, Grand Theft Auto IV is the 
 best game since Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time.
  
  You play as Niko Bellic, an Eastern European attempting to escape his past and the horrors of the 
 Bosnian war. He arrives in Liberty City to experience the American dream, only to discover his 
 cousin, Roman, may have fibbed a bit in his tales of success. Starting from nothing, Niko makes 
 a living as a killer and enforcer, a bad-ass foreigner who appears to have no morals. The longer 
 we stay with Niko, the more we see that there is a broken human being inside, one who would give 
 anything to escape the person he once was.
  
  Don't worry, GTA's famed over-the-top action and tongue-in-cheek humor are intact, but there is 
 a new level of sophistication in the characters and the game world that raises the story above 
 the norm. As Niko becomes mired in the death throes of American organized crime, he begins to become 
 more self-aware. Niko's struggles with his ruthless nature never inhibit the gameplay, but instead 
 enhance the emotional gravity of a brilliant storyline. The more absurd the action becomes, the 
 greater we feel the very real pathos of Niko Bellic.
  
  Much of the credit goes to the artists at Rockstar North who created as believable a city as possible. 
 Liberty City is inspired by New York, but not beholden to it. While there are many parallels, Liberty 
 exists in its own universe and rightfully so. Many open-world games have cities that feel as if 
 they existed only from the moment you first turned on your console, but Liberty City looks lived 
 in. It's an old city and each block has its own vibe and its own history. 
  
  Drive around Liberty City and you'll be able to identify each individual block. Though Liberty 
 is filled with brownstones and a myriad of similar brick buildings, you can tell one from the other, 
 just as you can in New York. Go to an affluent neighborhood and the street is likely to be newly 
 paved, the pedestrians better dressed, the cops more plentiful. But head to Dukes or Bohan and 
 you'll find streets nearly stripped of asphalt, homeless people wandering about aimlessly and criminals 
 preying on the weak.
  
  Watch the people and you'll witness some amazing things. At one point, I saw a woman stopped at 
 a light, looking in the rearview mirror right before she was rear-ended by a man ogling a girl 
 on the street. The man got out of his car and went to the woman, checking to see if she was okay. 
 This had nothing to do with Niko or a single action I took. These were the citizens of Liberty 
 City going about their day. And it was just one moment in a day full of incidents.
  
  Hang in one area of the city long enough and you'll see how traffic and pedestrian flow changes 
 as the day progresses. When it rains, people bring out umbrellas or shield themselves with a newspaper 
 and run for an awning. Cops chase petty thieves unaware that walking down the street is Niko Bellic, 
 cold-blooded killer. There's a perfect balance of mumbling doomsayers to remind you that the reason 
 this city never sleeps is because it's full of nut jobs. People go about their day, only altering 
 course when Niko inserts himself into their lives with his crappy driving or excellent marksmanship.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxsparkson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has been one of the most hyped up games in recent years, and for good reason. There are 
 countless great new features that there would never be enough time to cover them all in my small 
 player review here. This is easily the best GTA game in the whole series, but that is probably 
 easy to say compared to the differences of this game and the past few installments of the other 
 three sandbox styled GTA games. Some of the great new features being highlighted are the arrival 
 of online gameplay, supporting up to 16 people at once in a game, the new, useful, cover system 
 being used, virtually no loading screens excluding the very first one ( I say virtually because 
 people say there are some, but i personally have not experienced any yet) , and the re-done TW@ 
 internet cafe, with many interesting websites done in great detail. One of my favorite features 
 is the ability to now watch tv in the game. This has a very different feel to it than the last 
 grand theft auto, but this one will grow on you and is much more likeable than the last set of 
 characters and style in GTA san andreas. Overall, i give Grand Theft Auto IV, 9.5 russian hitmen-for-hire, 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ak47goodfella
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a perfect 10/10... so lets get to the point... I'm not going to suger coat 
 it or make up stuff... I have the game and almost done with the story-line but I can give you a 
 heads up on what you will get your self into when you get the game.
  
  The missions are GTA style, you steal cars, gun down people who mess with your crew and pimp ho's.... BUT 
 the story feels more to the point and less jokeing around. Niko is a guy that justs wants to do 
 right and run away from his past which was not soo pretty.
  
  LC is not bigger then SA BUT it will feel bigger just becuase of all the detail R* put into the 
 city. The peds don't just walk on sidewalks looking retarded anymore... they act like real people 
 now. Put it this way LC is a video game city you have to see to believe.
  
  The engine is crazy... Niko reacts like a real human, like if you run across the street with out 
 looking you will most likely get hit by a car and it WILL hurt Niko like **** he will get up and 
 walk away as if he is really hurt. The very 1st thing your going to notice is the cars and driveing, 
 they now have weight and need to be handled with care.
  
  GTA IV is a MUST have video game... I say go to your nearest game shop and buy it befor it's all 
 sold out because it's selling like hot cakes fresh out the oven!!!!
  
  P. S I have yet to play online yet so I really don't know what that is like but I will after I beat 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blabbito
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  When you begin GTA IV you may have some doubts. When you analyze the graphics pixel by pixel to 
 judge the nextgen engine you may have some doubts. When you have your first crash with your newly 
 stolen car to check the realism you may have some doubts. When you first shot your first cop with 
 a shotgun and the blood splatters on the wall or on the cars wind-shield you may have some doubts. 
 When you take your in game girlfriend on a date to watch a hilarious stand-up comedy show you may 
 have some doubts. When you give some head-shots to some friends on the all-new multiplayer mode 
 screaming "finally!!" you may have some doubts. But, my friends, when you watch the expressions 
 of Nico and every other character when they react on the marvelous story circumstances then you 
 will have no doubt that this game is gone have lots of Oscar nominations. And maybe it should win 
 them all. Best interactive movie alongside Metal Gear Solid series. The Godfather of the crime 
 video games. Just try it and get lots of pop corn too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realSHOTKILL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is here! It seems like the other day I first popped Grand Theft Auto III into 
 my brand new PS2. lol.
  
  GAMEPLAY: GTA IV is amazing in general. Every mission I have played so far has been absolutely 
 amazing. You can do everything in this game.... everything. You can watch TV, call someone up if 
 you wanna eat, go to a bar and get drunk, drive around drunk... this game is everything a gamer 
 could ever want: Freedom.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in GTA IV are top-notch. Sometimes during the cutscenes they look a bit 
 sloppy but during the actual game they look stunning. The explosions look absolutely amazing. 
 
  
  SOUND: The game also sounds amazing. The explosions sound awesome. and the radio stations feel 
 like you're actually in the car listening to random russian music. The voice acting is amazing 
 even though the mouths are a bit to slow for the words. But that's in every single game out there, 
 so you can't really judge that. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Of what i have played of the multiplayer, it seems like it is going to be amazing. 
 I obviously have the PS3 version of the game, and I got the game at launch. So I didn't really 
 play good games because everyone is obviously focused on the storyline. I played a bit of the cops 
 and robbers and its really awesome. I got 2 of my friends to buy the game and we went online and 
 just shot at eachother in Liberty City. LOADS OF FUN!
  
  OVERALL: GTA IV is a must own game. I don't know any other game that fulfills my 60 dollar purchase. 
 If you own a PlayStation 3 or an Xbox 360, you MUST by this game. Grand Theft Auto IV is the best 
 game i've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampirejack
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm getting tired of this crap. I bought Assassin's Creed (reserved it) the day it came out. Before 
 releasing a patch to fix the freezing issue i had already beaten the game. I had Encountered 14 
 freeze/lock-ups on that game. Alas, i go and buy my copy of GTA IV the day it comes out only to 
 find..... YES.... another fuggin FREEZING/Lock-up issue. I have had 3 lock-ups in just the beginning 
 of the game itsef (up to the point when you first get to your cousin's house. granted i haven't 
 had a "Permanent" lock-up since (only tons of lag that froze my screen for about 2-3 seconds at 
 a time. PROBLEMS like this should be thorougly tested on all versions of the system PRE-release. 
 I refuse to give a game a 10 out of 10 unless serious bugs like these are weeded out. You can't 
 have a perfect game with freeze-ups hindering your play time. BUYER BEWARE! we shouldn't have to 
 wait a month again for a patch for this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IHatePipe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  OK - So your thinking it has been too long between GTA releases! I am with you on that! Rockstar 
 needs to release these titles a little sooner than 3 1/2 years! But onto the review.
  
  So far after about 6-7 hours of play I am impressed! There is so much to do... so much to see and 
 so many places to go! I found some pigeons and blew them away already. I have been bowling and 
 to a stip club and shot some pool! All things I do in real life.
  
  Niko is a pretty cool guy. His accent is a little thick but that is alright. I'm thinking by the 
 end of this story he will want to go back home or something like that. That is my prediction.
 
  
  Well I recommend you get this game if you are 18 or older. Kids shouldn't play this game (yet) . 
 When they turn 18 then have at it! I was at the store and a mom asked me about the game and I told 
 her if her son was 17+ she should get it for him. He ended up with Mario Kart! OH WELL!
  
  Commandrow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda101280
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  **Minor spoilers in this read, nothing major as I'm not that far in**
  
  
  This is less of a review and more of a short praise to this game. I played through the first handful 
 of missions so far, enough so that I could get a feel for the game and I must say it very well 
 done. If you've played other GTA games a lot is still the same, which isn't bad as GTA has always 
 been a quality franchise but there are a lot of tweaks that improve the experience in this installment. 
 Graphics obviously are at the core of that but more than anything the story in this game is just 
 great so far. I mean it literally has me laughing almost all the time and unlike most games you 
 actually never want to skip through the cutscenes. One reason is b/c they're information, you get 
 your mission briefings in them but also they are just great, the humor is spot on and all the actions 
 and individual personalities are just great. All the characters are very unique and the voice acting 
 is pretty good also.
  
  Car handling is still probably one of the main challenges in GTA though, but that's to be expected 
 I guess. Police are easier to escape, as they now show you the escape radius you need to achieve 
 to lose the coppers. One thing I found cool, for some missions you need to steel a cop car, reasons 
 for it can vary but if you can't locate one, you can call 911 on your cell phone and a cop will 
 come to your location ripe for the jacking. :) 
  
  So far I haven't found many downsides to GTA4, as I said the driving remains the same challenge 
 as in previous games but that's not really a downside. So far the only thing that has really annoyed 
 me about the game is the lighting in some situations. Basically when it gets dark in Liberty City 
 it really gets dark. There's one mission where you have to kill a guy for a contact named Vlad. 
 He runs up on a roof at one point and it's so dark that you can't really find your way around (you 
 have to go up some ladders and steps) . Now the guy doesn't outrun you so it's nice that you can't 
 fail the mission b/c of this but it's still annoying trying to find your way for 10 minutes. This 
 may be somewhat realistic but annoying just the same.
  
  Anyway, for me the best part about GTA4 is the story, it is literally the funniest story in a game 
 I've ever seen, it really draws you in and makes you want to keep playing. I also love the Little 
 Jacob, he's Jamaican and his accent is hilarious; it's funny b/c you can see Niko can barely understand 
 him at times and he expresses that in game and at the same time I'm thinking the same thing lol. 
 Very good stuff. :)
  
  I chose "Immersive" to describe this game b/c the story really brings you in and makes you feel 
 like part of the game, I especially took pleasure in killing Vlad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belzebubthe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok it's 4 AM in the morning so go easy on me. I'll keep it real short.
  
  The previous GTA games were different. After some time playing those games I found myself pissed 
 off a mission I can't accomplish the 21th time I try and started to kill people randomly in the 
 city for fun. It is fun but playing the missions are more fun. Which I couldn't because I either 
 suck in completing them or there might be some other reason who cares, I don't. Well in GTA4 the 
 missions and the difficulty is just perfectly set. I played quite some on the missions and no random 
 massacre yet (sooner or later it will happen) and that's great! The only reason I gave 9.5 is because 
 the driving. I'm from europe and I don't know what kind of cars you guys use in the USA but it's 
 kind of insane how badly the cars turn in GTA4. Crappy suspension makes them jump and spin out 
 all the time on low speeds. It's not realistic and makes it hard to control any of the cars. 
 
  
  Other than that, GTA4 rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matureboy17
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Ok i just purchased gta 4 today and i played for 1 hour already and the game was just so great 
 because it has a life now. There are still some cons i don't like.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are excellent but could be too dark sometimes which was the only con i ever gone out 
 with. The graphics are my least favorite though. Some building interiors looked great. Most of 
 all there were not many buildings to enter and looked still great at nightfall.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The gameplay was great. Except with not very many buildings to enter especially 
 in brokers. The AI was very good and many pedestrians were at lives and the police where smart 
 as hell. The gameplay could have gotten a little higher if more buildings had interiors. Some features 
 from SA were missing but that ok. The best part was AI, the lives, and the smarter cops and last 
 but not least the euphoria engine!
  
  Controls: 7.5/10
  The controls were a little hard at first but got pretty good after a while. They could feel stiff 
 at first when driving but get easier with experience.
  
  Presentation: 8/10
  Rockstar promised to put certain stuff in the game but some are missing like the "number of buildings 
 you can go into" and the detail in them" was a little lie because some were only accessible. Rockstar 
 should learn to keep promises a little more efficiently.
  
  Final score: 8.5/10
  Its an very good game which continues to get more fun as it lives on. Buy it because it is great.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I was overwhelmed by how great the gameplay was and the 
 story line. I was hooked. The graphics are in no way the best in a game, but destructions, explosions, 
 and bullet holes make this game that much more intense. What makes this game truly shine is the 
 story. The voice acting is some of the best I have ever heard in a game, ever. The online mode, 
 although not the best, is great addition to an already great game. After I beat the game and had 
 played the online mode numerous times, I felt as if there was something missing in this game compared 
 to San Andreas. It was the lack of variety in guns, aircraft, and things to do. It kind of felt 
 a little repetitive and it seemed like there wasn't that much to do after you realize the story 
 is over. For that reason alone, I gave this game a 9. I still consider this to be a great game, 
 one of the best of this generation, but I still thing it was a little overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfirpsyko7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  First off i have been waiting for this game forever counting it down every single day, just dying 
 to get my hands on it. ive been playing these games ever since i was a little kid and ive always 
 fallen in love with everything about them i mean there just plain amazing. So last night my dad 
 and me showed up at gamestop at 10:00 for the midnight release sat and stood on a hard floor for 
 2 hours and 1 minute ( legally released at 12:01) just in the same spot waiting for my copy of 
 GTA 4 to be in my hands. the clock finally hits 12:01 and my dad hands them my ticket and i finally 
 have it in my hands. I got it home so excited to play it and when i pop it in the first thing i 
 notice are the amazing visuals and i know good and well that this is as good as its going to get 
 . The single player is amazingly addicting. Niko Bellic is an amazing protagonist im already falling 
 in love with his character. The multiplayer is just to good to be true but it is true! and everything 
 altogether just makes the perfect game! i havent got to play it long enough to get into the good 
 stuff but i already absolutely love it.
  
  my score is a perfect 10/10 (i would give it infinite/10 if possible haha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prodigy220
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I've heard some people say this game is too hard, or its too dark. If its too hard, you suck at 
 video games, and if its too dark, change the settings on your tv. Im playing on a 40 inch 1080p 
 with 50,000:1 contrast ratio and this game is amazing. If you look at the entire city it all looks 
 good. The storyline makes me want to never take a break, and when im not playing, im thinking about 
 playing. This is by far the best GTA yet, the only thing i havent figured out is if there is car 
 customization of not. I love this game, i waited outside in freezing weather, literally (it was 
 30 degrees) for 4 hours for this game, and it was all worth it. I have it for the PS3, and besides 
 the initial install, which saves time later. The gameplay is immersive and the gun fights are intense. 
 This game is more realistic than other GTA's, but its good. Theres not as many weapons, and it 
 takes a long time to open up the other areas around the city. I also like the toll bridges and 
 the amount of detail that was added to this game. This is the must buy game for 2008, with out 
 question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Jackman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, when I started playing it, I didn't felt that I was actually playing a new game, 
 except for the graphics. But after my first ride with a car, I learned otherwise. 
  
  All I can say, is that this game is maximized. Take Two is gonna have an awfull task to top this 
 really. It all works splendid. A lot of minor features added, what to say, where to start. This 
 is complex. 
  
  So let's not. There's to much. A detailed damage model for each car, the cars handle very difficult, 
 wich is awesome. When you hit certain walls cracks apear and barely any person on the street looks 
 the same. 
  
  Anyway! All I want to say here, is that Gamespot gave the first 10 to a game in 7 years! Somebit 
 deserved maybe, but maybe not completly. In the first place, they shouldn't had given the previous 
 games a 10, really. 10 means perfect, and nothing is. There are some minor flaws, such as when 
 you step into a car with a motorbike helmet on, it flashes away. But that's about it! Oh yeh, the 
 map is smaller then in San Andreas. But as far as that goes, I don't have many more to mock the 
 game for. Seriously, if you got an PS3 or Xbox, GET THIS! It's superb.
  
  But a 10? A 100%? Is GTA IV a job that just couldn't be done any better? You got to be realistic. 
 So I'm sorry, I've got to stick with a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamenerd001
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  yo gta 4 owned this everyone knows that. this is so cool i dont belive this 10/10 that is sick 
 man beat halo, gears of war, cod4, all those combined and they got there but kicked lol i wonder 
 how bill gates feels that computer nerd well i am nerd in games tho but not school lmfao who rates 
 this under 9 have no taste and r **** i dont wanna get banned lol hahahah gta4 owned this k this 
 owned everything and because of this ps3 sales rose over xbox wow by alot man alot!!!! u know wut 
 i mean this is cool to cool and gangsta, lol halo is like lil wayne trying to be tupac hahahah 
 thats to funny. aright this si to cool man to cool gta ownsss everything ownzzzzzz ownzzzzzzz ownzzzzzzz 
 this is to gangsta best game for this generation console, well look i have taste in games everyone 
 call em game nerd and i know everything aboput gta, and other games well i hate halo its prett 
 wierd ur shooting imanginary monsters i say cod4 is way better then halo but gta4 is better then 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokey2003
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Bad things: Some cars are too realistic in that you being a maniac is met with swerving off the 
 road, but this is remedied later in the game when you find some cars that handle better. Niko's 
 lean while walking is... strange.
  
  The friendly AI problems I haven't had yet, but I trust gamespot.
  
  Ok those are the bad things, 
 so far. I didn't want to list the good things because that would have taken me a week. When you 
 get right down to it, it's another GTA and under the mask of all this new stuff, it really doesn't 
 play out much differently. This isn't bad, though, as the familiarity will be welcomed as a safety 
 from all that extra learning you have to do :)
  
  If you aren't planning on playing this games, it HAS to be because you hate games in general OR 
 because you're like Jack Thompson. Both of these things make you suck.
  
  Buy it, play it, you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiltz04
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is a great installment for the next gen systems...
  
  Visually- The game visually is impressive on both the 360 and the PS3... Liberty City is more detailed 
 then ever and the lighting changes that occur from night to day are very realistic. When shooting 
 the rocket launcher the rocket swirls in the air eventually exploding on its target. Very realistic 
 explosions. 
  
  Sound- The Music in this game is perfect. Fits the criteria of the game and makes it much better 
 to play when having some good tunes to listen to. The crashes and gun sounds are somewhat improved 
 from previous grand theft auto's.
  
  Gameplay- Same old Grand Theft Auto gameplay BUTTTT with the new installment of gears of war shooting 
 style makes the game absolutely perfect. The game AI at times does get a little goofed up if that 
 was not already mentioned... But enemies in most cases are very alert and fight just as you would 
 hiding and defending there lives. Great Story as well....
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is the best i have ever seen in any game for the most part.. With 
 many different modes to choose from and for what size of the city your allowed to cover it is absolutely 
 amazing as to what they have done... BEST PART OF THE GAME BY FAR!
  
  OVERALL: JUST BUY AND PLAY YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!! 
  
  Overall GTA4 is a must buy for 
 either the 360 or the PS3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truenextgen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Is grand theft auto everything it is hyped up to be. For the new younger gamer. The fan of still 
 art. And motionless beauty. No. For the fan of what games were, and still supposed to be. Its vary 
 much everything its hyped up to be. First off you wont notice any Cod4 tiny level super graphics 
 here. But the art style applied to this gigantic canvas is beautiful. This is GTA as it as in alot 
 of ways. And as a new in so many other ways. GTA is vary much a style. And after good 7 hours, 
 that style has you sucked in, full go. 
  
  
  The physics are about 10 times better than in the past GTA's. Games that only got 9s lol. The car 
 physics are loose. But controllable. If your willing to drive. For those not willing to drive. 
 And rather do the 5 year old, hold and go stomp. They could be in for some trouble. Brakes are 
 needed in this one. But night time traffic adjusting helps too. The fighting and gun physics are 
 way better, than in the past "9 out of 10" GTA games. The cover system, is better than anything 
 GTA has ever seen in tis gun fighting. And the analog trigger allowing to free aim and auto. Its 
 my favorite gun feature. Kinda odd at first. But so easy and well done, when you get it down. And 
 the physics of people hitting cars. Movement. It all feels good. It all runs with whats going on, 
 and flows. 
  
  
  The size of GTA is not what most say. I think some were expecting a Vice City sized game. Its much 
 larger. And if you count road miles and detailed different areas. And not square feet. Its not 
 much smaller then GTA SA. The game is massive still. With tuns to do "more than ever before." When 
 you get into a high place at night. And marvel at the other islands you came from. Or are yet to 
 get to. You know GTA is back. 
  
  Tiny new details are fun to. Dating, bowling, Pool is better this time. Also scenic cab rides and 
 scenic rail rides. Are just tiny little "of what is many" frosting on the cake. Theirs so much!!! 
 And thats gaming folks. Thats GTA gaming. Attention to those tiny things. Those tiny things to 
 bring you into that world,, not to just shoot and do mission. But to make you feel as if you live 
 in this full city. Free to do whatever you want. Thats the key. And they do it well. 
  
  
  GTA is Still a game for the gamer. Whats left of them. So the new young FPS only jock bunch 
 "that say their gamers" may not get it. As many wont get MGS4. But the gamers have spoken also, 
 and do get it. This is he first great game this gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  in one word - amazing, everything about this game is fantastic, the story is an instant classic, 
 the city itself feels so alive, bellic is a genuinely fantastic character, the radios are better 
 than ever before, the multiplayer is even better than call of duty 4's online mode, just perfect. 
 I couldn't beleive that at 12.00 this morning I promised myself I would play GTA for 1 hour, then 
 go to bed, I looked at the clock, started playing, looked back at the clock, and it was 3.30, SERIOUSLY. 
 The moment you play this game, your life will change for the better, but be warned, DON'T buy this 
 game if you have exams coming up, your bound to fail if you play this, because it's so immersing 
 and basically, just plain fun. This is honestly the first ever game I have really been impressed 
 about, because everything is just right, from the gameplay, right down to the views in the city, 
 it honestly is a perfect game that you will be playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keebthesquee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  First of all, i want to say that i really like this game. I want to love it, i really do... but 
 for some reason i feel as if it's missing a certain something in order for my stimuli to obtain 
 that feeling. kapeesh?
  
  well, here it goes. 
  
  Gameplay- Overall, the shooting mechanics are great... there is the automatic aiming and the over 
 the shoulder fps type aiming ... and let me tell you, they are both great. A great improvement 
 over the other GTA titles. As for mobility, i find that he runs a bit slowish... but i don't really 
 mind that. What really bothers me is the driving, good lord... the driving. That's the only thing 
 that is bothering me. If the driving was perfect like everything else... this would be a perfect 
 ten. But with a game that is called GRAND THEFT AUTO.... you think the driving would be finely 
 tuned.... or fun in this manner. I find myself running into cars and walls while making turns going 
 30 miles an hour or so. If i recall... i don't remember spinning out of control trying to make 
 a right turn going 30.... seriously? THE DRIVING IS SLUGGISH. But, oh well. Right? 
  Anyways, i really like the taxi idea. You can call a taxi and they will take you to any various 
 points in the city, saving you alot of time and frustration. : ]
  
  Sound: I LOVE IT. the music is great.... they did a really good job putting together a soundtrack 
 for this game. The sfx are top notch. mhm. 
  
  Graphics: Well, ummm....... the graphics are to die for. A game of this scale is amazing all in 
 itself... but to make the entire city finely detailed is an amazing feat. i give it a ten out ten 
 for graphics. 
  
  Tamagotchi mechanics: Yeah, you have to feed Nicco and sleep and what not..... It's pretty much 
 like you are living a second life. but i do enjoy buying new clothes for my character. i think 
 that is nice. Then there is the dating .... hahaha... that is fun. That's all i am going to say 
 about that. Or well, my first date went well for a while, until i ran into a small fake river at 
 the mini golf course and drowned her. LOL. 
  
  Value: There is alot to do in this game... i know that for sure. The game is only as fun as you 
 are. That's a good way of putting it. If you are violent... the game can be a chaotic masterpiece. 
 If you are a goody two shoes.... then that is entirely possible as well. If you are a story driven 
 freak, then this is the game for you. The only thing i find horrible about the story, is that the 
 main characters cousin is very annoying... and i just do not care for him at all. And the jamaican 
 guy gave me a headache. the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAmom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics fell a little below expectations. But I love the new features and camera angles. As a 
 Brooklyn New Yorker I have to say, accurate representation!!
  I wish they wouldn't have changed the controls so much. I keep getting busted by accident. Like 
 all new users, you try different buttons to see which does what. I keep accidentally shooting people 
 and getting busted!!! Also, stealing a car is much more difficult. In Vice City, you'd gain a wanted 
 level if the car had an alarm. In San Andreas, you just got in and drove no problem. Now you have 
 to smash windows and hope that there is no alarm and the cops aren't watching. I love it!! Much 
 more realistic and increases the level of difficulty.
  I've been using X (on PS2 & 3) to drive (accelerate) for 6 years. Now it's R2. It's very hard to 
 get used to. But that's what makes it fun I guess....
  This game is much harder than San Andreas, Vice City or 3 which I'm sure was Rockstar's intention. 
 Well done my friends. Well done!
  I live in Coney Island and can't wait to ride the Screamer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chooch-A-Doo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I didn't do too much reading about this game because I wanted to just play it and be surprised. 
 Well, holy crap am I surprised. The single player is just a masterpiece. I can't be happier about 
 the gameplay. I'm gonna keep it short because I want to get back at it. I haven't tried the multiplayer 
 yet because I didn't realize there even was multiplayer. I'm waiting for a system update then I'm 
 going to give it a shot.
  
  This was soooo worth the wait. Probably want to put the kids to bed or send them away for a couple 
 of months because it's pretty gritty. Thanks Rockstar! You didn't disappoint.
  
  I don't want to do anything but play this game. I'm glad I have some vacation time coming up. You 
 lose track of time playing this game. Picked it up at midnight and started playing and all of the 
 sudden it was time for me to go to work and it was 7am. Called in sick and sent my boy to grandma 
 and grandpa's for the day!
  
  Simply put, buy this game. You will not be disappointed. There's so much to do you won't get bored 
 for a long, long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  you should buy it, its amazing ! best ps3 game i played ! ! ! !
  storyline is great
  its not another gta its a whole new level !
  so much to do, a big game not a short game and a 
 waste of 40
  40 i would pay hundreds for this game! if you love gta4 you can not sit there and not get it, the 
 critics where right what a game! There are loads of mini games aswell such as pool, darts, strip 
 clubs and so much more its like real life, Great graphics everythig has been perfected, the online 
 is great to, as you may notice now loads of games are revolved around online, rainbow6 vegas2 , call 
 of duty4 and many others, rockstar have got the online right to! I cant believe it it must get game 
 of the year! most games i play i think ah why cant they add this or that, but they dont need to add 
 nothing theres nothing wrong with it! now im going to go play it some more, thanks for reading 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nashiem
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Well I know everyone and there momma reviews gta 4 as a 10, but what a good marketing scheme. First 
 off I played san andreas for the pc. And I know the pc is always a step ahead of game consoles, 
 but come on this is 2008 here, first off the visuals are very blurry, and second the controlls 
 are so awkward. Like when you get out of a car the door always stays open, so you have to walk 
 around the door to go forward which pans the camera all over the place. Ok maybe thats just because 
 I am an old keyboard and mouse guy but its still annoying. Other than that the game is great, but 
 they still should have implemented the same controlls from bully which was just re-released a few 
 months ago. And as far as the graphics, come on there is no reason they should be so sloppy with 
 the ps3. For me I cant wait for the pc version, if there is one on the way??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afko
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Last night, on the release night, at twelve o'clock i was pretty amazed by the people waiting for 
 the game shops to open and release this beauty.... i was really happy.. or should i say FREAKING 
 OUT... to get the gta atlast after another year of waiting... of course i was also sad as i knew 
 i was not gonna see that game shop for looooooongggg time :P
  
  I mean it is GTA .... u never know when u will stop playing... I love the great massive single player 
 story and of course as we all love ... the FREE running killing messing around!!!
  
  The cherry on the pie is of course the great  like 
 crazy!!! 
  
  The good extra new stuff are also good... i mean paying for a train to get to a place is a nice 
 spice for this type of game...
  
  Thanks for checking guys !! Guide Book RECOMMENDED!!! Helps a lot!!!!
  
  CYA ONLINE !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  The opening scene is like watching a movie, which I was so engulfed in that when it was time to 
 drive off the dock... I was still in a state of shock.
  
  The graphics and cinematagraphy is the BEST I have ever seen in any game for this "next generation" 
 of consoles.
  
  The storyline seems to be more true to the game than previous GTA's were you forget there is a 
 story somewhere in there.
  
  The steering is much to be desired since there is a little too much play in it, that most of the 
 game I will be on a motorcycle unless I have to carry passengers/cousin/prostitutes.
  
  The PS3 version I had to update my firmware to 2:17 and than it takes an additional 8 minutes for 
 the game to download onto the harddrive. Not much of a "time" sacrifice, seems that the loading time 
 and saving game time is way faster now,
  
  
  
  
  OUTSTANDING
  AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Her0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  It's worth the wait, every cent and time spent on producing it and the fun is just begin, you shouldn't 
 miss this game whatever your gameplay style. there is so much of reality in gta about streets life, 
 bad cops, gangsters and using phone in game etc. no more that could be asked for from gta.
  
  What's new in gta IV ? obviously new great story with new characters, improvements in graphic 
 detail, load screen times are a little shorter, quicker and better, new targeting system much easier 
 than old one, cover system, new multiplayer challenges support for up to 16 players with more than 
 10 modes such as races, deathmatch, team death matches and one co-op single player mission, there 
 is also an autosave feature work after completing a mission, you have cell phone which you can 
 use it even in-car anywhere and anytime and last but not least you will be able to track your statistics 
 and feature competitions and awards based on player activity within the game through Social Club, 
 it will be available on 17 April.
  
  it should labeled with "MUST HAVE" and I'm pretty sure it won't be ejected from your console for 
 long time.
  
  Thank "you Rocks"tar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  GTA4 certainly delivers as the best in series. On top of that the best game released on any console 
 so far. Even those who are not a fan of this time of game will definitely get a buzz. Even at the 
 early stages of the game you can see that the improvement of the game play has excelled to the 
 next level. Graphics are great considering how big the game is, and the mechanics are simply top-notch. 
 
  
  The essentials of the game play gives you a real-life experience of everything you do; You can 
 make calls and send sms to people in you know, use GPS navigation while driving, watch TV in your 
 house, actually browse through clothes at clothing stores, and no more loading times to enter buildings 
 just to name a few. 
  
  Even in gunfights, they are so diverse you can actually hide against a wall and use cover, also 
 introduced new lock on target system, and even melees take a good beating out of someone. It all 
 feels realistic which is the most noticeable thing you will find first. The cinematics are also 
 a joy to watch.
  
  Not much else to say but to experience it yourself, It's a must get for any playstation 3 user. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: APerryman
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game looked like it was going to be great, I was so excited I picked it up today from Game 
 today and was dissapointed at the long loading times. It can take up to 2 minutes to load, the 
 game is also full of glitches, multiplayer isn't very fun to me, There are no planes or tanks. 
 The 2 things that set it out from other sandbox games. Its a bit to realistic, GTA games were so 
 good as they were stupid and funny, this is realistic and not funny. Its a shame that the PS3 still 
 only has 1 killer game (R&C) and the 360 about 5. (Halo, GOW, Crackdown, PGR4 and Just Cause) . 
 
  
  
  
  Not worth the wait, I urge everyone to wait for SSBB or buy wii fit instead a [B] proper [/B] game. 
 Even mercanaries is better. Utter  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipa3456
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  this game is OUT of this  
 is da BOMB, truly the best game i have ever played in my whole lifeGTA4 is da BOMB, truly the best 
 game i have ever played in GTA4 is da BOMB, truly the best game i have ever played in my whole lifemyGTA4 
 is da BOMB, truly the best game i have ever played in my whole GTA4 is da BOMB, truly the best game 
 i have ever played in my whole lifeGTA4 is da BOMB, truly the best game i have ever played in my 
 whole lifelGTA4 is da BOMB, truly the best game i have ever played in my whole lifeifeGTA4 is da 
 BOMB, truly the best game i have ever played in my whole life whole life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  My favorite franchise of games finally came out for the PS3. This is one of my favorite games to 
 play on any platform and I honestly have to say this is the best game I've ever played. Mind you 
 I've played a lot of games in my lifetime but this ones has top them all. 
  
  If you're a fan of the GTA series than you'll know what to expect here. Great storytelling, unforgettable 
 characters, fun gameplay, and endless hours of chaos in this one huge sandbox world. In this installment 
 of Grand Theft Auto you'll be playing as Niko Bellic a eastern european ex miltary man. Who comes 
 to America to escape from his dark past and to have some closure as well. So he comes to America 
 to live with his cousin but he fines out his cousin is in so much trouble that he ends up doing 
 dirty work for him just to get people off his cousin's back. You know how the rest goes if you've 
 played any of the past GTA games.
  
  The Graphics has to be one of the best I've seen in the series. There's so much attention to detail 
 in everything. The city looks so alive there's people all over the city. The Cops now just not 
 only arrest you but they arrest people who are committing the crimes in the city. You'll see people 
 doing things of their own. 
  
  The Soundtrack in the game as always been top notch in every GTA series so you won't be disappointed 
 with the music in the game. The controls in the have been changed. Now you'll be driving with the 
 trigger buttons instead of the face buttons. You'll also use a cover system similiar to uncharted. 
 You can also blind fire behind cover which is cool. 
  
  Now the new addition to the franchise is Online Multiplayer where you can play with up to 16 friends 
 online. There are a couple of different modes which are free mode where you can do whatever you 
 want around the city. Team Death match, Cops N Robbers, Races, and Other modes as well. You can 
 also customize your own character online. The more you up your ranks online the more stuff you 
 unlock for your character. 
  
  There is just so much to do in this game that the fact that is $60 this is just a steal. You'll 
 be playing this game for months to come. I just feel bad for whatever games comes after this because 
 this is game that will be staying in anybody's system for months to come. If you're a fan of the 
 series this has to be the best GTA game yet. If you're never played any of the GTA games before 
 than this is the best way to start playing the series. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Settler87
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  From the start I'm not a console player, i have a Muscle PC that I'm always using to Play only 
 PC games, bu when i heard about GTAIV and see the reviews i completely changed my mind about consoles 
 and go FAST to ebay. com and bought XBOX 360 used one :) .
  
  This game is Fantastic, Fabulous and Ambitious. Story Mode is the best ever Freestyle as always 
 from Rockstar, gameplay in one word PERFECT without any weaknesses ( NOTE: in reality i'm so critic 
 about anything in my life and i don't say perfect only in the right place ) . Multiplayer mode is 
 worth it and I'm planning to get a for life XBOX LIVE. Still need sometimes to get a ride with 
 gameplay ( i got the GAME few hours ago ) . Graphic performance is in the level of the title with 
 some very small mistakes which i don't notice it only after reading Gamespot review.
  
  Finally, your life is a CRAP if you don't play GTAIV at least ONE MUNITE :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpleiguanaz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  No joke. Gta iv is simply brilliant. The graphics aren't as good as that of uncharted, but people, 
 a world like liberty city, soo massive, so detailed, and the graphics are still above average, 
 amid not the best seen. Being that the world is s0o big, and sodetailed, down to every person u 
 bump into, it gets a 10. But what really makes gta iv stand out is the EUPHORIA technology. It's 
 the simple things. When you shoot someone, it dpends where he is, he just doesn' fall. When someone 
 is going to fall off, he tries to grab onto something for dear life, so much so, it makes it realistic, 
 human-like, it simply makes gta iv feel real, makes gta iv feel like You ARE LIVING IN IT, and 
 you are Niko. You feel that you are in the game. And that's what makes gta iv great . Gta iv just 
 raised the bar in next-gen gaming. It just made normal games feel like rubbish. If you don't pick 
 one up, and if you thivk it doesn't deserve a 10, well then don't pla games anymore, cause gta 
 iv is one of the best if not THE best game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is, in a word, stunning. You just don't find games with this kind of extraordinary 
 texture and attention to detail, and it's a farce that the industry doesn't rally even more behind 
 projects like this. While violent and acerbic motion pictures, music, and television shows are 
 celebrated, the GTA series still remains something of a pariah.
  
  This game aims to change that, and redefine genres and reshape expectations. It succeeds in every 
 conceivable way, because the Rockstar folks, namely Dan Houser, are steadfast in their belief that 
 this media doesn't have to be limited to soulless characters shooting and scooping up power-ups. 
 It can provide rich storytelling. It can be engrossing without being juvenile. 
  
  GTA IV is a landmark achievement because it accepts the yoke of advance hype happily. Never have 
 game developers responded to a challenge quite like Rockstar has. For years, the Grand Theft Auto 
 series was known for two things: controversy and credentials. Somehow, with the world watching 
 and waiting, Houser & Co. have delivered the kind of total package that eludes developers who might 
 wilt beneath such weighty expectations. 
  
  Put together a checklist and you'll see why: Multiplayer? Nailed it, with 15 modes of 16-player 
 action. Taking advantage of the new technology of the 360/PS3? A complete audiovisual experience, 
 with very little clipping and pop-in (it almost seems like the moments where visual flaws do appear 
 are deliberate, tongue-in-cheek hearkening back to the previous generation) . More mission variety 
 and depth? Got that, too. And maybe the most impressive achievement is that Rockstar took Liberty 
 City from sterile to immersive with several broad, ingenious strokes.
  
  The early reviews do not lie. This is as polished and complete a title as the gaming world has 
 ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  GTA is back and it is truly a master piece.
  
  Graphics  Graphics are truly a work of art. Having the 360 version is not bad, in fact they look 
 amazing. Not bashing the PS3, but why would you listen to these brainless fanboys who are crying 
 superiority. Game will look nice on both systems. Every little detail is noticeable which makes 
 it to believe that one is actually in Liberty City. 10/10
  
  Gameplay- Its GTA and it bigger and better. But one would start to miss some options that Rockstar 
 took off. What are those you may ask? Well for once, no more army with tanks. No more tanks (rhino 
 tank) , Cars cannot be customized so you can put 22's on your bucket, and no more planes. Though 
 these features may be missed, they added more and improved other features. The carjacking has improved 
 to look and feel realistic, driving feel real as the car have their different agility of performance, 
 Cops or AI are better. 9/10
  
  Sounds- Radio stations are back and better. Don't like that crap called rock? Then put on hip/hop. 
 Don't like that hip/hop crap then put on Lazlo. Hate the radio you say? Then blow up your car and 
 listen to your surroundings. Hear the sirens echo through the city; listen to those potty mouth 
 pedestrians. 10/10
  
  Value- 60 dollars is too much for you? Or are 360 games and PS3 games to much for you? Well this 
 game that is worth every penny. Hell I would of gladly paid 100 dollars for this game. It's that 
 good. 10/10
  Online- Online work well. I'm really surprised that it is fun. You can create a character with 
 the basic features and let him loose in Liberty City. What was said to be a no biggie by rockstar, 
 one could just say that online is superb. But if you're like me, you'll be spending more time in 
 the single player mode. 10/10
  
  Overall- Game is close to being perfect, having barely scratched the surface; I could only imagine 
 what will be seen later on and if Rockstar is to make another GTA. This game should not be missed 
 by any fan as it takes it raunchy controversy to a whole new level which its fans would find pleasing 
 10/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbas123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I want to make everything clear to you guys and let you know this review is based on 35% of the 
 game completed. 35% of this game is a lot though and I've experienced a whole lot in the game. 
 You will see if you haven't already seen what I'm talking about.
  
  This game is massive, the details are spectacular, and the story is incredible.
  
  Ok when 
 the game first starts off, it does feel weird to play. The walking and running is not much of a 
 problem, but the driving is. Don't worry though, you will get used to it in no time and the driving 
 mechanics are made actually pretty realistic. Anyways, there is a lot to learn when it comes to 
 controls. You have to work at it to master everything from the fist fights to the gun fights to 
 the driving and to the simple walking and running.
  
  The story is awesome. So far, there is loyalty and betrayal. I can see the plot thickening as I 
 progress and its getting more and more interesting with the new characters coming into play. This 
 should most likely have one hell of an ending, especially from others I heard that already completed 
 the game.
  
  The details in the game are superbbbbbb. I can't stress that enough. Now you cannot compare this 
 to like Rainbow Six Vegas and think it will look that good because that is a FPS and this is an 
 open world game. But even being open world, the game looks spectacular. First of all, the damages 
 to the car are seen clearly as you hit whatever side of the car. You can see the bullet holes on 
 the car as you get shot at. Windows are shattered. Blood is left on the car if you hit pedestrians.
 
  
  During some of the fighting sequences when you are in gun battle, it is awesome. You can blind 
 shoot, hide behind almost anything and it all handles really well. Most of the environments while 
 in gun battle are not completely destructible, but you can see the great detail of the shots fired 
 at the walls or whatever you shoot at.
  
  The cell phone is used pretty much throughout the whole game. You can call your girlfriends, your 
 friends, and for the missions, call up what you want to do next. If you get in a health kind of 
 trouble, dial 911 and hit 2 for the paramedics and they will come to you to restore your health. 
 It costs a good amount of money, but its worth it to not start a mission over again. You can hitch 
 rides with the cab and you tell them where you wanna go and you can either sit back and relax while 
 the cab driver takes you, or you can skip the drive by pressing A and you will be there in no time. 
 Makes missions so much easier. I haven't really used the train much yet, besides one or two missions, 
 but I'm sure it will come into play more.
  
  Ok well I know there are going to be millions of reviews, some people for GTA and some against 
 it. I just want to say this though:
  
  For those of you hating on GTA, or any game that is excellent, why do you waste your time and other 
 people's time by saying you hate a game. I can understand if a game sucks, the controls suck, the 
 graphics suck, and everything sucks about a game, then you should give it a bad review and advise 
 people to stay away from it. But seriously, people need to grow up and stop hating on great games 
 like this just because they think it doesn't deserve all the attention its getting.
  
  IF YOU ARE GOING TO BUY A GAME FOR $60, THIS IS ONE GAME WORTH GETTING. THE $60 IS NOTHING COMPARED 
 TO THE COUNTLESS HOURS OF FUN YOU WILL HAVE. NOT TO MENTION THE ONLINE MODE IS INSANEEEEEE.
  
  Happy Gaming Guys and Gals
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Stacy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Another job perfectly well-done for RockStar and all the developers of GTA IV. On the previous 
 sequels of GTA we've been amazed by the well-done graphics and free-play environment type of game 
 where you can do anything you want in the streets. Punch, shoot, kick, run-over, steal, rob,, drive, 
 fly a plane and even chainsaw innocent civilians walking in the streets that makes this game so 
 unique to other games. No one will hate this game but instead they'll love it, so much even spend 
 their whole day playing with it and trade their girlfriends just to have this game. Based on the 
 trailers that I've watched a while ago ,theirs only one thing that I can say "one giant leap" yes!! 
 They made it so perfect again. Although made some fans fraustrated on its delay released but one 
 thing is certain, "its worth-it". What makes it a giant leap again is its multiplayer support feature 
 now GTA fans will meet each other that will make it a lot more fun to play.
  
  What I am excited on this except its giant leap is the radio stations and spoofs. So players and 
 fans out there steal a car run them over and go big time in the streets of Liberty City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcjc
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  It is by far the best game I have ever played. I'm sorry there is little more I can say about it. 
 Outstanding. From the moment I started up the game to hear the background story of the main protagonist 
 to 20 hours later it has been a shame to blink. Well done Rockstar and everyone involved, this 
 has truly revolutionised the games industry. I challenge anyone to pick this game up and not find 
 something to hook them in and keep them immersed until the very end. Thinking very hard about how 
 I can sum up this game in 1 word I have finally found it..... Fantastic. I am going to go right 
 after I have finished this review and play a game that will make me think about the future of games 
 like no other.
  
  iiiiiii iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii 
 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukogmickey
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  God I really did expect GS to do a decent reveiw on the best game ever created, That dude is just 
 so boring I nearly fell asleep, That other guy who does most other reveiws and also does Torney 
 TV should ov done it, He is quite funny and I reckon would of done it Justice. I dont know it just 
 looks like he has been forced to do the Reveiw. On the other hand, this game is AWESOME and you 
 can just tell by the first minute of the game that they have spend many many hours fine tuning 
 this Masterpiece. Well done Rockstar, Infinity Ward and others alike should Bow Down to you and 
 Appreciate the Effort thats gone into GTA4. !!!!!! Simply Fantastic !!!!!!
  
  P. S Can we plz have a better reveiw from you guys as this is just a big let down for people who 
 have been waiting for ever for a reveiw like this.
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say, the game talks about itself. Right from the beginning, the game delivers what 
 you usually see in GTA. The story begins with the lead character coming to the land of opportunity, 
 in my opinion this point is very interesting, how the story develops is another good point they 
 added to the game.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and stunning, the moment I started the game I was really amazed. The 
 vehicles are more realistic now and the cop chases are realistic too, they are the same as the 
 previous games but with more real life techniques.
  
  The only thing I did not like in the game is how the vehicles are moving when you turn left or 
 right, also when you turn left or right while you control Niko. I just have to bear with it since 
 the game is a masterpiece.
  
  Thank you Rockstar for this superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjmcmahon2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Overall, I am very satisfied with this game and fully recommend it to anyone over the age of 18.
 
  
  Yet, the game is not as fast paced as I thought it would be. Improvements were not made where I 
 have thought they should be such as the fact that the cops bust you if someone else starts a fight 
 with you.
  
  The walking at real time is so super slow that you always have to tap"A" in order to feel like 
 your going anywhere at a decent speed. Other than that the game is great. The visuals anbd the 
 rendering are very similar to previous franchise games.
  
  I dont want to seem like I dont like the game because I truly do. The mini games within the game 
 are fantastic. Bowling, Pool, Darts etc.
  3-D Cube is a great mini game as well which I found myself playing for 45 minutes.
  Great job 
 Rockstar!
  Keep the GTA franchise alive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tzmir
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  ...... right down to stuff like the cops wear them little shower cap hat protectors when its raining!! 
 its astounding. and dont get me started on euphoria, its not animations and its not instant-ragdoll, 
 it just looks so real its a bit scary.
  
  I smacked a guy in the head on the 2nd island main street, he took a swing at me missed hit another 
 guy, so they start fighting each other, cops pull up in car arrest both of em put in the car and 
 drive away
  
  One of the most awesome things about the game are the physics. Car handling is so improved, it's 
 NOTHING like the old GTA. How Niko walks, adapts to the surface, how people react when you punch/hit/shoot 
 them. I love the physics engine
  
  Details is where the game is unparalleled, NO GAME comes close to being as detailed as GTA IV. 
 It feels like everything has been given a good amount of time to complete, from small things to 
 buildings and large areas. Can't really explain it, you'll see! The city feels so much more alive 
 because of this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV..... when i typed those three words i thought that the fair review would be 
 if i just say to you: go and play this game, its beyond everything. But now, i didnt belive while 
 playing GTA game and to thought that its overrated by reviewers would be a fair judgment for GTA 
 IV. not 10/10
  
  . 
  
  Story:
  Theres a very outstanding, superb characters, who make GTA IV very believable, voice acting and 
 body movement (animation) has done so that they really express their emotions realistically. Eastern 
 European guy named Niko Bellic comes to America fooled by his cousin Roman, who promised the American 
 Dream". Things dont quite end up like those lovely storys told by Roman trough multiple emails. 
 Instead He just owns a little taxi park and wants Niko to work for him. Things sometimes get very 
 nasty and theres plenty surprises and twists to keep you busy with main story. This is the first 
 time in GTA series when i really wanted to play main story missions instead of free roaming, its 
 just that good and very interesting. The game basically takes place in New York and New Jersey, 
 you will recognize many buildings, places like Statue of Happiness, sorry, its Statue of Liberty, 
 Empire State Building, Central Park, and many famous bridges etc. 
  
  
  Graphics:
  They all are very highly detailed, busy New York streets make you want to come out of your car 
 and enjoy the view, which is so beautiful, and even better at night, when the city really comes 
 to life. The big buildings carrying an huge electronic advertisments make you star at them your 
 mouth opened. They add very much colours and contrast to the city, very richful enjoyment. This 
 whole makes the other citys in the series look like dumped, ugly, poor places. Really you have 
 to see it to belive!!
  Visually many are saying that ps3 verion of this game has an edge over 360s, with less pop-ins, 
 faster loading times, smoother frame rate. Animation is good, GTA never havent been about graphics. 
 So, dont expect some crazy Uncharted stuff from it. 
  
  
  Thats probably it, story and graphics are the best part of this game
  
  Gameplay:
  Theres 
 this new cover system which is fun. Cops search you from where you last were seen. But i also have 
 to say that it dont have many fun elements which previous titles had, like planes, car pimping, 
 changing clothes, theres actually less car types across the city. i miss tanks, and other rideable 
 vehicles. It just dont give u a reason to do anything else besides story and thats just sad, because 
 previous titles had such a great replay value. 
  
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  Lest just say that i havent touched it for many weeks, its just dosent interest me enough.
  
 
  Summary:
  Im so blowed away by the Grand Theft Auto IV story, It just does so many things right , Best story, 
 graphics and some gameplay elements (like aiming, cover system, dodging, running) in the series. 
 But honestly all this fun is related only to story missions, after that i lost my interest in GTA 
 IV, i just wish theres point to come back and free roam, This game is one hell of a good ride throgh 
 story as long as it lasts and thats why u should buy it.
  
  Liberty City rules!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abr_alex
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say GTA IV is hell of a game! Simply saying its a real living world.
  
  Of course, main improvement is story and gameplay (and superb multiplayer) . Characters are not 
 a bunch of pixels anymore, they feel like real people - you hate them, like them, or otherwise. 
 And you make DECISIONS - let someone live or kill him, and so on. That says something about replay 
 value.
  Story is much deeper and more involving. Now you see not only benefits of criminal doing but also 
 worst side of such business. Missions are much, much better, partly due to greatly improved combat 
 mechanics. Cover system works very well.
  Driving also feel a lot more natural, objects now have weight, and hitting a pedestrian feels so 
 realistic :) . World is large, maybe not as huge as San Andreas, but there are so much more detail 
 that its definitely a better-off. Overall graphics is really good, with only minor FPS drops sometimes.
 
  Multiplayer is must-try, there are many different modes, so choose what you like.
  So, we can see that game really improved a lot since GTA 3, VC and SA. But why is it revolutionary? 
 Because its simply feels different - not just as a bunch of missions with some cut-scenes and different 
 mini-games. No, its much closer to real world - there's a TV, Internet, phone, people around communicate 
 and interact with each other, and you feel yourself a part of this world, not just a player in 
 a game. 
  That is what makes GTA IV revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Youngins
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  I've been playing it for maybe an hour now and the story is so good I have barely done any messing 
 around! The graphics are leaps and bounds better than past GTA games and the game-play has been 
 improved. I'd really recommend buying this game! I mean it has an awesome story, awesome game-play, 
 and awesome online, it simply is a MUST BUY!!! 
  
  I haven't had the chance to play the online, but from what I've read it is really fun... it has 
 everything the normal game has except the story... you can go around and make havok all around 
 the city... I'm probably going to try and beat at least half of the game's main story before heading 
 online... I don't want to get too distracted! It really is pretty hard to go a stray though because 
 of the story... the characters bring the game alive... Seriously, if the game cost 120 bucks I 
 probably would of payed it! Thats how good the game is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  i picked up my copy of gta 4 at blockbuster midnight event, came back home, popped it in , and 
 all i have to say is Wow, awesome story, the city lookks real. i actually ran over someone and 
 there was blood on the front of the car. i love the gps, the mini games such as bowling darts, 
 and more . i was amazed when i sat down and was watching tv in the game , it was so funny and cool. 
 the cars handle excellent, the pedestrians are smoking and everything, even bowling too. i ran 
 into a gas station and everything blew up and that was so sweet. i m having so much fun, that i 
 didnt even want to quit to give this review , but i was eager to tell others about it. 100% awesome. 
 rockstar has lived up to the hype on this game. this is the best game now and always will be. an 
 instant classic. im currently dating michelle in the game and ive been playing for 4 hours and 
 im still only in one part of the city. i havent experienced everything yet, but im excited to do 
 so. the only thing that i dont like is the visuals are a liitle blurry and i have a hd tv and blu 
 ray, but it still looks awesome. i think that 60.00 dollars was the best investment ive ever made 
 to be truthful to you. I cant believe how great this game is. im going to leave now , so i can 
 get back at it. go out and get it right now. :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
