-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GRID
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/racedriverone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of racing disciplines and locations.
 Accessible and rewarding career mode.
 Excellent online lobby system.
 Superb graphics and presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacking online game types.
 No mechanical upgrades for vehicles.
 No split-screen multiplayer support.
 Sometimes finicky controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grid is a classy arcade racing game, providing enough depth and variety to satisfy any fan of the 
 genre. 

  Codemasters' Race Driver series has long put the emphasis on making the driver, not the cars, the 
 stars of the show. Grid is the spiritual successor to this series, and though it still offers you 
 the chance to travel the world as a racing driver, the emphasis is firmly back on the racing itself. 
 Taking in a wide range of international venues and racing disciplines, Grid's career mode puts 
 you in the shoes of a top racing driver. You'll freelance as a driver for other teams, form your 
 own team, and negotiate sponsorship contracts so you can buy new vehicles. In addition, Grid has 
 a highly accessible 12-player online mode, a new flashback feature to rewind the action after devastating 
 crashes or costly mistakes, and a novel approach to trading vehicles. It may lack basic features 
 such as adjustable weather and split-screen multiplayer, but Grid still has enough fresh ideas 
 to make it a notable entry in the racing genre.  

           Grid's European scene focuses on real-life race circuits.      

  Grid splits its racing 
 between three geographical locations, with Europe, the US, and Japan each presenting an assortment 
 of racing styles. Europe features track-based racing, with famous locations such as the Nurburgring, 
 Donington Park, and Le Mans on its roster. Europe also boasts a city track in Milan, but it's the 
 US that is more focused on street racing with courses in Washington, San Francisco, Detroit, and 
 more. Japan is clearly influenced by underground street racing and has short, winding tracks that 
 are perfect for drifting around. Each of these locations demands different vehicles; Europe features 
 touring and GT cars, the US has muscle cars such as Vipers and Mustangs, and in Japan you get to 
 drive tricked-out Nissans and Subarus.  

  The main aim of the Grid World mode is to increase your reputation as a driver and earn money to 
 buy new vehicles. You'll be paid for winning races, playing at harder difficulty levels, earning 
 sponsor bonuses and being part of a winning team. As with many racing games, you need a selection 
 of vehicle types to enter different racing events, and you can buy cars either brand-new or secondhand 
 on eBay Motors. It's a rare example of in-game advertising done right: Some pre-owned motors run 
 the risk of being too banged up, whereas others have proved themselves capable of winning races 
 previously. One thing that Grid doesn't focus on is upgrading vehicle components; instead of buying 
 new engines, you just sell your old banger and buy something better.  

  The simple upgrade system and accessible racing style mean that Grid is more of an arcade-style 
 racing game than a sim. That said, the game is still challenging, and the believable AI opponents 
 will happily smash you into walls. In a nod to realism, head-on collisions will often take you 
 out of a race completely, though one of Grid's new features offers you a way back in. The flashback 
 system, which can be selected from the pause menu, lets you rewind time and resume gameplay at 
 a point before the mistake was made. Your chosen difficulty level determines the number of flashbacks 
 at your disposal, and there's a cash incentive at the end of each race for not using the feature. 
 Racing purists may baulk at the concept, but it's completely up to you whether you choose to use 
 flashbacks in the game. In situations when you'd previously have to restart the entire race, you 
 now have a second chance to try a corner, and the decision adds an interesting gambling element 
 to the game -- should you use your last flashback now, or save it for the final lap? Grid also provides 
 concessions for hardcore players who want to make the game harder, with a pro mode that restricts 
 you from restarting a race at all. Enabling the pro mode changes your entire approach for each 
 race, given that every lap becomes a do-or-die test of nerves.  

  Grid's controls feel light, responsive, and even quite forgiving, but the damage model and challenging 
 AI can make for a difficult first few races. Minor bumps and crashes will do little to impact the 
 performance of your vehicle; bumpers will fall off and windscreens will shatter, but the innards 
 of your car will perform as normal. However, major incidents will have a more drastic effect on 
 your ability to race. Your vehicle might pull to one side or lose speed and acceleration, or even 
 worse, it could fail completely.  

           Not all of that damage is superficial.      

  Once you're aware of these dangers, 
 Grid becomes an enjoyably edge-of-your-seat racing experience. With the traction, braking, and 
 stability assistance enabled, the game lets you perform some extraordinary braking manoeuvres, 
 but you still need to be careful. While there's no option to have a racing line drawn on the track, 
 a red light next to the map advises you of when to brake for corners. But Grid's greatest achievement 
 is the driver AI, which does a fantastic job of replicating the behaviour of competitive and somewhat 
 accident prone race drivers. Grid's drivers move in a choreographed formation at the beginning 
 of each race, but they begin to take risks and make mistakes as they try to get to the front of 
 the pack. You'll frequently find yourself misjudging a corner and spinning out, only to see a pack 
 of rivals pile up the next corner down. There are also distinct racing styles between teams and 
 drivers; race leaders will guard their position closely, whereas those at the back will cautiously 
 slow down and go around you if you spin out in front of them. Whichever difficulty level you choose 
 to play at, they're a clever and challenging bunch to race against.     

  Grid offers a huge number of different racing disciplines to try, from standard GT and pro-tuned 
 races to drift competitions around winding Japanese circuits. There's even a demolition derby, 
 with a track that has two crossovers where airborne cars can smash into each other at right angles. 
 Each season of the Grid World mode ends with a Le Mans 24 Hour Race, and though it's normally condensed 
 into a 24-minute period, it feels only slightly less demanding than the real thing. Caffeine-addled 
 players can choose to follow it in real time by setting up a full 24-hour race outside of the career 
 mode, but you still get to see the full day and night cycle whatever period of time you choose. 

  For multiplayer racing, Grid offers support for up to 12 players connected via PlayStation Network 
 or a local area network. All of the racing events from the single-player game can be played online, 
 including demolition derbies and Le Mans, but the game modes are fairly limited, with only ranked, 
 player, or private matches to select. If you're creating a private match, you get complete control 
 over the race types, race length, and damage options, but in the ranked and player matches these 
 are voted for by all of the players in the lobby. It's good that vehicle options tend to be limited 
 to one or two different models in each race because it makes Grid a fair and balanced racing game 
 to play online, but it would benefit from a few additional modes and features. For example, there 
 are no team-based races, you can't save replays, and there are no online TV channels to watch live 
 races from around the world. The lack of split-screen multiplayer also comes as a blow, especially 
 if you're not in a position to play online or link systems.  

           The interior camera view offers a realistic perspective on the action.      

  The 
 new version of Codemasters' Neon engine, named Ego, imbues Grid with some particularly impressive 
 visuals. The backgrounds aren't always sharp, but the action moves at such a frightening pace that 
 you'll rarely have a chance to notice. There are some nice stylistic touches, such as camera tilt 
 as you take corners at speed, and the interior camera offers a spectacular view of the car you're 
 driving. On the technical side, Grid runs at a solid 30 frames per second with no slowdown during 
 pileups. The one notably absent feature is weather effects, given that the game features nothing 
 other than warm, sunny conditions in which to race. The Le Mans track may feature 24-hour day-and-night 
 rotation, but the lack of rain or even day/night options for single races is a large omission. 

  Grid's presentation is similar to Dirt's, and that's certainly no bad thing. Menus are laid out 
 simply and are easy to navigate, and the game throws up plenty of hints if you're not doing something 
 correctly. You're frequently reminded to apply sponsor logos to your vehicles, play at a higher 
 difficulty if you're constantly winning, and an intercom system is used to remind you of objectives 
 during the race. The latter feature can actually become quite annoying if you're trying to concentrate 
 on a difficult race, but voices can be turned off in the menu system if you find that you don't 
 need them. As well as gorgeous in-game graphics, the stylish presentation of the menu system is 
 enough to make you stop and admire it every once in a while. From the teammates who circle your 
 garage to the statistical updates in the loading screens, this is a game that's blessed with incredible 
 attention to detail.  

           Drift races score you on style as well as speed.      

  One area that Grid falls down on is its audio. Engine noises don't always sound as meaty as they 
 should, especially when you're using the in-car view, and some of the cars' engines are difficult 
 to distinguish from one another. Musically, there's a superb intro theme courtesy of UNKLE, but 
 the music in the menus is bland, and the few in-game tracks add little to the atmosphere. The Xbox 
 360 lets you play your own music over the top, of course, but Grid would benefit from a more exciting 
 and memorable soundtrack to add to the thrill of high-speed racing.  

  As both an extension and a rewrite of the Race Driver series, Grid is certainly a successful progression 
 of Codemasters' art. It may not feature the customisation of Forza 2, and it doesn't have the diversity 
 of online modes found in Project Gotham Racing 4. But as an alternative to arcade racers such as 
 Need for Speed and Juiced, Grid is an accessible and rewarding first step in what we hope will 
 be an ongoing franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (64 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supertaperking
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The makers of Grid are the same as the off road game DIRT. So you know you will be getting a quality 
 game off the start. All aspects of Grid from the online play to single player races are great. 
 If you love racing games you have found your racer here. I prefer it to GT5 prologue, although 
 the game itself is pretty easy to finish, online mode will keep you playing for months!! The only 
 reason I didn't give it a 10 was because of the god awful "24 Hour Le Mans races" that you have 
 as an option to race at the end of every season. Once it gets dark and your lights come on you 
 cannot see ANYTHING! They should really have brightened it up a little. I mean making it feel "real" 
 is one thing but I have yet to ever finish a race without going bonkers over the darkness. Overall 
 great game though. Ps3 version anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Specifically, the Driving force GT by Logitech. This game is not officially supported by Logitech, 
 but come on; an A-list driving title should support all major steering wheels.
  
  Yes, I did play around with the numerous options for wheels - for hours in fact - and I finally 
 found what works best for me. However, in comparison to using this wheel on Gran Turismo 5... well, 
 there is no comparison. To clarify, I'm not saying one game is better or worse than another. I'll 
 leave that to you. I'm just venting about my frustration after purchasing a $150 wheel, and having 
 a sublime experience on GT5, and the inability to get that same quality of "feel" in Grid.
  
  I enjoy the game, and will probably play through it. However, I may do so with the gamepad, 
 and a mild sense of disappointment.
  
  In conclusion - to Logitech and to Codemasters... please work together to formulate a downloadable 
 driver solution for the DF GT wheel. So many PS3 owners have it, it should be taken for granted 
 by me, the consumer, that these 2 products should work in perfect harmony. Make it happen, and 
 you'll have many more happy customers.
  
  Thanks,
  
  DC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadedsniper
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:58 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game looks amazing especially the graphics, i mean even the box art is cool. 
 But its totally overrated. I saw this game and immediately wanted it because it looked so cool 
 and then i read the reviews and they all said it was cool but when i finally bought it i was extremely 
 disappointed. The driving is so weird, i thought it would be similar to dirt but it wasn't it was 
 like a mix of simulation and arcade which will never work. To be good you have to be one or the 
 other. It took me quite a while to finally get used to the driving game play at which point i had 
 already given up on the game. 
  
  I wrote this review to keep people from being fooled like me. 
  
  I strongly urge you not to 
 buy this game. 
  
  Buy dirt instead. 
  
  If you already have dirt just stick with dirt. 
  
  But if you do decide to buy grid anyway 
 be prepared to be completely and utterly let down!!!! 
  
  LASTLY, PLAY THE DEMO FIRST BEFORE YOU DECIDE TO BUY SO YOU DON"T MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE I DID.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboyx5
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:27 am PT
Review:  Where to start with this piece of crap called a video game (Grid) . Oh i should start with the intro, 
 Very nice intro exciting and make the game look very promising. So I watched the trailers it looked 
 good and so i borrowed it from my buddy. And Thank god i didn't even waist my money on buying this 
 piece of crap!... The only good thing about this game is the advertisement, intro, vocals, and that 
 is it. Just like a movie, i might as well rent The Fast and the Furious Tokyo Drift. First of all 
 this game is not realistic, you going 90 miles an hour on a sharp turn and all you have to do is 
 handbrake. And your around the corner. And leave alone the Car specs because they are all the SAME! 
 EVERY CAR HANDLES THE SAME! No joke! like your driving and F1 Racing car! You tap the joystick 
 to the left just a little and you'll find yourself spinning in circles!! OK, I can go on and on 
 for this game and write a whole book but ill stop here. Think of it this way Your racing and 24hr 
 Le mans race!.... your number 1 all they way.... almost home you look back no one there.... there 
 hasn't been anyone there in a while! You look on the radar and no one there either... so one last 
 turn then the straight to the finish... you turn now all you got to do is hold the accelerate button 
 and that's it! no need even to touch the sticks...... and now you see A porche 911 GT3 pass you 
 by like your not driving a Pagani Zonda... but like your driving a Ford Focus!..... and you lose 
 the race.... now how F******....... UnF****** realistic is that. Are you serious?! I wanted to grab 
 that controller and throw it at the TV... or just brake the damn game... but its not mine... lol..... Let 
 me save you some Grief and anger.... Don't buy this game unless you hate yourself or for someone 
 and you want them to suffer..... Very disappointed at this game! i thought Codemasters had history 
 of making good Rally games so i assumed this wouldn't be so bad. Way to throw you Racing Reputation 
 out the window...
  
  Overall I rate this game a 1 out of 10!
  
  The reason why it even gets a 1 is because the intro was cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgear-solid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  As soon as you start the game, there you are, put right on the grid behind the wheel of a dodge 
 viper to show you've got what it takes. Your goal? Simple. To finish the race. Easy, right? Wrong. 
 Right after the starting buzzer goes you are pitted against 11 other drivers, all trying to win 
 the race and ram you off the course in equal measure. Bumpers fly off, your windscreen shatters, 
 and you realise what this game is all about. 
  Speed. 
  
  And I'm not just meaning fast cars, the whole pace of the racing is designed to take you out of 
 your comfort zone, to keep you on your toes until the chequered flag. You have to keep your eyes 
 out for pile ups ahead of you, rivals behind you, and sudden twists in courses. 
  
  The AI is superb, never seeming to just let you speed past them without a fight. They also don't 
 let other AI drivers past either, and this means constant updates from your team manager as to 
 who is out of the race. 
  
  Now we come to the handling. I think that with all of the driving aids on, you get the perfect 
 handling for the fast paced game that it is trying to be. However, if you want it to play as more 
 of a sim, you have the option to turn these off and take corners just like you would in Gran Turismo. 
 
  
  The main mode of this game is Grid World. You start off with no money, you drive for other teams 
 to earn cash and, once you have enough, are able to start up your own team. You are able to change 
 the name of the team and the pattern, number and sponsors on the car as you so choose.
  As you start earning more money and gain more licenses, you are able to hire a teammate to drive 
 for your team. This further increases your earnings and your team standing. 
  
  There are many different types of race in Race Driver: GRID, ranging from muscle cars to drift, 
 from touge (essentially boss races from need for speed carbon) to demolition derby. The main race 
 that occurs at the end of each season is the Le Mans 24 hours. It is a shortened version of the 
 race with full effect of it turning from day to night to day again. You haven't lived until you've 
 driven an Audi R10 down one of the straights at 260mph in pitch black conditions. 
  
  To round up, Race Driver: GRID is a fast paced, deep racer with an impressive array of cars and 
 tracks. The flashback system works perfectly with the unpredictability of the races and this game 
 will keep you hooked for weeks. An essential purchase for any racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellraiderz
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is extremely fun for you to just pick up and play. but after awhile it gets really boring 
 and you'll probably never pick it up again to play once you've beaten the whole game. You get the 
 chance to race with American Muscle cars, European circut cars and Japanese tuned cars. Tracks 
 rages from Amercan drag races to Japanese canyon battles. Although the game offers a few pretty 
 intresting features which really help the overall gameplay, such as pressing select to go back 
 in time to avoid your crash or to re-do a turn you failed to execute. You can't tune your car like 
 Gran Turismo however you can choose what kind of paint job or different vinyls to put on. 
  
  The Advertising within the game is actually used correctly unlike alot of other games where 
 its just overdone and gets annoying. The amount of cars is somewhat disappointing, each type of 
 race only have a few cars which are available. Letting us use any car for any type of race would 
 be alot better. In game crashes are more detailed than ever, the more collision you have with other 
 cars or objects affect various parts of your own car individually, bigger crashes just totals your 
 car and makes you go back in time or star the whole race all together. Multiplayer isn't really 
 that engaging, but there for you to have fun with if you get bored. 
  
  I would recommend this game to any casual racing games fans. But i would advise you to rent this 
 game rather than buying it. there is no split screen, so sorry if you were expecting to play this 
 with another friend on the same tv. 7/10 at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  To begin this review I should probably say that I ****ing hate racing games. I hate them right 
 down to their core, with the only exception being Mario Kart Wii.... but saying that Mario Kart 
 is an exception to racing is the same as saying that Brawl is the exception to fighters, meaning 
 it's the only fun game in the entire genre. Well that's not fair because Burnout Paradise was pretty 
 fun too, which is what led me here, to my review of Grid. So if you absolutely loved this game, 
 or just cant stand to hear an opinion that isn't the same as yours, you should probably stop reading 
 now. No seriously, I am going to attack this game. Stop reading. Fine, do whatever the **** you 
 want, because here we go.
  
  Let's get the good thing out of the way (notice I said thing, meaning not plural) . The game looks 
 gorgeous. The tracks are well designed, and though you usually cant see an unmarked turn until 
 you are crashing into the wall, you will appreciate the especially well detailed car being destroyed... unless 
 you don't enjoy losing. All right, I'll be fair and say that sound work is good too. There are 
 a couple of voices in the game, and they work pretty well, and you can even get them to call you 
 by name, which is great... in a creepy sort of way.
  
  Awesome, now that we are passed that, let's get on to the parts I hated, and believe me there are 
 many. Let's start with the tracks themselves. You see, I have always been of the mindset that you 
 should be able to beat any given level/stage of any given game on your very first try. I believe, 
 however, that in Grid that is a statistical impossibility unless you possess some kind of incredible 
 god like reflexes. The fact of the matter is that the tracks are designed to make you **** up at 
 least once, and believe me, once you **** up, you will fall into last place almost instantly and 
 it will be almost impossible to get back into any kind of decent spot. 
  
  Now let's move on to the controls. Perhaps I'm just bad at racing games, which is most likely true, 
 but when I was playing this game I was absolutely convinced that the wheels on my car were made 
 of butter and the track was paved with axel grease. What I mean to say, is that if you even twitch 
 the wheel, your car will spin out in some kind of insane donut move that leaves you either going 
 the wrong way or slammede straight into the wall. After you press the Restart Race button, you 
 will begin again, move up to the top few slots, you will be rounding a turn at a high speed and 
 an enemy will tap your back bumper. Back we go to spinny-insano-donut land where we spin around 
 267.5 times before coming to a standstill in some ridiculous location. Restart the race again I 
 suppose. It's then that you figure out that some of the tracks have grass in them. The grass is 
 a slightly greener shade than the actual track, but the major difference is that if your tires 
 hit the grass, you can kiss your ass goodbye. You will spin out once again if you try to so much 
 as turn half a degree is any direction, and we are back to the beginning of the race. Or if you 
 are me, you are returning the broken game to the store.
  
  At this point you are probably saying, "But mike, if you hate racing games so much, why did you 
 buy Grid?" Excellent question, thank you for asking! Well, the truth of the matter is that I believed 
 I would be wrong in my hatred of these games because of my christmas presents. You see racing falls 
 under one of several categories of games I can't ****ing stand, right along with fighting, sports 
 and music games. For christmas I recieved Soul Calibur IV, which I actually had some fun with. 
 I was very surprised. I also recieved Madden NFL 09, which to my great suprise, I ALSO had fun 
 with. Finally, I recieved Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, and I liked that one too. So I said 
 to myself, "Get a racing game, because you will probably like it." For some reason I couldnt figure 
 out that such occurrences are about as common as finding a four leaf clover, or a hooker that doesnt 
 have an STD. It just doesnt happen, and if it did I would have probably looked outside to realize 
 it was time for judgement day, and I was going to hell... not that playing this game wasn't hell 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Race Driver is the latest incarnation of the formerly known TOCA series by Codemasters. The series 
 has changed a lot in recent years and it seems all for the good as Race Driver Grid delivers. The 
 best word to describe this frantic racing game however, is fun. The handling to be fair isn't realistic 
 despite the gorgeous graphics. It's only then you realise this isn't a racing game which wants 
 to be a racing simulator like for instance, Gran Turismo. But just total fun. From smashing cars 
 to putting real sponsors on the side of your car for which you can earn money is great fun.
  The game starts with you having to get 40,000 CR (Credits) to get a basic muscle car. From then 
 on you enter various championships in Japan (Usually off road tracks) , USA (Usually challenging 
 street circuits) and Europe (Real racing tracks) . You earn reputation points in each region and 
 as you go through the game sponsors will pay you money for certain achievements. With this you 
 can purchase more cars which enable you to enter more championships. 
  There is also alot of variety in the races. Various types if racing are offered, such as a drift 
 mode which you participate on your own or in a race where you'll all be drifting round turns wheel 
 to wheel. And if you clip another car you'll lose your combo which you have built up. Theres also 
 a Demolition Derby which is superb fun thanks to the gawdropping graphics which can cause some 
 amazing collisions. And online, well its chaos but it works. There are many other modes as well, 
 from a supercar challenge to a Forumla 3 open wheel championship.
  To be honest however the game is quite short. The online features give it legs however but the 
 singleplayer mode is, while it last fun, but not massively long in my opinion. You have approximately 
 50 championships to complete, it seems a lot but soon you realise it isn't. Furthermore without 
 a multiplayer option the game is lacking in depth. Thankfully the online mode will keep you entertained 
 for a month or two longer possibly.
  The game's graphics are impressive. The crashes are jawdropping as you are perplexed by the chaos 
 that can ensue from the crash. Literally, the graphics are so good; it's a pleasure to have a crash, 
 even if it means destroying your car to the point you have to retire. To be honest the graphics 
 enable the game to have better crashes than perhaps in Burnout. 
  So how does the game compare with other racing games out there? This depends on which way you look 
 at GRID. To really enjoy the game you have to take a light hearted approach. Its the total opposite 
 from Gran Turismo and to be honest it makes Gran Turismo look pathetic with its high octane crashes, 
 something which GT lacks. Having played many racing games over the years I feel this is perhaps 
 one of the best ever. And for any racing fanatics this is a must buy. Hopefully there'll be a sequel 
 soon
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Grid has great graphics and has generally fun gameplay. Difficulty levals seems off. On easy a 
 new comer to racing games should be able to win most races with out a crash up derby after a few 
 races and getting the hang of things, Grid unfortunately is not like that, I feel this type of 
 thing keeps more people from playing games and Grid is not the only competition type game to suffer 
 from this flaw. Trying to find a family member or a friend to play is impossible when they can 
 get no success even on easiest levels, this is bad for the game and took a full point away from 
 my review, add to that no training levels and you have another .5 knocked off. The final point 
 I knock off is lack of fixing on cars or any real penalty for taking damage, almost every game 
 you enter has several smash racers who make no attempt to race and just play demo derby as often 
 as they can, even in the single player games you can win may levels just by smashing your way through 
 with no real penalty at all which is fun in an arcade kind of way, just do not expect more from 
 it than that.
  
  I would highly recommend grid to those at least somewhat familiar with racing games, for begginers, 
 you might want to look elsewhere or at least expect some frustration for awhile. It is an extremely 
 fun game and best on PS3 I have played yet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WKK
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'm only reviewing on the demo's perspective, not the full game itself, so this may show 
 you how good this game was from the production stages.
  
  I've been a gamer for about 11 years, since my childhood, and i haven't played that much racing 
 games, except for Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit for the PS1, and that was about it, I never really 
 was sucked into racing games, until i ran into this.
  
  I can't even explain how good this game is, it's addicting, and it grows on you. I found this game 
 out from my friend, who owns the full edition, i decided to download the demo from PSN [Playstation 
 Network] , to see how it is, and it just blew me away, the demo itself, not the full game.
  
  If you like good graphics, good physics, and great gameplay, and especially, crazy online, 
 get this game. Period, you won't regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogi224
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Most people when asked to name a Driving Simulator/Racer game would automatically name GT1-5. Personally, 
 I never ever liked the GT series and am still yet to buy anything beyond GT2 (although I did play 
 GT3 and did not enjoy it) .
  
  In the previous TOCA series, the gameplay has always been excellent and although this is not the 
 same name, it is still the same game! Codemasters have always been the experts when it comes to 
 making a solid racing game, from both Track to Rally. GRID is no different, this game has everything 
 you would want from a racer. The damage mechanics are breathtaking, inch perfect, you have to drive 
 perfectly to keep the damage low on your car. The graphics are incredible and the game story is 
 long and demanding.
  
  Online mode is a welcomed addition and is very fun to play.
  
  The only fault I would say, and where it falls down compared to the GT series, is the number of 
 cars in the game. GT has an obsession with adding every single car on the planet right down to 
 a three wheeler! GRID focusses more on the racing side of the cars, therefore, the cars tend to 
 be the more top-end of the type. Theres no stock Ford Fiestas in this game! Although a few more 
 cars would have been welcome, it doesnt take the gloss of what is probably the best racer available 
 on the market. At least until GRID2 comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  First off this games has some very beautiful graphic which sets it apart from most racers. The 
 car handling are a little bit loose, but after a few practice races with the different car models, 
 and you will know when to make that turn, hit the brakes or gas, and no when to put it all on the 
 line. I think this is the first game where I actually enjoyed drift races which were quit annoying 
 in boring in most street racing titles. Though the car list is short, all the cars have their own 
 unique feel which really dictate whether a race will be in your favor or the opponent. The beginning 
 menu in the game is very peaceful and harmonious inviting you to explore the greatness of GRID. 
 
  
  Racing is very intense, but it seems the only way to get ahead of the pack is to beat them in corners 
 because they will always beat you on straight aways if you do not hit the gears properly. The game 
 though does do a good job at car damaging and creating enjoyable crashes. Unlike Burnout Paradise 
 which has over the top car crashes, this game takes a more subtle realistic approach to car accidents, 
 if that makes any sense. Races sometimes are long and you will find yourself racing on the same 
 tracks over and over as you advance in class and ranking. The game has many choices for difficulty, 
 extreme being the most demanding and relentless. For a serious race game fan, I would stick the 
 the slot before extreme which is serious. This is enought to make race challenging, but also offer 
 you the chance of coming in first place which is also a big accomplishment in this game. The in 
 game trophy system is also a nice touch. The are three seperate sections in three countries (America, 
 Europe, and Japan) which are all the same, but different due to car class requirements. The joy 
 is beating on of the section so you can race the top gun racing team on the game. Each section 
 has 6 races, and once completing all with a gold trophy, you will race the top guns in a variety 
 of races that drifting, muscle race, track race, etc. 
  
  Overall the game has a lot to offer, but playing non stop feels repetitive, so the game is best 
 left played in segments so the novelty factor is still present. The game is a beauty to look at 
 the driving is fun. Drifting around corners to beat your opponent has never been so fun. This is 
 my first choice in racing games now. It is a great balance between arcade and simulation. Car models 
 look photorealistic and the gameplay is additive. Worth the asking price. Do not bother renting 
 it, just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_skeats
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  Grid is a new driving which has a mix of styles from Arcade and Simulation games in the genre. 
 This blend between arcade and simulation is just right in my opinion and it should be very appealing 
 and addictive to everyone who loves racing games.
  
  Grid has a unique feature which is revolutionary in the driving genre. The feature is called "flashback" 
 which allows you to go back (after you crash or spin) in time and take that difficult corner again. 
 I have never seen anything like this on a racing game before and it is a great touch. 
  
  Grid is a very rewarding driving game which is a must for anyone who owns other games like Gran 
 Turismo, Toca, Burnout, Need for Speed or Formula One games. Overall Grid is a bundle of fun to 
 play, which has a great variety of gameplay from the more serious races in Europe to the fun races 
 in America. The graphics are great and the cars and tracks are realistic. I was suprised to see 
 a rating of 8.0 on Gamespot, i would rate it 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 333sam333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Race driver grid.. says it all in the title it's a race driver .. but i don't really know what the 
 grid bit is lol, Graphics are extraordinary, crashing is realistic, speed and innovative is good 
 and it is abrilliant game to have. originally bought game 34.99 preowned from a popular game store. there's 
 one thing to say about ps3 games is buy all of them preowned there's nothing different there just 
 cheaper and a bit scuffed up really. Race driver grid has got cars from lamborghini's to Audi R10 
 LMP cars that go up to about 270 mph and that's fast. it's a brilliant racing game a must get for 
 them people who are a bit bored of the street midnight racing from NFS or MC which are launching 
 new games next month.. it's full on track racing and is absolutely superb. i would give this game 
 a brilliant 9/10, the one thing they could of had extra is maybe NOS or something like that or 
 vehicle tuning and customisation so u could make ur vehicles look super cool, Online is briliant 
 and has everything u want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Over many years there has been some great racing games like Gran Turismo or Burnout or even Forza 
 Motosport.
  Over on the Playstation 3 your thinking of all 3 games packed into one called RACE DRIVER: GRID. 
 Like other racing your trying to be the best driver and racing across countrys like America, Europe 
 and Japan.
  
  Gameplay= Just like other racing games basic controls and courses to choose from like a normal 
 race, a drift race, or 1-1 race or 24 hour lap race. Most tracks are a bit repeatative and also 
 there are some sharp corners where you can easliy crash your if you don't turn at the right time. 
 More damage you put to the car the slower and harder it will get to control your car. Every time 
 you finish a race you'll earn money which can be used to unlock other races and cars from around 
 the world. You can also use sponsers which can help earn even money if you race more.
  
  Graphics and Sound= In terms of their content Grid's menus arn't special at all, but they way they're 
 part of the enviroments you're racing in transforms them, grounding them as a natural part of the 
 game. Only thing bad about the game is sound and effects which have been recycled from other games 
 but over at the main menu theme, every time you load your game you'll hear a woman's voice saying 
 Hello and she'll say your name or what ever name you type in when you start a new game.
  
  Overall= After you finish a race you can watch your replay of each race but you can deleate them 
 if you don't want them. There is multiplayer where you can race others around the world but there 
 will be some cheaters who just want to win, win by useing cheats or hack codes. After playing GRID 
 it has it's moments but you'll might get abit frustrated if you keep crashing at a sharp turn or 
 trying to get your car out of the mud. But overall it's worth playing if your waiting for the full 
 version of Gran Turismo 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frederikfrey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  No Doubt about it GRID is an amazing racing game. 
  But With that said, it's also at time punishing and frustrating.
  
  Pluses:
  
  - Amazing 
 Driving Physics.
  
  - Great Sense Of Speed.
  
  - Very Nice Car Modeling.
  
  - Damage Model Is Astonishing.
  
  - The "Manager Aspects" Of The Game Are Fun.
  
  - A lot 
 Of Real Cars And Tracks To Choose From.
  
  - Lighting Effects Helps Set The Mood.
  
  - Great Sense Of Accomplishing Things, Which Drives You To Keep Racing.
  
  - The FlashBack 
 System Works Really Well In Most Situations.
  
  - Hard To Put Down, Once Started
  
  - Great Variation in Car And Event Types
  
  
  
  Minuses:
  
  - At Times The Opponents 
 Are Too Aggressive.
  
  - At Top Speed The Faster Cars Can Have A Floaty Feel To Them.
  
  - Not Trophy Supported, Yet (As Of September 2008)
  
  - Having To Start Races Over And 
 Over Again Many Times Do To Hectic Starts And Even Worse Over-Crowded First Corners. 
  
  - Consumes A lot Of Your Time.
  
  - You Get Somewhat Of A Love And Especially Hate Relationship 
 With Some Of The Event-Types.
  
  - Speech Of Your Coach, Owner And TeamMate, They Keep Saying The Same Things Over Again.
  
 
  - Some Races Can At First Be Too Hard.
  
  - Hard To Put Down, Once Started :)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zee2009
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  After spending quiet some time, reading review of both GRID and GT4. I finally decided to save 
 my money for the full version of Gt4 and buy GRID as my first PS3 racing game.
  I am a huge fan of racing games, and quiet happy with my saga of racing game experience on PS2. 
 I am happy to write in my review that i have no regret buying GRID. GRID may not pass as a simulation 
 game as GT4, but when it comes to crashes, it is very realistic. The actual game is arcade style, 
 it has a small learning curve, which can be master very easily.
  The best is online play. Online play rock. the most frustrating thing about online play is that 
 rookies crashing into you, which will either totaled your car or will impaired it in may ways. 
 but once you get a hang of it, you will soon prepare your self for many crashes and will be able 
 to minimize the crash impact.
  As for the actual arcade, man it is a little tough. but it is very enjoyable. Graphics are amazing.
 
  
  Over all, i may have not played GT4, but i think any racing game fan will not regret buying this 
 game. The only people i have seen complaining about this game, are the kind that get frustrated 
 wit the learning curve and give up. They want game that they can master in 15 min of playing. This 
 game require skill. Thrill is their when u r trying not to crash. if you want a game which is smooth 
 riding or in other words kid's game, try nfs most wanted, when u can hit wall after wall and no 
 severe impact
  
  Hope you guys like my review, critics are welcome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuato77
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Following on from the success of "Colin McRae's Dirt", Codemasters have managed to incorporate 
 a fun, if somewhat unrealistic, driving experience into a game that should appeal to a broad range 
 of racing fans.
  
  DESCRIPTION
  Race Driver Grid offers up the usual staple of options found in most race games such as single 
 player races, online multiplayer and most importantly, a lengthy career mode. The main feature 
 to the game is obviously the single player career mode which this review will be concentrating 
 on.
  
  The Grid Career mode begins with you starting out as a lowly freelance racing driver. Your goal 
 is to win races, earn money and eventually own your own team and be able to hire a team mate to 
 drive along side you. The overall aim of the game is to gain enough prestige to compete against 
 the best and become an international racing champion. 
  
  The races and events are divided between three regions, each one offering a specialist driving 
 event unique to that particular region. Japan specialises in drifting events, America in street 
 racing and muscle cars and Europe specialises in the traditional lap circuit events. Each region 
 has a set number of events which must be completed to advance to the next level. This system of 
 advancement works like the pyramid system found in "Colin McRae's Dirt" with new tracks and events 
 becoming available as your prestige rises. 
  
  The most intriguing race event in the Grid career calendar must surely be the Le Man's 24 hour 
 race which becomes available at the end of every season. The 24 hours is crammed into just 24 minutes 
 and is raced throughout the day and night. Unfortunately there are no pit stops in the game which 
 slightly mares the experience in my opinion. 
  
  The game certainly offers many different events that should keep you entertained for a long time.
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS/AUDIO
  The graphics are crisp and run at a smooth pace. The PS3 uses a sort of filtered effect to enhance 
 the look of the backgrounds, giving them an excellent looking hazy feel. All the cars in the game 
 are fully destructible and the graphics do a sound job of showing you how beat up they can become. 
 This little graphical touch adds a great deal to the atmosphere and seems like it should be a prerequisite 
 design choice for all the current next generation racing games. 
  
  The game also lets you view the race from inside the cockpit which adds an extra dimension to the 
 already slick graphics and really immerses you into the game world. The cockpit view provides a 
 visually stunning treat but I personally found it to obscure my view when racing at break neck 
 speeds around a track and admittedly, found it easier to control the car by using the bumper-cam 
 view. 
  
  To sum it all up, the graphics and audio are solid and do a good job of creating a visually stunning 
 atmosphere to burn rubber in.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Perhaps, the most touted game play feature found in Race Driver Grid is the flash back function. 
 The flash back function allows you to rewind the action mid race and correct any mistakes that 
 you may have made. It is particularly useful after misjudging the final bend to a vital race. Instead 
 of seeing your precious lead be decimated before your very eyes, you can now rewind the action 
 to a safe point and have another go. 
  
  At the start of each race you are given a limited amount of times that you can use the feature. 
 It actually works well with the games structure and it functions in a useful manner, while at the 
 same time, does not become so overpowering as to be miss-used by the player.
  
  Another important aspect that Codemasters have tried to incorporate into their game in an effort 
 to make it more accessible to a wider fan base, is the feeling that the player can jump right in 
 to the game and start winning races almost immediately. The game allows the player to feel like 
 an expert race driver from the get go. It does this by giving the player the option to use driving 
 aids. These driving aids help steer the car for the player to a certain extent and automatically 
 slows the car down when you are cornering. It is designed to help stop a new player from spinning 
 out or crashing too much.
  
  Handling is enjoyable but can sometimes feel quite slippery and slightly hard to control at times. 
 I found that this was partly down to the driving aids being turned on. I actually found it easier 
 switching off the driving aids altogether (I kept traction control on though) . The driving aids 
 are in my opinion best turned off to learn the correct driving lines and to also gain a consistency 
 to your driving. 
  
  After I had turned the driving aids off and learnt the controls more intuitively, the racing became 
 even more fun. Race Driver Grid does not handle like a real racing car simulation game and the 
 handling has its own unique style of psychics that need to be learned before it becomes enjoyable. 
 Similar in many ways to "Colin McCrae's Dirt" (another Codemaster's game) , the handling encourages 
 you to break and turn into the corners. In comparison, "Forza 2 Motorsport" puts a lot more empathise 
 on braking in a straight line and turning smoothly into the corner. 
  
  The A. I. is competitive and generally quite good at providing an exciting challenge. One downside 
 to the A. I. though, is the over aggressive tendencies that they all seem to share. It can often 
 make the first lap of a race become a chaotic crash fest.
  
  Owning your own team and hiring a team mate to drive along side you is a nice touch but overall 
 it did not seem integral to the game and it could have been implemented much better. I would have 
 liked the team management side to be slightly more in-depth and include elements in which rivalries 
 and disputes with other teams were added for an RPG like feel. I personally think that an in-depth 
 managerial sub game would compliment the fast paced racing action that Grid already provides.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Driving Video games are usually defined into roughly two categories. They are either classed as 
 arcade pedal to the metal style racers such as Burnout and Need for Speed, or hyper realistic handling 
 simulations such as Forza and Gran Turismo. Race Driver Grid tries to place itself directly in 
 the middle of these two categories and thus appeal to both sets of racer mindset. 
  
  Unfortunately, by trying to please everyone, the game can feel shallow in places with some features 
 being underused or glossed over. Despite this flaw of trying to cover all the bases, Race Driver 
 Grid still manages to be an immensely satisfying racing game to play and should keep you entertained 
 for a long time to come. 
  
  A worthy purchase if you enjoy arcade style racing games.
  
  PROS
  Races are fun to drive
  Flashback feature is actually useful
  Long career mode 
  plenty of events
  Competitive, challenging A. I
  
  CONS
  Load times quite long between races
  Team mate could have been implemented better.
  Team and 
 garage management seemed shallow.
  
  SCORE: 8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotorSkate
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  This game looks like a very good picture game but i dont know should i buy 1. Yes i should. I think 
 its one of the best racing games. Go GRID Go. I need 100 words. Words are like worms haha i just 
 got bonus words . I think good racing games are or will be Gran Turismo 5, Dirt, Burnout Paradise, 
 Midnight Club: LA, GRID, MotorStorm (1,2) . Omg how many words more From Sports games Skate rulz 
 (2) as a cool game grid is grid 2 should come too becose the game needs to learn something and its 
 not enough yet what they have built. i need more more and more lets write crap i want to look game 
 trailers not write. i need like 250 charecters more omg hello dada wuz up read my reviev .
  
  From Roberto Day 1093 in the desert whit my ps3 tv and psp and wi-fi muhaha wooot! 50 charecters 
 more write romberto write is this enought? i hope so yea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleMD03
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I first saw Grid just weeks before it was released, and as someone who has done some racing in 
 the past I seem to be drawn to every type of racing game, so I decided to do some research on Grid. 
 What I found was a game that I had to have. Once I did have it, hard as it was to believe, it was 
 better than I imagined. 
  
  I find that when I play any motor sport game I am looking too much for cons and unrealistic gameplay, 
 whereas I should be looking for what I really enjoy. With Grid I found many pros and enjoyments 
 right out of the box. The one that surprised me the most was the "Flashback" system, which I'm 
 sure does not appeal to the racing purist, but as I discovered you can turn it completely off and 
 even get a bonus for doing such. Small details can make or break a racing game in my opinion, and 
 Grid has many that I agree with. The welcome voice that could actually say my name was a nice touch 
 and although some hate the marketing that has become a staple in many games I enjoyed having the 
 many sponsors and the option where you can deem a certain sponsor as major and others as minor. 
 It would have been nice though if they would let you do a bit more in designing your car but there 
 were many choices there if only to be held back as to where you could place sponsor logos. The 
 car selection in Grid was good, but could have been better, and I only say that because I have 
 a love for anything Ferrari and any game that doesn't have them gets a mark in the cons from me. 
 The tracks in Grid were some of the most detailed and interactive that I have ever seen. Again 
 as someone who has seen and raced on a few of the tracks featured it takes more than just some 
 dust and a few rays of sunlight to do it for me and Grid did very very well. Not only could you 
 feel undulations and rumble strips, but if you put a wheel wrong and stacked it up you wouldn't 
 just bounce off, you will go straight through them and move them sometimes flipping and resulted 
 in heavy visual damage.
  
  While in the game I was treated to some other nice touches, as in the teammate and second car. 
 The money involved is, and should be for fun sake, fictionalized but it was so much fun to have 
 that teammate that I saw on track, or cheering for as we came across the line. I also got a kick 
 out of giving my first, no talent, teammate the pink slip. I found the AI to be a bit of a pushover 
 even on the hardest if difficulties. The season was way way too short in terms of what racing seasons 
 are coming to these days. The biggest dislike I found was that I could not qualify for a race, 
 and at times when I was stuck back in the slums at the start of a race I was subjected to the trashers 
 in the back of the pack. Overall a great racing game with some very nice features. A must buy for 
 any racer, or racer at heart.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtoda7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Grid is fast and easy to pickup, within a few laps you'll be burning around the track like a seasoned 
 pro. The control you have over the car is that good - bordering on arcade, yet requiring some skill 
 to keep it off the walls. Thats what this game does, its tricks you into thinking you're really good 
 at driving, then bites you when you take it that little bit too far. Its all about car control and 
 this game lays it on.
  The career mode in this one is good. Manage your own racing team and rid yourself of weak team mates. More 
 customization options would of been nice. Cosmetic ones like spoilers and bodykits. Just to personalize 
 your team that little bit more.
  The racing environments are varied. One moment you're lapping at Spa, the next you're drifting down 
 a mountain in Japan. Awesome. The 24hour race is also pretty cool.
  This game is one of the best racers Ive played, if not the best. The gameplay is top notch, the difficulty 
 is just right. Overall excellent
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: racemaster1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  WOW! Thats all I can say about this game. I have been a huge fan of the GT series since day one, 
 but this game satisfies me in a totally different kind of way. When I got this game into my ps3 
 for the first time I was blown away by the graphics and incredibly diffucult learning curve. The 
 GT series games have always been great for me and I am a loyal advocate of the series but this 
 game may be better in my opinion. I love the fact that you can damage your car, be beat by the 
 competitors on easy mode and there is no bs competition. This is full throttle racing from start 
 to finish. season mode is great! When you can beat all the other drivers all you have to do is 
 hire a teammate that is the best the game has to offer and then just race him for the win. I have 
 never played a game that i couldn't dominate every race on the hardest modes.... this one is hard 
 to compete on the easy setting! Calling all race fans out there.... Get Grid, you won't be dissapointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeahYeahYouWere
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Originally, I gave GRID a 3.0. Upon further review, I have upped the number to a 4.0, as more time 
 with the game has revealed some improvement with the game. However, on the whole the game is still 
 very disappointing to me, as it could have been so much more than it is.
  
  First off - I want to like this game. I really do. But I could barely play through the first 2 
 hours of the game because it truly was borderline unplayable. I think a big part of what I dislike 
 about this game is that it has no idea what kind of game it really is. Is it a sim? Is it an arcade 
 racer? Is it a street racer? It basically tries to be Gran Turismo in some ways, Need for Speed 
 in others, and on the whole it just does not come together well in my opinion.
  
  I have to say that graphically, the tracks and the cars look fantastic. You'd be hard pressed to 
 find a prettier game than GRID. However, there's two major failing points in this department - 
 the production style and the damage. They seem to try to imitate the frantic high speed camera 
 work and effects that Need for Speed features, and while they work in NFS games, they fall short 
 here. They produce the desired effect, you feel like you are going seriously F-A-S-T, but that 
 effect does not work well within the framework of the game. The other failing point graphically 
 is their hyper-active car damage. You rarely get to enjoy the nice looks of your car because odds 
 are, it will be smashed within 15 seconds of the start of a race. The hyper-speed NFS style camera 
 makes driving more difficult and frantic, and this does not work in a game that penalizes you so 
 very heavily for contact. 
  
  The damage system is one major downfall of the game - I am not opposed to damage, but the damage 
 in this game is so extreme that it really kills a lot of the fun of the game. I realize that yes, 
 high speed impacts cause massive damage, but it's like the creators were so impressed by their 
 own damage mechanics (which really are not spectacular) , that they designed their game entirely 
 around damaging your car. The AI is extremely aggressive and will not hesitate to plain wreck your 
 car given the chance. Many of the courses are very tight with sharp turns, and with many cars piled 
 in there and the aggressive AI it becomes a disaster area. The game does a very poor job of informing 
 you what type of turn is coming next in some places (or even where to go) , and their braking assist 
 (blinking light) is not well placed (though you adjust to it eventually) . All these things combine 
 to make the game some sort of high speed demolition derby that is very hard to enjoy for people 
 who enjoy a more sim style of racing. The damage is a nice feature, it is just completely overdone. 
 Thankfully, it is a bit more difficult to damage your car to the point that it alters performance.
 
  
  Many reviews say the controls are responsive, but to me they seem more frantic. The entire game 
 feels like driving on 13 Red Bulls. Again, this is not necessarily a problem with the game, but 
 the way it works with the rest of the game becomes problematic. Many of the cars are borderline 
 impossible to control. The throttles two positions of "none" and "all" make it extremely difficult 
 to control the more powerful cars, as they will spin at the slightest impetus because it is so 
 difficult to 'feather' the throttle. When you are thrust into the Koenigsegg at the very beginning 
 of the game, it's very easy to get overwhelmed by the car, and I have a lot of racing game experience. 
 For a beginner, it would be nigh impossible to actually drive the car well. The game will allow 
 you to limp your way to the money required to start your own team, even if you finish dead last 
 in every race, but who wants to do it that way?
  
  The start of the game is also illogical and frustrating. As you begin, you will be trying to earn 
 enough money to start your own racing team. To do this, you drive for other teams to earn money. 
 Unfortunately, this means you are driving a different kind of car for every event, and the cars 
 range from an easy to handle Chevrolet touring car to the exotic and overpowering Koenigsegg. This 
 causes problems because you develop zero familiarity with your car and your driving style has to 
 alter so rapidly from race to race that it can be very frustrating. Also, once you have driven 
 all of these exotic cars, you receive the car you will start your team with: The Mustang 302. Not 
 a bad ride by any stretch, but you're already driven some of the best cars at this point and it's 
 like a step backward. 
  
  Once you do have your own team, you create your team name and color scheme and such. The personalization 
 options for your team colors are laughable. You get to choose amongst 30 or 40 paint schemes, most 
 of which look awful, and then among a very small number of colors. If you are going to allow customization 
 beyond just colors, you have to offer many options. Held up against NFS titles, the customization 
 in this game is decidedly lacking. 
  
  Finally, the game finds its one source of true originality - the much-praised Flashback system. 
 Basically, this allows you to rewind time to avoid a large accident or particularly bad spot of 
 driving. Depending on what difficulty level you play at, you can have as many as 5 flashback opportunities 
 per event. The Flashback system is a lifesaver in this game because you WILL wreck and you WILL 
 wreck hard. This means that when you plow headfirst into a rail at 150 mph and your car is totaled, 
 you can rewind the race and start over and (hopefully) avoid the same accident. This is a decent 
 feature, but again, it has a few shortcomings in my eyes. The first is that the controls can be 
 so difficult and the AI so aggressive that you NEED this feature. Nothing is more frustrating than 
 wasting a Flashback because the computer decided to total your car. Secondly, using the Flashback 
 can be a lifesaver but it completely shatters the continuity of the game. This would be a nice 
 feature for the once-in-a-while mishap when you come into a corner too fast and wind up sliding 
 out into the grass or something, but the fact that it can become such a necessity, and often through 
 no fault of your own courtesy of the angry AI, really makes it less appealing.
  
  In the end, it may be a bit unfair to compare this game to some of the other racing titles (Gran 
 Turismo and the NFS series) , but those are the standards, and hence the comparison is inevitable. 
 And while GRID is undoubtedly gorgeous, there are so many other things that I found myself disliking 
 about this game that I just feel disappointed in it. Hyper-aggressive AI, frantic pacing, poor 
 customization, lack of continuity between cars, and over the top damage all destroy what could 
 have been a truly great game.
  
  And don't even get me started on how much I hate drift racing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  So, hi everybody. I had a first look at this game here, at Gamespot. I was impressed. Then i downloaded 
 a demo, after that i pre-ordered it, and, finally, bought. I took it home and what i saw when i 
 put disc into Ps3 tray? A patch! Good customer service and tech support, game will be patched because 
 it still buggy. But when you play it - you just do not noticing it. Graphic is good here, nice 
 damage system. Nice sounds. And full packed action gameplay. There is no rail-driving AI - it tries 
 to be human-like. Do you see race without accidents? I had a nice shock when was driving a Viper 
 and lost control. Two cars passed by me. Then one of them lost a tire and rolled over and second 
 lost control in sharp turn. That was really nice. 
  This game also showing good variety of events. Open-wheel, tuners (my favourite) , muscles, touring, 
 destruction derby presented here. The game is whole lot easier then ToCA Racedriver 3 on normal, 
 but if you want to push your skills to the limit - welcome to the options. This game bringing a 
 lot of fun in serious sims genre, and at this moment i think it is better than Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. 
 And if Codemasters will not forget GRID it will became even bigger and better. Also - worldwide 
 online competition, world times and a night racing. But online here is full of jerks at the moment 
 - they ramming you just for fun. If you see them - better leave for another session.
  And... Just go and buy this one. If you like fun, realistic sims - you will not be disapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Grid is a very fun racing game that it will please any type of racing fan. Not only does it have 
 good graphics, it also has really, really, sharp controls like in Gran Turismo. Another thing that 
 is good about Grid is that it has a lot of different racing types like regular racing to races 
 that are free for all to drift races to challenge races. The main career mode has a lot of different 
 things you can do like start your own team, race for other people, and sign different sponsers. 
 You can also play online and that is so fun when you get a lot of people playing and you play free 
 for all because you can just crash into people. There is only one thing I did not like about this 
 game was to hard for me. Overall if you are racing fan you should get this game because it is so 
 deep in every way and more importantly, FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  From the sleek menu navigations inspired by DIRT to the insane course challenges presented early 
 on into the game's career mode, GRID offers an exceptional racing experience for general racing 
 enthusiasts. Here's my pro's/con's of a contemptuous racer.
  
  GOOD: great graphics delivered by a third party publisher. Sound is is even better!! Different 
 racing styles play out respectively with their geographical locations (ex: drift in Yokohama, Shibuya 
 etc.) Good customization options, plus the ability to track endorsements adds depth. Smart AI can 
 present a great challenge to those familiar with the stalemate genre.
  
  BAD: These are just my preferences, but I found the controls a little too "arcade", especially 
 with the drift sequences (painfully reminded me of the horrible NFS Carbon drift courses :- [ ) . 
 I'm a simulator racing fan, so the technical aspects of the game could've been better (photo-realism, 
 realistic driving mechanics, locations actually are recreated from the real thing because Shibuya, 
 Tokyo definitely looks different from its real life counterpart etc) . 
  
  All in all, I'd rather play racing games like Project Gotham or even Gran Turismo. However, I definitely 
 will say that GRID is my all time favorite third party, arcade style racing game (which is sure 
 to please basically everyone!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayroyden
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The Graphics for GRID is ultra realistic. I mean have you seen the screenshots. Its just amazing. 
 The cars, the tracks everything looks great. Everything in the game is highly detailed. I have 
 no words to describe the graphics for the game.
  Presentation:
  Starting from the menu till the time you finish a race the presentation is awesome. GRID has a 
 slick menu, very innovative!!!. The damage model of the cars are great. You can rip the entire 
 car apart and it will look fantastic. The crowds, shadows are also good. Also you can burn rubber, 
 I mean the ingame smoke is kick ass.
  Gameplay:
  The game actually starts off with you behind the wheels of a car, initially you work for other 
 teams till you can pile up enough money for setting up your own team. You will get extra money 
 for finishing bonus objectives. It is as simple as finish ahead of this team or this guy or a first 
 or just a podium finish. Once you start winning races you add up reputation points this will help 
 acquire new license etc. The game is split up into 3 regions so acquiring enough rep points will 
 definitely do you one good. The game has several classes that means you can race different types 
 of cars.
  The handling of the cars are great. The game is fast paced, the AI design is awesome. I mean at 
 a higher difficulty the AI will definitely make you earn your wins. The AI also makes mistakes 
 which makes the game even more realistic. With that said the game does not have a killer difficulty, 
 the game will remain to be fun even with a higher difficulty setting. The Drift mode is my fav. 
 where-in you need to pile up a lot of combo chains this will boost ur final score coz with each 
 and every combo string you get a multiplier. The damage mechanism is good too since the game focuses 
 on a more realistic approach so you cannot go bang your car onto the walls, it will damage your 
 car which will spoil your race coz with each and every hit some part or the other will get affected. 
 Bang too much and you are out of the race, this is where the flash back kicks in i. e., the game 
 will give you an option to reverse time and take a turn that you missed.
  Controls:
  The controls are responsive and it is cool to control the car at high speeds.
  
  Sound:
  
 Sound is cool, but then I don't want my assistant always telling me how to drive. I mean it is 
 likeYou have to press the accelerator to get the car moving. You wont win if you don't move 
 blah blah" this sucks. 
  
  GOOD: 
  **Graphics
  **Gameplay
  **Controls, A long game with a lot of cars to choose from.
  
  BAD:
  **Lag online. 
  
 
  A definite buy for a racing fan. The game will not satisfy people who want a Burnout or Need For 
 Speed kind of experience coz the game has taken a more realistic approach. But then I cannot call 
 this game a sim either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Well where to start. Not having been a great fan of the series previously I was curious to see 
 how it stood up on the PS3 compared to other great racing titles such as Ridge Racer, Burnout and 
 of course GT.
  Firstly the graphics took my breath away, awesome detail of the cars and the surrounding area and 
 clearly the tracks had been painstakingly put together.
  I'll be honest, compared to some of the above mentioned titles it took me a lot longer to win my 
 first race and get to grips with the controls. The driving is not very forgiving and it doesn't 
 take long before you are driving a battered car and eventully the race is over due to engine failure. 
 The AI can be agressive and responds well to things going on around it! 
  If you want a racing game that you can pick up and play and get into straight away then don't get 
 this. If on the other hand you want a game with depth, difficulty lots of cars, lots of courses 
 across 3 continents and awesome graphics then this is for you.....
  ..... and did I mention the rewind function.. yep you can rewind a crash and the re-drive it to try 
 and get it right! You only get so many of these per race and a rewarded with money for not using 
 them... but what a great idea, beats restarting the whole race when you crash on the final bend 
 fighting for first place!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  the best looking game on the market right now is GranTurismo Prologue... hands down. but this game 
 isn't far behind in 2nd place. add to that the fact that this game is more fun and the AI feels 
 like you're racing other human players and this is one racing game all racing fans should check 
 it out. 
  
  the action is fast paced and adrenaline pumping even on the normal difficulty levels. as you increase 
 the difficulty settings it gets even crazier with cars trying to force you off the road or into 
 a wall on tight turns. the AI racers actually break when coming up on you and sometimes spin out 
 themselves so they're not line following droids like in Gran Turismo. the addition of the most 
 realistic damage mechanics ever seen in a racing game adds a level of accountability for how you 
 drive. the cars handle precisely and there are everything from tuners to muscle cars to indy cars 
 to drift events to gt 1 high speed events. this game literally covers every racing aspect except 
 dirt racing
  
  put simply this game is the best racer i've played and the most fun in any car game i've had since 
 Need for Speed Most Wanted (which to me was the best in that series) . the game looks incredible, 
 delivers a frantic sense of speed and will definitely challenge any racing fan on the right settings 
 while remaining fun as hell. if you like racing games or are looking to get into racing games pick 
 this game up asap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZinPhyo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Once, the best racing game was the Gran Turismo series. But now, it seem to have changed. 
  
  At the start, many people will think that just because they cannot win the first race, this 
 game is bad and they stop playing it. However, I feel that the first race is actually HARDER than 
 the other races because you cannot change the difficulty. Once you get hold of it, it just gets 
 better and better.
  
  I personally feel that the Global Race Series are a little tedious because they have 5 races in 
 each of them. The sponsors are sometimes dumb because some of them require you to have no damage 
 but how the hell are you going to do that in a destruction derby?
  
  After you have finished the GRID world, you can still have fun by playing with the cheats. However, 
 be warned. You will get zero from your sponsors if you play wth cheats.
  
  Now, GRID is the REAL driving simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luchonex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  i first got the demo trough playstation strore.
  and i went out of words when i first played it.
  it is a complete driveing game that has improved 
 many of other games deffects. like the crashes, the graphics, and most of all the speed motion.
 
  there still are some things to improve but im cool with it haha.
  
  
  great game. great playability. great graphics.
  one of my favs.
  
  
  
  
  .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
  .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  I personally have never played any RACEDRIVER games since TOCA 2 on the PS1 which I loved. I have 
 to be honest I thought that by now the game would have been ruined like many other old favourites 
 of mine. I was wrong, I love the game, I play a lot of racing games but this is my current favourite. 
 I only played it by chance when my brother bought it and I thought I may aswell have a go. It can 
 be very challenging when the diffuculty settings are high. The cars are good fun and the graphics 
 are also top notch, for each race you have a target and run in your own team which you can choose 
 sponsers and cars for etc. I like this idea and along with this if your team doesn't have the money 
 to afford a car for a certain race (24 hour Le Mans for instance (actually 24 mins) ) you can choose 
 to race for another team, getting an reward if you meet their expectations. You continue to make 
 your way through the different races in the game which are divided into three stages for each continent/country, 
 the countries/continents being the USA, Europe and Japan. Overall a very good game, good damage, 
 good races, good cars and good damage system especially since if you crash and completely ruin 
 your car you can rewind to an earlier part of the race rather than restart which prevents some 
 of the fustration I sometimes feel! The only slight gripe I have is that there is no local/split 
 screen multiplayer which is a huge shame. I really did think that TOCA would have evolved into 
 some terrible marketing system like Need For Speed has become but I was wrong this is still a great 
 game. 
  
  Just In case anyone is deliberating whether to get this or NFS: Pro Street I would recommend this, 
 however I am a bit of a driving game nut so maybe it isn't for everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Areeb22
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  i RECKON THAT THAT IS THE MAIN BAD PART OF THE GAME: WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Yeh, the graphics r pretty good but i wouldve expected much more, Gran Turismo will always be the 
 king!!!!!!
  
  However the racing game itself is quite good, yeh thats about it ( good gameplay) meh
  
  waste 
 of time
  
  wait for Midnight Club LA on ps3 and get that!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  or GT HD
  
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT 
 SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT 
 SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT 
 SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  WHAT RACING GAME IS NOT SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juniorspeed
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Grid is the game that you dream cause include a incredible system of damage never seen before add 
 wonderful graphics and sound.
  The only thing that remind was a depper modification in motors, whels and
  tires. Because this 
 I consider not perfect but still a great game a better that I play. The career mode is incredible 
 you start in a small team and with
  progress in the game you became a great pilot with huge money and business suporters.
  The difficult 
 is just right with two hours you play perfectly. Remind too more
  options but this not compromise the game.
  The mode online is just right there is not laggins 
 frequently and the factor fun is much addictive. Installation is simple and fast.
  The best in the games like this is the cars and this game not dissapoint there is wonderfuls cars 
 like nissan 350z, mitsubishi, mercedez, toyota, honda, aston martin and more. All are incredible in 
 all details. When a car broken you feel a huge in this game.
  Finally grid is almost perfect indicates for that like games of sports and hardcores gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank-DIsk
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting a LONG time for someone to step up and make a game like this. I've been playing 
 racing games since Grand Prix on the Atari, and I'm very critical of most racing games. This one 
 though, passes my test, and with gusto. If you want to become good at racing games, this is the 
 perfect game to train with.
  
  Some of you may remember the game Need For Speed: High Stakes (from before NFS became stupid) , 
 which was one of the only games in history to have actual car damage on actual licensed cars. The 
 damage wasn't just aeshthetic though, it had severe effects on handling and performance. Unlike 
 it's predecessors and followers, this game forced you to learn how to control your car, while maintaining 
 a fast line. Grid does the same thing, but better. 
  
  In Gran Turismo (aka Bumper Cars HD) , if you enter a turn too fast, or want to pass someone, the 
 best course of action is to slam into the car next to you, bounce off, and claim the lead. Not 
 so in this game, when you hit another car, you actually wreck-up your car, and cost yourself time, 
 speed, and car reliability. Also, AI opponents are very aware of your presence. In GT, if you touch 
 an opponent's rear bumper, they'll slow down, causing you to get stuck behind them, resulting in 
 both of you losing position. In Grid, if you're on an opponent's bumper, they'll actually move 
 out of your way. But that's not to say that the AI isn't aggressive, they're jsut very smart, and 
 use real racing tactics insted of trying to just follow the programmer's preset line.
  
  Car control isn't easy, but it's much more friendly than Gran Turismo. Ya know how in GT, when 
 you're flying down a road, and you hit your brakes and turn the wheel, and nothing happens except 
 skid marks and screeching, followed by a dent free crash into the wall? Not so in this game, the 
 car's are very responsive, and actually do what you tell them to. But be warned, this is not Burnout, 
 you still have to use real driving techniques to keep your car on the road. Drifting is tough, 
 but not so tough that you'll be pulling your hair out. It's harder than Burnout, but easier than 
 Tokyo Extreme Racer Drift 2. 
  
  Something not important, but still fun is the great presentation. You can list what name you want 
 to be called, and the game integrates it very well. Better yet, they don't overdo it, they jsut 
 periodically reffer to you by name, and it's very fluid and natural sounding. Great voice work. 
 The menus are very nice too, no Capcom style HTML menus, these things work in real time, and are 
 integrated very well.
  
  Now for the complaints. No mechanical car customization, not even a little (though you can customize 
 your paint job) . I honestly don't car about adjusting gear ratios by thousandths of a millimeter, 
 but I do wish that they had SOMETHING in the way of customization. However, i see why they excluded 
 this option. The cars are all tuned idealy, there's really no need for improvement, but the option 
 still would have been nice. My other complaint is the one I'd like to see addressed the most, which 
 is load times. Oh my GOD, I'm growing old through these load screens. There's no installation when 
 you first run the game, so all the data is comming from the disk every time. Installs are a pain, 
 granted, but these load times are tedious. 
  
  Overall, the game is great and well worth the money. This is as close to real racing as I've ever 
 seen. If they fix the load times, this game will be classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  When I heard that Codemasters was releasing a new driving game in their Racedriver series called 
 'Grid', I didn't really care that much. I was more interested in other racing games coming out 
 in the future for the PS3 like Burnout Paradise and Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. When Grid came in 
 the post a few days after release, I wasn't really that enthusiastic about playing it... until 
 I tried it and I was blown away.
  
  The first thing I noticed about this game is the amazing presentation of the game (and I'm just 
 talking about the menus for the moment) . The 3D text flies at the screen and flies out of the screens 
 when you select an option. The computer says your name (if it is on the list) , which I thought 
 was a nice touch. The events in Grid World are presented to you in a metal box. To keep you staring 
 at the screen during loading times, your stats start flinging themselves in and out of the screen 
 like the other menus and, again, in that colossal 3D text. This is honestly the best initially 
 presented game that I have ever played.
  
  In Grid world mode, you start off as a rookie driver, and you have to race in specific events to 
 build up your reputation and become the top ranked driver in the world. At first, you are told 
 that you need to make a certain amount of money in order to start up your own team and race for 
 yourself. In order to do this, you must race for other teams and meet their objectives. Sounds 
 like other Toca games, but this is only to start you off. Once you have made the money to do up 
 your Mustang, you can start racing for your own team. Now you can earn a lot more rep, and the 
 more rep you earn, the closer you get to upgrading your licence and racing in bigger races with 
 more prizes and more rep. When you race for your own team, you receive sponsor money, which is 
 the key to earning a lot more and having a bigger total when your season earnings are calculated. 
 Also, you get to choose your team colours for all your cars, team name and which cars you drive 
 for different events.
  
  At some point during your career, you will have to employ a team mate - a funky graph shows what 
 aspects of racing your possible team mates specialise in. Purchasing cars is different from other 
 games on Grid as the purpose is not to have the best car in the game and race with the same car 
 in every race. When you choose which event you want to race in, if you don't already own a car 
 allowed entry in that event, you must buy one. This means either buying one new or bidding for 
 a used vehicle on eBay motors (yes, they could have chosen a more subtle solution of in-game advertising 
 for eBay) . The amount of cars available on Grid is pretty decent - about the same amount as Need 
 For Speed Prostreet with a much bigger variety although I was disappointed when I found that there 
 is no Audi R8 like in most great modern racing games.
  
  One of the amazing things about this game is that there are so many different disciplines, the 
 main one being touring cars, muscle and drift of which there are many different variations of. 
 The great thing about this is that there are so many to choose from that everyone will have their 
 favourites. The amount of tracks on the game isn't as impressive as, say, Gran Turismo 4 -another 
 driving simulator. However, like the cars, the difference in style of the tracks makes up for the 
 lack of numbers. The events are split up into three areas of the world: Europe, USA and Japan. 
 Europe has mostly touring car races, similar to the oldschool Toca games of the 90s, USA focuses 
 on tight muscle races and the odd destruction derby whilst the crazy Japanese love their drift 
 races and midnight events. Grid is capable of preparing you for any racing game, as in order to 
 master it, you will have to get used to each and every event.
  
  I have been frustrated with this game at times, but the thing that annoyed me the most is that 
 you cannot race people in the same room as you. I liked it more when multiplayer meant playing 
 with people you know and love, and not with strangers over the Internet, although I have given 
 the online multiplayer mode a go. The game still plays beautifully online - not many glitches and 
 the only problem is that you are racing a bunch of a**holes. On average, you will only get one 
 genuinely great, fair racer out of eleven other racedrivers. The other ten are only interested 
 in crashing into other people and ruining it for everybody (sad to say it is mostly Spanish people) 
 so it is often best to start off at the back of the pack as the first corner is guaranteed mayhem. 
 Despite this, it is still a fun experience especially if you can get that rare victory.
  
  Now, onto the gameplay. It is so exciting - they have got the formula just right. It is, as people 
 say, a cross between arcade and simulation and therefore a fair amount of skill is required. One 
 of the main features of Grid is the new 'flashback' feature - now, if you take a corner terribly 
 badly or destroy your car, you can travel back in time ten seconds or less, choose the point where 
 you want to restart and have a second chance at the bend or at the race. Be sparing, though - you 
 only have a limited amount of these each race. I think that this feature is revolutionary for driving 
 games (like NOS or upgrading) , and should definitely be used in future titles. One notable aspect 
 missing from the races is pit stops - how can a car run for 24 hour races without stopping for 
 fuel? Also, apparantly the AI is highly intelligent, but I find it way too easy to block them from 
 overtaking; it's like they don't want to scratch their car! Before each non-network race, you have 
 options to make your race easier or harder (you can adjust the difficulty, play in pro mode, change 
 the driver settings and lock yourself in the helmet view) . The harder you make it for yourself, 
 the more reputation points you will gain. 
  
  The graphics are one of the best I have seen in any racing game - it is the second best I have 
 seen to GT5: Prologue. It is almost photo realistic and the movement and speed does not affect 
 this. There's not much more I can say.
  
  The original music is very good - not too hard or soft, and sets the right atmosphere and I am 
 glad they didn't try to go with a licenced soundtrack. I much prefer this music than the tripe 
 you find on newer Need For Speed games. Some of the sound effects in the game are dodgy, such as 
 the crowd screaming some of the bumping and crashing. Unlike other games, a lot of the cars sound 
 very similar to others which is not good when you have a Lamborghini sounding exactly the same 
 as an old banger.
  
  What you get for your money is pretty good, although there is not much replay value as once you 
 have completed the game there is not much else to do as there is no one but yourself and total 
 strangers to play with.
  
  Overall, I am glad with the 30 price that was spent on this game and I would say it is well worth 
 the money. I would choose this a million times over Need For Speed Prostreet and I am glad I have 
 had this near perfect virtual racing experience. I give this game 8.5/10 for the amazing gameplay 
 with the revolutionary flashbacks, life-like graphics and for being the most rewarding racing game 
 I've played in a while, but it loses out on anything more due to the lack of multiplayer and the 
 slightly short length of the main game mode.
  
  Take a look at my GameSpot account for more reviews. Add me on the PS3, my ID is Supersonikk. See 
 y'at the fight =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is great it runs very smooth on ps3 and has nothing to complain about. The cars run just 
 fine its not over speeded like game pro street is where you get from 0-60 in .1 second. Yet if 
 they would of worked on it for a little bit more longer then it would of been the best so far im 
 still playing nfs u2 and waiting for the better game to comeout and beat the nfsu2 so far none 
 did. Yet i do recomend this game, quite few cars to choose from. But if you really want a good 
 looking game to play choose need for speed underground 2 or gran turismo 5 prologue you wont be 
 dissapointed.
  
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done 
 Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok today I decided to pick up Grid and I have to say that this game is outstanding. Take a looky 
 looky below.
  
  Graphics = 9/10
  
  These are some top notch graphics. Not quite as good as Prologue but the graphics are very impressive 
 none the less. What else I found impressive was the clouds of dust and dirt. I spun out and kicked 
 up so much dirt that I couldn't see any cars around me for a few seconds. Then when I drove off 
 and looked in my mirror I could see remains of my large dust cloud I created. Damage effects are 
 also very nice created. There is nothing better than trailing in 3rd place and see the 2nd place 
 drivers front bumper come flying over his car and slam right in your face. Very cool! 
  
  Sound = 9/10
  
  Some fantastic engine sounds. Each car has a unique sound. The crash and drifting 
 sounds done nicely as well. I am playing in 5.1 dolby surround sound and I was very impressed with 
 how much depth this game delivers in terms of sound. While playing you will hear what seems to 
 be your crew chief and he tells you what kind of damage your car has taken or if there is a crash 
 ahead or behind you.
  
  Value = 9.5/10
  
  There is so much you need to do in this game. Just to start off you have to earn your license. 
 After that you need to win enough money to rebuild an old Mustang you picked up. You are able to 
 pick your colors, number, and artwork. After that you need to create a team and earn sponsers. 
 The game holds just about every single stat you can think of. And when your ready for more competition 
 you can head online and race up to 12 other players online.
  
  Overall = 9/10
  
  I have played a lot of racers out there and this one seems to one of the best. It has everything 
 your looking for in a racing game. This gets Lethal's must purchase approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm nearly finished with the career mode and I have to say, this game constantly impresses. I'm 
 a Gran Turismo fan, but this game gives GT 5 Prologue a real run for its money. It has stunning 
 graphics, outstanding driver mechanics, and an excellent sense of speed. This is truly the most 
 fun I've had racing since the first Project Gotham. Yes, it's better than Project Gotham 4 and 
 Burnout Paradise City (both of which I really like) .
  If you enjoyed last year's DIRT, this is like frosting on the cake with two extra scoops of sugar. 
 The courses are diverse and exciting. The AI is spot-on and the pacing is perfect. 
  Some are going to complain that there is no tweaking and that it detracts from the experience, 
 but I say you're missing the point. In this game, you are the driver. That's it. You have a garage 
 and a crew to take of the cars. All you need to do is drive real fast. And the cars deliver. Each 
 car is unique, with little learning curve. You'll feel comfortable right away. 
  The three arenas are well-rounded and challenging. The U. S. tracks are big and mean, with narrow, 
 wall-lined roads. It's fast and full of crashes. And that equals FUN. European tracks are more 
 wide open with more chances for error since there are no walls or fences to keep you on the track, 
 but the cars are quick and grip like tiger claws. Japan has some wild make-shift tracks with lots 
 of obstacles in the way, plus some insane drift challenges. These (for me) were the hardest to 
 conquer, but once you find the sweet spot, it's a great diversion from regular racing.
  And if you're still wondering if its worth it, I have two words for you: Demolition Derby. 'Nuff 
 said.
  The career mode has you hiring and firing teammates and trying to juggle the best sponsors for 
 the most amount of cash, and it works very well. Also, there is a modest amount of customization 
 you can do to form your own team colors and name (which you can change any time you want) .
  Probably the most unique and about-time inclusion in this game is the rewind control. If you missed 
 that turn and smashed into the wall, simply rewind time a few seconds and try it again. Now instead 
 of restarting the race (and admit it, we do that a lot) when you crash, just rewind and keep racing. 
 It's fluid and easy, and doesn't interrupt the flow. I hope it finds its way to other racers.
 
  Just like last summer, the developers at Codemasters bring on the heat with GRID. Absolutley gorgeous 
 graphics, white-knuckle racing, fantastic crashes, and some flat-out wild moments, this racer won't 
 disappoint.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I could not find a used copy which means anyone who bought it, loves it.
  
  GRID performs as excellent racing simulator that met my expectations. I was hesitant to pick up 
 this game thinking it was going to be pretty boring after playing it just like Burnout. But it 
 has a lot to offer. I'll cast the negative aspects first and then get to the positive characteristics 
 of the game. 
  
  NEGATIVE:
  It will take some time to get used to the accelerator as you will spin around in circles with the 
 pedal to the floor. Some of the races are way too hard such as the Le Mans 24 hour race which is 
 fun but entirely way too hard. There is a slight bit of lag while receiving the payment from the 
 sponsors, but not during actual driving game play which would affect the game entirely different. 
 I personally do not like to play the drift missions and try to avoid them entirely but it is a 
 small part of the game which takes a lot of getting used to. Online mode will throw the drift mission 
 against an online player without an option to avoid this, but I might be wrong. There are game 
 advertisements pertaining to racing and not to Burger King, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell. Repeated announcements 
 can be tiresome after playing for sometime. Customizing performance on cars is not an option.
 
  
  POSITIVE:
  The game looks and sounds incredible. There are many cars available to purchase and sell, off of 
 E-bay motors. The tracks are reasonably difficult and challenge the player to learn the courses 
 to reach a top position. Racing will make the player concentrate when to slow down, let off the 
 throttle, speed up, avoid other racers. There are plenty of ways to make the car look appealing 
 but that does not affect performance. It's also nice to hear the announcer establish you name when 
 you start, if your name is available. When you make mistakes ( There will be many) there is a rewind 
 option that will allow the player to rewind time to a set point and correct your mistake only a 
 certain amount of times depending on what level of difficulty you choose. There is damage factor 
 to the cars wheels, aerodynamics, engine, radiator, brakes, steering, ect. To give a realistic 
 feel to the driver. Crazy AI... Never give up... drivers make mistakes just like you so you might 
 get lucky and win if you keep pushing on. 
  
  You may want to rent this game but eventually you might buy it, because it is one of the best racing 
 games I've seen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinConklin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best racing games on the PS3. I absolutely loved Dirt, the graphics were so 
 clear, the cars handled so realistically (unlike ALL the Gran Turismo games) , and the environments 
 were so neat; i couldn't put the game down. After a while however, i heard that Grid was going 
 to be coming out, so i sold Dirt immediately anticipating Grid.
  
  Once i started playing Grid, I knew that i was going to love it after 5 minutes. All of the cars 
 look so beautiful, the lighting in the game is brilliant, the controls are smooth, the menu navigation 
 is simple, and the environments look fantastic. For everyone complaining at the difficulty, THERE 
 ARE 4 CHOICES OF DIFFICULTY!!!!!! IF IT IS TOO HARD, THEN MAKE IT EASIER!
  
  I play on normal now, and it is perfect. The one downfall of this game is the fact that there is 
 no local split-screen multiplayer, which should be a given in the racing genre.
  
  If you are a fan of racing, go out and rent this game. It is worth your eight bucks
  
  Review:
 
  
  Graphics - 9.5
  Gameplay - 9
  Sound - 10
  Replay Value - 8.5
  
  Overall - 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  So, hi everybody. I had a first look at this game here, at Gamespot. I was impressed. Then i downloaded 
 a demo, after that i pre-ordered it, and, finally, bought. I took it home and what i saw when i 
 put disc into Ps3 tray? A patch! Good customer service and tech support, game will be patched because 
 it still buggy. But when you play it - you just do not noticing it. Graphic is good here, nice 
 damage system. Nice sounds. And full packed action gameplay. There is no rail-driving AI - it tries 
 to be human-like. Do you see race without accidents? I had a nice shock when was driving a Viper 
 and lost control. Two cars passed by me. Then one of them lost a tire and rolled over and second 
 lost control in sharp turn. That was really nice. 
  This game also showing good variety of events. Open-wheel, tuners (my favourite) , muscles, touring, 
 destruction derby presented here. The game is whole lot easier then ToCA Racedriver 3 on normal, 
 but if you want to push your skills to the limit - welcome to the options. This game bringing a 
 lot of fun in serious sims genre, and at this moment i think it is better than Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. 
 And if Codemasters will not forget GRID it will became even bigger and better. Also - worldwide 
 online competition, world times and a night racing. But online here is full of jerks at the moment 
 - they ramming you just for fun. If you see them - better leave for another session.
  And... Just go and buy this one. If you like fun, realistic sims - you will not be disapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy2012
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  A hollow shell of a game, the only bright point was the graphics. The controls on the other hand 
 are bad. It's like driving on ice. I've played alot of driving games in my time going back to the 
 first need for speed, and the first Gran Turismo, which both games are great and the controls work 
 well. The controls are way to touch in Grid and don't think about touching the gas because it 
 will spin out with the litest touch. I would think that they could look at other games that have 
 working controls and see how it's done. I've seen games like this come and go, but I feel I had 
 to warn anyone of buying this game if you are looking for a game like gran turismo look somewhere 
 else. I can't wait for the full version of Gran Turismo to come out I've been getting tired of 
 playing Gran 4 and I was hoping this game would fit but that didn't work . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abshakies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Realistic Crashes .. thats what you get when you mix the best qualities of 2 world known racing 
 series. The GT Series are known for the authentic cars and amazing graphics of the tracks, but 
 don't have believable crashes, such as when you smack into a wood fence the car stops. The Burnout 
 Series are known for their amazing crash technology, but known of their cars are real, just look 
 alike, and not all have nitro the more you drift. This is Where GRID succeeds; it has the combinations 
 of Real Cars, with real crashes, it is as real as driving out on the street. but known that we 
 crash A LOT Grid added instant reply, where you can rewind a few sec before the crash and avoid 
 it (though limited in the number of instant reply) , instead of repeating the entire race.
  
  I bought the game a couple of days ago and it has really addicted me to it. will have more 
 to update 
  
  
  NOT THIS IS FOR REAL DRIVING FANS, if you like just drive around and not crashing consider Mario 
 carts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Grid is a great racing game. To me it's the best single player racer since Dirt. The cars control 
 realistically and it's the most realistic that I've seen so far. The damage the cars take is very 
 well done and realistic the graphics are beautifully done as well. The game play and handling of 
 the cars are some of the best yet. Its nice to have commentary during races to and if your name 
 happens to be on the list of preset names you will hear the game call you by name. But if you are 
 like me and your name (Roger) doesn't appear on the game you can always pick a nickname. You can 
 also name your crew anything you want and you can change the name at any time. The only complaint 
 is that you cant customize your car as much as say Need For speed or Juiced but you CAN definitely 
 change the colors such as the main body color and a primary and secondary color for the preset 
 graphic like things for your car. It's not a lot but it's also better than nothing Its decent but 
 that aside you have a great racing game. You can tell allot of time was spent on this game and 
 it definitely deserves a try especially if you are a racer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riachin
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer but has no mercy on beginners. Great graphics seem at a loss when 
 you don't see much driving but rather more crashing. The requirements to be able to play this game 
 are:
  
  - Know how to maneuver spaceships at light speed around tight corners
  - Have the reflexes of a mirror
  - Have the ability to foresee crashes (being the only way to 
 avoid them)
  
  I don't know if it's just me, but this game is too darn tough. I played armored Core on PSP and 
 managed to get to play it manually, that was tough... but doable. For those of you who don't know, 
 most reviews advise you to play Armored Core on automatic (i. e. you don't control the machine) 
 if you wish to survive.
  
  Other than the impossible difficulty, the game seems to be great (can't get past the second race 
 so I don't really know) . Graphics are unbelievable crisp and the controls are responsive (at superman 
 speeds) .
  
  All in all, great game but for hardcore racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CADMAN_3
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off be saying this game is awesome in looks. The cars and the tracks are just amazing. 
 You get a wide range of places to race which is a good thing with this game. The number of cars 
 you get are pretty good but are still lacking in size compared to GT and Forza.
  But that's about as far as it goes. This game was a big let down.
  This isn't a race game where 
 you need to use some skill to when races, like in Forza or even F1. This is a game where you slam 
 into the AI and take them out before they do the same to you. No matter how much you brake or down 
 shift to avoid hitting someone you'll still hit them and they will hit you and take you out of 
 the race.
  I don't know how many time I had to restart a race because of the AI slammed into me so hard that 
 I couldn't finish the race. Even on easy mode I had to restart because of hitting someone or them 
 hitting me.
  The cars may look amazing but they handle like crap. If you've played any of the Driver games from 
 Codemasters then you've played this game. It's just prettier than the others.
  Codemasters needs to look at GT (all 5) and both Forza games to learn how to make a game with cars 
 that handle a lot better.
  Actually Codemasters did make two games, both for the PS that where amazing for the time, BTCC. 
 (British Touring Car Championship)
  They need to go back to there roots with racing games.
  Not counting the Colin McRae racing games because this is a different style of racing.
  Codemasters 
 has missed year after year with the Driver series.
  For those you like cheesey racing games then this is the game for you.
  For those of us that 
 are into real racing sims, this is a hit or miss game. You won't really be missing much if you 
 don't get this one. Or at least wait till it drops in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Reading this Review of mine would most probably meant ur interested in the game isn't it? My verdict 
 would be go get it, like my title says, it's the best racer yet, GT5 would likely have a hard time 
 completing with Codemaster.
  
  Racedriver is a series that existed long before GRID or DIRT, they're actually by codemaster and 
 the first series if i'm not from was Toca Racedriver. That game, is a total simulation racer, i've 
 tried the demo with my G25 but sadly, i already had GTR2 to tide me over during my purchase of 
 G25 period.
  
  Alright getting down to the review, this game is Fun, Simulating and looks stunning. It's worth 
 it's full price tag, even though having bought MGS4, i still played GRID during my MGS4 breaks, 
 it really tells u how good it is and the temptation to not just own it but pay it all the while.
 
  
  Graphics: One word to describe, Stunning ! If you think GT5P was photorealistic, then this game 
 is as well. The graphics i felt was a little better than GT5P, due to the larger details on screen. 
 
  Full Damage model is here as well, you even have the replay mode with slow-motion to convince urself 
 how stunning the crash model looks. Slow-downs wise, there isn't any, but maybe a little lag here 
 and there during scenes where they showed ur Sponsors payments, but thats all. The racing itself 
 is lag-free at a steady framerate regardless if it's 1 or 15 cars on ur screen.
  
  Gameplay: You do know how great Toca racerdriver 3 plays, GRID is better and more refined. 
  
 The controls will seems a little loose when u start, and this is the reason why i judge it has 
 a simulation rather than a arcade racer, an arcade racer doesn't really matters on the tires physics 
 but this game does, if u play with no assists, a player like me who has clocked more than 80 hours 
 on GTR2 had difficult at the start,
  Crash engine here is great, it acts well, looks well and makes the handling realistic as well. 
 Some knock will be deadly resulting in a flashback or restart, while some will have ur wheel knock-down 
 and left ur car steering sideways, Coupled with the sounds of ur missing-wheel screetching, it's 
 just feels so realistic and u know what's happening when on cockpit.
  The flashbacks aren't as gimmick as i first though, it's actually chances for u to redo ur turns 
 and avoid the mistakes you made. The higher the difficulty, the lesser the flashbacks.
  All in-all, the physics wise to me is simulation coupled with arcady gimmicks like flashbacks makes 
 this game fun. Whether u wan to play it simulation or a little arcade taste, it lies in it's assist 
 settings.
  And unlike other racers, it doesn't focus on getting first place, getting 3rd or 5th is just fine, 
 u get awarded for completing the race, getting sponsor money more if u do better of course.
  
  Sound: Wonderful, like i mentioned, if ur wheel's missing you can heard the metal screetching 
 on the floor. The bass is great, overall it sounds accurate. Notice when u look to the back it 
 sounds less-loud, it's during to the slower sound travelling if u are wondering. something negative 
 i have to mention is the engine sounds, there isn't a whole lot variety like in GT5P, some ppl 
 chose to decide otherwise though.
  
  
  As a whole, this game is the best yet, as a simulation or an arcade-fun racer. If you like racing, 
 this game u have u like racing more. The details and graphics on screen is just stunning. Nothing's 
 done wrong here with the game. So if ur still wondering if it's worth the bucks, definately, i 
 prefer this over MGS4 if u asked me. GT5 prolly won't overtake this when it comes out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Well yeah it's beautiful and has some pretty good controls, but it has a steep learning curve to 
 people who don't play racing games a pretty good bit. It gets pretty tough and very frustrating 
 when you are fighting for first and you are turning a turn and you can't pass him cause you guys 
 are going the same speed and you can't back off usally because there is some people behind you 
 and either way you'll probably wreck and when you wreck you are basically screwed. Because when 
 you want to pull out you either spin out or you get hit by another car. But hey what if nobody is 
 around and you pull out slowly, well then you will be so far in last you wont be able to catch up. But 
 there are some annoying problems like if you hit a big thing of tires although it looks great you 
 might get one cought up under your car yeah you can reset you car but by that time you will be 
 in dead last.... sucks for us right? That is the main thing that bugs me. But the carrer is very well 
 exacuted for a racing game. You can make your own little car team and along the road you go you 
 can get sponserships which is really interesting if you meet the sponsorships goal then hey more 
 money for you. It has really good cars and you will not be disappointed with the great cars. The 
 rewind thing is a great and really interesting addition it allows you whenever you wreck and total 
 your car to rewind the time and re-do that hard turn or tough pass. But one thing that was annoying 
 about that was that sometimes your car would look near dead and you would run into the wall as 
 hard as you can and you wont be able to rewind but sometimes you'll just turn a corner and hit 
 the wall at like 60mph and you will be totaled. It has a pretty good bit of advertisment. I mean 
 a lot its weird that you can buy your cars off Ebay Motors..... yea blatent advertisment that wasn't 
 really needed.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: Well it's a racing games multiplayer it can real fun or it can be real annoying. If 
 you go into a game where people just want to be a ass then they might wreck you which is really 
 easy to do. But if you go into a game where your friends are all in then you'll have one hell of 
 a time it's really a thing of beauty where you and friends can all race together and have fun and 
 nobody will ruin it. It is just one of the funnest things to do for casual and hardcore gamers. Helps 
 you relax but it's still really fun. But I wouldn't say it was better than Forza's because it had 
 the little auction house thing.
  
  
  
  Re-play value: This has a lot of replay value for people who are skilled at racing games and for 
 the people that have friends that can all get together and have a fun time online. The carrer will 
 be another thing for mostly the skilled racer to replay a lot. Because you wont more cars.
  
  
  
  End it!: Well all-in-all this is a definate reccomendation to the hardcore racing fans. You 
 will not be disappointed for most people I'll just say to rent it because of the fun it will bring 
 till it gets a little to tough then try the online. You'll definatly enjoy your experiance in a 
 great racing game but for people who aren't so hardcore in racing games I would recommend DiRT.
 
  Real Score:8.1 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluevolutions
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Grid is a pure racing game. If you were let down by NFS as the franchise evolved ( or declined 
 ) from Underground, and also let down by Burnout (which totally sucks as of revenge) and last but 
 not least, find GT a little too technical, this game is the answer to your woes. 
  
  The only downer is the lack of modification, That said, the gameplay is flat out exciting. Absolutely 
 incredible wrecks, pristine sense of speed, graphicaly juicey, and some way sweet features, not 
 to mention the variety of race types.
  
  The cars handling is not as tecnical as GT but is a perfect balance between real and fantasy. The 
 ability to throw the rear end out in any car, on any turn and keep the car in complete control 
 makes me smile. 
  
  The wrecks are shocking. You loose it and clip the wall, your car goes airborne, doing a couple 
 barrel rolls into the other cars, the crowd's cheers become deafening as body parts fly from your 
 car and you slam into another wall 100 yards away, totalling your car and taking a competitor or 
 two out in the process. BUT WAIT, THERE'S MORE, the fun doesn't stop there, after you total your 
 car, you have the ability watch the wreck in multiple angles AND can "rewind" to before you lost 
 control and correct your path to avoid the wreck and continue the race. The wrecks are so sweet 
 I find myself Restarting ( alot ) and seeing how sick I can wreck and how many cars I can take 
 out
  
  Grid includes race types galore, You can go from Open wheel (f1, indy) to drift, to Demolition 
 derby, to classic American muscle car shootouts and then top it all off withthe 24 hours of 
 LeMans"
  
  The "sim" in grid is in the team management. At first, you are alone, racing for other teams, from 
 there, you get your own team with sponsers, Not only do you get paid to win races, your sponser's 
 pay you also. After you unlock the second Tier of races, you can hire a team mate, you get paid 
 for his races and can double the sponser income.
  
  GRID combines the pleasure of NFS races with the wrecks and sense of speed of burn out and looks 
 great, any racing fan should pick up this game. You won't regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  What you want from a racing game ? 
  
  * Realistic driving with amazing enviroment and Spirited tracks filled with Highly graphiced cars 
 and amazing smashes with Volatilized parts all over the track , or lets say a game that similar 
 to the burnout series ? 
  
  - Yes. This game includes that , but in a stylish way
  Burnout series + in a Decent \stylish way . as simple as that.
  
  
  * You hate GT5 of its 
 hard driving methods?
  
  - well . this is the game for you , easy as hell or lets say fast to learn (though its annoying 
 at first ) maybe the drifty handling could annoy you, but you get used to it so fast and fall in 
 love with its handling method. 
  
  
  * You love Need for speed series ? 
  
  - I must say it will dissapoint you , it doesn't make you able to upgrade your engine and build 
 up your own car style . Besides that, it has everything that NFE series have .
  
  
  
  * You like NASCAR tracks and style ?
  
  - It wont dissapoint you ! there's plenty of nascar 
 tracks style and more.
  
  
  
  * You like Playing a racing game in a Lan PARTY ? 
  
  - This one is a Pure campaign way of game Plus the online.
  
  
  Overall , it is a MUST HAVE! 
 by all means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Aside from having pretty graphics this games ****
  
  Its ridiculously hard.
  
  1) Almost all cars are faster than yours (getting passed wide open by a 350z in a viper?)
  
 
  2) You crash every 2 seconds, and the ai force you to crash.
  
  3) The only way to make it easier is to give you more "flashbacks" which dont do much at all.
 
  
  4) You start in the back of the pack and the only way to win is to smash you way through
  
 
  5) If you dont smash your way through the whole pack leaves you in last
  
  6) The only way to pass cars is on corners (by smashing them) because almost every car beats you 
 wide open
  
  7) the tiniest mistake ruins all of your playing time
  
  I dont care how **** good a game is if you dont **** enjoy and are losing every 3 seconds whats 
 the **** point in playing it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  nothing to say coz i can't express it with words, but it have sumthing to convince u to play this 
 game over n over, well maybe i'm a car lover so i like this game but it's worth to play.
  but it's nothing when it compare to GT 5 from the graphic maybe these two games have a bit difference, 
 but when it comes to gameplay i'm sure this one (GRID) will not make u bored ( remember the first 
 time i played NFSU2 just like the first time i played GRID, the feeling is deja vu) .
  Well if you look for game which have a superb and realistic damages it is the one you have to try.
 
  -it is entertaining
  -fun
  -easy for me
  -nice graphic
  -cool online featured
  -it is heaven on earth
  -it's about car racing
  -i love it because i want to be a racer
  
 -i don't regret bought it
  -my holiday games
  -i will not go anywhere this holiday
  -fantastic
  -it's look like i'm too lazy to typing and thinking
  -and whoever or wherever you 
 are i just recommend u to play this game okay, bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxjoshuapxx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  LOVE the game. As a HUGE fan of the Gran Turismo series, i found this a welcome competitor. I'm 
 a little pissed off by the whole prologue idea... so i'll just buy this instead and wait for the 
 full version. 
  
  The thing i HATE about this game are the replay camera angles. GT4 did SUCH a nice job with welcome, 
 high-flying camera angles that allowed you to actually watch what was going on. GRID only has an 
 overly-intense version that, while entertaining for a go or two, becomes incredibly limiting. I 
 want to see how I setup the car in front of, braked early and then hammered by him as i exited 
 the apex of the turn. With GRID's replays, all i can do is see the side of my car passing a blur 
 of a wing or a bumper. SO FRUSTRATING. Just give us an update so we can actually tell what is going 
 on!
  
  Other than that, it's all good stuff. LOVE the demolition derby series. Such a fresh and relaxing 
 break away from regular racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syed_shahzad110
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  aaah DAM to gamespot it`s totaly insane man...
  
  this is the FINEST RAcing game i played in my entire life and they gave it only 8 ......
  
 
  
  
  it`s unjustice....... how much u r paid for this.....
  
  WEll the game kick the ass of EA NFS... now EA has to struggle much in order to beat 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice...
 
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice... this is totally unjustice... this is 
 totally unjustice... this is totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice... this is totally unjustice... this is totally unjustice...
  this is 
 totally unjustice...
  this is totally unjustice... this is totally unjustice... this is totally unjustice... this is totally 
 unjustice... this is totally unjustice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  s much as GRID is different from the various iterations of the Race Driver series, it had to stay 
 relatively the same in a few areas-it's simply the nature of the car-racing beast. No matter how 
 sim or how fantasy world, a driving game still needs a physics and handling system that adheres 
 to at least a few of Newton's laws. It's no surprise that GRID excels in the area of its physics 
 and handling model, since it borrows from the sim-y Race Driver and also from the more forgiving 
 DiRT. This new middleware is known as EGO, and should power any Codemasters title with wheels well 
 into the next next generation. That's quite fine, too, as GRID features perhaps the finest blend 
 of sim/surreal physics and handling out there. The feel isn't quite a complex as the non-Newtonian 
 tire-based trickery of Forza, but it's not far behind. And "less technical" is a good thing for 
 a franchise trying to send the characteristic of being "overly realistic" up in smoke. Of course, 
 the various assist settings (traction and stability control, braking assists, transmission type) 
 ramp up the sim portions of GRID considerably, but a separate setting for Flashbacks-the ability 
 to undo prior mistakes much like that Prince of Persia could-allows feet to get wet before they 
 need to effortlessly dance over the pedals. It's also noteworthy that Codies' EGO helps the various 
 vehicles in GRID feel as they should. This was less of a deal in DiRT since rally cars are closer 
 in spec to one another (typical weight, weight distribution and drive-train configuration) , but 
 GRID features flyweight open-wheels to classic muscle, and everything in between. And the good 
 news is, regardless of settings, each car realistically conveys its weight, drive-train configuration 
 and subsequent handling properties to the user. Besides some frame-rate hiccups and stutters and 
 fairly long load times, we're quite alright with EGO being the future of Codemasters' racing lineups. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kem198
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Fans of Dirt and TOCA will have a lot to look forward to in Grid. This racer takes the multi-discipline 
 multi-car approach of the previous titles and polishes the game-play to a candy-coated shine. The 
 driving mechanic in Grid leans on the arcade side of the equation but driving assists can be turned 
 off and there are a number of difficulty levels to choose from for those looking for a greater 
 challenge. While Grid misses the car tweaking of Forza 2 or Gran Turismo, it makes up for it with 
 fun and easily accessible controls.
  
  Grid also boasts one of the most stylish and logical user interfaces I've seen in awhile. You can 
 easily find yourself gawking at the clean and smart way the menus use 3D.
  
  Hopefully this game will sell well enough for Codemasters to keep adding new features to the series. 
 It is a bit of a disappointment that there is no car customization, and the inclusion of variable 
 weather effects would have given the game more depth. 
  
  In the end Grid is a very solid racer that has enough style and substance to please the core gamers 
 and is easy enough to get into for the casual crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngyd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Grid review 
  For years grantourismo has been the definitive racing game for me but now with race driver: GRID 
 I think I need to re-think.
  good point about grid:
  - flashback works very well 
  - damage system is probably the best yet 
  - le mans 24 hours 
  - making your own team and 
 customising
  -online is very good
  - sounds brilliant
  The bad:
  -I don't think there are enough cars used in the game 
  - graphics not as good as gt5 but why 
 am i comparing anything to gt5 (but not far off and I'm being fussy)
  - car physics not as realistic as gt5 (again why compare it to gt5) 
  - speed and lap times not 
 possible in real life (which makes the game fun but not that realistic but it is an arcade game 
 not a sim 
  
  In my opinion GRID is a brilliant game and will have to make polyphony work a lot harder on gt5 
 to make a game better/ as fun than GRID. I have heard that that gt5 will have damage for the 1st 
 time In the series and its going to have to be very good to have a damage system as good as grid, 
 because gt5 is a sim and yet theres never been damage on the game! 
  Any way enough about gt5 and more about grid. 
  
  Grid world is brilliant, after earning enough 
 money you will be able to create your on team and as you progress through the game you can hire 
 team mates and earn big sponsors who pay out quite a bit of money. You will start with a mustang 
 from 1000 years ago but after a few races you can pick up something decent. And racing becomes 
 a lot more competitive. 
  Throughout the game you will find yourself using the flashback (if you win all the races without 
 using these your on drugs) , NO CHANGE MY MIND EASY NOW . which is very useful. Basically flashback 
 allows you to turn back time when you have crashed out so you can correct your mistakes. However 
 you are limited to the amount of flashbacks allowed in one race. 
  As you continue to progress through your carer you will earn a lot more money and be able to buy 
 cars like pagani zondas from 800,000 and gt2, gt1, from le mans and lmp2 and lmp1 from le mans. 
 How ever as good as these cars maybe I don't feel there is enough of them from each class. However 
 that is only in my opinion and you do get to drive and buy the Audi r10 tdi and the legendary Mazda 
 787b. 
  However to get the money to buy these cars which cost up to 10,000,000 you will need to win some 
 very hard AGAIN CHANGE MY MIND LOL EAST TO WIN NOW, SPENT TO MUCH TIME ON IT races along the way 
 giving you some very healthy amount of cash. As you win more and more races big sponsors will notice 
 you and will give you up to 98,000 for every race won. 
  online GRID is very impressive with full damage and runs very smoothly. There is only one problem 
 with online racing and that is the people who think that they can win a race by constantly hitting 
 people off the track because they don't have the skill to overtake properly!!! 
  
  So to conclude Grid is a fantastic game which I recommend to anyone that likes any racing games 
 and to people who think racing games are boring Grid will change your mind as the have shown racing 
 is fun again! The game has only one problem and that is just it needs more cars! But even with 
 that problem the game play both on and offline is brilliant.
  AFTER playing grid for a very long time now, and i got it in may! I still play every day that is 
 how good this game is. Its sheer brilliance and they have solved the rammers online now! so online 
 got even better. gonna take something speacial to get me stop playin this game online is sooo adictive! 
 for all the people who dont rate this game i think your mad and your opinion sucks. i know this 
 is my opinion but i wont be the only sayiing this. 
  ADD ME ONLINE PS3 Dannyspaz is my tag look out 4 me on gird!
  
  My scores:
  Graphics 9/10
 
  Sound 9/10
  Value 10/10
  Overall game play 10/10 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hermez
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  As a fan of racing games I can say that Grid is taking the game one step further, it might not 
 be reinventing the wheel but it has a great way of putting you in the way with their career mode.
 
  
  Gameplay is simple and takes you on a very quick learning curve, there's no need to use more that 
 3 or 4 buttons for the beginner and of course more of them if you want the real deal.
  
  Racing experience is very real; every time you loose control of your car you have a potential disaster 
 and of course there's a way to get back to your race with the 'flashback' which can take you back 
 30 seconds before you lost control, the 1st position in the race and a pretty nasty car crash to 
 have the chance to win as you were planning.
  
  This game will definitively become a top sales and an addictive playing experience for gamers that 
 thought they were lost after NFS went the opposite direction of what they were expecting, GT5 will 
 have an excellent competitor this year and this might be the start for a new racing franchise for 
 codemasters.
  
  My only comment would be the lack of a split screen for a two placer mode that's obviously compensated 
 by the online game mode.
  
  Hermez
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke312
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the race driver Grid review, i bought this game on release date and have been playing 
 it non stop till now to tell everyone else about the game. Where to start... well you boot up the 
 game and it throws you into a race straight away, step up and drive guys cause racing aint about 
 coming 2nd. As soon as youve done the race your greeted by entering your information about yourself, 
 well if your gonna be the best racer theyve gotta know your name. And if your lucky and you've 
 got a common name you can have your race instructor as well as financial manager talk to you by 
 your real name. For example my name being Luke, durring a race you will hear "OK Luke, your car 
 got a bit banged up but its ok". Awesome its like your driving for a real team, your a real driver 
 and that youve got some help to get to the front of the pack. 
  
  However at the start its great you think its cool, but now durring a race hearin him tell you stuff 
 u already know over and over and over again gets annoying. Also he will tell you some stuff which 
 is non usefull for example "there was a crash behind you.... nasty" i mean im racing here mate i 
 dont care whats going on behind. So positive/negative thing great idea but needs alittle tweek 
 here and there to get it right and some more phrases so it doesnt get so annoying.
  
  Alright so your now a driver racing for other teams.... well Lewis Hamilton had to start at the 
 bottom right? So straight away your get to drive some powerful cars and get the feel of the game 
 and the way the cars react. For an old engine and physics its very impressive. The cars feel so 
 real and have quick reactions to how you drive. After a few race's your get the hang of the cars 
 and love the way they feel, even if you do take some scratchs/massive crashes the damage physics 
 are awesome and effect the car depending on how youve crashed but i'll talk more about that latter. 
 
  
  After racing for other teams your be able to start your own team with your own sponsers, colours, 
 team name etc. So your now racing for your own team and getting to the top, time to shape up and 
 race to win no more 2nd places this is to get respect so its 1st or nothing. You get 3 areas Europe, 
 USA and Japan to race and to get some  as well as respect, your go through the races buy new 
 cars, faster cars get more sponsers, more experience and unlock more tracks and more trophies for 
 the game. After a while your able to expand and race along side a team mate and help you increase 
 your companies income as well as respect for the team name for getting a #1 #2 place. This singleplayer 
 is addictive, your race harder than you would ever know wanting to come 1st and win the championship 
 to win the trophy. 
  
  Even if that aint enough at the end of the season they throw LE MANS24 HOURS at you. Enter your 
 own team or drive for another team and try to win the le mans! With the clever system of 24 hours 
 in gta clock style with ever changing weather as well as light to tackle your skills and make you 
 use your wits to keep ahead of the other drivers as well as drive to win!
  
  Crash damage, this is an important factor which is essential in every racing game. In Grid the 
 damage is clever, you can damage 1 tyre from clipping a barrier or battling with other drivers 
 and can range from making the steering alittle off or major off and you have to drive against it. 
 Also to many crashes or bad drivin can affect your engine, suspension, aerodynamics, steering. 
 It makes being a clean and consistent driver nessary so survive in the racing business. However 
 a downside so the damage is sometimes when you crash the body work looks "odd" not quite right 
 and not very realistic to look at. 
  
  The general look and the sound of the game are very good, visually the tracks look good and the 
 scenary makes racing more realsitic when you slip past the trees at 150mph. The sound of each car 
 is different and feel very "meaty" like your stood next to the car and hearing it rev up! Even 
 though hte games on all consoles the graphics even on ps3 look very impressive, and things like 
 tyre smoke and skid marks look good. 
  
  Online, the new major part of any game. Many people arent very impressed, its alittle basic yes 
 its just join a server, vote for a race and highest one wins and everyone races this happens over 
 and over again. But the servers are normally strong and can get some great races against people 
 all around the world and battle for your own respect and for your country as your nationality is 
 shown! Also another online feature is lap records, think your the fastest in the world? well you 
 can be on grid, lay down the fastest track time and your be number 1 in the world that everyone 
 can see! 
  
  However while playing online you do get alot of "Oh My God!!!! can people actually drive" momments. 
 For example while going flat out on a straight and a tight bends coming up you brake and turn into 
 it.... but half the time people just go flatout and smash into the barrier or smash into you and 
 take you out the race! So finding a good server can be tricky but race smart and dont get into 
 the wreckage and its alright driving from then on.
  
  All in all guys, this is one great racing game, i was very disapointed with Grand Turismo is didnt 
 feel realsitic and felt heavy and slow. So when i played the demo and then got the game this is 
 its replacement. Let me sum it up. 
  
  Fast driving, steering like a maniac, driftin for the win, squeelin brakes, tyres smokin and feeling 
 like the next Lewis Hamilton, buy this game you wont regret it 9/10 all the way!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Made by the same guys who brought you Colin McRae DIRT and utilising the same fantastic engine, 
 this games initially sounds the same, but under the hood, its a totally different animal. The grunt 
 is definately louder and the machine is sure trickier to handle and a little on the wild side, 
 but this game is the first redefinition of racing since Burnout 3: Takedown.
  
  Gran Turismo 5: Prologue is great, and above all things very beautiful but in comparison to this, 
 it's nothing, and to be honest GRID does EVERYTHING a hell lot better than the most recent GT can. 
 It's a engine tuned for mayhem, and is a lot more enjoyable than any racing game in recent memory.
 
  
  Graphically, it's on par if not a smidgen better than GT5: Prologue and that in itself is something 
 truly astounding. Motors looks solid and proper, as if shiny enough to tempt some hot model to 
 strip bear and clamber all over it, they are delicious. The cars though, don't stay clean for very 
 long. The crash damage is phenomenal, inticately pieced together and astonishingly detailed, and 
 dare we say it, better than Burnout Paradise? Yes, maybe. Bits fly of realistically, richocetting 
 off of other cars and sprinkling you competitors with your battle wounds.
  
  And trust me, they are real battle wounds. I thought Burnout Paradise had aggressive AI, in all 
 honesty they are nothing compared to this bunch of psychos. The madmen of motoring and definately 
 put up one extreme fight, but they aren't so aggressive they irritate you, each time they make 
 the races interesting and worth a replay as outcomes can be disasterously intense and exciting.
 
  
  The range of cars on offer also would shame NFS and cause GT to sweat. From muscle to rally cars, 
 you definately get a massive range of extraordinary vehicles that are a pleasure to drive. Some 
 can be a bit wild to tame at first and getting the hang of such variety will take some quick adapting 
 but in general the handling is balanced and more importantly realistic.
  
  The one feature that allows GRID to really set itself apart from the ever crowding mash of next-gen 
 racers is the ability to control time. Yes, control time, something you wouldn't traditionally 
 associate with a racing game but it's the best feature of GRID by miles. When you crash, you get 
 the option to rewind time to any point from the previous seconds before the crash and reattempt 
 that nasty hairpin you just shunted you backend into, it's a way of saving your skin and more importantly 
 your rep, point based on your popularity of how many races you win.
  
  Tracks are fantastically designed and a lot are considerably more interesting than some of GT5: 
 Prologue's tracks, though nothing is yet to top that London track. Narrow passage provide intense 
 heat between rival and exposed corners give you an oppertunity to smash them to bits.
  
  Overall GRID takes everything every car game has done before it, refines it and becomes top dog. 
 Better visuals than GT5: P, arguably more realistic crashes than Burnout and a better range of cars 
 then the Tuner King NFS whilst capturing it's own feel and look perfectly with some of the best 
 racing yet this generation. The best racer so far this year, contained in a slick and almost perfect 
 package.
  
  + Graphically Astounding
  + Blows Away the Competition
  + Balanced and Finely Tuned Racing
  
  - Small Bits of MicroManagement
  
  Better than: Gran 
 Turismo 5: Prologue (PS3)
  Worse than: Burnout 3: Takedown (PS2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronbrett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a great racing game. The graphics are great looking and smooth. The single player game 
 is expansive with multiple race type across Europe, USA and Japan to compete in. The ability to 
 switch damage on in multiplayer races adds to the excitement of the game (especially the start 
 of a race with aggressive drivers.) Only problem is if you get one with drivers who are intent 
 on running you off the road then the you end up wrecked before you've got past the first turn (but 
 you can vote to kick them from the game if you like.) Although there isn't the same number of vehicles 
 available 'to own' that are available in the likes of Projetct Gotham Racing or Gran Turismo, it 
 really isn't necessary as the racing is the important part of this game and it is done to perfection. 
 On the whole a highly recommended game. If you buy it, you won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well, this is meant to be a completely different game from Toca race driver, and be something new 
 to compete with the next gen racing titles like Pro Street, Forza 2 and the most known, GT5. So, 
 is this any good?
  
  If you've played Dirt, it feels and looks almost the same, just mainly on tarmac. its got quite 
 a range of great motorsports, like drifting, stock car racing, Touring cars, and one of my favs, 
 Illegal touge racing. the physics are also good, but may not appeal to some. Feels quite jerky 
 and arcadey, but also fun to drive with. The damage modelling is also quite good. crashes can effect 
 your performance, and your chances of winning.
  
  Not many problems with the game with itself, but if you look at its history, there are a few flaws 
 with this one. like it only has 43 cars, as Toca race driver 3 had alot more. The cutscences have 
 gone too. 
  
  Still, its really worth a while of playing. The graphics are good and so is the framerate, the 
 AI reacts well, and the career mode is more interesting than before. All that is missing is its 
 history, but its still able to compete with all the racing games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMan511
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Gran Turismo 5 has a long way to go to match this. GRID beats Prolouge hands down with amazing 
 damage and a sense of real speed. Even the slightest bump causes scratches in paintwork and chips 
 of bodywork. This has so much soul and dare i say it feels more realistic than Prolouge. There 
 is much more on offer, aswell, with three continents to master. At the end of each session you 
 are faced with a 24 minute race at Le Mans. This actually has a real sense of importance and towards 
 the end your steely concentration starts to wain. Also theres the excellent feature, Flashback, 
 which allows you to , should you completely stack your motor, rewind to the point you should of 
 let of the gas and rejoin the race. The other cars rewing with you aswell so your not left for 
 dust during this process. 
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall, a fantastic game and a must for any racing fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
