-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero World Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/guitarheroiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great setlist with more than 80 songs.
 You can now sing and play bass, guitar, drums.
 Lets you create, share, and download original music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some new additions don't enhance experience.
 Doesn't do much that other, similar games haven't done.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.5, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 758 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
That's one giant leap for a franchise, one small step for a genre. 

  As soon as Rock Band let you play guitar, bass, drums, and sing to your favorite music, it was 
 clear the bar had been raised in the music-game genre. It wasn't long before Activision announced 
 that the Guitar Hero series would follow suit. The result is a very entertaining game that doesn't 
 break a whole lot of new ground. Guitar Hero World Tour's in-game music creation feature isn't 
 as revolutionary as it could have been due to its convoluted interface, but thanks to a huge setlist 
 of recognizable hits and can't-miss gameplay, World Tour is a great game and certainly a huge step 
 forward for the franchise.  

           You're totally a rock star... except for the groupies, money, and fame.      

  The 
 most obvious difference between World Tour and previous Guitar Hero games is that you can now sing, 
 play drums, play bass, or play guitar. You can play one instrument alone, perform as a band with 
 a few friends, or even hop online and rock head-to-head or as some sort of Internet supergroup. 
 The long-awaited ability to play as a "real" band in a Guitar Hero game improves what was previously 
 an experience shared by one or two people on guitar and bass. Bickering over setlists; swapping 
 instruments midset; getting sweaty and stinky from jumping around in a small room while your friend 
 with the terrible voice gives it his or her all in "Livin' on a Prayer" as your neighbors bang 
 on the wall... that's when Guitar Hero World Tour is at its best.  

  GH World Tour is available as an instrument bundle or as a standalone disc. If you don't buy the 
 bundle, you can use guitars from previous games as well as peripherals from both iterations of 
 Rock Band. The latter option might be your best bet given the less-than-stellar performance of 
 the World Tour hardware over a week-and-a-half of play. The drums have several issues: Cymbals 
 are either too sensitive or not sensitive enough, and the bass pedal is inconsistent as well. That's 
 nothing compared to the problems that we've had with the guitars. The fret buttons began to stick 
 after a day, and it wasn't long before the strum bar failed to accurately recognize input. The 
 frets held up better on our second guitar, but the strum bar quickly failed on it as well. One 
 nice thing about that guitar is that you can activate star power either by tilting your instrument 
 or by simply pressing a new button below the strum bar with the palm of your hand. Just be careful 
 not to press the poorly placed pause button while you're at it.  

  The big new feature in Guitar Hero World Tour is the music studio. It lets you create and share 
 your own tunes, as well as download songs from others. Should you watch all of the tutorials and 
 put in the time to learn the complicated yet robust program, you'll be able to produce some amazing 
 results. The bad news is that you have to put in  a lot  of time and effort because it's incredibly 
 difficult to make music creation a user-friendly experience on a console, but it's near impossible 
 if you force people to use a fake guitar. To make matters worse, there's no way to add vocals or 
 lyrics to your creations, so it's quite possible your song will sound just like the hundreds of 
 thousands of bad MIDI songs that permeate the Web. That said, if you're unable to channel your 
 inner John Lennon, you can still enjoy the fruits of the music studio via other people's work. 
 Just a week after the game's release, there are already a number of impressive user-created efforts 
 available for download.  

           You'll need Mr. Miyagi levels of patience to use the powerful but complicated music studio. 

  World Tour has a Career mode, but it involves little more than playing sets of songs to earn money 
 and unlock more songs. You have some control over what order you tackle the setlists and can personalize 
 your rocker. You can even build custom instruments, but your career is linear and not all that 
 interesting. However, it is pretty neat to see Jimi Hendrix stroll out on stage for "Purple Haze" 
 (even if he does look a bit zombielike) , and now that they don't feature any weird string-breaking 
 gimmicks, the boss battles are actually enjoyable. The game includes more than 80 songs, all of 
 which are master tracks from the original artists.  The setlist  covers a variety of styles and 
 features a huge number of big-name artists. These include The Eagles, Metallica, Michael Jackson, 
 Van Halen, Lenny Kravitz, Sting, Oasis, No Doubt, Nirvana, Coldplay, The Doors, Foo Fighters, Jimi 
 Hendrix, and many more. It's an impressive collection of artists, and you're not often stuck playing 
 some unknown song by these acts, either. You'll get to play "Beat It" rather than "Man in the Mirror." 
 You also won't get stuck with some terrible Gary Sharone-era Van Halen; you'll get David Lee Roth 
 and "Hot for Teacher." As is now the norm for the genre, World Tour includes a store where you 
 can purchase new music. It should be noted that outside of the new Metallica album, none of the 
 downloadable content from Guitar Hero 3 is compatible, which is a shame.  

  For the most part, World Tour looks and plays exactly as you'd expect, but there are a few things 
 it does differently; some good, some bad. Musicians' animations have been improved, particularly 
 with regards to vocalist's lips being in-synch with the lyrics. The ability to customize your rocker's 
 pre-and-post song animation is also cool -- especially when you've got him or her doing the robot 
 after a good performance and smashing his or her guitar after a failed song. The vocals constantly 
 track your pitch, leaving a trail behind that shows how your pitch has changed. This is extremely 
 helpful when you're trying to sing the right notes and intervals at the start of a verse in a song 
 with which you're unfamiliar. Bass players get a new challenge to deal with in the form of an open 
 note, which is represented by a large bar that covers the entire width of the note highway. You 
 might not think hitting the strum bar without pressing a fret would be noteworthy, but as any bass 
 player will tell you, it makes the experience even more realistic. Last, but not least, the game 
 gives you a quick countdown when returning from the pause menu, which gives you a fighting chance 
 at hitting your first notes.  

  Those are the new mechanics that work well, but there are a few that aren't as useful. When playing 
 drums, you must activate star power by hitting both cymbals at the same time. While hitting the 
 cymbals isn't hard in and of itself, hitting them in rhythm so that you don't lose your consecutive 
 note streak is extremely challenging. Unless you're a skilled percussionist, you're probably better 
 off waiting until your streak ends on its own rather than trying to activate star power. Guitarists 
 will have to deal with the most unique and not-so-useful mechanic. Anytime you see notes attached 
 with a purple rope, you're able to move up to the touch-sensitive area above the normal fret buttons 
 and play the notes by sliding across or tapping the pad. This lets you play the "wah-wah" part 
 from "The Joker" with ease, you can play slap bass, and it's fun to act as if you're playing a 
 keyboard in "Rebel Yell," but those are the exceptions. Generally, you'll find that using the touch-area 
 results in missed notes because either it's not sensing your input properly or you're struggling 
 to go from the fret buttons, up to the pad, and back. It's a neat idea, but it's executed poorly. 

           The reliability of the new instruments is already questionable.      

  Guitar Hero World Tour is a huge leap forward for the Guitar Hero franchise. It's a blast to play 
 with friends, the setlist is top-notch, and the music studio is a nice -- albeit extremely complicated -- addition. 
 Although it's a great game, as well as a vast improvement over previous series entries, it doesn't 
 do a whole lot that Rock Band and its sequel haven't already done (and in some cases, done better) . 
 With that in mind, if you really like Guitar Hero's setlist and you're interested (and patient 
 enough) in creating your own music, pack your bags to head out on tour.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SMAultramarine
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I would like to point out three things. One, I do still play this game because it is a 
 WCG announced game but I do it under protest. Two, this sufferers the fate of Activision's mass 
 of in game advertising, an incredibly annoying flaw of the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater series. Three, 
 by slating this game in a review I am becoming quite the hypocrite because the previous game (Guitar 
 Hero 3, Legends of Rock) was a game that I won a medal for at the 2008 WCG UK finals, something 
 I still intend to do with GH: WT despite my opinion of it.
  
  In my opinion the game suffers 3 very large flaws. The first is the vain attempt to jump on the 
 Rock Band bandwagon. In my opinion, they should have made another Guitar/Bass game or maybe even 
 have taken the band idea to a different route instead of doing it exactly the same as Rock Band. 
 
  
  The second is the selection of songs, I would have expected better from Activision (I did think 
 the set list on GH3 was very good) but they did not live up to expectations, the songs by Tool 
 only helped to highlight the lack of substance this game has got. Several songs in the game are 
 duplicates from Rock Band and even a song from the DLC of GH3 (Antisocial by Trust) is on the game 
 as one of the set list!
  
  The third and final gripe with the game has already been mentioned - Activision's obsession with 
 in game advertising. It does not look too bad until you play a song on the Times Square stage of 
 the game. The number of adverts around the level is just depressing. This is pushed to the limit 
 with the inclusion of cameos by artists like Haley Williams and Sting, another attempt to both 
 sell the game and hide the problems that this game obviously has.
  
  Add to all this the static nature of each song (no variation between animations for the song compared 
 to Rock Band's MTV style approach) and a disappointing customisation mode and we have a very poor 
 game by what is normally a decent company. Just like Skate was the bane of the Tony Hawk series, 
 Rock Band is the thorn in Guitar Hero's side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero: World Tour ist he first music- and rhythm-game I've ever played - and after I got 
 my hands on its guitar I soon asked myself how it could be possible that it took me so long to 
 get into it. The basic Guitar Hero-Principle is simply awesome: it was never more possible to be 
 a rock star. Well, unless you're a real rock star, of course 
  
  The guitar is probably the coolest peripheral equipment ever made for a video game because the 
 way you have to handle it is simple and complex at the same time. Of course the setlist and especially 
 the way the songs are transfered into playable Guitar Hero-tracks add a lot to this. As we all 
 know, what's most important about a music-game is its music. Guitar Hero: World Tour is able to 
 excel in this regard, too, because the tracklist ranges from 70s-punk to modern Indie-songs. Moreover 
 the content is constantly enlarged with cool DLC (although it is incredibly expensive in my opinion!)
 
  
  The career-mode of the game motivates for some time and the shows you play are dramatically staged 
 - although World Tour can't really convince on the technical side overall. The most motivating 
 part of the game are the several degrees of difficulty you can choose between. When you play on 
 "Easy" it's not along way until you'll be able to play your first song on "Medium" and after that 
 you'll forge to make it to "Hard" - it's just very well balanced. Playing Guitar Hero in multiplayer 
 is surely the most fun you can get out of the game - especially when you're playing next to friend.
 
  
  Having said all of this it becomes more and more obvious to me: Although Guitar Hero was my first 
 music game - it definitely won't be my last one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echelon917
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong. The game mechanics is still the same as Gutiar Hero III, which is a great and 
 innovative game on its own, but if you are going to hash out the same game again, add a drum track 
 and mic track, and expect customers to pay 200 bucks for a whole new set of instruments... At least 
 have the decency to make the DLC and replay value worth my money. 
  The thing that makes it very clear to me that this was nothing more than a "Gimme your money" game 
 is that replay value is low (most people probably ran through the whole game in a total of 10-20 
 hours) ... There really is no reason to come back to this game because the songs are just not worth 
 the time to play them over and over again. I took both this and RB2 to a party and people wanted 
 to play RB2 much more than this game after a few songs.
  First off, the tracks are completely thrown out there. Its like Activision made it a point to obtain 
 obscure (and possible cheap) music from B-C level artists just to pop something into the game to 
 play. I mean really... who the #@%# is going to sing songs in a foreign language? Make those DLC, 
 not part of the game. The bands that are well known have way better tracks in Rockband2 or as DLC 
 for said game (some of the DLC is the same as in this game) .. meaning that if you already purchased 
 Rockband or Rockband2, dont waste your money on this game, just buy some more DLC.
  DLC is EXTREMELY LAME! Since GHWT launched, the DLC on this game is dismal, if not pathetic. Rockbands 
 DLC on launch, and several months after grew extensively and had a much broader variety of songs 
 to choose from. GHWT has not made a significant or even minor improvement in this department, and 
 from the looks of it, isnt even going to bother until GH: IV comes out. Stick to the RB brand if 
 you want better DLC from good artists that you know and love.
  Bottom line is that if you already have Rockband and want to upgrade to Rockband 2... go for it! 
 You will get a better enjoyment of the music and much more bang for your buck (only needing to 
 upgrade your instruments if your older ones are breaking or you want the new drums for the cymbal 
 extensions) If you have loyalty issues, and must get a Guitar Hero brand game... go for the Metallica 
 game that recently came out or simply wait around until GH: IV come out, because this simply was 
 not worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:23 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero world toure is simply amzing this time around you have the choice to use drums, microphone 
 and base guitar witch gives for a more all round experiance.
  
  story- has a nice long carrer with a range of tones of songs to play from the very easy to the 
 very difficult. But towards the end you find it a bit boring the amount of songs you have to do 
 and that one song thats like 10mins longe that was increadibly anoing.
  
  Online- good online mostly one on one but still guitar hero has been done before and even with 
 the iclusion of drums and a mic its still very boring after you have played the others
  
  I dont no if you can rent it with all the instruments but if you have had the game before you will 
 no that it is great game and also that its near the en of its journey for the next one they will 
 have to give something different to keep people interested.
  
  good bu old yet still a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -A full 84-Track song list with loads of awesome bands and a great variety
  -You can now create your own songs, characters, and instruments
  -Drums, Microphone, and Bass 
 now included, each with their own career mode
  -Graphics are very good, and some cool cutscenes
  -Great for parties
  -Loads of famous Unlockable 
 characters such as Ozzy Osbourne, Sting, Jimi Hendrix, Billy Corgan, and Ted Nugent
  
  The Bad:
  -Takes a while to load and save
  -Some of the songs are forgettable
  -Takes a while 
 to create a real good song
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour was the first GH game I ever got, I got it the same time as Guitar Hero 
 2. I only got the pack that had just a guitar, but I already had a microphone. 
  
  The First thing you notice about GH World Tour is that it has really long loading times. This was 
 expected, given the amount of content stored in this ps2 disc, and it is pretty much expected from 
 any ps2 game. 
  
  Because I wasn't very skilled when I first got it, in fact, I had only ever played it once before, 
 I used the cheat codes to automatically unlock all the songs straight away. (I don't need the cheats 
 anymore, I can now do expert) . 
  
  I am pretty impressed with the songs that you can play in GHWT, you'll play songs by bands like 
 Muse, Oasis, Metallica, Motorhead and Bon Jovi, and songs by solo acts like Ozzy Osbourne and Jimi 
 Hendrix. There are also a whole lot of appearances from famous people, like Sting, Ozzy, Jimi Hendrix, 
 Ted Nugent, Billy Corgan, Haley Williams, and a few more. These are all Unlockable, but, if you 
 don't have the full band kit, then you probably will miss out on these great characters. 
  
  My microphone broke halfway through playing, so I was unable to unlock some of the good characters 
 like Ozzy, but I did manage to get Billy Corgan, but he kind of freaks me out.
  
  One thing that excited me with GHWT is that you can make your own songs. I love creating things, 
 so this was a huge + for me. The song creator is pretty good, but it takes a long time to get use 
 to, and it takes quite a while to make a good song, but, if you take a while, you can come up with 
 some killer music. 
  
  The career mode hasn't changed much, except for the fact that there is about 20 venues, so there 
 is way loads of songs, even though some venues are optional. 
  
  Overall, GHWT is an awesome game that changes a lot from other GH games, but keeps the same great 
 style that the series always had. 
  
  Overall, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this game actualy was pretty bad and also boring but the music creater is good wich kept me playing 
 it but if you would like and accept my opinion dont buy i wasted my money on this and now dont 
 waste yours. rock band 1 was better but rock band 2 was way better so my idea is get rock band 
  it has crapy songs 
 wich bring it to a 6 out of ten they need to get better ideas than the same game with more features 
 they only have 100 sond and only three are actualy good..... in song creater bad guitar sounds 
 are band they need a more solo sound guitar and more metal sounding drums so my reveiw may not 
 mean anything to you but take it into consideration
  
  try it like it buy 
 
  \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Guitar Hero back when I was stationed in Iraq much like every other Soldier who 
 was into video games. I use to wonder what the appeal was behind it. Then one day I had some cash 
 I wanted to blow so I bought the Les Paul guitar with GH 3 and it was on. Ever since then I loved 
 o play music games of GH's nature. 
  
  As for GH: World Tour to put it short it's more of the same, but this time in band form. You get 
 a list of songs which you can choose to play the guitar, sing, be a drummer, or perform bass. I 
 personally just sing and play guitar, and while I am pretty sure I suck at singing it's still always 
 fun to mess around with a good song and just lose your mind. 
  
  Graphics -- This is so standard it's not even funny. You get different character Models who perform 
 the same motion captured moves depending on what song you are playing. While the characters artistic 
 designs haven't changed they are more stream lined and updated. You can clearly make out words 
 or notes that need to be played without the back ground animations getting in the way. Of course 
 I haven't played a full band at one time, but I'm fairly sure it's akin to Rock Band in some respects. 
 Don't expect a lot by the way of graphics let's leave it at that.
  
  Music -- Heck this is what the games all about. It has great sounds and uses original recordings. 
 At some point in songs if you are doing well the crowd will even join in which is killer. On the 
 other hand the song list is weaker when compared to the likes of GH 3 or Rock Band. I love "Eye 
 of the Tiger" and "Living on a Wing and Prayer" but other songs (which there are a lot of them) 
 I could care less about and when doing the career mode needlessly play to get to the next set. 
 It's your standard fare of near perfect sounding, but not always a good song thing going on.
  
  Game play -- If you have played the GH or RB series then you will know that you need to match 
 on screen prompts of different colors while strumming your guitar to make a song work. While singing 
 is a simple as picking up the mic and blasting vocals into it, Beware as pitch and inflection need 
 to be somewhat spot on. I don't play the drums so I won't comment on it. I think that if you have 
 at least a little rhythm in you, you can get this game to operate on at least "very easy" mode. 
 I can play on medium which is asking a lot of my fingers, but I love the challenge. Something about 
 these games gives you a sense of accomplishment when you see you were able to strum along to the 
 songs end. It's good clean fun and can be enjoyed again and again. Now that there is a full band 
 option things are more fun should you and some buddies want to party one night. Maybe you want 
 to jump online a shred it up, too. This would also work well whether in co-op or a band battle. 
 
  
  Replay value-I'd think it's fairly high especially if you love the songs on the game. I still rock 
 out to GH 3 to see if I can do better or to just enjoy a song. So when you throw things like leader 
 boards, co-op, online support, and making your own songs of sorts you raise the bar that much more. 
 
  
  For fans of these types of games I'd say get this game. It's still a blast to play and the band 
 option opens things up nicely. I just wish they would have done the Rock band thing and made the 
 old track available on the new game. Anyway that's my tale on GH: World tour hope this helps you 
 out somewhat PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJ_Ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is an amazing game and I think you should get it over Rock Band 2 any day. 
 First of all the gameplay first of all is amazing like it has before on guitar, and also on drums 
 and vocals too. The songs in the game is very awesome with songs like Everlong and Eye of the Tiger 
 make this game great. The graphics are a bit of a improvement from last year, but I still love 
 them. I also like how they added some different notes and things you can do. The create a Rocker 
 is great and very deep. The best thing I love about this game is that you can create your own songs 
 and that's awesome. The only flaw for this game is that the drums are not that responsive as the 
 Rock Band drums. Overall I would recommend this game to anyone who has enough money, especially 
 if you are a fan of Guitar Hero or Music games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is the first of the series that I have bought. I got my brothers playin 
 bass and drums, and I play lead guitar ( none of us can sing to save our lives, so we dont bother) . 
 Despite what everyone else says, it has a great playlist. There something for everyone on here. 
 There's stuff like Korn and Metallica for the more modern heavy people. Then there's older classics, 
 like CCR, the Eagles, and Steve Miller, for the people who enjoy the classics, like me. Difficulty 
 settings are great, gradually increasing from simply strumming to chords and fast picking. Being 
 able to create your own character really makes you feel like you're expressing your inner rock 
 fantasy, and seeing someone play the guitar just you really would is satisfying. There's the music 
 studio where you can create your own song, but if you plan on doing that, bring alot of patience 
 with you. It is frustating and I gave up on it after twenty minutes of utter nonsense. 
  
  However, this game is great for stuff like having friends over or simply if you feel like playing 
 one of your favorite songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl00dnFl4mes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour, while might not be as challenging as GH3, it's still fun. It introduces 
 drums, and mic (just like Rock Band) .
  
  Pros:
  
  Drums and mic
  Music Studio
  Great Character Creator
  Instrument Design (peripheral)
  Online Game Modes
  Great graphics
 
  
  Cons:
  
  Drums and guitar may have issues
  Music Studio needs patience, to create good tracks
  Online doesn't match that well
  Career 
 Mode is pretty much the same linear, except you get to choose gigs in order you want
  
  The only reasons I give this an 8.5 is:
  
  -0.5 for peripheral issues
  -0.5 for online matching 
 (different difficulty levels in Pro Face-Off)
  -0.5 for other reasons like no "No-Fail" mode, not as much songs (DLC) as RB, and whatnot
  
 
  If you are into the Guitar Hero series, I suggest you buy this, as it's a great game.
  If you haven't yet played GH (maybe RB) this is a great game, and you should at least give it a 
 try
  If you've never played a music game, this is a great start, because (as opposed to GH3) is way 
 less challenging, and you can make your way to expert faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieD1962
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Guitar Hero since it first came out and was hard to find on the PS2, before 
 it was massively released. I have purchased every version that has been released but was not going 
 to purchase Guitar Hero World Tour as I was not too excited about the track list. Guitar Hero III 
 Legends of Rock has by far to me the best track list of all the releases and the most fun with 
 Guitar Hero Aerosmith a close second.
  
  While walking through a local K-Mart I saw GTHWT for PS3 on sale for $79.99 and I had a $5 off 
 K-Mart coupon so I decided to buy it. After finally opening it and giving it a try I was pleasantly 
 surprised at how good a version of Guitar Hero this actually is.
  
  I am only playing in Guitar mode and playing on a PS3 so I have no information on the rest of the 
 modes or the other systems.
  
  I like the fact that you create your own Guitar Hero charecter from scratch, your signature moves 
 for your Guitar Hero charecter, your own custom guitar and your band logo. I actually spent a couple 
 hours messing with this before actually playing the game. 
  
  The gameplay is almost the same as GTHIII but it adds the slider bar, a star power bar and a new 
 level: Beginner which basically is just strumming to the notes of a song without pressing the notes 
 on the fretboard. This will really help those starting out to get their rythm and timing down.
 
  
  The guitar itself is a little larger than the Gibson Les Paul in GTHIII and the buttons are laid 
 out better. I like the new guitar very much.
  
  The slider bar is kind of cool and really helps out in fast solos as you can use it as the strum 
 bar by just tapping it as you would move the strum bar up and down. It is like an Eddy Van Halen 
 solo thing :)
  
  As far as using the slider rather than the fretboard buttons it is not so good as there is no way 
 to tell one button from the next by feel. I cant see how you could go from green to blue without 
 looking. I have not messed with the slider too much yet, I have only used it to play fast solos. 
 I may be missing something here but so far I don't like it so much. I have seen a wireless Flying 
 V guitar for GTHWT that has actual buttons for the slider bar which seems better to me.
  
  The star power bar is the most helpful addition to me as you no longer have to raise up the guitar 
 neck which has thrown me off plenty of times in hard mode. It is placed right next to the strum 
 bar and is very easy to hit with your palm without missing a beat.
  
  The song list is OK but again GTHIII is far better to me as I am an Old School Headbanger. The 
 plus side of GTHWT is that there are tons of add ons which have dried up on GTHIII. It is also 
 cool that the songs purchased for GTHIII work on GTHWT, at least the Metallica Death Magnetic album, 
 I have not checked for the "Three Pack" add ons I purchased.
  
  The graphics seem to be a little crisper than GTHIII but that just may be wishful thinking.
  
 
  The online play of GTHWT is absolutely a standout over the other versions. You still have the guitar 
 battles and online play as in GTHIII but now you have the ability to create a band online and compete 
 as a group.
  
  The studio mode where you can create your own songs is also a nice addition for those creative 
 souls out there. As many Rock Bands play Guitar Hero on tour buses I wonder how many bands will 
 be creating new music just for Guitar Hero, that is a HUGE factor to be considered!
  
  All in all I think if you are a Guitar Hero fan you are going to want to buy Guitar Hero World 
 Tour as this is the evolution of the series and you don't want to get stuck behind without the 
 new features on the Guitar, online play and the new music add ons. If it was just a new version 
 with new songs and not the guitar and gameplay enhancements I would say skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spirit0123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  The game isn't too bad, but it doesn't do the best job at serving out the original experience. 
 First off, the setlist is horrible. Basically a copy and paste from Rock Band 2 with a whole bunch 
 of random crap added to the mix... New features are obviously that you can play with the whole 
 band, other than just a guitar or bass. The music studio I thought was a sweet new feature, making 
 my own guitar hero song has always been a fantasy of mine. But it also proved to disappoint me, 
 because its functions aren't too user friendly, and it takes alot of work and effort to make a 
 song sound as well as you would want it to. The neck slider on the new guitars I thought was an 
 excellent feature as well, as it gives hardcore expert players a new element of the game to try 
 and master. All and all, I think they could have done a better job with this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  GH3 was my first real foray into music games. Until last month I had not played any of the new 
 rhythm games to come out. Then I bought Rock Band 1 and 2, and I was blown away. They let you play 
 at your pace, made revolutionary improvements over the past music games. I figured that Guitar 
 Hero World Tour would push the genre even further. Sadly, it does nothing to forward the genre.
 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is mostly identical to the Rock Band games, but not as good. The method 
 of initiating star power on the drums is downright stupid and ineffective. The guitar portion has 
 added a couple new tweaks, but neither are any good at all. There is the slider, which allows you 
 to use a touch sensitive board to play certain notes in the game, but it hampers the gameplay when 
 it is presented. The structure of the "career" mode is the same as in previous GH games. Play 3-4 
 songs, then be forced to play an encore. This would be somewhat less of a pain if Rock Band had 
 not come out with an absolutely fantastic career mode. It doesn't look like they really tried much
 
  
  Song selection- Awful, just awful. It seemed like Red Octane figured that they would fill the game 
 with top 40 and old crappy rock. It seems as if they wanted a cool looking setlist, but they didn't 
 actually test the songs at all. The result is 95% of the tracklist in WT being very boring. 
  
  The graphics are what you'd expect from a music game, decent. It does not really matter though, 
 as the game is focused on the music. 
  
  I was hoping for this game to improve the series but sadly, Guitar Hero World Tour is a failure. 
 From the awful, super linear story, to the boring as hell setlist, to the useless innovations, 
 it seems The creators of this game would rather plug their sponsors every 10 seconds than make 
 a game that is truly fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeyboey2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Following on from all of the previous Guitar Heros this one had a fair few eagar fans to please. 
 In my opinion, it does. Trying the new intrements for the first time is hard and slightly boring 
 and quite fustrating, however - this is a big however, it gets a world better. After the basics 
 on the drums of pushing the step pedal a few thousand times and the progression to easy from begginner, 
 once got to grips with, is hard to stop! Continued playing time however is reduced because of uncomfortable 
 and heavy standard drum sticks - making 30+mins of play time painful without a 10min break is a 
 little anoying. Singing is not the best and is really, I think, to be enjoyed as an extra with 
 that one extra friend playing. Isn't really great as the other intrements in terms of single or 
 two player. The Guitar usage hasn't really changed much apart from the addition on a new slide 
 board, as I call it, and and when hitting Hammer-Ons and Pull-Offs you need to hit them is when 
 they come to the front of the neck, in stead of before they come to the front. Online play has 
 also been well done. It has become easyer to navigate and all round more user friendly. On the 
 whole, Guitar Hero World Tour impressed me. It grows and grows on you until you have mastered it 
 which is almost imposible. Hope this helps and I reccommend it to everyone for partys, solo, or 
 with a mate. 
  
  Joe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero returns with its next installment, Guitar Hero World Tour. This time around, there 
 are some new instruments to deal with. Drums and Mic are added to this game to compete with Rock 
 Band/Rack Band 2. (This game sure beats the crud out of Rock Band 2, too.) This Guitar Hero comes 
 with 86 songs, and the ability to make your own! You can even download other people's songs. But 
 the main setlist is just a bunch of ups and downs. There are some great songs like Trapped Under 
 Ice, Band on the Run, and The Joker, while there are some truly horrible songs like Beat It, You 
 Got to Say Yeah! and B. Y. O. B. The game isn't as hard as GH3, but there are still some hard ones. 
 The online is very flawed though, the invite thing rarely ever works, and the "start matchmaking" 
 button takes for ever and rarely ever finds perfect matches. I'd rather do it manually. Anyway, 
 all in all you will spend a lot of time on this game, there is much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdogtim7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This upgrade from the previous version is mind blowing & excitingly revolutionary. It appears similar 
 to the original Games, but with the added Players (4 total) with the Super Drum-set (hands down 
 better then RB2) with the must get free Tuner and the addition of Singer to the Band & Bass Guitar. 
 The other Great add to this game is the ability to create and share your created music, as well 
 as uploading others songs. Many of the songs I have uploaded are absolutely outstanding and far 
 beyond my abilities, but shows the limitless abilities of this game. These additions absolutely 
 makes this a game better then "Rock Band 2". Rock Band 2 has more songs for now, but lacks the 
 Great set of Drums. Also, Rock Band 2 uses small color rectangles instead of Guitar Hero's colored 
 circles as chord indicators. This little Graphic helps me quite a bit. 
  
  
  RB2 Cons; 1) I'm pretty sure that you can't make your own songs in "Rock band 2". 2) I do not believe 
 that you can make your own Character in "Rock band2".
  -
  GHWT Cons; 1) is the Characters look so square instead of real (Cartoonish) . 2) is that the Drums 
 can be quirky until tuned.
  
  GHWT Pros; 1) is that I do like the ability to create your own charactors. 2) is that the Drum 
 set is not noisy, which allows Singer to hear the Song sung which helps when playing as the Singer. 
 This is a Great help, as I am usually the Singer when needed. 3) ability to create and share Songs. 
 4) ability to create own Charactor.
  -
  Quitar Hero "All the way!!". I Love this game and how you and your Friends & Family can get together 
 for hours and have Fun. Also, Great to take to Parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon_favor01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Some people say this masterpeice is worse than rock band2, well....
  can you make your own songs in "rock band2"?...... NO
  can you make you own AWESOME rocker in 
 rock band2?..... NO
  BATTLE: 
  [WIN] GHWT ROCK BAND2 [LOSE] . 
  [WIN] GHWT ROCK BAND2 [LOSE] . 
  [WIN] GHWT ROCK BAND2 [LOSE] . 
  [WIN] GHWT ROCK BAND2 [LOSE] .
 
  ETC....
  
  This clearly shows (tooken of 6/6 console magazines and 3/4 websites) that the choice is clear 
 the Guitar Hero World Tour is the pinnicle of all games, rules over Rock Band 2 and is clearly 
 the best of the 2!
  for me it is the best game out there!
  The other guitar hero games are awesome and I would recomend all of them.
  This is a must have 
 so go out there and grab a copy! 
  belive me, It'll be worth the while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HayoMayo44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Do we really need to read another dudes comments on how the game works out? I dont think so, you 
 know what it is and if youve played it, you know what I mean by embarrassingly addictive. If you 
 havent, you probably dont. But you should. And you will.
  
  This game will not teach you how to play the guitar. if anything you MIGHT walk away with a better 
 understanding of the rudimentary beginnings of playing a guitar like hand timing and VERY very 
 basic chord structure even though the chords your fingers are making are nothing like the real 
 thing. Short of that, this is the most complicated and fun version of SIMON set to some awesome 
 soundtrack. 
  
  One thing I will add in particular, the vocal part of the game could use a little work. Seems you 
 dont need to get the words right as much as you just need to get the pitch and timing correctly. 
 I do strongly recommend getting the full band kit. But in the event they come out with a 2 guitar 
 with drums pack, Id have gone that route. 
  
  By the band kit, get 3 people... the rest falls into place. Its just too much fun. Especially when 
 everyone kinda sucks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyWormy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The new Guitar Hero: World Tour with Guitar, Drums, and Microphone (singing) is the great, new 
 installment in the Guitar Hero series. I had my doubts about this game at first to be honest. I 
 thought it would not be as good as it is. When actually everything works well. The game mechanics 
 are excellent. Drums are surprisingly good. Singing is not as easy as it is in Rock Band. For example 
 you could just hum with rhythm in Rock Band. In GH: WT you actually have to sing the words. Which 
 I think is the way it is supposed to be. The set list is absolutely amazing. It has a good collection 
 of songs and with new songs every week you will never run out of songs. Great songs for example 
 Crazy Train, Mr. Crowley, Hot For Teacher, and Sweet Home Alabama are great, fun songs to play. 
 The new song studio allows you to make your own songs. To be honest it does take a while to get 
 used to, you will need PRACTICE. After a while you will be able to produce some great songs. With 
 this new Guitar Hero game this is a giant step in the company. I highly recommend this game to 
 anybody that is a GH fan or anyone wanting to try something new. 
  ~DeadlyWormy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperbiaDesidia
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  You have a good song here and there but is that really worth 60 bucks? The answer is NO! Buy resistance 
 2 or any other game but this one. I wouldn't even suggest buying Rock Band because it is most likely 
 the same suckage but with different music. The past games had great music to play to that was a 
 challenge. These songs are almost worthless and not even interesting to play. Don't buy this game. 
 Better graphics and bunch of other worthless bells and whistles... still not worth 60 bucks. If 
 your a dummy like me and buy this piece of **** game... you can't take it back to walmart because 
 of copy right law just fyi.
  
  
  Gamespot wants 800 words so now I'm writing a bunch of stuff to fill in....
  j; la sj df; la sj 
 dfl; kas jd a j s df lk jw ioeru woe iu rwo iuit urt hh asdfl la sh dfl ja sld fjal k sd kf l; as 
 l df j; a lsj d f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Phantom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is the newest installment in the best selling franchise. Well to start off, 
 the instruments are the best instruments invented for a music game. Unlike the Rock Band drums 
 the World Tour drum offer cymbals and large dense pads. The cymbals offer a very realistic feel 
 and the drum pads are very quite and don't make that plastic sound like the Rock Band drums. The 
 guitar is literally perfect and has a great strum bar and as an added bonus a touch sensitive strip 
 that helps you play "tapping" solos; the guitar is also very sturdy and very well built.. The microphone 
 is pretty much the same as the Rock Band microphone. Gameplay wise, it is still the same guitar 
 hero we know and love. I found that playing as a band in this game is much funner than playing 
 alone. The graphics are alright, but the only downfall is that the career is very boring and not 
 much fun. The best thing I like about this game over Rock Band is the friendly and kiddy appearance 
 it offers, Rock Band always very mature and it's not as fun because you don't really get to joke 
 around with your friends and be in the childish atmosphere the game incorporates. All in all, this 
 is a must buy for the guitar hero in you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  Intro - Game Information
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, 
 the stronger the restriction)
  
  Violence: * (None)
  Bad Language: ** (Mild)
  Fear: * (None)
  Sex: ** (Mild)
  Drugs: ** (Mild)
  Discrimination: * (None)
  Gambling: * (None)
 
  
  Age Rating: 12 years and over
  
  Number of player: 1-4 Player split screen co-op
  Multiplayer: 2-8 Online Play
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: (Not on XBOX 360)
  
  
  I - Quick 
 Review
  
  The Good: 
  
   Controls
  The feel of the controls in game-play
   Soundtrack 
  The in game soundtrack is stop on
   Sound Effects
  In game sound effects
 
   Online Play
  Just because a game has multiplayer features does not mean it will be good. Some online multiplayer 
 features can be disappointing but in this case, this game has a great multiplayer feature
   Friends
  This game plays well this others
  
  The bad:
  
   Trophies 
  No trophy feature 
 (As of yet)
  
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour is a very fun game to play. More fun when you play with friends or online. 
 Read on for the full review.
  
  
  II - Graphics and Presentation Review  7/10
  
  The graphics in World Tour is good, but you will hardly every look at what's going on in the background 
 because you'll be concentrating on what note/s to hit next. If you do however take notice of the 
 background you will find the graphics to be good, but really only on stage. The crow however if 
 just a blurry wave but again, World Tour is more about game-play, not graphics.
  
  
  III - Game-Play Review  8/10
  
  The game-play is really great and even greater when you have 
 friends over. You can make a band up with your friends and play against other bands online or just 
 play single player bands just for fun. There are four instruments to play with, Guitar (As you 
 would expect) , Drums, Bass Guitar or you can sing. All four works really well and really does feel 
 like your playing in a real band. There is a MASSIVE soundtrack to master in World Tour like, Beastie 
 Boys, Bon Jovi, Jimi Hendrix, Korn, Linkin Park, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Michael Jackson, Muse, Tool and 
 many MANY more including downloadable content. Compose, record, edit and share your own music online. 
 The guitar has a new feature that lets you slid in note like you would with a real guitar called 
 the neck slider. A neat touch pad on the guitar that lets you slid up and down the guitar. Only 
 problem is it only works at certain parts in a song, so you can't play the whole song with the 
 neck slider. If you don't like playing with friend (For whatever reasons) you can play career mode 
 that lets you choice which instrument to play. You can make up your own rocker character or pick 
 between lots of World Tour character to play with. The game-play is very addictive and you may 
 find it hard to put down the guitar. There are five difficulty settings, Beginners, which seriously 
 a monkey could do. Easy, Normal, which I found a good level to start out on if your new to Guitar 
 Hero. Hard, which does mean faster fingers and the use of the orange button. Expert, you are a 
 true Guitar Hero. 
  
  
  IV - Sound Review  10/10
  
  The sound is excellent with over 50 licensed soundtracks and every one of them (Whether you're 
 a fan of the music or not) sounds awesome and is the real deal, which means, no covers. 
  
  
  V - Lifespan Review  7/10
  
  The lifespan is ok. It want take you long to unlock other 
 music soundtrack or maybe just the one you want to play in career mode. Career mode any be short, 
 but you have over 50 licensed soundtracks to play with and to master. 
  
  
  VI - My Final Thought Review  8/10
  
  I though World Tour is a very fun game to play whether 
 on your own or with friends. I would not recommended this game to everyone, like say someone who 
 like dance music. If you like good classic hard rock or metal music, this is for you. 
  
  
  VII - Overall Review  8/10
  
  Overall World Tour is a very fun game to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungryfrog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, I'm not kidding! This game is waaaaay better than Rock Band 2! The drums though, I have 
 to admit, are pretty bad. BAD! But the mic and guitar are excellent. Wow, the guitar, the slider 
 thingymabobber, never seen that in a game. Creating your own song and instrument?! Count me in! 
 The Create-a-Rocker in World Tour is much better than Rock Band 2's, since it's easier. Get this 
 game, NOW! RUN OUT THE DOOR! GET IT! OZZY OSBOURNES IN IT! But seriously, this game rox mai sox. 
 Totally worth it. Don't even rent it, just GET IT! WOOO!!! AWESOME GAME!!! In fact, the other day, 
 I was at my bud's house, he has Rock Band 2, I brought World Tour, all he wanted to do is play 
 World Tour, even though he prefers Rock Band. If you think this game is dumb or stupid, you have 
 no soul...
  
  Online... well... the people are either really bad or really good. One time, it was Expert on B. Y. O. B. 
 (yes it's in this game!) and the person I was going against SUCKED! Sorry, no offence. But next 
 game with a different guy, he got a FC (Full Combo A. K. A. 100%) on Crazy Train. So yeh.
  
  Career, don't pleh. Just quickplay. Why? Well, because you have to pass 3-5 songs in a row to beat 
 one tier, which is pretty annoying, and if you quit, you have to start ALL of the songs over! WHY!?!?!?!?!
 
  
  GET THIS GAME THO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  There has been lots of Guitar Hero games, I won't bother putting up the story of Guitar Hero, coz 
 I've typed it already. Anyway, this game is made to compete with Rock Band. But in the end, looks 
 like GH is better!
  
  Graphics are a bit typical and basic, it's just a shiny version of GH: WT for Wii. Well, Graphics 
 doesn't really matter in the game, but there have been some good things found in this game, even 
 in the 'Career Mode', there is a short animation of guitarist wanted, or whatever instrument your 
 using, depending of what you'll be using.
  When playing song like 'Crazy Train' or 'Mr. Crowley, it will automatically becomes Ozzy Osbourne 
 as the singer, when playing on 'Beat It', it does the dance routine (after the 'fight') , and when 
 playing certain songs, there's certain movements, like 'Hot for Teacher' when they do the 'hand 
 thing' in the chorus. The cutsceens when characters apearing out of nowhere really makes it cool, and 
 encores are really hillarious and cool, like the one in 'Ozzfest' when a 'tentacle' grabs the audience 
 and starts throwing them in mid-air, in UK when fire arrows shooting in mid-air and the one in 
 'Amoeba' when it shows your very own album, oh and my favourite, after 'Time-Square', Ozzy Osbourne, 
 Sting, Travis Barker and the Character you using, will do a stage dive from the top of the building, 
 now THAT'S hardcore! But it was saved by giant birds.
  
  Gameplay, well obviously good, all you do is go with the patterns like DDR, and other music games. 
 In Guitar, you hold the fret buttons, strum like normal, and tilt the guitar for star-power, the 
 new guitar is quite awesome as well, the touch-pad is awesome and confusing to use, like when trying 
 to do the 'purple' lines, you won't know the actual patterns or frets for using it, that's why 
 some people (like me) uses the normal frets, most of the time, I still use the slider at times, 
 the annying part is that the slider only acts as a strum, nothing else and can't be used as a normal 
 fret button, but there's a cheat so that you can use slider in the entire song. Well nothings wrong 
 with the guitar, and I noticed a 'telephone wire socket' in the bottom side of the Guitar for some 
 reasons, and I think it would have been better as a Gibson guitar. Drums, well just hit the right 
 notes, and out of the instruments, this is one of the hardest to use, why? It's quite hard to get 
 100% on Drums, because the beat can put you off, and the annoying pedal, you'll get a good streak 
 until a purple line came in, and then it's like 'OMG!', but the pads feels absolutely good, and 
 rubber - realistic feel, oh and it bounces like real drums do, and it's wireless, which is WHY 
 the drums here are better than Rock Band. The drums are great, only thing that puts me off is the 
 Star-Power activation, which can take off the streak and the pedal, also it's quite hard playing 
 the drums as straighthead, because you need the beat. The rest, just works awesome and also can 
 work onto PS2. Mic, well you speak onto it, the thing is that in these games, Mic doesn't score 
 by lyrics, it's about the pitch and what annoys me is that when singing the voices gets delayed 
 onto the lines, giving miss-patters and the Star-Power, which you have to tap the Mic, which is 
 irritating, unless presing a button onto the PS3 controler, which will solve the problem. This 
 is also one of the hardest instruments played, because if you don't know the song, you're lost, 
 but if you know the song, well ok then. What I also like about the Mic is that it can work on Wii, 
 PS2, 360, PC, anything with USB hub, oh and the special thing on PS3 is that you can use the Mic 
 as a chat item on PS3, when playing online or in the message thing. Bass Guitar, that's right (which 
 I got FREE when buying GH: WT) , is just the GH: III Guitar, and I'll keep it nice and short for this 
 one, you can use it on GH3, you can use it as Lead Guitar in GH: WT and Bass, it has Slash on the 
 box, with free batteries and anything expected.
  
  Sounds, is WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT! not many games are like this, with awesome sounds like SSBB, OoT 
 and MGS4. But we all know that this game is meant to be a 'Music Game'. The bad points are that 
 some of the songs in the game are boring, and I've nover heard of, also some bands I've never heard 
 of, the biggest disappointment was the removal of some awesome songs, and the removal of Dragonforce!! 
 WHICH IS WHAT GH IS SUPPOSE TO BE! Why did people bought GH3, for the hardest song ever made, 'Through 
 the Fire and Flames!' is the song that MADE GH3, if they made a DLC of Dragonforce, well then problem 
 solved. The rest are good parts, which is why I chose this game over Rock Band 2 (which I'm still 
 be getting as game - only) , we have 'Hot for Teacher' - 'Van Halen', AWESOME SONG! and quite hard, 
 'Hotel California' - 'The Eagles', AWESOME SONG! quite easy, sure there might be song that are 
 also in Rock Band like 'Everlong' - 'Foo Fighters', 'Linin on a Prayer' - 'Bon Jovi', 'Eye of the 
 Tiger' - 'Survivor' and 'B. Y. O. B' - 'Ststem of a Down' (Good tune, badd singer) , but so what! B. Y. O. B 
 isn't a DLC game for GH: WT and it's free! 'Crazy Train' - 'Ozzy Osbourne' is quite awesome as well, 
 the other one is bad, I don't see why Ozzy must have 2 songs in GH: WT while the others only have 
 one each? And the song that makes GH: WT better than RB is one of the greatest songs made of all 
 time......
  'Beat It' - 'Michael Jackson'!!!!!! Which is wayyy better than the F. O. B version, the music rocks, 
 guitar solo rocks, and the entry rocks! That is the song of why GH: WT is better, coz I personally 
 hardly like any songs in the Rock Band list. 
  
  GH: WT has also some new features like 'Music Studio', when creating our own songs, when recording, 
 don't bother going onto music studio, and do actual tunes using the GH Mix!! Because it's more 
 accurate that way, and solving the complains about the Music Studio! I have made songs like 'Sadness 
 and Sorrow' and trying to make 'Sakura' of DDR. I haven't uploaded them yet, also this will give 
 you awesome chance of making original music and creating your own. Create character is awesome, 
 apart from the 'black' shade and you can't use cornrows, but we have dreadlocks.
  
  GH: WT is an awesome game, I was originally going to get it for the Wii, but I got it for the PS3 
 instead because I get a FREE Bass Guitar if I pre-ordered it. Since I've got GH3 for Wii, with 
 the guitar (obviously) , getting it for Wii will gave me 3 Wii guitars, we can only use 2 to a game, 
 and we can't afford to throw away free guitars because they're a pain to buy one (50) , so I got 
 my Free Guitar with everything in it, I will be getting the Wii version of GH: WT as well, but not 
 as a whole kit, just drums and lead Guitar, and game. Overall, this game ROCKS! so buy it! It's 
 worth it, and when comparing the instruments here to Rock Band, GH: WT instruments are better!
 
  
  
  Goods/ +
  Awesome Songs
  Awesome Gameplay
  Good Graphics
  Awesome Sounds
  It's worth it!
  Beat It, Hot for Teacher, Hotel California!
  Cheats are easier to do
  Animations 
 are awesome!
  Instruments are better than Rock Band's
  FREE Bass Guitar
  Lots of Songs
  A lot of value
  Making songs are awesome
  
  Bads/ -
  No Dragonforce
  Some songs are boring
 
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 10/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sounds - 11/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:48 pm PT
Review:  You have to see it. it is really enjoyable and beautiful. The only problem is difficulty. i mean there 
 are too much difference between easy and medium it is not well organized and it's not the game 
 most of the girls can play. At least everyone must have a chance to play. i tested all the difficulties 
 beginner is a silly mode you dont push any buttons of the guitar just hit the lines to play. Easy 
 is not easy for everyone and medium is not medium. i can play but everyone can't play this game. Because 
 beginner mode is not a game it is so boring. Easy mode must be slower. Thats why easy is not easyfor 
 everyone. it's a little bit hard i mean. Because i believe easy mode must be easy so everyone can 
 play that game but even it is easy some songs are really pain to play.....
  
  The other problem is downloading songs. it is not about the game is is about ps3's silly policies. You 
 know if you will download a song you have to log in to ps store but sadly there is no ps store 
 service in my country Turkey and in many countries too. This is really a silly policy of playstation!!!! Why 
 can't you make just one world store and every country can purchase from there??? Thats why sony 
 has need a serious improvement they are good but just good. Not so good, very good or perfect. Whatever 
 this silly policy effects the game ofc because after a time passes you get used to the songs you 
 play and you want new songs to keep the game alive.
  
  Character or Rocker (whatever u say) creation is excellent. Too much details in it and i really liked 
 it. You can create your rocker as you like and too much details (really too much and i liked that) in 
 it like many clothes for every style like hard rock, metal, pop, oldies etc. and tattoos for everywhere 
 you can make tattoos anywhere u want. Piercings, face paints, logos, guitar custamization also many 
 many details..... Character creation s really successful in the game. 
  
  As a result game is enjoyable and makes u to feel the atmosphere of the game. if you like home parties 
 with your friends this game will be excellent choice for you. Playing as a group is much and much 
 fun. i had many sleepless nights just because of this and i'm sure u'll have too. But not for a long 
 time. i mean game is enjoyable but it's not the game that can keep u infront of it for a long long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bellan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Alright, its a great game i can admit that. Being the first one i Sweden to get it at the night 
 open event did feel really good. Some things disturb me, first of the mic. I mean come on, wireless 
 please -__- Second of i did like the songs that much BUT then again there are others who DO like 
 them. What i really like is the update on the guitar, mostly the starpower button since i was one 
 of the loosers who COULDN'T get the darn thing to work by flipping the guitarr up. I had to be 
 fast as a weasle to tap tha select button. Other than that its a really good game. If its worth 
 200$.. Its up for every one to decide for themselves. Its absolutely the best Guitar Hero that's 
 been released. So carrying that enormous box all the way home, and almost get run over in the process. 
 Is the game still worth buying? Well yes, it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostlynx17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 4 is here but did it stand up to it's origins well for the most part yea. It is a guitar 
 hero so don't be expecting any huge changes. There are 3 big changes 2 of them are now you can 
 sing and play drums and these work out well the other one is the whole create your own song which 
 I will tell you later. Gameplay. Well it's a music game so you know hit all of the notes as they 
 say. The slide feature on the guitar actually works a lot better then I expected and I didn't have 
 any problems there. Also the drums feel a lot more realistic then the rock band drums and I do 
 prefer those over the rock band drums. However there is a problem. You see you won't notice this 
 if this is your first guitar hero game but the notes have to be almost exactly in the section were 
 you hit the notes. And the only guitar hero game to have something like this was the first one 
 then after that you didn't have to be so spot on. This one though does go back to it's roots you 
 can say but it does take sometime getting use to it. Soundtrack. Well it isn't really the best 
 soundtrack but it's not completely horrible to me the songs in this series of music games were 
 pretty weak and no offense to any linkin park fans but what I've done is really boring to play. 
 Now the song creator. To be honest I wasn't that impressed and this may be my fault. You see I 
 thought that the guitar part would be in tab and for those of you who don't know what that is.
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  this is the megaman 2 wily stage theme (only part of it) but really this is what I think the guitar 
 should have been like and maybe the reason I don't like it as much. But you have to admit the songs 
 would sound a lot better. Replayablity. Of course it's a Guitar hero game purple haze never gets 
 old. So if you are a huge fan of guitar hero games then I will say this approach with caution. 
 Don't forget thats 200$ so if it is worth to you then by all means get it I would say demo it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandimomo
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I have both Rock Band and Guitar Hero World Tour band set so for me the differences are really 
 obvious. First the drum. The rubber pads is awesome because it gives less noise when i play it, 
 but the cymbals are the problem. I have to hit it really hard in order to make it works. A reall 
 hassle for me when i play the game on expert. 
  
  Then the guitar. The design is really cool. But less than 24 hours after i bought the game, the 
 guitar's strum button stop working. So i have to return the guitar. 
  
  Then the last one is the game display. For me personally its really childish display. I feel like 
 im playing a game rather than performing. Different with Rock Band which gives me on stage atmosphere. 
 Plus, the it takes a long time to load!
  
  I red many negative reviews about the guitar hero world tour hardwares, but i just thought they 
 were wrong. But now i completely agree with them. I have zero tolerance for hassles but since the 
 songs are awesome i wont give this game 1 or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djthebandit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is great! Why?
  
  I think it's much more accessible for people that just want to play. I mean I have friends over 
 on a regular basis, and it's much easier with GHWT to get started than it is with RB.
  People hating on the simplicity of this game compared with RB, actually makes me love it. I like 
 the fact you can easily scroll through the songs, even in tour mode, and select songs quickly. 
 You don't have to worry about any game mode or anything really. Just plug in your instruments, 
 and go!
  
  I gave GHWT the same score as RB2, because I think the songs in GHWT are by far superior to the 
 songs in RB2. I mean 100% better!!!
  We knew every single song, or at least heard it before, which we can't say about the RB songs.
 
  
  So with the songs and the inevitable comparisment to RB, I gave it the same score. In what it lacks 
 in game mode depth, it makes up for with the awesome song selection!!!
  
  If you love RB, and you only have guitars for GH and do not want to clutter your livingroom with 
 another drumset, you should just pick up the game only. It is well worth playing with your buddies, 
 with guitars only and the RB microphone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsandra7223
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  If you dont like Guitar hero 4, DONT READ THIS !!!!!
  If you do like Guitar hero 4 , you can read this.
  
  All of the Guitar hero games are great. 
 They have great guitars and
  bada** people. But in those Guitar hero's , you are only in and a band.
  But in this new Guitar 
 hero 4 game............. you have a band.
  This game has nic guitars and bada** clothes. And it has good songs.
  
  "The Joker"
  "The 
 Kill"
  "What I've Done"
  "Crazy Train"
  "Eye Of The Tiger"
  "Beat It"
  "Trapped Under Ice"
  "Lazy Eye"
  
  There's more than that, but i cant think of more.
  And 
 the drums look so cool !!! They look better than's Rock Band's.
  (sorry for all the rock band lovers.)
  
  On the game, Ozzy looks bada**. When you do Crazy 
 Train, he sounds bad when he sings it, it's so cool. If you dont have it, Get your a** up and go 
 to Best Buy or Walmart and get Guitar Hero 4 !!!!!
  
  
  If your on easy, dont worry because remeber...........
  
  
  WE ARE ALL GUITAR HERO'S !!!!!!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3afiooo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  The Game is AMAZING and very powerful. I got 2 new games and i didnt play with them yet cauz of 
 GH. The game attracting you in someway you just want to play and i think they make game level better 
 the the previous one like iam today i finished the hard level but until now i cant in GH3, and 
 you can choose between BASS and GUITAR very good feature. but there is something i didnt like is 
 the MUSIC. 75% of the music are oldies and sometimes i get bored from it and sleepy not like the 
 GH3 moves you and you like to listen to it and play with it many times, but in the new one there 
 is a stage for band named TOOL 3 songs on this Stage really takes you up to the sky (someone high 
 :) ) and the BASS on these songs are amazing and when you playing on hard WOW. The game can be Perfect 
 if they put heavy metal or metal not all old rock.
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Overall I really love this game. I've spent many, many hours playing it and I've only had it a 
 week. I would've given Guitar Hero World Tour a 10/10 but a few small flaws hurt the experience 
 which causes me to knock my score down a few notches. Here's my review...
  
  "The Good"
  
  -Over 85 songs to chose from!
  -A fantastic veritey of songs!
  -The drums, bass, and mic 
 fit into the game well.
  -The instrument quality is excellent. (To give you and idea; I beat 2 songs on GH3 that I couldn't 
 before, with the GHWT guitar!)
  -A challenge for experienced players (Nothing like GH3 though)
  -A Beginner difficulty for less 
 experienced players.
  -Really cool cheats (like color changing and of course; hyperspeed)
  -In-detail customization options for your character and intrument.
  -A whole music creator!
 
  -Unlimited free downloads from other players! :O
  -Creative venues.
  -Tons of characters to chose from (even the older ones)
  -Guitar Hero has hit a graphics revolution!
 
  -Able to play 6 songs in a row without having to go back to the menus.
  -Sweet online! (Tons of modes, and you can see every button, strum, and whammy the other player 
 hits)
  
  The "Bad"
  
  -Country Songs (In Guitar Hero... WTF!?)
  -Strum bar makes a weird noise like every 300 or so strums. (could just be "my" guitar though)
 
  -Fret buttons on the guitar sometimes make a weird noise (not very loud at all though)
  -Some new characters are poorly designed.
  -I sometimes feel like I cannot get my instrument 
 exactly how I want it because of limited options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironfist562
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is OK. Rock band is better. This game doesn't have the chemistry that rock band 
 does, especially when you play a full band game, its like, there's no teamwork or chemistry. The 
 set list is OK, most of the songs are on rock band. The career mode is just going song after song. 
 You cant do much, making a song is kinda frustrating. Its a good game and everything but not as 
 good as rock band. The only things that are better on this game than rock band are the peripherals. 
 Something that is really good though is the customization, its very very very good. Picking the 
 songs on quick play is frustrating because there's nothing that indicates the difficulty of the 
 song. I know this review [much like guitar hero] isn't very detailed, but if you have any questions 
 about the game just contact me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the people at red octane came out and made a good guitar game again. This game has an 
 average setlist, but when playing the songs you don't even care. I havn't gotten the new equipment 
 yet, but this is an awesome game without them. And the best part there's almost no emo music. Even 
 though I've been playing for a solid amount of time, I still havn't beaten it, I'm so freaking 
 close that it dosn't really matter, and unlike AEROSMITH, this games expert brings challenge back 
 into the game.
  And when you put your mii on stage, (yes I have more than one version) things get even funnier 
 and enjoyable. Seeing your mii up there with a guy with a 3 ft. tall mohawk, is a very. . . enriching 
 sight indeed. 
  New features, custom character builder and an awesome setlist get this game a solid 9.5 in my book. 
 The best guitar hero yet, rivaled only by the very first guitar hero. Well done Red Octane!!
  
  P. S. (Rock band SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graveyardbbq10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is good. I've been playing on expert for a while now. This setlist has good songs 
 but most of them are very easy to play. The Graphics is much better than Guitar Hero 3 by far. 
 I think the gameplay is very good and the career is alot more of the players choice. You get freedom 
 on what songs you play, unlike the last game where you play the songs in a particular order. I 
 like the instruments also. I think that the Guitar is the best they have made. I do not own the 
 Gh drums but i do like how it transfers over to four buttons when u plug in the rockband drums. 
 Band play is good except you don't know when one of your bandmembers are failing. You also cant 
 save your band members if you fail. Then number one thing I was dissapointed about was creating 
 and sharing your own music. In theory it sounds great, but the quality of these songs arent the 
 best. Most of the time they sound like ringtones. i dont think Gh tunes will be popular very long 
 because like i said, the quality stinks. Overall i think this game is an improvement from the others 
 but there are some other things to work on as well. To me this game deserves an 8.5. If you are 
 a hardcore fan of the series i suggest buying this game. If you haven't played guitar hero then 
 i would say get Rockband if u like the multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  My first introduction to the series was last year with guitar hero 3. I picked it up for the wii 
 and was hooked from day one. Endless hours spent perfecting the songs and i loved every minute 
 of it. 
  
  GHWT is a great addition to the series. I picked up the guitar bundle so I havent been able to 
 try out the drums or mic yet. As far as the game goes on guitar, I had a great time playing through 
 the career. The songs were challenging, fun and there was plenty of them. All real tracks is wonderful 
 too (no covers) and a huge variety here. With that being said, people that have played and beaten 
 the dragonforce songs on gh3 will quickly see that 1. there is no dragonforce songs on this one 
 and 2. there is no songs that compare to the difficulty of a dragonforce song on here. A few pretty 
 tough songs but nothing that a few practices cant fix for experienced players. This game seems 
 to be pretty perfect for players just starting or who have only picked up the game every now and 
 then but nothing that out of control for the experienced players that upset me ( guess ill have 
 to hope for some killer dlc) . 
  
  Other than the lack of any really crazy songs I loved the track list and the slider was a very 
 cool addition. I think it could have been done a little bit better but overall its fun to play 
 around with. 
  
  Id recommend this game to any fans of the series and now is a good time to pick it up for newcomers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSSJDanny
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I really feel the this game was made intentionally for kids between the ages of 3-12.
  
  I'll break it down with pros and cons to make it easier.
  
  Pros:
  -Good Songs (Santeria, 
 Jimmy Hendrix)
  -Cool Scenarios (Like when playing Crazy Train and there is no vocalist, Ozzy automatically plays 
 in.)
  
  
  Cons:
  -At least 10 of the songs already are on Rock Band 1-2
  -Some songs seem to fantasy Ex. La Bamba
  -Menu and loading screen seem to childish
  -Long 
 Loading screens
  -More Ads Ex. KFC, Coke
  -Game-play mechanics suck because if your playing with a full band and if one person fails you 
 all fail.
  -Song creator is too complicated
  -Mic counts every word so unless you are the actual singer there is a chance you wont hit the 100% 
 marker
  
  When i bought this game i played the first 10 minutes of it, and hated it. I am returning this 
 game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchboxx10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought the whole bundle for this game which included a good set of drums that are better 
 than the rock band drum kit, a microphone which seems good, and a guitar which was faulty. The 
 red button on it gets caught or sticks and causes me to miss notes every once in a while. 
  
  The song list is pretty medicore. I don't really understand putting songs that are not popular 
 on the main set list. I would think you would want to put the best songs from a band that everyone 
 would know on the game. I am no stranger to music as I have 10.5+ days worth of music on my itunes 
 from all genres yet I don't know some of these songs. I'd say the song list is about half good 
 songs and half lame songs.
  
  Hopefully the create a song and mixer mode will make up for this. Hopefully some skilled users 
 w/ time on their hands will create some kick ass songs for us to play. 
  
  The game is really fun to play as a band with friends on the songs that everyone knows except for 
 singing which usually somebody doesn't want to do. It is pretty hard to get the right pitch when 
 singing but maybe that's because I don't use the mic much. 
  
  Overall I give the game a 7.5 because it is guitar hero which is always fun to play but me getting 
 a crappy guitar and some of the horrible songs on here. I even asked my friends who have different 
 musical tastes if the set list was good and they said no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceman420
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I own Rockband 1 & 2 and I played this game over at my friend's 
 house. I was always into Guitar Hero, especially when it first came out, but I felt unimpressed 
 with GH3 when I compared it to RB1. The biggest issue I had with 3 was the super narrow time window 
 for strumming which required too much focus. Luckily, GH4 fixes this issue, making it a much more 
 casual-friendly and overall more enjoyable experience, but that doesn't mean this new iteration 
 isn't completely free of its own blemishes.
  
  The Time Window
  While the time window is no longer over-hardcore, it's almost too forgiving in this new iteration 
 of GH. After getting used to the GH guitar a little more, I went hours playing guitar on hard without 
 even 'going red' throughout the GH Tour Mode. This would never happen if I played RB2 at the same 
 difficulty. At times, it felt like I was missing notes but would still be hitting them. This encourages 
 decent players like myself to go up to Expert b/c, other than the more complex tracks, much of 
 the songs can become a bore on hard, especially on bass.
  
  The NEW Bass
  Awesome!! Adding a fret-less note makes bass in GH4 a more realistic representation of real 6 string 
 action. The differences, note-wise, between guitar and bass become more apparent when you step 
 into Expert territory. This is where the fret-less note comes more into play and can be a challenge 
 to keep up with at times, especially when trying to keep a difficult sequence going for the majority 
 of a song. 
  
  The Peripherals
  Physically, the new peripherals feel sturdy and durable, but issues did occur when signals crossed 
 between the wireless devices. This was fixed by adjusting the connections and the issue did not 
 occur again. My friend had mentioned a stuck red button on the guitar before I got to his house, 
 but the problem never recurred. The drums are by far more silent, sturdy, and more fun to play 
 than the first generation RB1 drums (I have not tried any new RB2 peripherals yet) . Having raised 
 cymbals really do immerse you more into the gameplay and the sturdiness allows you to REALLY wail 
 on it without a worry in the world. The mic is less sensitive when it comes to tapping it, you 
 need to hit it hard directly on the top of the mic. The guitar is a bit longer than the GH3 guitar 
 and has a slightly improved strum bar. I did not bother trying the touch pad, but my friend enjoyed 
 using it for the scarcely allotted sequences where it could be used.
  
  Tour Mode
  WOW! This has to be the best tour mode ever because of the inclusion of actual CINEMATIC SEQUENCES!! 
 At the end of a venue's setlist, you will be asked to perform an encore which will trigger a special 
 cinematic (whether in-game or not) including special guest appearances by famous rockers. ****SPOILER**** 
 You will love the ending sequence that will begin what I consider the best song in the game accompanied 
 by the credits roll.***** You will simply be blown away by the extra effort put in by Neversoft 
 in this, what I consider, an actual story mode!
  
  The Songs
  GH has some great songs, some of my favorites being Pull Me Under by Dream Theater (!!!) , Mr. Crowley, 
 and a few I can't even name. The reason for this is because the majority of songs in GH are of 
 the lesser-known variety. This is a sharp contrast from the big name setlist RB2 boasts on-disc 
 and through DLC. The upside to this is that most of these unheard of songs are pretty fun to play 
 and will give your fingers some work.
  
  Graphics
  Stylistically, I much more prefer RB2's clean and wavy templates over GH's messy, uninspired, and 
 utterly cliche menus and score screens. There are no special titles like "top performer" or "most 
 gutsy" as in RB, a feature you tend to miss when you get used to it. The character models thankfully 
 look a lot less cartoony and in GH3, a trait I despised for some reason in 3. The special guest 
 rockers look nearly identical to their real life counterparts and are instantly recognizable. The 
 stages, on the other hand, have gone even more extreme, to GH's benefit, taking you places you 
 would never expect even in a GH game. This lends to the excellent Tour Mode and these stages do 
 play a part in the cinematics. 
  
  Overall
  This is an excellent addition to the GH series, and comes close to taking RB2's crown. While the 
 Tour Mode blows RB2's achingly long version out of the water in terms of having an actual story, 
 the OVERALL song selection comes no where near the 300+ already available RB2 song library. The 
 graphics in GH4 are decent overall, but do not compare to the trippy effects and superior character 
 models of it's rival. With that said, Guitar Hero 4 has distanced itself even more from RB2 despite 
 adopting the drums and mic, ensuring that it remain its own distinct rhythm game. The bottom line 
 is, if you already have invested into the GH series, then GH4 may be the game for you. But if you 
 have RB already, and have the money to blow, you won't mind getting access to one more Dream Theater 
 song. =)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrafy1976
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This review is based only on the guitar game play.
  
  Since I start to play the game it amaze me. The character creation was very easy. The controls 
 to adjust the factions and other things in the character were very fluid to learn.
  
  Using a simple guitar controller is good enough to play the game and use the new features. It is 
 possible (a little hard) to slide the fingers over the frets without hitting the strum (when is 
 required) , like in the new guitar.
  
  About the other controllers will test them later.
  
  The songs list I found it really good. The first level songs are modern and give you that rocker 
 feeling than in Rock Band 2. The difficulty is increasing just the right way giving time to get 
 adapted while playing.
  
  Graphics is something that could not beat Rock Band 2. They still being the same stile like GH3, 
 like 3D cartoons but they are good. Any way the game is more based on the challenge (like the story 
 line) than in graphics and other things.
  
  In conclusion if you are a fan of music games this is a worthy game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermonkeyred
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Wait to buy it. I purchased this today and I am having problems with the drum set. The red pad 
 only registers if I hit it really hard making harder modes impossible. There are apparently several 
 people having problems with the drum set at the moment and we have to wait and see what Activision 
 will do about it, so many people that they posted a sticky on contacting Red Octane to get the 
 warranty. While I haven't contacted them myself yet I understand that they are forcing you to pay 
 for the shipping of the faulty drums and you will have to wait two weeks to get them back. Buy 
 this game latter it is fun and the drums are a great addition if they worked properly.
  The game play is great, discounting the broken drum I would give it a 9 but being unable to fully 
 utilize the game I will only give it a 7.5 (as the drums aren't useless just really hard to use.) 
 I would have believed that the makers of Guitar Hero would have learned the lesson that Rock Band 
 had to learn about not sending our faulty products but I guess I was wrong.
  On another note the new guitar is wonderful. This guitar puts the rest to shame and greatly adds 
 value to the experiance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orryn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I will start the review by saying that I haven't played RB2 yet, but I have spent a good amount 
 of time on RB1. 
  
  On difficulty the guitar seems a bit easier to me. In GH3 I could play most songs on hard and a 
 few on expert. In GHWT I could sight read some expert songs and get through them my first time. 
 The drums on expert are very hard. They are more or less exactly what the actual drummer is playing. 
 If you can't double tap or your don't have an accurate foot, you will have trouble. I have spent 
 most of my time on the hard difficult on drums and it is just about right. They reduced what you 
 need to do with the base drum and focus more on hand rhythms.
  
  I don't sing, so I can't review the mic.
  
  The Rock Star creator is fantastic. It is right 
 out of Tiger Woods. You can change, nearly every thing about your character. Probably the most 
 impressive thing is the tattoo creator, which lets you layer images, shapes and words to make a 
 unique tattoo. 
  
  I haven't finished the career mode yet, but you play gigs (ranging from 2-4 songs, so far, plus 
 an encore) . Here you unlock some playable characters and new songs. You can also purchase gigs, 
 to get access to new songs.
  
  About the hardware. The guitar feels very similar to a GH3 guitar. The buttons feel a tad bit stiffer, 
 but might just need to be broken in. The buttons also feel a bit more spread out. The touch bar 
 is cool, but hard to get used to and tricky to know where you fingers are at. It also doesn't help 
 that I have small hands.
  
  The drums are far superior to RB1 drums. There is more bounce, they are bigger and in general feel 
 much more robust. The 3 drums are very quiet, but the cymbals make a bit more noise, as they are 
 more firm. I much prefer the GHWT bass pedal to the RB one. This feels much more precise to me. 
 It also has a velcro pad on the bottom so it sticks to carpet very well.
  
  The only complaints I have about the game are that the drums sticks they give you are really crappy 
 (I need to go get some better ones) and you need to use a wireless adaptor for the instruments 
 (provided) . It looks like they run on 2.4Ghz and not on Bluetooth. I think this only applies to 
 PS3 owners.
  
  All in all it is great game and I would not hesitate to pick it up. At the very least the instruments 
 are much better than RB1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Cloud
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  From gameplay to content, Guitar Hero World Tour is by far the best GH to date, and easily rivals 
 Rock Band 2. 
  
  First off, the gameplay has been adapted to handle HDTV's very very well, My LCD has no lag at 
 all, and feels just as fluid as it did when it was on a regular SD tv. 
  
  The difficulty is just right, from the newly added beginner mode (which I don't even want to see 
 how easy that is) to the increased difficulty for Expert mode (due to the additions in gameplay) 
 anyone can find a mode they are comfortable with.
  
  The new slider bar is unique, and must be experimented with to really understand it's usefulness. 
 The whammy bar is longer, and the strum bar clicks more fluidly. 
  
  The character creation menu is amazingly deep allowing you not only to create your rocker, but 
 also to completely personalize the guitar/drums from the neck to the little knobs on the guitar, 
 no stone was left unturned.
  
  I highly recommend getting this game if you've got the money lying around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backwardsman000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Okay, Guitar Hero World Tour is just about as much as Rock Band WAS. You have a career mode, both 
 single and a band career. The customization is ridiculous, in a good way. A very good way. There 
 are so many things that you can create, from drums, your performer, you band name and logo, and 
 so forth. Sounds kinda like Rock Band, huh? Well, when you go into just how DEEP the customization 
 is, you will be blown away. It's ALMOST as flexible as Spore. The GHMix works well enough, and 
 it will take someone a while to create something WORTH putting online. The hardware you get with 
 game works well. The new guitar is great, the mic is, well, a mic, and the drums take some time 
 getting used to. It has been said that the drums are somewhat faulty, but unless you have played 
 them, then how could you judge? For me, they work fine and are quiet and fun to play. The song 
 selection is great, and the guitar battles work well this time around. The online mode is basically 
 the same. Overall, the game is great, and I totally recommend it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
