-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/guitarheroiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The best tracklist of any Guitar Hero game to date.
 Lots of master tracks from the original bands and artists.
 Online play is a fantastic addition.
 Higher difficulty level ensures experienced players won't get bored quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Higher difficulty level ensures most people's arms will fall off halfway through the expert career.
 Battle mode and boss battles aren't interesting additions.
 A heavy dose of in-game advertising.
 Some frame-rate issues .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,586 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: RedOctane
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guitar Hero III ups the ante with more challenge and new modes, and though not all the new stuff 
 is great, the terrific tracklist and gameplay are sure to hook you in. 

  You wouldn't have been wrong to come into Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock with some sense of trepidation. 
 With original Guitar Hero developer Harmonix off the project and Tony Hawk creators Neversoft now 
 on board, it would be fair to wonder if anything that made the wildly popular rhythm game franchise 
 so awesome would be lost in the shuffle. The good news is that Guitar Hero III is Guitar Hero through 
 and through. The core gameplay that fans love hasn't changed outside of some basic tweaks, and 
 the long and varied tracklist is the best of any game in the series to date. If there are any chinks 
 in the armor of this sequel, it's that some of the newer mode additions and a few odd design decisions 
 do more to get in the way of the fun than anything else. Likewise, the extreme difficulty of some 
 of the game's more severe songs might end up turning off newer players. Those issues aside, it's 
 hard to argue with what Guitar Hero III offers from a content perspective, especially if you're 
 a longtime fan of the franchise.  

           Say hello to the return of the shred.      

  We won't spend a great deal of time trying to educate you on the ways of Guitar Hero if you've 
 never played one of these games before. The quick and dirty explanation is that you have a guitar 
 controller with five fret buttons and a strummer. Notes appear on the screen, you hit the matching 
 buttons, and rock is made. In Guitar Hero III, you'll be making the rock with one of the best soundtracks 
 to be found in any rhythm game. The soundtrack spans multiple eras and genres. Classic rock is 
 represented with songs such as Santana's "Black Magic Woman," the Rolling Stones' "Paint it Black," 
 and ZZ Top's "La Grange." Alternative rock from the '90s is present in a big way with tracks such 
 as The Smashing Pumpkins' "Cherub Rock," Red Hot Chili Peppers' "Suck My Kiss" and Pearl Jam's 
 "Evenflow" on-hand. Classic punk fans will dig being able to play the Dead Kennedys' "Holiday in 
 Cambodia," Social Distortion's "Story of My Life," and the Sex Pistols' "Anarchy in the UK." Modern 
 rock hits such as Bloc Party's "Helicopter," The Killers' "When You Were Young" and Queens of the 
 Stone Age's "3's and 7's" are also available. And for all the metalheads, you get major classics 
 such as Slayer's "Raining Blood," Iron Maiden's "Number of the Beast" and Metallica's "One." It's 
 an all-around fantastic list with only a few blemishes here and there. It's easily a much higher 
 ratio of quality over crap than what Guitar Hero II had.  

  It's worth noting the number of original tracks added into this year's game. Well over half of 
 the songs in Guitar Hero III are the original songs by the artists, as opposed to covers created 
 for the purposes of the game. A couple of bands, including the Sex Pistols and early '90s funk-metal 
 outfit Living Colour, actually went into the studio and rerecorded their songs for the game, which 
 is pretty cool. The one downside to having so many master tracks in this game is that it does make 
 the songs that are still covers stick out all the more. It doesn't help that the general quality 
 of the covers has also been downgraded a good bit since the last sequel. The woman covering Pat 
 Benatar's "Hit Me With Your Best Shot" doesn't really sound anything like the '80s songstress; 
 the version of Black Sabbath's "Paranoid" in the game features a uniformly unimpressive Ozzy Osbourne 
 impersonator; and the entire cover of "Holiday in Cambodia" has been pretty badly butchered with 
 some weird structuring changes, badly edited lyrics, and a guy who sounds more like someone trying 
 to parody Jello Biafra than anyone remotely authentic. Of course, the guitar parts in these covers 
 don't suffer much and in fact do a fine job of emulating the real-life songs. It's just the surrounding 
 pieces that rob the tracks of authenticity.  

  Of note as well is the fact that Guitar Hero II's focus on extreme shredding over simple yet memorable 
 riffs is even more intense in this sequel. The easy and medium difficulties are as good a starting 
 point as they've ever been (though even they are a smidge more difficult than previous installments) , 
 but the curve definitely takes a steep incline when you bump up to hard and expert. The jump in 
 expertise required for each setting is far greater than ever before, and at times it comes across 
 as just too much. As awesome as songs like "One" and "Raining Blood" are, they're so intense that 
 it's unlikely that anyone who didn't get all the way through expert in Guitar Hero II will have 
 a blessed clue what to do with these songs. And then there's that pesky song from extreme power 
 metal group DragonForce, "Through the Fire and Flames." It sounds a little bit like a Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons dork singing over a tape of the Contra soundtrack that's been thrown in a blender 
 and set to "liquefy," and it is so excruciatingly, arthritis-inflictingly difficult that you'll 
 be thanking your lucky stars it's a bonus song and not something you're required to complete to 
 advance. Regardless, there are enough songs that do require completion that aren't terribly far 
 behind in difficulty level that it might just be enough to scare some people off from finishing 
 expert altogether. There's an old adage along the lines of "You win more friends with accessible 
 fun than you do by breaking people's fingers with a fake guitar." Or something like that. Whatever. 
 The point is that Guitar Hero III feels decidedly geared toward the hardcore Guitar Hero fan, and 
 less for the newcomer.  

  Painful difficulty aside, the game is still lots and lots of fun. The core gameplay hasn't been 
 altered much, save for a few minor adjustments here and there. Hammer-ons and pull-offs, the techniques 
 used to hit crazy streaks of tightly packed single notes, are now easier than ever before (possibly 
 to offset some of the extreme extremeness of the harder songs) , and the notes that can be hammered 
 on or pulled off now glow brightly to signify as such. While playing, you'll notice that the game 
 also keeps track of your note streaks both with a counter and with periodic exclamatory text messages 
 on the screen that notify you when you've hit certain streak milestones. There are also some changes 
 to the way your star-power meter is displayed, as well as your score tracker, though these are 
 mostly just aesthetic changes.  

           If RedOctane were a band, Guitar Hero III would be that album that they made 'for the 
 fans.'      

  You progress through Guitar Hero III much as you would any of the previous games. The career mode 
 uses the same tiered-unlocking system as its predecessors, with encores at the end of each tier. 
 One wrinkle to this year's mode is the addition of animated cutscenes that sketch a minimal story 
 about your band's meteoric rise and eventual fall (literally) into hell. It's not much of a tale, 
 but there are a few moments of amusement here and there. One particularly interesting addition 
 to this year's game is a co-op career mode. This works much like the single-player career mode, 
 but you can play through with a friend who you can divvy up either lead or rhythm guitar/bass duties 
 with. Co-op play hasn't changed much since last year's game, but this new career progression is 
 a neat idea.  

  Unfortunately, it's a neat idea that's overly restrictive in practice. For one thing, there are 
 six songs you can unlock  only  in co-op career, which means that if you don't have a buddy with 
 a second guitar that can come over and spend an afternoon playing, you won't get those songs (at 
 least until someone eventually digs up the "unlock all songs" code for the game) . Also, no version 
 of the game ships with a co-op quick-play option. The only way to play cooperatively on a single 
 console is to play in the co-op career mode, and you have to unlock six tiers' worth of songs before 
 you unlock all the available songs. Interestingly enough, there is a launch-day patch for the Xbox 
 360 version of the game that adds a co-op quick-play option. However, if your 360 isn't connected 
 to Xbox Live, or you happen to buy any other version of the game, you're out of luck at the moment. 
     

  Elsewhere in the multiplayer arena, the face-off and pro face-off modes from the previous Guitar 
 Hero games return, and they're still generally excellent. However, the one new addition is anything 
 but. Titled battle mode, this mode replaces the star-power mechanic with Mario Kart-style weapons. 
 If you hit a specific note string, you'll gain a weapon you can launch at your opponent by tilting 
 the guitar. Weapons include broken strings, jacked-up whammy bars, amplifier overloads (which cause 
 notes to appear and disappear randomly) , and a reversal of the notes to lefty flip (and vice versa) . 
 On paper, this mode seems as if it could be amusing, but in practice it's just dumb. Most of the 
 battle-mode matches we played were over in 30 seconds or less because one player simply couldn't 
 recover quickly enough to get a weapon and fire back. It's basically a situation where whoever 
 gets a weapon first wins most of the time. Even when matches do go on for a bit longer, they aren't 
 really much fun anyway.  

           Get used to severe hand pain.      

  Battle mode actually finds its way into the career mode in the form of boss battles. Activision 
 went out and licensed a pair of notable guitar players: Guns N' Roses/Velvet Revolver legend Slash, 
 and Rage Against the Machine/Audioslave shredder Tom Morello. At the end of a couple of tiers in 
 the career mode, you go head-to-head against these guys in original guitar tracks that they themselves 
 recorded, during which time battle-mode rules apply. Nevertheless, the same balancing issue pops 
 up. Most of the boss battles can be bested pretty quickly if you get a couple of weapons in a row. 
 The last boss battle has you playing a heavy-metal cover of "The Devil Went Down to Georgia" against 
 a fairly obvious opponent, and that fight is considerably tougher than the other two, but it's 
 also the last boss of the game, so it would kind of have to be. The boss-battle mechanic just feels 
 tacked on. With only three battles out of eight tiers in the game, and only two of them against 
 real guitarists, it feels like a quickly tossed-together mechanic that, again, just isn't that 
 much fun.  

  Quite a bit more enjoyable than any battle modes or boss battles is the addition of online play 
 for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii versions of the game. Guitar Hero has never been online 
 before, and the ability to go online and take on the top axe grinders in the world is a huge bonus. 
 Online options include all the offline gameplay modes. Ranked matches let you play face-off, pro 
 face-off, and battle modes, and player matches let you do all of that plus the co-op songs. Sadly, 
 you can't do the co-op career mode online, but at least your friends can strap on a bass and play 
 online. There are some key differences between the three online versions of the game. The PlayStation 
 3 version doesn't include any manner of friends-list support, which means you can play only against 
 random players online. The Wii version lets you play both random players and friends, though the 
 friend options are limited to game-specific friend codes. The Xbox 360 version probably has the 
 greatest ease of use online, with all the standard Xbox Live accoutrements, as well as easy access 
 to downloadable songs (though, depending on your opinion of the pricing of said songs, that might 
 be a blessing or a curse) . The PS3 version should also include downloadable songs through the PlayStation 
 Network store; unfortunately, the Wii version isn't set up for any kind of content downloads. The 
 good news about all three versions is that they perform wonderfully online. Lag never got in the 
 way of the gameplay experience in any matches we played.  

  While on the subject of differences between versions, it's worth noting that each version of Guitar 
 Hero III comes with its own guitar bundle. Xbox 360 owners may not necessarily want a bundle if 
 they already own the Guitar Hero II guitar, but III comes with a new wireless guitar that features 
 a detachable neck, a much better whammy bar, better strap design, and more responsive buttons. 
 If you weren't satisfied with the GH II guitar, this is a good upgrade and potentially worth the 
 $100 asking price for the bundle. PS3 and Wii owners have never had a GH game before, so you will 
 need to buy a bundle to play with the guitar. The PS3 version costs the same as the 360 one, and 
 the guitar is functionally identical as well, save for a small dongle that has to be plugged into 
 the PS3's USB port to make the wireless action work. The Wii version costs $90, and has the most 
 unique guitar of all of the available versions, in that it features a connector for the Wii Remote. 
 The remote fits snugly into a port on the back of the guitar, and the remote essentially takes 
 over as the guitar's tilt sensor. It also does a few unique things, such as buzzing slightly when 
 you engage star power, and playing all the missed note sounds through the Wii Remote speaker. PS2 
 owners also get a bundle, though unless you really, really want a wireless guitar, there's not 
 much reason to go that route here. The new guitar's buttons aren't much better than the previous 
 PS2 guitars, and the sync process for the wireless controller is kind of clunky. It's a nice-looking 
 guitar, but it's not quite worth paying $90 for.  

  The change in developers has also resulted in a slight change in visual style in Guitar Hero III. 
 The look of all the various characters and environments has changed noticeably, and everything 
 has been given a more defined and exaggerated look. It might be slightly jarring to those accustomed 
 to the standard Guitar Hero visuals, but once you get used to it, you'll find the game to be pretty 
 sharp-looking. The guitarist characters look excellent, and even the secondary band players look 
 more detailed than ever before (though considering how dog-ugly the singer is, maybe he could have 
 stood to have a little less detail) . The PS2 and Wii versions look about on par with one another, 
 and look maybe slightly better than the last couple of PS2 Guitar Hero games. The Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 versions are considerably better-looking, even over Guitar Hero II on the 360. However, the 
 one thing that does get in the way with these versions is occasional bouts of frame-rate slowdown, 
 specifically when engaging star power while lots of notes are onscreen. This chugging is really 
 distracting and can occasionally throw you off while you're playing. Rhythm games, perhaps more 
 than any other genre, really need to not slow down, and it's disappointing that this one does. 

           These are the characters you remember, but they look a bit different now.      

  It's 
 also disappointing that Activision has finally decided to corporate up the Guitar Hero experience 
 with a fair amount of lame product placement and dynamic in-game advertising. It's one thing to 
 get branded guitars and get Guitar Center to sponsor your in-game shop -- it's quite another to 
 have several of the game's environments feature billboards that display ads dynamically, and logos 
 for Pontiac and Axe Body Spray that pop up all over the place. It even goes so far as to have Axe-sponsored 
 guitars you can buy in-game, and Axe-sponsored go-go dancers prancing about the stage while you 
 play. Gross.  

  An abundance of advertising, a few visual issues, some overly restrictive design decisions, weak 
 new modes, and a major upping of the difficulty level might seem like a lot of potential hindrances 
 for a game to overcome, and yet none of these problems are big enough to rob Guitar Hero III of 
 the same brand of addictive fun that made the previous entries in the franchise so engaging. Certainly 
 the fantastic track list goes a long way toward that end, but the gameplay is really what sells 
 it. Sure, the difficulty can be vexing, but the game never loses that sense of "just one more song" 
 addictiveness, even at the height of its challenge level. Once you start playing, you'll be hooked 
 for hours at a time, both online and off. It might ultimately just be more Guitar Hero, but that's 
 hardly a bad thing -- in fact, it's a great thing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (155 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Well I don't really know what to say here! This game is really amusing! Perfect time killer! I 
 just love it! The best thing about the game has to be its tracklist! Slayer, Iron Maiden, Dragonforce, 
 Black Sabbath, ZZ Top, KISS, these are just some of the bands I'm really fond of, and getting to 
 play them is fun as hell! Especially on Expert! That Dragonforce song "Through the Fire and Flames" 
 is haaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaard!!! but I'll finish it eventually! Still though I'm surprised that some 
 people nail that song 100 percent! Wow! The thing that bothered me though is frustration sometimes, 
 and the fact that they really look down on a bass guitarist. I say so because I happen to be a 
 bassist in a thrash metal band and I know the importance of bass. It needs to be heard, otherwise 
 the song would be lifeless!
  
  Graphics? Not much to say here cuz I don't really care about them. I'm too busy concentrating! 
 However the PS3 is capable of better. Some blemishes are really ugly but whatever.
  
  You like rhythm? You like fun? Get this game!! Sooooo fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosantana
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:14 am PT
Review:  guitar hero is a legacy no matter how people make it sound, if you think ROCKBAND beats it, you 
 are soarly mistaken, this game is simply a star in the gaming industry, i've had it for about 4 
 months, and it's very good, except some difficulties will have you hospitalized half-way through 
 it, i know that there are amazing DLC's but i can't find'em in the PSN store (maybe it has something 
 to do with the fact that living in saudi arabia) , any way the game is a legend, and the setlist 
 is phenominal, i'm 14 and my 8 year old brother beats the living $hit outta me in the game, he 
 got 99% and 5 stars in CLOSER - Lacuna Coil on HARD the best i ever got was 3 stars, on HARD CAREER 
 he finished STRICKEN - DISTURBED, BEFORE I FORGET - SLIPKNOT and 3's AND 7's - QUEENS OF THE STONE 
 AGE, and i just finished PRIDE AND JOY - STEVIE RAY VAUGHN in the hard career, nuff said bout' 
 me, if you are thinking about buying it, do it.
  
  P. S.: i'm a guy, and my PSN username is neosantana
  --------------------------------
  Forever 
 deticated:
  NeoSantana
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  There are certain games that never change no matter how many times they are released. Racing games 
 (except for Burnout which actually did something differently) , sports games and the genre of the 
 game I am reviewing... music games. The fact of the matter is that once people found what worked 
 in these genres they were scared to change it for fear of falling flat on their faces. It makes 
 them less unique, but at least it means they arent failures. At least not totally.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is really quite a good game if you liked its predecessors. It's 
 a fun way for you to pretend that you are a rock legend, and in that sense it's a great way to 
 have fun. As stated before, the only real gripe that can be leveld against the gameplay is that 
 it's exactly the same as it was in the last game, and the game before that. The only thing that 
 changes is the song list (which I found to be great, by the way) , and some retarded form of boss 
 battles that really arent very fun. Seriously though, trying to make some form of music based combat 
 only worked in Patapon and it's not going to work anywhere else so stop trying! Anyway, there are 
 only three boss battles in the game and they can be beaten pretty easily if you have patience. 
 
  
  Graphically, what do you want me to say? You watch a bunch of colored dots move towards the screen 
 and try to hit them so that they explode in little erruptions of colored flame. It's not Metal 
 Gear Solid 4, but it doesnt have to be, because you will be far to preoccupied with hitting the 
 damn notes that you wont care whether or not they look good. The sound is obviously excellent, 
 considering that it's a freaking music game, and you will enjoy hours of playing along to your 
 favorite hits and pretending you are on stage in front of dozens of gorgeous female fans instead 
 of in your living room playing for your mum in her nightgown.... I hate my life.
  
  Moving on, the only real advice I can give about this game is to know the limits of your own awesomeness. 
 What do I mean by that? If you are having a blast playing through the tracks on medium difficulty, 
 and can't manage to nail all the solos or anything like that, don't move up to hard. If you cant 
 do it on medium what kind of chance is there that you will be able to do it on hard. Just because 
 you cant hit those notes on hard doesnt make you a failure, it means that your finger dexterity 
 isnt absolutely ludicrous. Not to mention that the last songs in the career mode are ****ing insane. 
 Just enjoy a lower difficulty, and stop trying to be Slash from Guns n Roses.... because no one 
 will ever be that awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is yet another Guitar Hero game. It's just as good, if not even better than its predecessors 
 .It has however brought some improvements and new things over previous titles.
  To start off, Guitar Hero III looks just like previous games, it has the same type of menu and it 
 also sound a lot like previous games. It feels like a Guitar Hero game. Think that is a pretty good 
 thing as the game is recognisable and fans of the games will be familiar to the game.
  There are a few modes in the game. They are Career, Quick Play, Co-op Career and probably the most 
 interesting one ,Battle Mode.
  The Career Mode is just like before. You play a number of gigs at a location in order to get to 
 a bigger and better one. You start by playing in a small parking lot and in the end you get to play 
 in big stadiums. The whole experience is pretty well presented and the short cinematic sequences 
 are funny for most of the time. In your career you will play against big and well-known guitar heroes 
 and legends like Tom Morello or Slash. This will happen in Battle Mode. Battle Mode is a pretty simple 
 idea, you have to play some notes and when you hit the special ones you have to tilt your guitar 
 in order to make your opponent miss. This works well most of the time but the whole idea is pretty 
 stupid and get's annoying.
  The multiplayer is very good. Two players can play on the same screen or you can play online. The 
 modes are the same as in singleplayer. The lag is almost non-existent.
  The most important thing about the game is it's songs. The songs are fun to play, most of them, but 
 they are not ver varied and there a few know songs. At least all songs are master tracks and not 
 just covers.
  Overall Guitar Hero III is a good game ,with some improvements but not necessarily a starting point 
 for newcomers. The songs are good, the game looks good and sounds good as well, so if you're a Guitar 
 Hero fan you have no reason not to get this game.
  
  My Score: 8.7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  This review is slightly late as I suddenly realised today that I never reviewed this game. Guitar 
 Hero World Tour may have been released, but Guitar Hero II is still the superior incarnation of 
 the series.
  The immitation guitar controller is the best one out of them all thatnks to the new whammy bar 
 and more sensitive buttons, and the removal faceplates are a brilliant idea.
  The song list that ships with the game is brilliant and has actually got me interessted in a genre 
 of music I would have never listened to before (rock) . However, don't think that this game only 
 offeres rock music (which is what I thought before I bought it) . The tracks cover all genres, and 
 many are avilable on the store for download (at a small price or sometimes free) . My only niggle 
 now that World Tour has been released is that the release of new songs for GHIII seems to have 
 stopped completely, and I would love to play "another way to die" which has just been released 
 for World Tour.
  Online modes are also a lot of fun, with both battle and co-op modes. You can pic either, 1, 3 
 or 5 songs to rock out with and the other person can either help you amass a huge score or battle 
 against you to see who is the better player. 
  Overall, a thoroughly enjoyable game which is a lot of fun to play, especially with the speakers 
 turned up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is really good and the levels of difficulties let you play for casual fun of hardcore 
 gaming, you choose. The only bug with the difficulty level is that they change from easy to medium 
 and medium to hard by giving you one more note to play (easy is 3 notes, medium 4 and hard 5) AND 
 they add difficulty, at the same time, wich I find absurd. They should make a tutorial, like how 
 to move your hand at hard, and level up the difficulty slowly instead of making it jump. But you 
 can practice the musics in a move were it's going slowly, so it's OK for that.
  
  The songs are good but it's really lacking in styles. You'll see a lot of old rock and metal, but 
 not a lot of new songs. Also, the new songs won't be pop/rock but hard rock in general, wich is 
 good for some, but sad for those like me who like to have more choice of styles. But the songs 
 are good and there is lots of them! 
  
  The multiplayer modes are fun, but the fact that you can't play in coop with 2 guitars isn't since 
 playing the bass is not as fun (the beat is redundant, like you could imagine) . I never tryed online 
 so I can't comment. I tryed twice and they couldn't find someone, I think the soft to find an online 
 match is broken a bit, like in soul calibur 4, but it's not a big deal since online is free on 
 the ps3.
  
  Anyway, a really good game to play with friends and alone too. When I start playing, I'm always 
 saying to myself "okay, this is the last one" for hours, so if you want to study for your Ph. D., 
 it's not a good think to buy the game. Anyway, you can't go wrong with that game! :D 
  
  But since I'm writting this and rock band 2/guitar hero world tour popped, you could check these 
 instead. (BUT you can have GH3 for 50$ since those new games popped, wich is great)
  
  Have fun! :D I hope I helped! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiyoal
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a single player and multiplayer music/rhythm game aimed at a wide variety of people. 
 This game is a fantastic party game as well as a fun single player game as it deals the right amount 
 of fun with difficulty. Although many of the songs in expert require you to have magnificent hand 
 eye coordination as well as fingers which can move at light speed, the other difficulties are quite 
 capable for those who are just looking for a good past time experience.
  
  Guitar hero's difficulty levels make it a game for all types of gamers. Whether you are a past 
 time gamer or a hardcore gamer, this is definitely a game for all. Hardcore gamers will spend well 
 earned free time to polish off there guitar hero skills on expert while a past time gamer will 
 find it fun to be able to play a song in which they can "Rock Out" on!!
  This game is also aimed at people who cannot play an instrument as Guitar Hero 3 enables one to 
 pick up the guitar controller and start playing a famous rock song... without even going through 
 years of training and practice before being able to decipher difficult chords with epic timed strumming. 
 
  This great feature also enables the Guitar Hero audience to grow as this is a great game for the 
 young and old as it enables a various range of difficulty while also dishing out a large amount 
 of fun.
  
  The feature of co-op added to this game is a fantastic feature in itself as it adds depth to the 
 amusement people will receive from playing with their friends or family and a greater difficulty 
 level if your friend or family member is better than you. Multiplayer also includes an Online component 
 where you can team up with another person around the world to play a varied amount of songs or 
 vs the person in either "Pro Face-off", "Face-off" or "Battle". These features bring lots of fun 
 and amusement to the table for all types of gamers as well as all types of ages stated above.
 
  
  Although all these features are fantastic, there is only one minor downside about Guitar Hero 3. 
 Battle mode is a mode where instead of receiving a multiplier power-up (Star Power) you receive 
 a "Battle Power-up" designed to increase the difficulty of play to your opponent. This generally 
 increases the frustration of playing battles as you either deal out large amounts of battle power 
 to your opponent in which they fail in a matter of seconds or vise-versa. 
  
  Overall, this game is a must have for any person looking for a fun and amusing game as well as 
 a varied range of difficulty. Another up side not listed above is the song list as many of the 
 songs are recognizable and are past-present great hits. This also adds to the fun of Guitar Hero 
 3. Apart from the minor let down with the newly added battle feature, it is a letdown which does 
 not inflict my final score to the game.
  
  Im giving it a 10/10 rating. Its my favourite game yet!!!
  
  Hiyoal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieD1962
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Guitar Hero since hunting down a copy of the first version when it was first 
 released for the Playstation 2 and hard to get. I remember the thrill of playing the game for the 
 first time and turning all my Rock and Roll friends onto the game!
  
  Out of all the versions of Guitar Hero I am a huge fan of Guitar Hero III on the Playstation 3. 
 I am a product of the 70's and 80's Rock and Roll scene and GH3 has the largest number of songs 
 from that Rock and Roll era. It even has the Sex Pistols for goodness sakes! The video of Johny 
 Rotten is awesome as well.
  
  The game does a good job of mixing the classics along with new bands that I have read about but 
 never heard their music. It gives me a chance to hear these new bands I probably never would have 
 otherwise.
  
  The gameplay has improved drastically as well as the graphics. Smooth as silk and sweet as sugar.
 
  
  Sure this is a hard game to master but like anything else it is possible with practice!
  
  Just crank up your audio, grab your Les Paul and Rock on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be in a band? Have you ever caught yourself strumming an air guitar? Do 
 you want to play a guitar but think that it's to hard? Well then Guitar Hero 3 is a great game 
 for you! I got this game just recently and found it really hard to put down. When I got it, I didn't 
 really know what it was like because I never played the other two but this game is great.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 has over seventy different songs that you can jam to and they all have a different 
 difficulty. Some are incredibly easy for beginners and some are extremely hard for the experts. 
 Whether you're good or bad, you can still enjoy this game. I thought that most of the songs were 
 great and you probably will too. There's some old songs that are from around the 80's and some 
 newer songs from 2006. There's a wide variety of songs and some are in different languages. Most 
 songs are catchy and I can often find myself singing one. There are some songs that I dislike but 
 the majority I like.
  Game Play/Songs: 9/10
  
  The next thing that I'd like to talk about is the storyline. This game mainly is about playing 
 your guitar but there is a career mode. In it, you basically just play through the songs on any 
 difficulty: Easy, Medium, Hard, or Expert. When you unlock a section in career mode, you unlock 
 it in quick play. In career mode, you earn money for playing songs and you can use this money to 
 buy things such as characters, songs, guitars, and many more things! Also, throughout career mode, 
 you can face bosses in intense battles on certain songs. When facing them, you play in battle mode 
 where you need to use items to mess them up.
  Storyline: 9/10
  
  Next, I'd like to cover graphics. This game doesn't really require such superb graphics and I haven't 
 really played the other versions so I can't compare. I believe that the graphics are pretty good 
 though. You can see the fretboard and everything has enough pixels.
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The sound is great too. Earlier on, when this game was first released, the only sound option was 
 mono but now they have fixed it and everything is fine. You can hear all the songs and there aren't 
 really any flaws with it. There are some sound effects in appropriate places too. In Guitar Hero, 
 if you don't hit the notes, you won't hear that sound in the song so it makes it more realistic. 
 You actually have to play or you won't hear the notes in the actual song. Also, if you use the 
 whammy bar on long notes, you can add your own personal style to the song by changing the notes 
 slightly.
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The controls are what you would expect. There are 5 fret buttons, 1 strum bar, and the whammy bar. 
 You need to push the fret buttons when you see the correct notes on the screen and you must strum 
 as well. This makes it more realistic. You can use the whammy bar to add your own style into the 
 song. To turn on star power (an effect to get you more points) , you must tilt the guitar up. This 
 gives more of a "rock star" feeling contributing to the point of the game.
  Controls: 10/10
  
  So overall, I think that this is a great game and I'd definitely get it 
 if I were you. if I got this game as a gift, I'd definitely keep it. This game may be hard to find 
 but it's definitely worth the searching. If you have the other versions, or have always wanted 
 to play a guitar, I'm sure that this is the game for you.
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beetlejoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  As a guitarist, I came to the Guitar Hero franchise late and with low expectations; how can a game 
 that purports to make guitar playing easy for those who cannot control their fingers appeal to 
 someone who has spent the last ten years practising and honing their skills?
  
  Well, I was wrong! I'll stand up and admit it.
  
  This game is by far the most fun and most 
 played in my collection - and I have a few games!
  
  Once you get over the fact that you play in time with the visuals rather than in time with the 
 music AND that half the songs you have to play are actually played by multiple guitarists in "real 
 life" it is huge amounts of fun and actually quite satisfying!
  
  However, this game has now opened up a huge new set list of songs I need to learn... if I can play 
 them on Expert, surely I should be able to play them on a real six-string, right?
  
  My advice? Play it for what it is, a few buttons and a strum bar... don't complain that it's "nothing 
 like the real thing" because it is a game... if you want the real thing, get yourself a guitar 
 (you can get them for the same price as GH3 and controller!) and Power Tab! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is Activisions 1st try at Guitar Hero, the first two were made by Red Octane, but does this 
 installment actually live up to it's hype?
  
  Theres a small story to the campaign mode, basically you start off as a small band (which you name 
 as your save file) and you start your gigs at a backyard party, eventually working your way up 
 to being Legends of Rock. There are Guitar Battles on the way, which allows you to use items to 
 make the opponent either lose their whammy, meaning they can't press any of the notes until the 
 whammy is down, or a lose note, which they'll have to constantly press and get it down so they 
 can use it. The bosses included Tom Morello, Slash and the devil Lou. There songs are unique to 
 the game, especially Lou's, which is a cover of The Charlie Daniel Band-Devil Went Down To Georgia, 
 but in a metal mix, so electric guitars.
  
  The gameplay is very addictive, although you feel like there could have been more "Rock" tracks 
 in it. Later in the game you have to play Disturbed's Stricken, Slayer's Raining Blood, Metallica's 
 One and more. Those are really classed as Metal, however the actually rock songs are quite good, 
 and the score for them is dead on.
  The variety is slightly unbalanced, as well as some of the songs Activision decided to put in. 
 Such ones like Kaiser Chief's Ruby are extremely easy, whilst Prototype's The Way It Ends are extremely 
 hard on the higher difficulties. There are 4 difficulties, Easy which only has you hitting 3 notes 
 which are Green Red and Yellow. Normal has you hitting 4 notes which are the same as easy and Blue. 
 Hard has you hitting all 5 notes, so all of the above with Orange. Expert has it at a much more 
 faster pace, with more notes than Hard. All difficulties have different amounts of notes, and some 
 are harder to hit than others. With the money you get after performing a song you can purchase 
 characters, costumes, guitars, interviews and bonus songs. This adds to the replay value a lot, 
 although you won't really buy the interviews to last, as you can find them on video sites most 
 of the time. There are quite a lot of guitars to get, some are classed as "Special" whilst others 
 might be classed under "Bass" or "Lead", either way it doesn't really matter which ones you buy, 
 as they don't effect your gameplay or give you more Star Power. Star Power is a multiplier in GH3, 
 once activated by hitting all the notes in a star shape, and having 3 bulbs lit up, it will double 
 your multiplier, so if it was 4X it would go to 8X. You need to know when to use it though, as 
 you could activate it and find out there are no notes for about 6-7 seconds, by that time you have 
 very little left. There is also a Co-Op mode, where 1 player will be lead guitarist and the other 
 bass guitarist, this splits the song up, and forces you to work together, Star Power and all. There 
 are songs you can ONLY get in Co-Op mode, like Suck My Kiss by Red Hot Chili Peppers. It's always 
 good to play with a friend, and this adds a lot more to it's replay value, ontop of the online 
 multiplayer you can spend hours upon hours on 1 song. There is also DLC, featuring more Dragonforce, 
 Linkin Park, Foo Fighters, Avenged Sevenfold and more. Of course you have to pay for most of them, 
 and there are some cool freebies, like The End Begins (To Rock) for PS3.
  
  The graphics are simply outstanding, considering Gutiar Hero 2 only came to the 360 a couple of 
 months before Guitar Hero 3's release. The lighting and shadows are fantastic, and you sometimes 
 have yourself looking at the background rather than at the notes.
  
  Theres only one problem with this game, and it's the playlist, don't get me wrong the songs are 
 all good, but considering the title "Legends of Rock" it's more like "Legends of Variety". This 
 doesn't really put it down at all, but some of you may find that getting a PC version and adding 
 custom songs is the better option.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock is a superb start to the next-gen audience, lets just hope 
 that Guitar Hero 4 ups the pressure on their rivals Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ap6ehw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a sweet rocking game, but with new one coming out and new RockBand2, it is disappointing 
 they did not have a make your owen song, but hey that would be allot of work. This is a fun addictive 
 game, it is a game for good fans of older rock but there is some new bands in it anyway back to 
 the point, The add on content is nice and a good change and some times free, this is a good thing 
 for all you cheap players out there :P, Legends of rock is basically about Slash well not about 
 but is dedicated to him, the Gibson style guitar is pro too. This game is really good and grows 
 on you and makes you want to play alto of it, yous top playing for a week and you never get fealing 
 to play it, until you go and play and the felling comes back.
  And just rember... Rock On Everyone but do it in good will do not spazz out and wreck the guitar! 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedromaia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The best game of the Guitar Hero series, and ALMOST better than Rock Band. At least it is worth 
 your money! You have a gigantic list of musics, you have a good control and gameplay, you have 
 a plenty of hours of fun...!!!
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  Sound - 11!!
  
  Story - 7.5
  
  Graphics - 9.5
  
  Value/Overall - 10
  
  You enter for a band like the guitarist. First, 
 you have a garage concert, then a concert in a bar, then they want to make a video with you, then 
 you have a concert in a medieval convention, then it's on a jail, then it's live on Japan, and 
 finally it's in hell (well, that I didn't understood... :-\) ...
  A good game, I say! Good guitar playing, good musics, and GREAT MULTIPLAYER / ONLINE PLAYING and 
 etc...! How I said it is worth your money. 139$, it is not so bad for a box with a guitar and a 
 game. Its is just the second of the series because now there is Guitar Hero: World Tour (I own 
 it too) that kicked GH III butt, but its stills a great game!
  
  WAZZZAA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrafie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  Its simply an amazing game, its so much fun to actually play a guitar without hurting someone's 
 ears!!!! i love it. Also you can play the tunes of some really cool songs oh and lets not forget 
 that you can battle it out with a friend playing with another guitar. I am amazed and this game 
 is made of and how its just so addictive. I would recommend this game for anyone who wants a challenge 
 and here is a tip "it actually gives you an advantage when playing a real guitar. I haven't yet 
 played ROCK BAND but i hear its pretty cooooooooooool with the guitar, the drum, and the mic. i 
 guess that would be my next game in the genre its so cool just the thought that you could be a 
 rock star in your own living room. But be warned its not easy to master the ancient arts of KILLER 
 GUITAR and to issue some serious GUITAR BASHING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlad180
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well this is the first guitar hero game i have bought and i would just like to say the tracklist 
 is exellent. Ranging from Paint it black by the rolling stones to Dragonforces through the fire 
 and flames This game is not a classic, but an absoulutly brilliant game and is easy to pick up 
 and play even if you have never played a video game in your life. The graphics arent anything special, 
 but they are decent enough. There are also several download packs for this game so you can get 
 extra songs. This is a great game which i definitly reccomend. Although I dont think i need to 
 reccomend it as nearly everyone has it. I am really looking forward to guitar hero 4 as you can 
 upload your own songs, creat your own character, sing and play the drums. Dont buy gh areosmith 
 though unless you really like arosmith. until these come out buy it NOW!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicmangamer98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  the game is awesome I play on medium with hyper speed 03. it had some good songs like schools out 
 welcome to the jungle and miss murder. the version has a cool guitar but it is the worst because 
 the graphics aren't nearly as good as the PS3 and the xbox 360 and u can't get grim ripper plus 
 u have to beat expert to get the god of rock. the 360 version is the best because u can download 
 songs plus u can play without the the wireless thing. the PS3 version is still great the only thing 
 is I can't figure out how to dowload songs. the PS3 version was the first I got so I play it the 
 most but I don't have the wii version but my friend does and he told me alot about it plus I have 
 played it a couple of times. guitar hero is a great game and it's very fun to play. go to gamewinners. com 
 to get hyper speed 
  
  
  
  GUITAR HERO 3 IS AWESOME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_hippo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have played guitar hero and rockband games before my purchase of guitar hero. Its seemed to be 
 a lot more fun at their house than it is in mine. i played it for 3 or 4 weeks and started to get 
 bored. the songs get very repetitive and there is not a very good variety in songs. they need to 
 put more metal and blues songs in this game. most of the bonus song are awful with a few exeptions. 
 the controller is very good though. i have not had any problems with it and the battery life is 
 exellent. this was a gift for my sister so beating 31 of 42 songs on expert is good enough for 
 me.......... a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a . 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemears
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game I felt as if it would be amazing to play, but now as I looked at 
 the guitar... It looked and felt quite basic to me. but not only that but I was playing on guitar 
 Hero 3 on some of the great songs that I like e. g welcome to the jungle by Guns and roses, Ruby 
 by kaiser chiefs. Anyways, I was playing with the guitar on guitar hero 3 on medium as I got really 
 good after playing for about 40 hours on easy, and the only thing I liked about the guitar was 
 the star move, so as it is wireless and you collect enough star beats and light up to 3 lights, 
 you then tilt the guitar upwards freely and burst loads of electricity out of the guitar and collect 
 higher points as you play, especially that the wammy guitar is exactly like the real electric guitar 
 with the way you change your long notes to bring into effect.
  
  advantages:
  -Vissuals of your character, band, fans, performing zones and atmosphere seem OK.
  
  -Good 
 graphics, but perhaps expected more lively hood into the performance of each person in the band 
 as they seem a bit boring and dull (disadvantage) .
  
  -Real life clips are worth buying from store to watch as they are that good.
  
  -Includes an 
 existing store to buy songs online the playstation store or offline, to buy guitars, new styles, 
 new clothes, new characters and obviosly to purchase clips.
  
  -Guitar is small and light weighted, making it easy to handle.
  
  -lots of 2 player online 
 features.
  
  Disadvantages:
  -Would be more than happy if you can at least play with 2 to 4 players online.
  
  -Guitar is 
 quite basically created to play.
  
  -I expected at least 30 songs to be able to download for free or to buy from playstation store.
 
  
  -Story mode is quite short.
  
  -Can't change the charcters of your drummer and singer, or base guitarist as they stay the same 
 whenever you play a song, except you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I love to listen to music, especially rock. Guitar Hero III has an interesting idea, but just gets 
 way too boring, way too fast. There are different modes to choose from, like a career, multiplayer, 
 quick play, and so on. The one thing this game nails down is the audio. There are quite a few good 
 songs on the playlist to listen to, but to play? You can play the game with a guitar or with a 
 controller. Either way, you have to press the colors on screen or else you're band will get booted 
 off the stage. There are four different difficulty settings -- easy, medium, hard, expert. There 
 is one word that I can describe the gameplay: repetitive. The easy difficulty setting is, well, 
 easy, but also boring. Boosting up the difficulty level doesn't help, since it makes the gameplay 
 extremely difficult and frustrating. Pressing the button-prompts on screen gets extremely boring 
 after just a few songs. Another factor wearing the game down is the presentation. Character models 
 look ugly, along with some poor lighting effects, and there is clipping. For anyone who doesn't 
 like to play guitar or repetitive games, then skip this title altogether. Guitar Hero III isn't 
 an awful game, but should only be recommended to people who like repetitive gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_originator
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I loved Guitar Hero. When i found out that they were switching developers for the 3rd game, i kept 
 my hopes up. When i finally bought the game. i was stunned. Not at anything bad, but because it 
 shocked me how much harder it is than Guitar Hero 1&2. Unless you're a real hardcore fan who loves 
 to play day and night, there's no way I'd be able to beat some of these songs. They nailed the 
 Gameplay right, but I think your blood will be boiling more on this game than any other. (Yeah 
 i know some are going to say I just suck, but I don't play as much as them, dang it) . Another thing 
 I didn't really like was some of the songs on here. There's not a lot of variety in some of them, 
 because on some, you're basically doing the same note pairs over and over again, that's no fun. 
 The graphics are better though, and this game some how has a darker feel to it. The specially written 
 songs by Slash and Tom Morello thankfully save the game. The Battle feature doesn't feel very new. 
 You basically get a cool tweak every now and then in the song, but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippnfunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Firstly, if you love rhythm games, you'll love Guitar Hero.
  Secondly, if you love the guitar, you'll love Guitar Hero.
  Thirdly, if you love rock, you'll 
 Guitar Hero.
  Lastly, if your none of the above, you'll still love Guitar Hero.
  
  It fun, a great multiplayer, good single player, and if your friends and family play along aswell, 
 your in for a great time.
  
  The song list is strongest in the series, and you can download extra song aswell.
  
  The graphics 
 are great, and the les paul guitar is awesome.
  
  However, the boss battles arnt quite as fun as expected. And often ends up ended within minutes.
 
  
  
  
  The difficulty is just right and the player models look excellent. 
  So, another strong addition to the Guitar Hero roster, if you've played it before play it again 
 and if you havnt, nows the chance to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnsey_123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant fun which brings a new dimension to gaming. It also gives you great satisfaction 
 when you progress up the difficulty levels. When I first played Guitar Hero 2 I was like 'there's 
 no chance i'll ever be able to do expert'. After a lot of games and fun, I am now a very decent 
 expert player. I believe that many people may take this approach when first playing Guitar Hero 
 but the more you play, the better you will become. Whether your a guitarist or not, this does give 
 you a close feeling that you are rocking out with some great bands.
  
  However, the expert mode in GH3 can be a bit too challenging nearer the end. People have done it 
 though so it is possible and this will just make you better for it if you can accomplish it.
  
  The online mode is a great addition, giving the game more reason to play the songs then and 
 not get bored of repetitiveness. You can keep track of your score and view were you stand in world 
 rankings.
  
  This game is also great to have at your friends house. I wouldn't recommend it too much for partys 
 as if there is only one or 2 people playing, people sometimes just sit around looking at the screen 
 waiting for a go rather than just partying.
  
  Overall, this is a really fun game that can reach out to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  First things first, I LOVE THIS GAME. Not only is it packed with amazing game play, it is also 
 so fun to play over and over and over. The only problem I had with this game is that it was a little 
 to hard for my liking, I may be able to get to the seventh column on expert, but the eighth column 
 is SSSSSSOOOOOOOO hard. Now, lets get to the good stuff, another thing I liked about this game 
 was that it had really, really, REALLY, great multiplayer that has a lot of game modes and you 
 can play for the first time online, you will have a blast. The best part about this game is that 
 it is just so fun to play. ( it is twice as fun when you play with a friend) All in all, you should 
 get this game if you have a PS3, Xbox 360, or Wii. Even if you have a PS2 you should still get 
 this game, even though it does not have online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumg339
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Most games today are just based on death, killing things and shooting random people in the head.
 
  Guitar Hero 3 is the first game i got for my ps3 and i got them both a few weeks ago and i dont 
 regret spending all of that money doing it.
  GH3 is just one of the few games out there where you can just play, have fun and not worry about 
 the graphics being good. It has a great soundtrack with all the songs being really fun to play 
 with 4 difficulty settings.
  Online play is very fun to do with your friends on co-op, battles and face-offs.
  The new wireless 
 guitar is a brilliant peice of equipment, (although the sound of the thing you strum can get a 
 bit annoying) without connectivity interference.
  Couple of bad points here though;
  The game's called Legends of rock when there is really only two playable rock legends in the game, 
 Tom Morrello and Slash.
  The boss battles are'nt very exciting and it really would'nt matter if they were'nt in the game 
 at all, although they are quite a good addition to the game in some ways.
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Before I played Rock Band round a friends house I had never played one of these games before and 
 I instantly became addictied, So I went out and bought a ps3 GH3 and a wireless guitar for 40 
 which was for some reason cheaper than Guitar Hero 2 for the 360. If you've never played the game 
 the basic concept is just pressing the buttons on the end of the guitar in time to you tabs that 
 appear on screen, dosn't sound like rocket science does but, but theres alot more to it than that.
 
  
  Never playing anyother GH, I can't compare it to the others but I've heard GH3 is the worst one 
 to start on because of the difficulty, I didn't listen and its very true, Its difficult, at first. 
 The higher the difficult the more tabs they throw at you and not only that but, easy dosn't even 
 use the blue and orange button on the guitar, which when you play the game for the first time, 
 you'll be glad about. Keeping up with the fast pase notes as you go through the difficult levels 
 can go from fun to impossible, the song Through Fire and Flame comes to mind. However, if you're 
 playing the songs you love and know how to play pretty well, nothing beats the feeling of knowing 
 you're playing the lead guitarist role, its very rewarding to beat solos perfectly and complete 
 songs on 100%.
  
  As for the playlist, I found it short at first, but after looking through all the downloadable 
 content and unlockable songs, plus keeping in mind how well Activision have done to get these songs 
 and make them into the game, even recording a Sex Pistols song, with the Sex Pistols at one point, 
 its quite forgiving. That said, theres alot of songs too keep you entertained ranging from Guns 
 n Roses famous Welcome to the Jungle to Black Sabbaths Paranoid, It even includes some recent songs 
 from the games release like The Killers When You Were Young.
  
  The games modes range from Career, Multiplayer and Quick Play not including the online play. In 
 career mode you have the chance to make a band, call it your own names and choose a guitarist to 
 be from a few select guitarists, including famous guitarists such as Slash. You start low in Backyard 
 gigs and go from country to bigger gigs earning you money you can spend in the store on new cloths, 
 guitars, songs and videos. The playlist is about in order of difficulty and the replay value for 
 going back, making a new band and playing on a different difficulty is very rewarding.
  
  In all the nice playlist, good range of game modes and replay value make this a game thats worth 
 checking out, even for non guitar players. Some features I hope will be in the next one, such as 
 Create a Character and being able to play the bass in single play would be nice, but GH3 is a very 
 nice package and well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is the best game in the Guitar Hero series. It has better songs 
 and the playing board is more clear therefore easier to follow. This game is nowhere near as good 
 as Rock band, but it gets the job done. There isn't a lot of Downloadable content for this game, 
 so the best songs you are going to get are already on the disc. The band doesn't play as fluently 
 on the stage as the one on Rock Band does, like the drummer looks like he is some sort of statue 
 playing the drums, and the bass player can't stand still. Despite of this, this game still is very 
 fun and has a bunch of different kinds of rock songs and if you liked any of the Guitar Hero games 
 from the past, you should definitely give this one a go. Guitar Hero 1 and Guitar Hero 2 are dfinitely 
 not as good as Guitar Hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullsfan914
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock. This game is very great in my opinion. Very good songs. Great gameplay. 
 The only flaw that I have found with this game is the online mode for the Playstation 3. It takes 
 a while join a game with someone. And most of the time you end up not even playing. And also the 
 fact that you can't challenge friends online. Other than that this is a perfect game for anybody 
 who likes music-based games. I would not recomend this game to people who do not like rock and 
 classical rock music. It was well worth the $100 dollars spent at GameStop the first day it came 
 out. I give this a 9 out of 10. Not a perfect score just because of the online mode for the Playstation 
 3. I have not played this game on any other system so i do not know how the online is. Thank You 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kape22
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero have been in this world for quite some time now, and was one of the first games to 
 present the new "Guitar controller", which gave you the oppetunity to play like a real rock star. 
 
  
  When the third game came out to the ps3 I just thought: "Oh mann thi looks so cool, and the title 
 makes me shiver. Even though it was quite expansive, I choose to give it a shot and bought it. 
 When I finally played the game for the first time I thought: "Is this really for the ps3?" The 
 graphic details was not what I had inspectet, and thought about getting my money back. But I soon 
 learned to live with the graphic details, which really aint that bad, and startet to really enyou 
 the game. Cause even if the graphic details wasent the greates in the world, the many songs and 
 great music, was more then enough to keep you occupied for many hours.
  
  Guitar Hero III Maight not have the best graphic, but the great songs and challenging gameplay, 
 if the you try on medium or even higher, makes this the greates game in the series, if you like 
 rock ofcause. And the guitar controller makes it even more fun to play on your ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfblademusic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I was going to write a review quite a long time ago. I wasn't going to write one until atleast 
 Rock Band came out. I was out for the midnight release of this game to tide me over till the release 
 of Rockband. Without much else to do I go into the review.
  
  Graphics - The graphics really aren't up to par with the series. These graphics were acceptable 
 back when the first game came out, but now the models just don't look as good, there is surprisingly 
 few models considering how many games they put out, the frame rate dips every now and then (which 
 shouldn't even happen) and it's all rather plain and barren... Good thing you don't play games 
 like this for the graphics huh.
  
  Sound - Well... To me the setlist is a bit uninspired. Songs like Paint It Black do much better 
 on games like Singstar and Rockband. Considering both of those games also sported this song, and 
 this one fairs the least... we're not impressed. See the problem with this game is it tries to 
 go for really popular songs. The issue is some of those songs are more of a vocal appeal than Guitar 
 appeal. That just doesn't work for a Guitar only experience. Look up the tracklist. If you don't 
 hate it then obviously this should fair well for you. To me it was quite a let down overall.
  
  Gameplay - This is where these types of games are made or break. You can have the best songs 
 in the world but you still have to make it an enjoyable experience. The thing is, it feels a little 
 off. I've done the calibration but it just doesn't feel right on a lot of songs. It's not terrible, 
 but sometimes it just feels like you're hitting it right, but the timing was a slight bit off or 
 something. 
  
  The major issue is the difficulty is set WAY too high. On medium it's fair play. On Hard you lose 
 faster and it almost plays like Expert was on some of the older games, and on Expert it's strictly 
 only for the hardcore. Every other rythm game I can do atleast 30-45 percent of the songs on Expert, 
 on this one I have trouble making it through 1 or 2. It's not that there's too much to do, but 
 they jump up the judging diffiuclty to make it extra hard on purpose. It's bad enough difficulty 
 to have something like DragonForce on the list, but... to make it even more difficult is beyond 
 reason.
  
  In short on the difficulty, there is absolutely NOTHING that the harder difficulty could POSSIBLY 
 add to the game without a feature such as an option that increases the judging difficulty. For 
 online play they could have made it to where the judgig difficulty could have been set seperately 
 in some modes or even just make it default to difficult judging. Would have had no effect on anything 
 but your ability to beat some songs and the amount of fun this game can have. Do you really want 
 to spend a bunch of time getting used to a song on hard, if the expert difficulty is 10x as hard? 
 I don't. It just doesn't seem that appealing.
  
  The WORST part of the game is the support. Last year 80s and GH III were released. This year will 
 be Aerosmith and World Tour, while next year is already announced to be Metallica and who knows 
 what else. Plus a DS version of the game. Frankly they are taking these games and just trying to 
 get as much money out of you as possible. The songs in DLC are hardly any, everyone that is there 
 is either free or costs 2.50 cents per song. Rock Band has many songs for 1 dollar and 2 dollars 
 at most. You get 4 instruments on that for the price of less than 1 on Guitar Hero. There's no 
 real lasting appeal to this game. 
  
  Overall, this game was an extreme letdown. I'm giving it a 7,5 because I KNOW they wouldn't have 
 given this game as high a score as they reviewed Rock Band first. This game is just nothing in 
 comparison. It only caters to the hardcore that have crazy skills or gluttons for punishment. There's 
 virtually no one else that can enjoy this game more than Rock Band.
  
  I don't want to sound like I'm trying to lean you towards it, but why not? 1 game gets near weekly 
 updates to the tracks, the other one sees them like bi monthly. What's the point in even getting 
 any Guitar Hero games when there's just going to be another one some 6-8 months down the road and 
 2 or more in production at the same time. The fact that Activision wants cash for the makers of 
 Rock Band to release a patch that let's Red Octane guitars be used on Rock Band just shows you 
 how they don't care about anything but the bottom line. So here's mine.
  
  This game is not worth the buy. It may seem like a decent game, but the company just doesn't support 
 this product like they should. Why should you pay a lot of money just to have to buy another game 
 and another game. Why not be allowed to actually choose what songs you want to purchase? There 
 is no benefit that Activision does releasing game after game that they couldn't get through DLC. 
 Aerosmith was poorly rated anyway. Apparently they aren't improving in quality.
  
  If your hardcore guitar freak I just have this question. Why don't you own this game yet. If you're 
 wanting to be convinced to buy it only do so if you need the hardest guitar songs availble commercially. 
 Otherwise go for a game that will give you more fun overall. 7.5 only because 7.3 isn't allowed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off with the bad. The character customization and venue selection leave a little something 
 to be desired, to start off, there are only about 10 or so characters to choose from, with very 
 select things you can change about them. The venues feel tired and boring. While this isn't really 
 an issue, it would have been nice to see some new and fresh features. The new boss battles are 
 just plain annoying and will probably be the reason you will get stuck. They don't feel right, 
 plus they feel like the disrupt the flow of escalating difficulty in the game. The real problem 
 with this game is something that might not be able to be fixed. To get the most out of this game, 
 you will want an HD tv for the visuals and surround sound system to get that arena rock level of 
 awesomeness. The problem with this is the fact that both these thing can and mostly likely will 
 add lag. That lag can be very frustrating to calibrate because you have to figure out the exact 
 amount of milliseconds of lag that your gear is causing. Figuring out which piece is causing which 
 lag is a real pain. It took me around 3 hours to find the setting that is at least playable. I 
 still don't think it's perfect. Plus, the calibration tool they give you is pretty much worthless. 
 The controllers also seem to a little unresponsive at time, especially on the PS3. Some blame the 
 wireless dongle (also annoying) . Why they didn't just use the Bluetooth is unbelievable. You can 
 be jamming out with a several hundred note streak when all of the sudden, it just won't recognize 
 a note. And now the good. GHIII features an excellent song list. The career songs are fun, and 
 for the most part don't get boring. There are few annoying songs but there are definitely enough 
 great songs to make up for it. The unlockable songs also have some hidden gems. The inclusion of 
 the DLC really gives this game at least a little bit of replayabilty. Plus, the occasional free 
 song on the PSN really keeps you coming back. Online play also gives you a chance for some multiplayer 
 fun if you don't have an extra contoller.
  Overall, this is just a new guitar hero. If you like jamming out with hammer ons, crazy riffs, 
 and awesome solos, there is probably enough good here to keep you satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfrm13
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  A great game, for sure the best in the series, no other game like it so far, tracks are just incredible, 
 it could appeal to anybody there are different styles of rock, more metallica would have been nice 
 but there is rolling stones, AFI, DragonForce, Eric Clapton and many more artist that are just 
 great , you should buy it. Certainly it is worth the $100. You don't need to even be a die hard 
 fan to thoroughly enjoy this gift from the Guitar God, but if you are a huge fan of the guitar 
 of Guitar Hero, you like me will certainly put in many hours into this game. the difficulty is 
 very hard but the developers raised difficulty just right for you to keep up, although many times 
 you will need to attempt to beat a song countless times. an extremely amazing appetizer for GH4: 
 World Tour, featuring drums, mic, and guitar. graphics have been improved from last games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the best GH game to date. The new licesned tracks are great fun to play. The difficult 
 levels make it fun to play for expericened and challenging players. Except, when going into expert 
 onto harder songs, it feels like your arms are going to fall off. The graphics are very impressive 
 and show each note being played on the drums and guitar. the new wireless control is also very 
 impressive, it doesn't lag. When i got it, i thought that it would lag for half a second and then 
 play. But, suprisingly, it works fine. Also, Gamespot are making a big fuss about how dumb and 
 worthless the battles are. I find them enjoyable and fun when you enter hard and expert. It's a 
 new experience for people and gives them something else to do. Online play is very good. You sometimes 
 play against people that are better than you, so it's a good challenge to get better are GH. The 
 shop offers heaps of things. Clothes, songs, characters, styles and more. The characters have some 
 familiar faces including Slash and Tom Morello.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is a very enjoyable game in all perspectives and is pretty good all over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has and will forever be a very fun franchise offering up a great amount of chances 
 to sit around with your mates and jam away in front of the TV because you could never and will 
 never be able to play a real guitar, and guitar hero 3 keeps up the tradition with a more recognizable 
 soundtrack than the previous chapters.
  
  Ok so the gameplay is simplistic but in a game like this it is much better for it, colors come 
 up, you strum and watch yourself make sweet music in the process, but when you get to play such 
 classics as "paint it black" and "welcome to the jungle" you cant help but get addicted to this 
 game.
  
  Its downfalls are that we have seen this game 2 times before only with different soundtracks to 
 play through, and the fact that the game swings from very easy, to very very hard! and to newcomers 
 of the series this can be a little off-putting to say the least.
  
  All in all if you are a fan of the series than Guitar hero 3 will not disappoint, however if you 
 are new you may feel a little bewildered by some of the more difficult tracks in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Become a Legend by Facing off against guitar legends like slash, Tom Morello, and the devil. Over 
 seventy songs just on the disk, with down loadable content off the Playstation Network. You can 
 play by yourself or battle a friend, If no one is around you can battle Via internet. You can battle 
 your friends or join them in a co-op game with one playing lead and the other playing bass. You 
 can experience a false sense of performing you own rock concert. Spoiler: some of the songs , only 
 a few, are Welcome to the jungle, Sunshine of your love, Rock You like a hurricane, Mississippi 
 Queen, When you were young, Raining Blood, Black Magic Woman, Paint it black, Suck my kiss, Hit me 
 with your best shot, bulls on paradise, Rock and Roll all night long, cult of personality, and more 
 of you classic rock favorites. So if you like to rock and are in for a challenge then this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game. You may not be able to customize your own character from scratch, but it still 
 rocks. I play guitar and this is not the true way to learn to play the guitar, but it may get you 
 very interested in the instrument. It hints at hammer-ons and pull-offs, but its just a game and 
 a good game at that. The difficulty is adjustable and the tunes are memorable. You'll be rocking 
 in no time, the learn curve is not steep, almost like playing the game "Simon", but you have the 
 cheat sheet in front of you.
  
  The gear is cool and some of the axes are awesome. You have Fender and Gibson, my personal favorites. 
 The matches against the legends are cool and
  if you beat them the jam session afterwards is a really neat way of showing how musicians and people 
 can come together after good healthy competition.
  I am telling you lock your doors, because you moms and dads and possible their freinds, will be 
 jamming while you are not there, trust me I know.
  Get and be the next big rock star of your Den, Living Room, or bedroom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  You know, I keep wondering, what would I have done if I was in Neversoft's shoes? You've just been 
 handed the reigns of one of the best selling multi-platform franchises of the last few years, and 
 you know that in order to succeed, the game needs a spark of new life, a new hook. Perhaps go nuts 
 with the number of songs, or I dunno, maybe introduce a couple new instruments?
  
  Well it seems the Tony Hawk boys' solution was to do what they do best - bring in some of the biggest 
 faces in business. But this isn't a simple 'slap a famous face on the cover' affair - the 'guitar 
 legends' featured in the game (all three of them) have each written a fresh guitar solo for the 
 game. More on that later. There are plenty of other new features, but what I'm sure everyone really 
 wants to know about in any guitar hero game is the songs.
  
  Original GH developer Harmonix was always spot-on on the tracklist front - you could always rest 
 assured that whatever they threw at us, we would either know and love, or grow to know and love. 
 Well, the track list here is eclectic and vast. The 70 something songs seem to cover every possible 
 taste, and it really feels broad. This means you'll be shredding to smooth classics like Black 
 Magic Woman then immediately move onto modern hits from the likes of The Killers and Bloc Party. 
 Furthermore, almost every track here is from the original recording and sounds fantastic - staff 
 favourites, One by Metallica and Knights of Cydonia by Muse are particularly adrenaline pumping. 
 But just as the attempt to cover everyone's taste means you are bound to find several songs you 
 love, there are loads you will never have head of - and anyone who's played a Guitar Hero before 
 will know that songs you know are dramatically easier to pick-up and play. It's not a major gripe, 
 but you do seem to spend a lot of time looking forward to the next group, in hope of finding another 
 of your favourite tracks.
  
  So what else is new? To look at the visuals of GH3, you'd think the Harmonix team was still at 
 work - the menus the characters, almost everything looks exactly the same as the previous game. 
 But there are differences. The basic structure of the single-player career is pretty much the same 
 - you play sets of 5 songs at different venues as you progress to stardom. However, now when you 
 reach the 'encore' performances, there are three instances where you will begin a guitar challenge 
 against one of the licensed Guitar Legends. So now we have Slash, Tom Morello and Bret Michaels 
 accurately recreated to compete in the new battle mode. This basically involves collecting power-ups 
 to use against your opponent to try and make them fail. It's a feature that is undoubtedly a huge 
 buzz for fans of the given artists, but somewhat uninteresting for everyone else. What we found 
 heaps more exciting was the long awaited inclusion of the co-op career mode. A different selection 
 of 42 tracks from the pool is on offer from those in the single-player career, and is probably 
 Guitar Hero at its most fun. One player takes the role of lead guitar, and another on bass - so 
 you are rarely playing the same combos.
  
  With a new Guitar Hero always comes a new guitar. Don't worry, your GH2 guitars will still work 
 fine with the latest game, but the new wireless Les Paul design is the peripheral perfected - and 
 in GH3 you'll need every trick up your sleeve when tackling the harder difficulties. This is something 
 Neversoft has received some flak for - but the slight boost in game difficulty (even on normal) 
 was a necessary evil. Gamers who mastered the previous games will obviously need a stronger fix 
 - and for the rest of us, there is a lot of reward to be had when you finally nail a tough lick 
 or solo. So yes, you will most certainly have to work on your hammer-ons and pull-offs, but when 
 the eventual result is a perfect sounding Paint it Black, you can't help but nod - hard.
  
  Multiplayer is, again the same old shebang. Of course there is the addition of the battle mode, 
 which can be hilarious when you're playing with an equally matched rival, but otherwise it's still 
 two players taking turns to play a section of a song. Gamers also have the ability to take their 
 skills online now. In all of our tests, the game ran beautifully - even in the most intense, difficult 
 songs, lag never seemed to be an issue. But what you come to realise is that GH works so well as 
 a social game - when you're playing with friends in the same room. So sadly, online perhaps hasn't 
 had the same impact that we thought it would.
  
  Available on Xbox 360, PS3, Wii and PS2, the four versions have a number of differences. The Xbox 
 360, PS3 and Wii versions all include online play, while only the 360 and PS3 offer downloadable 
 content. The PS2 game is offline only. All versions of the game can be bought with a wireless guitar, 
 although the Wii guitar uses a Wii Remote as an interface to the console - which fits snugly inside 
 the guitar shell. Visually the PS2 and Wii versions are similar to previous games in the series, 
 while the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions look considerably better. Finally, the Xbox 360 game includes 
 the expected Achievements, which could sway your purchase decision.
  
  Guitar hero 3 should most definitely be praised - for its almost entirely original recording song 
 list, for its attempts to introduce something new into a near perfect formula, and for picking 
 up where Harmonix left off effortlessly. The songs are diverse, hard-rocking and challenging, but 
 in all honesty, these new tracks are the most exciting new thing about GH3. The co-op career and 
 battle modes are great fun, but had the new tracks been released for GH2 as downloadable content, 
 we would no doubt have had just as much fun.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The good:
  
  - A tough challenge.
  - Large percentage of 
 original recordings.
  - Online play is really great.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Track list is too broad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Guitar Hero by barrowing Guitar Hero II from my friend and I loved it! I decided 
 to buy Guitar Hero III for PlayStation 3 and I absolutley love it!!! This game is pure addiction. 
 Yes, I have over 100 hours on Guitar Hero III and I'm still goin' strong. I can do Expert and only 
 have 2 more songs. The whole game is relativly easy except for a few songs like Raining Blood and 
 The Devil Went Down To Georgia on Expert. Although those two are really hard there is one song 
 in Guitar Hero III that has one of the biggest reputations in any music game. Through The Fire 
 And Flames on Expert is by far the hardest song in any music game! Guitar Hero III also has many 
 modes that you can play online or with a friend. There is a Battle Mode which is much like the 
 battles you compete in, in single player. There are also a couple face-offs which you compete against 
 others for the highest scores. Guitar Hero III is truley an amazing game and if you can round up 
 some extra cash to buy it.... DO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Of course if your not interested in those singing, instrument type games then this may not be a 
 game for you, but your sure to get a buzz out of it either way.
  I have never actually played the previous versions and watching people play this game never really 
 caught my eye for it (as do all games do) but after playing it I instantly wanted it.
  It is full of some of the most fantastic rock songs from "Welcome to the jungle" to "slow ride" 
 to "Ruby" 
  Each song has its different variety of button mixture which in total adds up to around 70 songs 
 plus downloads.
  Overall its simpley amaz\ing and good fun to play.
  Its also even more fun when your playing with your mates.
  And there will be sequels coming out 
 very soon to look forward to.
  My overall rating is 9/10 for a very entertaing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muff07
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3: Legends of rock was actually my first time experiencing the series and as such I 
 can say I'm quite pleased with the purchase.
  
  Value for money:
  Having picked up the game and Gibson guitar for 75 (Around $150) . The price is where I have decided 
 to begin the review as it is for a game a rather large investment, It is also the main reason for 
 the score not being higher. As for such a large price tag this game should be a masterpiece but 
 I suppose the Peripheral makes this an investment for future Guitar Hero games
  
  Graphics:
  To be perfectly honest I think the Graphics in the game should be a non-factor as 
 it is simply not something that will affect your enjoyment of the game.
  I will however say the cut-scenes are cartoon-ish which which seems to be perfect for the style 
 of game RedOctane have made.
  
  Soundtrack:
  The soundtrack is rather meh.
  There are some true gems among the songs but It could have been much better. 
  This is probably 
 more of a cultural diffrence between my (European) music taste compared to the main market of this 
 game in America.
  Don't however let this deter you theres a song for anyone on the soundtrack for the indie crowd 
 theres songs like by The Killers and Kaiser Chiefs right through to songs by Tenacious D and Metallica 
 for the true rockers.
  
  Difficulty:
  I think RedOctane has seriously got the difficulty settings wrong. 
  In easy mode I can actually 
 Play around 8 songs with my teeth and get around 80-ish%.
  In Hard mode however I'm only able to actually complete the first 2 sets of songs (Around 10)
 
  Expert mode Just seems crazy and for the truely dedicated.
  Medium mode however is just right, exactly as it should be initially challanging for the Noobie's 
 (Like me) yet rewarding as your skill level progresses.
  
  Other:
  The life from the batteries is exceptional my Guitar has only needed on change of batteries in 
 around 70 hours of gameplay.
  It should be noted there is an online multiplayer option with the game this however is not as much 
 fun in my opinion as it would seem.
  This is a game best playerd with Friends or family as a competition , The competitivness of me 
 and my friends playing this is phenonemal and the bragging rights that come if you win by a large 
 margin enougth to make the loser cry in submition.
  
  Conclusion - Worth a try
  Score - 82% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insomniorange
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I've wasted my past four months on this game. I usually play at expert level, and all those tunes 
 are lodged up there in my head. For a rhythm game, this is brilliant. I mean, they even have Muse. 
 And Kaiser Chiefs. But the only thing I can put down about this game is how HARD RAINING BLOOD 
 IS ON EXPERT. Sure, I have completed expert, but only once have I beated Mosh 1 for Raining Blood, 
 and in succession (almost ironically) in the green section of the rock meter, without star power. 
 I'm not even going to start on Through The Fire and Flames because I beat the intro and screwed 
 up totally in the solo, at 87%-ish. So I will just say now, if you like completing games totally 
 and do not mind spending day after day repeatedly tapping away at a plastic guitar, buy this game 
 now. So, I've gave this game a perfect 10 and a difficulty rating of Very Hard, for those who didn't 
 read my earlier rant about Slayer's death metal song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Venomz-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  In this game you will experience on being a rock band and also a guitarist. At first you'll choose 
 your character Johnny Napalm, Tom Morelo and more great guitarist from great bands! You will face 
 a guitarist also in a grand showdown! You can choose on what song you will play at the show! Paint 
 it black by Rolling Stones, One by Metallica, Welcome to the jungle by Gunz 'n' Roses, Before i 
 forgot by Slipknot, Raining Blood by The Slayers (Actually this is the most difficult to beat at 
 Expert mode for me) and more great songs! And if you beated already the game, You can also start 
 a new game in different difficult! Easy, Normal, Hard and Expert! And you can also play the songs 
 that you've already beaten! Some says that if you play this on the guitar it is more exciting because 
 if you only play this on the normal controller, Where is the challenge? where is the experience 
 on being a guitarist? So i'll say this to you, if you plan to play this game, You'll need a guitar 
 if you want the real "CHALLENGE". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _BRIAN_
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is obviously a sequel that lived up to its expectation. The game's message is to 
 "rock on". It is a fun party game that at least deserves a look into. Guitar Hero uses a toy electronic 
 guitar to play the songs, but don't worry you don't have to be a musician. 
  
  The general Guitar hero series is unique. The game play consists of playing songs with 5 fret buttons 
 while strumming along. There is also the wammy bar which is used to obtain more points and the 
 familiar star power option. Star power is an option which will allow you to get double the points 
 in an certain amount of time. If you get a certain amount of note streak you can double, triple, 
 quadruble and even multiply by 8 with the use of star power. 
  
  The Story mode of Guitar Hero isn't the greatest but It still is fun. In the beginning your a band 
 no ones heard of and through out the game you turn famous. You advance by beating a set of 4 songs 
 then you get an "encore" which you play another song for some reason. After you beat a set of songs 
 you're able to see funny little cut scenes. In story mode you get to face a total of three boss. 
 You face them in battle mode, nothing to exciting. Through out story mode you receive money to 
 unlock costumes, characters, songs, and guitars. 
  
  For beginners It'll be easy to pass easy and be able to play medium on the second Day, and be proud 
 of yourself for that. You'll spend a lot of time trying to advance. For veterans you'll probably 
 skip medium and play hard or expert. The hardest song is through the fire and flames on expert. 
 Beginers will stand in awe watching others play. Beginers won't be able to pass one percent.
  
  Multiplayer and the game play is where it's at. And this time around it has the best roster 
 of songs which makes it an "instant classic". The PS3 has worst online for GH3 because you can't 
 face your friends. There isn't to much to say about online but Tournaments!!!! 
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is an amazing game that no one can disagree without lying.
  It's creative, unique 
 and above all fun. If you have some extra money I recommend Guitar Hero 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THOMJOHN3
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the first music/rhythm game I have purchased, and I bought the Les Paul wireless guitar 
 bundle. As a long time gamer (started with Telengard on the c64) , I recently purchased a PS3, and 
 decided to give GH3 a try. WOW!!! The song list is well-suited for this game, although I would 
 have liked to see some Rush, Police, or Iron Butterfly (Inagaddadavida for an expert track?) included 
 in the song list. After some setup difficulties, I got the guitar controller working perfectly 
 (switched the wireless sixaxis to port2, and put LP guitar on port1) , and began to grind. The game 
 offers four difficulty settings, with each offering another fret button to press and faster notes. 
 If you are a noob like me, you will need to practice before hitting the tour! I love the practice 
 mode, which lets you choose the track, difficulty, song speed, and starting point. This mode is 
 invaluable for learning the basics of the game, as well as practicing the song list for your first 
 gig. The feeling of accomplishment from hitting every note is fantastic, as you really have to 
 work (fun work) to get it right. Its also cool to slow down the songs to practice or for those 
 younger (i. e. kiddies) players who want to rock out as well. My little girl (a four year old) can 
 hit about 50% of the notes from the starting levels when the songs are on the slowest setting, 
 and its fun to play along with her and watch her have fun too. If you have previously played these 
 types of games, then you know what I mean. If you haven't tried GH3, I suggest renting it first 
 ,although, you must have a guitar to play the game!! My overall experience has been great, and 
 GH3 can count another groupie added to the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  i enjoy this game and can beat it on easy and medium modes , i like the sticker ideas my guitar 
 is very personalised, hard and sxpert are very tricky great if you can do it "! im trying hard to 
 do it,
  great tracks and keep bringing more out i like the store so you can buy more songs videos clothers 
 and most importantly guitars!!!!!!!!!
  the story is quite good but the graphics could be improved i am stating to get bored but the new 
 songs make me keep playing 
  very important to take a break i alwasy forget and end up with stiff fingers lol, the online is 
 very very good playing with and against your mates, worth getting even if you think it expensive 
 but then you got the guitar and are bringing out a new game soon so it will be good!
  its great if your mate has gh3 aswell he can bring his guitar over and jam with you, quite a laugh
 
  8/20 is fair i wish graphics were better but great tracks, make the game longer!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I didn't really want to get this game at first. My brother wanted to get it and I told him that 
 it probably isn't too great. Now I stand corrected. It is a good game. If you're into stories, 
 action, adventures or any of that stuff, you won't find it here. But you will find some great songs, 
 a very unique way of gameplay, and hours and hours of replay value!
  
  The sound in this game is great. They are a lot of songs that you hear on the radio, and some great 
 songs that no one has ever heard of before! The graphics is where this game is lacking value. They 
 aren't too great. But online play makes up for all of that.
  
  There are pleanty of unlockables to be found so you will be playing for hours and hours trying 
 to get every character, costume, color, guitar, and song! It is quite a goal to shoot for if you 
 want to collect them all!
  
  I reccomend this game if you like DDR, but don't like dancing. It will keep you entertained for 
 a long time and the multiplayer is great. The game is also great at parties as mentioned on the 
 Gamespot review. This game is worth it. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keffin69
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Right, Guitar Hero 3 is a really fun and exciting game to play for all ages. Guitar Hero was the 
 first of it's kind and now competing with it is Rock Band. The choice of songs on this one isn't 
 the greatest choice but still annd fun to play. People will easily get addicted to this game and 
 the peripherals are easy to control. The graphics have been improved from the first 2 and the sound 
 is incredible. Even if people don't play guitar, they can still become guitar heros after playing 
 this. Now that this 3rd game has included multiplayer, you can't really ask for more. No connection 
 problems and really fun to compete against other people from around the world. you can even register 
 your profile online at their official website and compare yourself to every other guitar hero around 
 the world. Highly recommend this to anybody who enjoys music and guitar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  I'm new to the guitar hero series, so to say, guitar hero 3 is my first guitar hero. The price 
 point actually delayed me to get this. I was pleasantly surprised to see that the game is actually 
 very good, i was rocking my way all the time. The guitar works great, and i've not played real 
 guitar hero so this is sort of like a beginner step for me.
  
  Rockband is also out, but i haven't touch that game yet, so this review will purely be toward GH3 
 without being biased. 
  
  The content of the GH3 is actually the guitar consisting of the neck and struming part, a wireless 
 receiver, a belt, stickers and the game itself, it packs nicely and steadily. The good part is 
 that the packaging wasn't too heavy to carry around. The guitar is split into 2 parts to cater 
 to better transportation.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's like simple pressing of buttons and strumming them when it reaches a line. But if ur new to 
 the series or playing the first time, recommand u go through the short tutorial before proceeding. 
 
  When you get a note missed, it will distort the music, which is sort of let u know u missed in 
 a way. The bass pairs up with the rhythum very well, make a very solid rocking feeling.
  There's 3 modes and i started on easy since im a begineer, but advancing to other levels will take 
 some practicing. But also found out that the rocking effect is better on higher levels.
  The notes for one, is well placed, but like i said, ur going to take some time getting used to 
 higher difficulties.
  
  Graphics:
  Cartoonish is the word to discribe it, instead, such a game doesn't requires any form of realistic 
 graphics.
  The graphics although cartoonish, is great, sometimes it zooms to ur guitar, if u missed, it will 
 react with the screen as well. One bad thing i felt was the lag when the go from menus to menus.
 
  
  Sound:
  For a rock game, obvious the sound is great. Also meant more things to me to write here.
  There's 
 well over 70+ songs u can unlock either by completion or by cheats, there's even DLC at playstaion 
 store, but not much. What i expect is that aerosmith will be the expansion to use with the guitar 
 given here.
  The bass is strong, it brings out the guitar hero in you. The songs are pretty enjoyable and are 
 rock songs (expected) . 
  A pityful it doesn't include some better bands like wolfmother. 
  
  My conclusion is that this is definatly a game to try for rockers. You may or may not like 
 it. Either way, if ur interested in drums as well, rockband will be ur choice since it's just a 
 little more Expensive in america.
  Don't be afraid to get this even at it's price tag, when aerosmith comes out, you'll be utilising 
 the guitar given here. 
  A pretty solid wireless guitar if u asked me, if only it uses bluetooth, it would be perfect. I've 
 played for more than 10hours yet the initially given battery is still running! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxilicious_95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game is the perfect game for any rock fan, or for when your with a group of mates. When you 
 feel like rockin' out, just whip out your guitar and Guitar Hero. When you first get the game it 
 will come in a bundle with a wireless Les Paul guitar/ controller. You'll also get stickers, a 
 strap and the game. The game is quite hard, when on expert or hard but even on easy it will take 
 a good hour or so to get the timing right and to get the hang of it, if your a beginner but as 
 you progress to the higher difficulties, wow it gets insane. On easy mode, you'll only have to 
 use the first 3 buttons, the green, red and yellow ones, and the fret board moves along quite slowly. 
 Then on medium you'll then use the blue button as well and the fretboard moves a bit quicker. Onto 
 hard, the fretboard mover quickly with a 5 buttons being used. And then, on expert you'll use all 
 five buttons, quicker fretboard and insane button schemes. (How they appear on-screen) The game 
 comes with over 70 songs, and battle mode, with the ability to rock out with Slash, and Tom Morello. 
 Also there is DLC to buy for more songs to rock out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzza
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  In my opion, Guotar Hero Three is all flash and no quailty. For some reason, its all graphics and 
 crazy stuff which I do like but then theres a bunch of old songs I dont even know. At least Guitar 
 Hero Two had songs that I was familar with. I liked the songs like Killing in The Name of by Rage 
 Against the Machine and Free Bird by Lnyrd Sknyer. Now theres only a few songs I like like Bulls 
 on Parade by Rage Against The Machine and Welcome To the Jungle by Guns n Roses. I havent really 
 HEARD any of the other songs which ovbiously means I dont like them or dont knwo that I like them. 
 I guess the reasons I havent heard them is because im young but I guess thats no reason to trash 
 such an awsomely put together game. It was actually pretty good. Its probably an 8/10 instead of 
 6.9. Sorry Guitar Hero fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin1012
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  when i bought guitar hero 2 i was delighted i bought the game but i wanted some actual hard rock 
 songs and thats where guitar hero3 comes in. there are really hardsongs which i love but i wish 
 they didn't try to make the game more challenging. but i'm really good on the game. the main problem 
 like the other ones are theres only 60 songs. so i have to take my own songs to increase the playibility 
 on the game. there is also a multiplayer lag on the game. so be prepared for choppy gameplay. wait 
 also the game is has to many recurring characters and truly i think the song through the fire and 
 flames which is literally impossible on expert so i think the developers were trying to make you 
 lose the whole game on expert which is literally impossible. the game also has a long load screen 
 on all systems. well this game is good but could be better. hopefully guitar hero on tour will be 
 as great as this one. well this has been my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  I am a avid gamer and musician. I am also a singer, song writer. I play Piano, Drums, Guitar, Violin. 
 And this game is just poor quality and just a novelty. The guitar itself is just very child like. 
 Very poor, plastic quality. Very clunky. Even to play. It goes click, click. Very light, cheap 
 materials for such a high price. 
  
  The song tracks are horrible. There are vast amounts of amazing rock songs, rock ballads, even 
 heavy metal songs. This would have to be some of the worst music ever made. 
  
  Not to mention no patches, to play other games with guitar such as rock band. No options to just 
 play any songs. And to buy addon packs. Your looking at $10 each time. So if you buy 10 new addon 
 packs. Thats $100. Its like the price of another game. THere just trying to mlik the money tree 
 of this novelty game. 
  
  But a real electric guitar. And learn to play. You wont be disapointed. And it will be alot cheaper, 
 more satisfying. And you can play any song. And play guitar like it should be played. Not with 
 some novelty kids toy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everyone made a big fuss about this game. There is really nothing new to the three 
 other GH games that came out before it. 
  
  And the only little things that are new aren't fun things. I don't understand why everyone likes 
 this game so much... Its still the same thing. You press on buttons on a guitar-shaped controller 
 at the same time of on the t. v. What do you do it for? 
  
  There are good things to this game, for sure, like the soundtrack is the best to date, it's still 
 fun to press the buttons on the ''guitar'' and other things like this. I think I would of liked 
 more this game if I hadn't played Rock Band before GH III.
  
  Guitar Hero is always the same, but now, thanks to Rock Band, everything has changed, an fortunately, 
 to the best.
  
  So if you think of buying this game, I recommend you to rent it first, just in case because I tell 
 you it's really the same fu**ing thing but I'm not you.
  
  
  
  
  sincerely,
  Carl Maycry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say really. The setlist has quite a few really good songs but also a couple really 
 really bad songs, such as holiday in Cambodia, by some crappy band i can't remember.
  
  One gripe I have is the dumb boss battles. They fell tacked on and pointless and beating them didn't 
 give me any sense of accomplishment or anything. Oh and the difference between medium and hard 
 difficulty is sort of steep, but manageable after a while. Oh and the excuse for a story was lame, 
 luckily the cutscenes are skippable.
  
  The PS3 version of the game gets some perks in the form of downloadable track packs for 7 bucks 
 each so that is cool, I haven't bought any yet so I can't tell you if they are good or not.
  
  Overall, a solid iteration in the GH franchise and well worth the purchase for new and old 
 fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamyvabam123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The answer is yes, This game is the best Guitar Hero game yet. This game includes 74 songs total 
 on the ps3 and the xbox 360 and the package you buy includes a new wireless guitar. Lets start 
 with the guitar, the guitar is detachable so it is much easier traveling with it. The guitar is 
 still customizable, meaning that you can buy the stickers separateley. Now about the game, it is 
 simply a great game and does live to its potential. The game has the best track list in the series 
 of the previous ones, and offers the songs that are really rare to find from the 1960s and 70s, 
 and it also offers over 50 songs that everyone has already heard of... The game has decent graphics 
 but that does'nt matter, you don't need amazing graphics to play this game, it's just all about 
 building your skill untill you master expert and the Dragon Force song, "Through the fire and flames", 
 which is extremely insane. The game has a great value and you will not get bored for a very long 
 time. This new Guitar hero game has a new thing added from that the previous ones did not have. 
 "That thing" is the online play. It is what we were all waiting for, you can challenge people across 
 the world and show off your skills to make it to the hiscores on Guitar Hero's official website. 
 The game like the previous one has multiplayer and cooperative mode, where you can challenge your 
 local friends. There are boss battles in this game, and you get to guitar battle against The guitar 
 legends such as Slash from Guns N' Roses. So overall this is another great Guitar Hero game that 
 will have you sit down and play non stop.
  
  So the game is rated by the following:
  
  Graphics: 7 / 10 - Again, decent graphics not does not come nearly as what ps3 is capable of.
 
  Sound: 10 / 10 - Best recorded music that sounds great and has been edited nicely.
  Value: 9.5 / 10 - Superb value that will have you playing for hundreds of hours and never gets 
 old.
  Gameplay: 10 / 10 - Gameplay is amazing as well as all the other Guitar hero games.
  
  Overall: 9.2 / 10 - Superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getchahellyeah
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, song list is amazing. Metallica, Slayer, Rage Against the Machine, and others rock 
 my world. The guitar battles add a new twist to the game that makes me have to hide my hot dog. 
 Tom Morello is one of my favorite guitarists so when I beat him it was just a great feeling knowing 
 I'm a better guitarist then him. Even though I got pretty good at Guitar Hero 2 and Guitar Hero 
 80s, they still managed to make this harder than any other guitar hero game. The downloadable content 
 is great even though I don't feel like wasting money on extra songs. That is why I love the free 
 downloads that show up on occasion. I also love the skins you can buy for your guitars to make 
 them look better than your friend's guitars. It is addictive and very sexy. When I say sexy, I 
 mean Casey Lynch is the sexiest animated girl ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  GUITAR HERO 3 LEGENDS of ROCK for the PS3 the GOOD its got a new WIRELESS Guitar over 70 rockin 
 Tracks Including ( Slow ride Bulls on parade and WELCOME TO THE JUNGLE and its got Paint it BLACK 
 ) GUITAR HERO 3 LEGENDS of ROCK features Face off against guitar icons Slash and Tom Morello in 
 insane boss battles and rock out online or party offline Defeat opponents to achieve legendary 
 status in head-to-head competition and CO-OP to its so cool GUITAR HERO 3 LEGENDS of ROCK features 
 the biggest and loudest songs ever
  compiled in a game!! amazing experience and great game modes
  the CO-OP is so good and all the 
 songs r great and the controls r great
  the BAD the STORY is ok
  OVERALL the game is worth the money and its a great game and its got 70 songs all good songs
 
  ( the songs... ROCK and ROLL all nite SABOTAGE and Suck my kiss ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  guitar hero is like the koolest guitar hero game out there i remenber playing the first game and 
 the second ones in the first game i hated the music in it it was like all oldies and it was all 
 easy the second one had more better songs but it was still easy and this game it had the best music 
 like heavy metal and the easy was like median and median was like hard adn hard was like expert 
 adn expert was like really really really really expert the guitar was a lot better it look a lot 
 kooller and the graphexs were a lot kooller the charatersw were a lot kooler and they looked a 
 lot better better better better better better better better better better better better than the 
 other ones ones ones ones ones ones ones ones and the new one coming out it look really really 
 really really really kool but not ash good ash this one............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokery666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing all the Guitar Hero games for a while now. I will sadly say, this is not the 
 best one. Obviously the soundtrack is the best, but it's way too difficult to be called Guitar 
 Hero. With GH2 three button chords and faster solos is something seen ahead because of improved 
 hammer-ons. This is just ridiculous, I am a huge fan of the series but I don't feel it with this 
 one. Some songs on here just weren't cut out for Guitar Hero. While I know by experiance the Expert 
 career can be beaten, it's just too difficult to be fun. At least for the last 2-3 tiers of songs. 
 Raining Blood is a good example of songs that aren't meant for Guitar Hero. Online is fun, so is 
 multiplayer. The new features aren't terrible, but they don't work out too great. Mainly battle 
 mode is a not so great mode, it's interesting but over too quickly sometimes. Overall, it's not 
 a terrible game, just an okay Guitar Hero game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webswinger-93
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III Review:
  
  The Guitar Hero franchise has been around for a while but the previous games has not created much 
 of a buzz. The prequel GH2 got the franchise a little more attention and now people all over the 
 world on a variety of systems are playing GH3. 
  
  Some people may have heard that GH3 is too hard and therefore not an appealing game for beginners. 
 This is not true.
  The easy and medium difficulty does not take long to get used to. I had only played GH3 at my friend's 
 house a couple of times before I got it for myself. After playing a few songs on medium I could 
 play them without problems and mostly get more then 80% of the notes.
  
  GH3 features alot of good songs which you unlock by completing them in the career mode. When starting 
 a career you create a band and choose one of the existing characters (you can by new outfits and 
 guitars for them) . This was a part where I was a little disappointed that you couldn't create and 
 customize your own character. After completing songs in career mode, they become available in the 
 quickplay mode where you can write highscores. I was also a little disappointed that there aren't 
 many downloadable songs because the songs that are included on the disc will eventually become 
 quite worn out and "heard before" if you know what I mean. 
  The career mode is divided into parts where you play a few songs and then move on to the next part. 
 From time to time you'll stumble across a boss battle. In these battles you have to gain "attacks" 
 by getting note streaks and then attacking your opponent with them. This certainly is a fun feature 
 and you can do this in the multiplayer mode and battle your friends. There are two other game modes 
 too which aren't that interesting. All game modes can be played via an ethernet cable. 
  After every career part there are cutscenes which pushes the story of your band trying to rise 
 to the top. The story isn't as deep as some games out there but you don't really care about that 
 when playing because it's sincerely fun. 
  
  The guitar that you're using is wireless and easy to put together. You'll get some stickers in 
 the box which you can put on the guitar if you want to. A strap is included and you can put it 
 on the guitar and I recommend it. It is hard to play without it unless you're sitting down. 
  
  Overall:
  Even though GH3 lacks some parts it is still a very enjoyable ride. There is alot 
 of replayability since it's highly addictive to see yourself getting better and better. And write 
 higher scores on your favourite songs as you go along.
  After a while the easy and medium difficulties become nothing but a piece of cake and you'll move 
 on to the hard and expert modes.
  I recommend Guitar Hero III for both beginners and Veterans of the franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faToe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  With the arrival of the latest installment in the "Guitar Hero" series, there is no reason for 
 any party to be dull ever again.
  
  The ultimate activity during any house party, "Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock" now adds online 
 play, new songs and new in-game characters, like legendary guitarist Slash, to the stellar game-play 
 that has made the franchise so wildly successful.
  
  By providing gamers with as authentic of an insanely addictive rock star experience as possible, 
 Activision's newest addition to the outstanding series is sure to please people of all ages.
  
  The new palette of music boasts an array of songs dating back to "La Grange" by ZZ Top, but 
 also represents contemporary rock with songs like "Helicopter" by Bloc Party.
  
  Battle Mode is a new feature that adds fuel to the fiery two-player competitions likely to ensue 
 now that players are able to attack their opponents and make them miss notes.
  
  When they're not battling each other, however, players can embark on a new co-op mode that allows 
 two people to complete career mode together by taking on a mixture of real-life guitarists as well 
 as fictional ones.
  
  A new wireless guitar comes with the Guitar Hero III bundle, which offers more responsive buttons 
 in addition to the comfort in knowing that it won't come unplugged.
  
  Aside from a few minor tweaks, the game-play gives people exactly what they want, staying true 
 to the formula that has helped the series sell more than 5.9 million copies, according to NPD Group 
 Inc.
  
  Visually, everything has been updated and given a smoother look, adding detail to the rockers, 
 the audience and the atmosphere within the game.
  
  Whether having some friends over or just rolling solo keeping your rock star dreams alive, "Guitar 
 Hero III" is definitely the game to keep you busy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  i have all ways been a fan of guitar hero and when i heard 3 was coming out i was over the moon 
 i got it for PlayStation 3 and love it. the online the songs and the boss battles are so addictive 
 i have still been playing it, some of the songs include:
  KISS: i wanna rock and roll
  queens of the stoneage: 3's and 7's
  AFI: miss murder
  Tenacious d: the metal
  and of course 
 the infomis
  dragon force: through the fire and flames
  with many more to download off PlayStation network
  
  taking all that into account and the 
 fact there is a nice guitar with removable neck and faceplate to customize there is hours and hours 
 of guitar legend shredding I give it 9.0 superbe and is still one of the best PlayStation 3 games 
 in my opinion, all those that own a PlayStation 3 i suggest this game for a go it is right for 
 anyone that liked the first or second game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcastino
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero has always been a favorite party game of mine as it incorporates the fun party game 
 element with rocking out.
  
  This installment is however much more difficult and whist still alot of fun can be very frustrating 
 when getting upto the higher difficulties. This game has some good track and some fun tracks, then 
 there are the mundane ones but the game mixes it up abit and all in all is quite a strong title 
 in the franchise. The wireless controllers adds to the party aspect as one can perform much more 
 entertaining fall-out boy moves without tripping over the cord into a plate of nachos
  
  Summing up, if you are a fan of the game it is a definite purchase as it builds on wat the previous 
 game lacked.... online capabilities. Shame they made izzy sparks go from being an awesome rock god 
 to a rock ponce in his peacock outfit but that still doesnt mean i dont use him. There is sumthing 
 for both beginners and pros in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the fourth game in the series. If you are not into the series, this will change 
 your mind. Guitar Hero III is an enjoyable game that won't fail to dissapoint even the latest of 
 the Guitar Hero fans out there.
  
  
  Game-play: 10/10
  
  Guitar Hero III is much faster, stronger, and better with its game-play then Guitar Hero II. The 
 game is incredibly amazing and highly addictive.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Heck, yes. The graphics are awesomely beautiful. They add a lot of pretty visuals and the guitars 
 on screen look very realistic.
  
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Great music!!! The music is very, very, very amazing!!! The audio is also good, with no flaws what-so-ever.
 
  
  
  Camera and Control: 10/10
  
  
  There's no doubt that the camera and control in GHIII is amazing and awesome. It's unstoppable 
 on the PS3.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  If there's a reason you don't like GHIII, just buy in anyway, it's the best music game ever!!!
 
  
  Average Score: 10/10
  
  Guitar Hero III is second to none, it's the most amazing, beautiful, incredible, best, awesome 
 music game and the best Guitar Hero game yet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  A rhythm game with countless songs to play. Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is a good game to say 
 the least. The same songs that you may like listening to, may be even better when your playing 
 this game. It does a really good job in making you feel like your taking part in the music.
  
  I have never owned, much less played a GH game in my life. But i usually have one rhythm based 
 game for each console i own. GH3 is definitely the best. I cant say much about GH, but i can say 
 i have had it since Christmas '07 and i play it pretty often.
  
  The only fault i have with the game, specifically the company itself, is the lack of DLC. The download 
 content is barely noticeable, especially compared to the game Rock Band. Hopefully, Activision 
 gets in gear SOON and releases something good.
  
  Other than that though, this is a great game filled with great songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  I'm getting tired of starting reviews with the words "I've never played a Call Of Duty game before" 
 or "I'm new to the Ratchet and Clank series...".
  
  But again, it's true. I've never played a Guitar Hero game before, which I find quite embarassing 
 to admit, but hey, I just have.
  
  So, if you're looking for a comparison of this and the previous versions, or anything like that, 
 then go elsewhere!
  
  I do however, like Rock music, and that's what this basically is. It's pushing buttons, and moving 
 a lever, in time to music. Doesn't really sound much fun does it?
  
  Wrong. Cos it is. You not only feel like you're really playing a guitar, but also that you are 
 playing on stage, in front of a lot of people. There's just a little bit of magic gone into this 
 game, that really makes it fun!
  
  Obviously, on such a tense, fast paced and musical game, graphics are not an issue, and neither 
 is frame rate. This said, they are both very up to scratch, and just add to the fun of the game.
 
  
  The soundtrack is excellent. It spans about 50 years of great music, and has some absolute gems 
 on there! You'll be entertained just looking at the track list.
  
  And it won't even be hard to look at the track list. You expect that a game with a guitar as the 
 controller wouldn't work especially well in menus, but the simple menus make it easy, and almost 
 fun to explore the menus. I know, that seems strange, but they are.
  
  The only thing I would wish for in this game, is a little bit more of a storyline, as there really 
 is nothing to it. It doesn't matter too much, however, as it adds to the feel of the game.
  
  This really is a gem of a game, and I would suggest it to anyone: Rock enthusiasts, people 
 who like party games, those who like simple games, and those who like games with depth. This game 
 is for virtually anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flam3Thr0w3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends Of Rock is the first Guitar Hero game for the Playstation 3, and in most 
 areas, it lives up to the expectations. But in some, it doesn't.
  In Guitar Hero 3, there are over 70 tracks and in my opinion, this is the best tracklist out of 
 all of the Guitar Hero games. Songs like Guns 'n' Roses - Welcome To The Jungle, and Metallica 
 - One, really are great fun to play.
  The game comes with the new Les Paul Wireless Controller. I think the controller is brilliant and 
 there is no lag at all. Although, it's kind of annoying that you have to use the included USB Dongle. 
 Everytime I want to play I seem to never be able to find it! I don't understand why they didn't 
 just use the Bluetooth! 
  The game itself, hasn't changed much since Guitar Hero 2, but seeing as GH2 was the best party 
 game out at the time, that isn't really a bad thing. Although I would have liked to have seen some 
 more new features. 
  Talking about new features though, there is now online play.
  Now I seem to be having quite a lot of problems with the online! I just can't seem to get into 
 most games! If I try 5, I'll only get into one of them. I don't think it's my NAT, as it's 2. But 
 when I do get into the online games, it's really fun and you feel brilliant when you beat a stranger.
 
  There is also a great practice mode, where you can slow down songs so you can hit those hard solo's!
 
  In conclusion, Guitar Hero 3 is the best party game on the PS3, Singstar coming in at close second, 
 but the lack of new features and not much reason to go back to the single player after you have 
 completed it, does make it questionable whether it's worth the 70 price tag.
  But the excellent tracklist, awesome Les Paul Wireless Controller, and just the fact that it's 
 Guitar Hero, and it's still awesome fun, only just justify the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero II was my first Guitar Hero, and it was loads of fun, so as you can guess I was looking 
 forward to this new addition to the series. I was worried at first about the change in developer 
 and publisher, but I'm glad to be able to say that the game was not harmed in the transition, and 
 turned out pretty good.
  
  The graphics, while still not groundbreaking, are a giant leap ahead of Guitar Hero II. The physics 
 engine, now powered by Havok, is great. Now the characters hair, or clothing additions like chains 
 sway in the wind, responding to the rocker's movements. The light shows and smoke effects are more 
 epic and awe inspiring than before, too bad you'll be paying too much attention to the notes to 
 truly appreciate it most of the time. All of the characters, guitars, concert venues, and even 
 the crowds, have received a fresh coat of paint and look a bit better. What truly makes everything 
 look better is the increased lighting/particle effects and highly increased amounts of detail put 
 into everything. Its essentially as great looking as it would ever need to be.
  
  The soundtrack has in some ways gotten better, and in others ways gotten worse. What I mean by 
 this is that the song list has become much more main stream. While this can be good in the case 
 of the welcome additions of Guns and Roses, ZZ Top, Tenacious D, Santana, Cream, and Muse, it is 
 rather disappointing in terms of lesser known groups. In fact the only lesser known song I truly 
 enjoyed this time around is Through The Fire and Flames by Dragonforce. I really wish they had 
 another Dethklok song this time around as well, Murmaider would have been an awesome addition. 
 So while the song list is less creative this time around, its still great, and better than Rock 
 Band's in my opinion, although some DLC could easily change this.
  
  The game-play remains essentially the same with some minor tweaks. The first one that comes to 
 mind is battle mode, in which star power is switched out for power ups that make your opponent 
 fail, this is fun and different at first, but it gets old fast. You use this feature in every boss 
 fight and in multi-player if you want. It makes multi-player more competitive, but I prefer to 
 try and make the song sound good rather than make someone else suck at it, but I guess its a nice 
 feature to have. There's unlock-able guitars, songs, and characters again. I didn't find many unlock-able 
 songs that I wanted, but I got them all anyway. The guitars you can unlock are much more imaginative 
 and unique this time around, but the Axe deodorant guitars are just shameful. There's some new 
 unlock-able characters like Slash, and some original characters were taken out, but my personal 
 favorite Grim Ripper is still here in all his glory. The difficulty has stayed the same, but the 
 song choice is much for difficult, anyone who has attempted Raining Blood or Through The Fire and 
 Flames on Hard or Expert can confirm this. I really like the drums idea that Rock Band has brought 
 to the table, and wish Guitar Hero had done the same. Basically, the game-play is rock solid, I 
 just wish the developers did more with it.
  
  It really is a great game and if you're a Guitar Hero or music fan then you'll probably love this. 
 Despite my small issues with the game I still had a lot of enjoyment with it, and still do from 
 time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah Guitar Hero, much like Singstar, it has accomplished so much in the drunk parties arena. The 
 latest instalment offers the same excellent gameplay with a few clever little additions and harder 
 modes that would make even Slash's god-like fingers turn to dust.
  
  As with the old Guitar Hero games, there are multiple difficulties and it is HIGHLY recomended 
 to start on either easy or medium. One of the major differences between Guitar Hero III and Guitar 
 Hero II is that the new Guitar Hero's hard and expert difficulties are more likened to expert and 
 just plain impossible. Finger cramping and arm numbing pain aside, hard does prove to be a good 
 challenge once you have managed to master easy and medium.
  
  In terms of gameplay, everything has remained the same EXCEPT for the cool little addition of guitar 
 battles. Instead of earning star power, which is sort of like a bonus points multiplier, you get 
 cool powerups that you use on the other player to make them lose. Not so much fun in singleplayer, 
 but add a few shouting people and copius amounts of alcohol and you have an instant hit!
  
  The soundtrack in this newest version is still great, offering something for just about all likes 
 (and dislikes) . There's also a ton of songs to unlock and buy from the shop as well as online packs 
 that you can buy off the PlayStation Network.
  
  All in all, the game sounds good and looks even better, with only a few distorted clipping issues 
 coming through. It looks fantastic in HD, but alas, can only go up to 720p.
  
  Apart from the insane difficulties of the harder levels and the restricted res and odd glitch in 
 the graphics, this game is miles of fun to play, single player and multiplayer with plenty of replay 
 value and an awsome wireless guitar to go with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scott_Hume
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  It begins with the New Guitar. Larger and heavier than before, it feels more realistic in the hands, 
 while the new strum bar makes fast notes easier than ever. The fact that it's wireless doesn't 
 hurt either. As with any new peripheral -especially one that makes minor changes to something you've 
 used for years- there's a noticeable period of adjustment. But after a few hours tearing through 
 career mode you'll never look back.
  
  Actually, 'tearing' through career mode might not be the right word. Guitar Hero 3 is considerably 
 tougher than its predecessors. Veterans will most likely dive straight into hard mode soon to discover 
 it's trickier than it seems. The opening few sets are comfortable enough, with a handful of great 
 encores and some tremendously well-selected tunes, but when you get down to the later tracks, the 
 heavier, the dirtier and more dangerous tunes, some may struggle. Certainly, Slayer's Raining Blood 
 and Metallica's One contain Solos so tough your fingers, new muscles will have to develop to keep 
 up.
  
  Nevertheless, career mode is tough, but necessary in order to unlock all the songs. It's the new 
 boss battles that could have you throwing your guitars through TV screens. The fast fingers and 
 clever use of power ups will make your day. Watch out, the shaggy haired rock god will throw lefty 
 flips and double notes at you...
  
  This is a game about expression and creativity, not repeated play and frustration. The battles 
 are the first tarnish on Guitar Heroe's impeccable record. Don't feel too disillusioned though, 
 Guitar Hero III is a Superb videogame mixing modern indi rock with heavy metal classics, passing 
 blues and Latino lounge rock on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The first GH3 i have ever played turns out to be one heck of a great game. Its puzzle technique 
 really makes it one of the most unique games ever. It also has a great selection of songs and great 
 graphics. Though it can take some getting used to at first, because of the new difficulty of it. 
 Even experienced people will find some trouble. But then again, a lot of the best things in gaming 
 life are hard to master. Of course, i am just a medium guy and am starting hard. Online play is 
 fun and battles are cool too, so i really enjoyed this game. But one pain i sometimes suffer in 
 the game is the fact that new comers will soon experience arm pains due to the new gaming experience. 
 But you will get used to it and the pains will go away. Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is just plain fun 
 and is for anyone who enjoys a unique experience and absolute rockage. Get it, and rock all night. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverarrow1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero...
  
  Well, a lot has been said about this fourth installment (yes, fourth, guitar hero: rocks the 80s 
 was the third) . For a start, the battle mode has been picked at like its a personal insult to the 
 gaming public. They always say that the first one to get a powerup loses.
  This is a lie.
  Ive played it with friends and family of roughly the same skill level, and as long as you're any 
 good at the game you wont fail straight away. Battle mode is awesome! honestly, guitar dueling 
 is incredible fun, assuming you have a friend to play with. And even if you dont, you can battle 
 others online. Its a great system.
  The co-op system is, as far as I can tell, flawless. I completed the whole career in one go, non-stop, 
 with my best mate, alternating between guitar and base/rhythm. Rocking out with a mate is sooooo 
 much fun! waaay better than single player, its a worthy addition to the ledgend that is guitar 
 hero. And the extra songs you unlock are some of the best in the game, Red Hot Chili Pepper's 'Suck 
 My Kiss', Bloc Party's 'Helicopter' and the final song, Matchbook Romances 'Monsters' are all simply 
 awesome, incredibly entertaining to play.
  
  As well as this, the playlist has been offed by some as the worst, and loved by others. I love 
 it. Really, its the best yet, some real anthems.
  I wont list any, check them out yourself, theres a list on wikipedia.
  Frankly though, its all 
 a matter of personal opinion. Dont listen to anyone who slags it off, find out for yourself.
  
  All in all, its a fabulously entertaining game, incredibly addictive and with difficulty modes 
 catering for all skill levels.
  
  But more than that, it makes you feel like a true guitar hero, a feeling you can get from no other 
 game.
  
  It rocks.
  End of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3: legends of rock is surprisingly not being too overshadowed by Rock Band. but it 
 shouldn't since it is the third game in a series that has not dissappointed on any level. 
  
  Gameplay- As you probably know, you play this game by stumming and pressing the right fret 
 buttons at the same time as they appear on screen. There are four different difficulty levels for 
 this so you can be a complete noob at this and still pass a song, or continually try your skills 
 by doing expert on the later songs. this concept of a game might sound like its boring but it really 
 is a lot of fun. You will keep playing more and more songs because it is so addicting. There is 
 a campaign mode which you can play on all 4 difficulties and progress through different venues 
 and songs. it is really fun, especially the first time, to go through it and discover all the songs. 
 It will keep you playing and trying your skill. There also is a free play and multiplayer. those 
 are very fun, but its a shame because to get a second guitar, at the moment, you have to buy another 
 copy of the game. there is also online, but i've had quite a few connection problems. The newest 
 mode to the series is the guitar battle. there are only 2 of them but they are extremely fun and 
 get you very into the game. It's just a really fun game.
  
  Graphics- For a PS3 game, they are very bland, but they do the job. After all, the game is not 
 going for graphics, but gameplay
  
  Sound- A lot of the songs in this game are the original versions, although some are covered. the 
 covers sound very good though, as long as your not expecting a voice that is the exact same. I 
 really have no complaints with the sound except there are some balance issues between the band 
 and the crowd, but those levels can be adjusted. its actually cool to listen to the songs without 
 the guitar though.
  
  Value- the game is 100$ but there are over 70 songs and multiple modes. I might recomend a buy 
 if you really like this music genre. Its a lot of fun.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is the best game I have ever played that requires very fast fingers and a very sharp 
 mind. I think that its great when friends come over. This game has a lot of good game modes that 
 are amazing. I think that its awesome that you can download we three kings from the play staytion 
 shop and you can just play it. This game is very hard if you want to do it on expert which is very 
 suitable to me. I experience no problems at all during the game. However in game advertising is 
 a VERY BIG PROBLEM. Because of this I will probably never buy a guitar hero game again because 
 thats how mad I am. They really ruined a great game by putting in all those ads. I bet that im 
 not the only one that is mad about this too. Game makers should make sure that they dont put ads 
 in their games because thats a very big turn off for me. Besides there are so many other great 
 games out there like Rock Band which its the same thing as guitar hero but its much better with 
 no ads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrArmageddon54
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Alright the song list is probably the best I have seen yet, but if you are like me you want something 
 different. Yes they add that whole rock legends thing where you go against Slash and Tom Morello, but 
 still there needs to be something else. If you have played DDR its like that just with you fingers 
 soon enough they are going to do what DDR is and come out with things like GH Heavy Metal Mix, GH 
 Acoustic (yeah i know dumb) . Is it worth the money to me no unless this is your first time playing 
 it. If it is your first time you will love it. The online play is pretty fun, and you do get to download 
 new songs but you do have to pay for them which is expected, but when I bought I didn't know that, but 
 it wasn't a big deal to me. The game can take up a good amount of time if you are trying to beat 
 it on all levels. In the end to me I felt wanting more I played online beat it on expert (not to 
 well though) did what I could and I felt like I wasted $100. Now I'm going to keep the guitar and 
 just buy the game when it comes out next time so I don't have to blow an extra $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is the bets guitar game in 2008 it whips Rock Bands arse and the song selection is 
 great like that Falll of Troy song I don't wanna see the day to Rise Against prayer of the Refugee. 
 The best song on it is the devil went to georgia. the boss battle sucks a little but i love normal 
 battle. It has a wirless guitar now im not stuck to the ps3 and so i can do tricks good. I love 
 the game graphics is good and is perfect for any game. obvious sound is great. This is my first 
 10/10 this game is awsome stuff Halo 3 go for the best guitar hero which rocks hard all night. 
 This is cool and officer i swear the xbox 360 and halo 3 jumped put the window two stories. Well 
 not all of the language is clean on the game so if you don't like course language who cares. This 
 game roxs and that's all.
  Gameplay 10/10 it rocks
  sound: 10/10 obvouis
  graphics 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has always been a fatastic game. Fact. This has perhaps been down to the fact it had 
 a great developer who knew what they wanted to do with the series and how to evolve it into the 
 beast it is today. So, when I 
  heard Harmonix, the developer of GH and GH2, had left the franchise to develop Rock band instead 
 I felt a little bit disappointed, understandably. Even worse, it was left in the hands of Tony 
 Hawk studio Neversoft. Here was me thinking it was truly the end of Guitar Hero.
  
  Again I thought wrong. GH3 is arguably the best game in the series so far, especially following 
 the drivle GH: Rocks the 80's. It has the greatest song list that game has ever seen spanning over 
 4 decades worth of rock and 70+ songs. It is colossal. On top of that you also have your downloadable 
 content and it is possibly one of the greatest packages ever. Tuneful highlights include Rock like 
 a Hurricane, School's Out and When We Were Young amongst the shed full of classics. My only question 
 is why the hell Ruby is on there?!
  
  It plays exactly like previous games, notes stream along the bottom and you press the buttons and 
 strum accordingly, tilt for star power etc. The interface has a bit of a work done to it, with 
 star power being collected in snazzy little light bulbs at the side on your Rock Metre. stadium 
 atmosphere is awsum but i can't help get the feeling the crowd is a bit samey - the same pixelated 
 bloke 100 times over and the drummer is like watching C3PO trying to play. Apart from those minor 
 issues, Umlaut, Slash and co. rock big style with their freakish looking lead singer.
  
  Co-op play is as good as ever with a career mode, face off and battle, but doubt you'll have a 
 second PS3 guitar controller yet as they aren't sold singularly which is a kick in the nuts. 
 
  
  Battle is worth a mention as it works but doesn't. Sometimes it can be quite fun, other time just 
 plain WTF. It does feel really tacked on in many respects but GH4 could see it return and streamlined. 
 Boss battle revolve around this Battle Mode and it's all a bit rock paper scissors and winning 
 all depends on what power-ups you earn whilst playing to throw over and annoy the boss. Some power-ups 
 are pap some aren't too bad. Most pap.
  
  The big question is "How does the new guitar feel?" It is a lot better than the original GH controller 
 and the Rock Band controller for that matter. It's a bit weightier which is good and it feels a 
 lot more robust and durable. Buttons don't make so much of an irritating clicking noise but the 
 strum does which isn't a problem at all. Whammy Bar has been improved big time, it will no longer 
 go floppy after 2 plays whcih is always a plus.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 sees the franchise reaching an all new strong point, a great song list accompnied 
 but great options and downloadable content and the new guitar is truly excellent. My only other 
 complaint is the UK price, 75?? I've seen the 360 version for 60 so why does PS3 lose out... again? 
 Apart from that, this is the best Guitar Hero yet, I just don't know how GH4 will really improve 
 on this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  With a guy like Slash on the cover, it must be good right? Heh, say what you will about the guy, 
 half the people like him, the other half don't. I don't suppose you could guess which camp I fall 
 into. But joking aside, does the next iteration of Guitar Hero live up to all the hype? Well that 
 is the question. It is Guitar Hero, as you remember it, with a plethora of songs to be shredded 
 on the new Wireless Les Paul. A few new additions attempt to bring the growing staleness of the 
 title to new heights, but with the sale of the series to Neversoft, you really notice where the 
 game falls short, and that is in quite a few places.
  
  First lets discuss the newness. This incorporates an all-new set list boasting 71 songs, 40 of 
 which appear as the game's core gameplay in career mode. Alternately there are 6 songs exclusive 
 to the two player co-op career mode, which is great, if you know someone who has a guitar and is 
 willing to come over and spend some hours blazing through it. Unfortunately for those who don't 
 have that friend are left high and dry short of cheating to get those songs. Another factor to 
 consider is the fact that the guitar isn't even offered by itself, so even if you did want to jam 
 with you significant other, you are SOL unless you enjoy having two copies of the game lying around. 
 Then there are the songs themselves. Along with a terrible cover of Paranoid the tracks leave something 
 to be desired. Aside from the 20+ bonus tracks from not very well known bands, the core songs really 
 aren't that great. I would venture a guess to about 15 or 20 that you might really want to play, 
 with the rest being fluff. There is more then one time when you say, "Will this annoying song ever 
 end?!?" I am sure that there is a good base of people who would enjoy more then that but as for 
 the entire group of us, I doubt it.
  
  The co-op exclusiveness isn't the only big flaw in planning. The biggest new addition, whether 
 you love it or hate it, and there is no gray area there, is the boss battles. Neversoft has created 
 this new system of guitar battling which uses, of all things, power-ups to defeat your opponent. 
 You face off against Tom Morello from the late band Rage Against the Machines, and Slash from the 
 late Guns' n' Roses. Along with another devilish opponent, you and your foe go toe to toe in a 
 custom song all the while trying to screw them over to the point of failure. If you don't succeed, 
 your opponent automatically wins a draw. Now aside from the completely broken balance of this system, 
 i. e. someone strikes first and the other is stuck trying to recover the entire time, this mode 
 really just isn't any fun. If you were ever excited about it when it was announced, you will be 
 disappointed. The idea, is sort of neat, but the implementation is completely lacking and gives 
 it more of a tacked on after thought feel. 
  
  Along with the boss battle system, Sony fans get something else new to the series, multiplayer 
 action. Now you can jam with, or against, people from all over. Just another way for people to 
 find out that there is always someone out there who is better then they are at the game. But seriously, 
 the online is solid and surprisingly enough has really good reliability. You don't have to worry 
 about lag, which is key in rhythm games and the gameplay is really smooth. You can play battle, 
 co-op, or face off, all of which work seamlessly. 
  
  With all the talk and praise of the new Les Paul controller, really the actual peripheral comes 
 up quite short. Aside from the basic Guitar Hero feature, the only real differences are, you can 
 remove the neck, you can change the faceplate, and its wireless. Now wireless isn't something to 
 laugh at, everyone loves wireless guitar rocking, but the number of times that this overly glorified 
 feature have been mentioned during production really takes away from who great it really is to 
 be able to rock from your couch or what have you. The absolute worst part of the controller is 
 the complete lack of backwards compatibility. Therefore, gamers, myself included, who own a backwards 
 compatible PS3 will not be able to play the older Guitar Hero games with this controller. This 
 to me seems like a real missed opportunity for a little extra revenue that Neversoft is so greedy 
 for. Removing the neck is convenient for storage purposes but again, not a real winner of a feature. 
 Changing of the faceplate is sort of lame in reality. Sony has offered skins for both their PSP 
 and the PS2 but no one really uses that to the point where it's a great feature. If anything else, 
 this is just another cheap way for Neversoft to squeeze more pennies out of your wallet. 
  
  All in all, you feel a lot of cheapness from this game. Certainly not from the price tag, but 
 you definitely feel it in the overall experience. Along with shameless plugs for Axe Body Spray 
 and other products, the whole presentation feels a little cheap, especially for a "current gen" 
 game. The graphics are not as played up as they should be. The sound is a bit quirky and will cut 
 out on you at times. Really the number of songs should be higher as well. With a Blue Ray disc, 
 you have so much room for storage and there hasn't been a game yet, this one included, that really 
 gives you that sense that you get all the bang for your buck. With lofty ambitions set by the user 
 base, Guitar Hero III really falls short and with their obvious money centric presentation, this 
 title really isn't all its cracked up to be. If you are looking for the same old Guitar Hero experience 
 however, then look no further, because flawed though the game may be, it is the same Guitar Hero 
 style that you know and love and even though it doesn't pull its weight to bring it to the big 
 rankings, it does get the 6 out of 10 rating from me which puts it at the solid level of a "Fun" 
 playing experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  When the original Guitar Hero came out, it seemed like a very innovative and interesting idea, 
 and it proved to be so. Guitar Hero 2 was basically more of the same, but with an entirely new 
 tracklist. While it was a fun idea for a while, it seems to be getting a bit repetitive, as Guitar 
 Hero 3 really doesn't do a whole lot to make a great change to the series.
  
  As you more than likely already know, Guitar Hero is a simple game that consists of hitting certain 
 notes on the fretboard while simultaneously strumming the strum bar. Depending on how well one 
 performs in the game, a certain number of stars (ranging from one to five) is given to the player 
 as a sign of how well he or she did. From hitting these notes without any mistakes, you achieve 
 multipliers that grant you bonus points for each note hit, but when you make a mistake, the multiplier 
 is reset. There is a certain meter that is shown at the right-hand corner of the screen, and this 
 meter decreases as you hit less notes. If the meter goes all the way down, then you fail the song 
 and are given the option to retry it. A certain ability called "star-power" becomes available when 
 you hit a certain number of "starred" notes, this star power doubles your multiplier, which is 
 very useful for adding points to your score. While simple, this gameplay style has proven to be 
 unique for several years (hence the release of "Rock Band") and has kept many non-guitar players 
 and guitarists alike entertained, but it seems to be getting a bit stale.
  
  If you've never played Guitar Hero in general, the gameplay may feel fresh and can be worth a shot, 
 but Guitar Hero 3 has its reasons why it's not quite as friendly to newcomers. One notable thing 
 about Guitar Hero 3 is that it is much more difficult than the other two. This idea was implemented 
 because more experienced-players were looking for more of a challenge. This is partially a good 
 thing, as it keeps more familiar players the satisfaction of a challenging song. However, this 
 may seem to vastly effect new players. Fortunately, it is impossible to fail "easy" mode in the 
 Career mode, which assures that one way or another, the player will be victorious upon completion 
 of any song in the "easy" difficulty. 
  
  The wireless fretboard that comes packaged with Guitar Hero 3 for the Playstation 3 is anything 
 but impressive. It doesn't feel quite as cheaply made as the previous two, but the buttons are 
 still as clanky as always, making it sometimes difficult to hear the music if the volume isn't 
 turned up loudly. No cords can be a good thing for a player that is wishing to play far away from 
 their TV, but the wireless receiver doesn't seem to always detect "star-power" signals properly, 
 and the select button is a bit of a nuisance to reach. The guitar resembles a real Les-Paul Guitar 
 decently, and there are several stickers packaged with it in case you want to make it a bit more 
 fashionable. The use of 2AA batteries can be a bit annoying periods of long game-sessions, but 
 they seem to last a good while. Overall, the guitar has a decent design, but it could've done a 
 better job considering the many noticable flaws it has.
  
  The tracklisting for Guitar Hero 3 is admittably better than the second one. However, this can 
 all vary depending on your music tastes. The career mode starts off with a few classic rock songs, 
 then eventually trails into some of the heavier more modern tracks. Fortunately, Guitar Hero 3 
 can have the ability to make you appreciate songs a bit more than you previously had, but it can 
 also make you hate them too, depending on how well you perform. Like a real guitar, GH3 takes a 
 lot of practice to get good at, and the heavier tracks will usually take a bit more of practice 
 than the older ones.
  
  For those of you not familar with the store available in Guitar Hero 3, it is a option available 
 for a player to select in order to purchase new items. These can include song tracks (bonus songs) , 
 clothes, characters, and more. These can spice up your gameplay a bit and make it a bit more entertaining 
 if the stage seems rather bland. For those of you with a few extra bucks on hand, downloadable 
 songs are also available from Sony's "Playstation Store."
  
  Visually, Guitar Hero 3 is commendable. It does a great job with the graphic design, though it 
 has a few framerate slow-downs here and there. The effects of the buttons on the fretboard are 
 admittably simplistic, and it is difficult to admire the graphical display of the characters while 
 concentrating on a song. Between each pack of songs beaten, a cartoonish cutscene is played. These 
 cutscenes can be a bit humorous, though it takes some inferring for the player to do about what 
 is going on, as the characters don't talk. The audio and video can sometimes get out of sync on 
 larger TV's, though a "calibrate lag" option is available for players experiencing this problem.
 
  
  Now for the new additions added to Guitar Hero 3, other than the tracklistings. For every certain 
 number of songs beaten, you will encounter a "boss-battle." These bosses include Slash, Tom Morello 
 (from Rage Against the Machine) and "Lou" (Short for Lucifer as in Satan) . These guitar battles 
 are a nice addition to the game, as they make things a little bit more interesting. These boss-battles 
 do not have the same conditions as regular songs. For every special "power-up" note hit, you recieve 
 an ability enabling you to fling your guitar upward in order to "attack" the boss. This same gameplay 
 style is available in local-multiplayer and online as well.
  
  The multiplayer is quite enjoyable if you're looking for someone else to play with if you don't 
 have a friend or an extra guitar available. The matchmaking as you can imagine doesn't take very 
 long at all. For competetive players, there is an online leaderboard where you can show off your 
 skills (or not) according to how many matches you've won or what percentage you obtained on a certain 
 song difficulty. While this addition is nice, it's not one to consider unless you are willing to 
 spend a long time playing the game.
  
  For one that's never played Guitar Hero before and is interested in trying it out, Guitar Hero 
 3 might be a good choice. The tracklisting is better than before, and the new gameplay additions 
 can be fun. For someone that has played Guitar Hero so much that it seems a bit "out-played," Guitar 
 Hero 3 won't do much other than add a few more tracks and multiplayer capability for you. While 
 it can be admittably a fun game, the gameplay with each addition to the series mostly remains stagnant.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  We Salute You!
  
  So, another installment of Guitar Hero has arrived, but, is it any good? Well, thats the point 
 of a review isn't it, so lets get to it!
  
  First thing you will obviously notice is the new axe, a black Les Paul (or White if you have the 
 Wii version) This guitar is alot nicer than the previous models in my opinion, including the 360s 
 Exploder or GH II.
  
  The guitar feels great to hold and play, and it has a detachable neck for easier storage shoudl 
 you need it.
  
  The gameplay is the same as any other of the Guitar Hero games, stum and hold the correct buttons 
 on the neck in order to play the notes/chords. Simple and very effective.
  
  Tracklist this year is great, alot of old classics in there; Paranoid, Anarchy in the UK, Slow 
 Ride, Sunshine of your love, to name but a few. Of course, you can download new tracks via the 
 Playstation store ahould you want to.
  
  The game difficulty has been raised in this installment I have noticed. Still, if you play enough, 
 you'll soon conquer Through the fire and the flames on Expert.... maybe.... probably not.... lets 
 face it, you'll break your fingers.
  
  Guitar Battles against Tom Morello, Slash and Lou (The Devil) make for a nice break during career 
 mode, but can be a little rustrating at times. However, it never dampens the mood of the game.
 
  
  The game has many man unlockables; characters, songs, videos, guitars, outfits for characters etc. 
 So you can keep coming back until you have them all.
  
  This is a very solid edition, and in my opinion the best in the series. A must have for Guitar 
 Hero and Rock fans the world over!
  
  TURN IT UP TO 11!
  
  --Dave --
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicomendes2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  great fun, very challenging, highly adictive, 
  i took back to game and they swaped the broke guitar for a new one, my first broke after 1 month 
 and would only strum up, and now my second wont connect all the time for some reason, its not batteries, 
 does anyone know why?
  anyway superb soundtrack that wil make u want to download the songs onto your ipod, apart from 
 that really lame radio song, wat was with that, Metallica song is excellent, santana, stone roses, 
 dragonforce is fun on medium but will destroy your arm. The difficulty is very hard once u break 
 into the hard level, because its not very entertaining on easy or medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is back but would it be better than the other guitar hero games. Guitar Hero 3 is a 
 great game with many new features like battle mode which can be very chalenging and fun at the 
 same time. The songs arent as good as the other Guitar Hero games but they are still enjoyable 
 and they finally put Metallica on the trck list another thing is that some of the songs are new 
 so not all the songs are from the 1970's and 1980's. The Carrer mode is still the same u just choose 
 a band name and play the songs there is also Co Op carrer mode where u can play with your friends. 
 The modes are also harder like easy mode is harder than easy mode on the other games and same with 
 all the other differnt difficulty maodes. So if you are ready to rock you should buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I went out and paid eighty dollars for this Gutiar Hero Three. It's pretty cool and all, 
 but it's the same. The classic game play will stay the same I guess. But the songs are fantastic. 
 I like how they put an addition to newly aged music in it. Like The KIllers and AFI it's a good 
 way to spice up the game a bit. Anyways, I always like the coop career mode, which is when you 
 can play two player career with one guitar, its pretty sweet. I also like the online play. You 
 can pretty much play anyone from across the world, it's amazing how far online play has come. I 
 would have to say if you get this game be ready to expect the "same old" stuff from Gutiar Hero 
 enless you choose the online play which I would really reccamend. Anyways, overall this is a very 
 cool game and I think anyone who hasn't played Gutiar Hero should. It's a very addicting game so 
 you might get lost in the game play for a few hours more than you should. 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  First i want to get the things that this game did well out there first. Track list was freaking 
 amazing, graphically looks better then the other two but really does not compare to rock bands 
 visuals. Also what in the name of God is up with the singer in this game looks like a retarded 
 Pac-Man. The difficulty was something i expected but sometimes the button layout for certain songs 
 made no sense and well just felt sloppy to me. In the end i still like GH2 the most and well went 
 to Rock band and have not looked back. If you have a extra 100 bucks knock yourself out ain't bad 
 but Harmonix absent had a an effect on the feel of this game for me i just recommend getting Rock 
 Band 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost if you dont know where this game originated than you need to get hip with what 
 spawned this music game revolution.... Go purchase Frequency and Amplitude for the PS2. Thats where 
 it all started and thats where I discovered the fun in these games.
  
  
  I however never purchased Guitar Hero because of the price range and I also heard from a few people 
 that the earlier guitars had problems. Now fast forward a couple titles later and GH3 and Rock 
 Band are being released and I wanna be on the band wagon with the better title.
  
  
  Christmas rolls around and I receive GH3 and let me tell you the gameplay has pretty much stayed 
 the same since the original music games except instead of a controller you rock that nice shiney 
 black guitar !
  
  
  The graphics arent really an issue here because you dont pay attention to your band or the crowd, 
 just those notes zipping by, but the option to purchase different real life guitar players is pretty 
 cool. The soundtrack is pretty diverse too, which really made this stand out when I played it.
 
  
  
  This is a fun game to play with your friends, and its always funny to see how quick people panic 
 when they start missing notes. I for one dont play online because I know youve practically gotta 
 be an expert.
  
  
  If youre buying this and thinking youre going to learn how to play guitar you are dead wrong, It 
 is nothing like the real thing.... not even close but you can still fake the motions and thats fun 
 for people who dont know how to do the real thing I suppose.
  
  
  If you want a fun experience for you and a friend to enjoy here and there than I say drop the $90 
 its fun..... If youre lookin to gather up a bunch of people and make a fool of yourself as a group 
 (and youve got $170 to drop on a game) go with Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsoxguy12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  i got guitar hero 3 for christmas and out of all my presents, that was the first thing i set up 
 first. the game is awesome after criticism that the series is getting old. almost every song on 
 the list is the real version of it and the songs are great, ive even downloaded some to listen 
 to on my cell phone.
  The game is a little challenging when you try on the hard level, but a little bit of practice can 
 patch that right up. the new battlle mode gives a whole new look on guitar hero. now when you have 
 friends over with 2 guitars, there isnt that one kid who wins every time in profaceoff or faceoff. 
 battle gives an opportunity for both players. and the sudden death is crazy and suspenseful.
  Online play is a great feature in guitar hero. one of the main reasons i did not buy the first 
 two (i just played them at my friends house) was because i thought i might get bored because i dont 
 always have friends over to play with. but now with online play, i always have some multiplayer 
 to play with. theres no lag either, even though finding a game may take a minute, its not much 
 of a hassle.
  The one problem i have is that my guitar came with a broken whammy, the game doesnt register me 
 hitting the whammy at all. i suggest to buy a warranty when you buy the game. it is just the whammy 
 bar though, its not a big deal other than i cant always do battle mode. Overall- this is one awesome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I should start by saying that I absolutely love guitar hero. In general. The concept of video game 
 karaoke going instrumental is something I wasn't all that open to at first, but when I picked up 
 my copy of Guitar Hero II for the XBox360 I was immediately hooked. It helped that there were a 
 fair number of songs that appealed to me, but the gameplay mechanics of it all were just a whole 
 lot of fun.
  
  Fast forward to Guitar Hero III, and the game seems to have lost some of the polish that made the 
 second one so great. You still strum, hammer on and off frets, rock out and rock hard, but the 
 game just doesn't feel as tight this time around. One of the biggest things that stood out in this 
 regard was the star power feature. I found myself avoiding it wherever possible in Guitar Hero 
 III due to the fact that when you trigger it and the audience starts cheering, they frequently 
 don't clap in time with the song. If you're playing the game with the sound muted it wouldn't make 
 a difference, but this is a rhythm game after all and the clapping being out of synch just throws 
 the player off.
  
  It's a real shame too, because the track list in GHIII is outstanding. Even the selections of songs 
 that you can unlock with the money you make in career mode are half decent (I was absolutely thrilled 
 to find a 'Rise Against' track tucked away in there!!!) . The track list is by far the best part 
 about this game. There are quite a few tunes that are going to have you wanting to turn up the 
 surround sound loud enough to aggravate the neighbors.
  
  Unfortunately, that could lead you to one of the biggest shortcomings with Guitar Hero III, and 
 that's the synch issue. Having the console hooked up to a surround sound system can cause there 
 to be some latency between audio and video. When I first slid the disc and began playing, any attempt 
 to hit the notes by ear would result in missing them every time. The game does come with a setup 
 option that will allow you to align the audio and video through visual and audible cues, but it 
 never ends up feeling quite as tight as the previous iteration of the title.
  
  A second issue that is specific to the PS3 (and probably the most frustrating of all) is the wireless 
 controller. To this day I still have intermittent problems with the signal between the guitar and 
 dongle. It doesn't happen too often, but it surely takes a ton of fun out of the game when you're 
 holding a note and there's a hiccup in the signal that causes the program to think that you've 
 let go of the note and then hit it again. Even on the easy setting there were missed notes (or 
 in other cases doubled notes) as a result of this.
  
  While I did manage to get GHIII to be playable, this sort of tweaking and tinkering to get every 
 piece of hardware to work together is the sort of thing that turned me off of PC gaming and pushed 
 me towards consoles instead. The idea is to drop the game in and play, right? Guitar Hero fails 
 on this front and it unnecessarily detracts from what is an otherwise solid title.
  
  There are a couple of new features and tweaks to the core game. They're a bit of a mixed bag and 
 if they weren't added at all I'm sure that gamers would complain. The whole concept of guitar battles 
 is just absolute nonsense, whether it's 'boss battles' in the career mode or when it's playing 
 with friends. The Guitar Hero goes Mario Kart thing is gimmicky in nature and doesn't do anything 
 to further the strengths of the franchise.
  
  The career mode has comical little cutscenes added in between sets and the fact that the songs 
 seem to be grouped by some sort of theme is a nice touch. They add the most minor of story elements 
 to the game and could easily go unnoticed, but at least they don't detract from the overall experience. 
 However what may turn some gamers off is the difficulty. The trend seems to be on ramping up the 
 difficulty to the point of bordering on senseless button mashing. While this may appeal to the 
 hardcore, one of the series strengths has always been it's accessibility to gamers, non-gamers 
 and music lovers alike.
  
  Despite these gripes Guitar Hero III remains a pretty good title once you get it going because 
 of the fact that the core gameplay remains intact and the track list is pretty awesome. Some gamers 
 will just drop the game into their console and jam away while others will have to do a little bit 
 of work to get it to run as intended but once everything is lined up, there's a whole lot of fun 
 to be had with Guitar Hero III.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  If your still playing the series you'll know what you have to do in the game try and be a rock 
 legend and playing some great rock, heavy metal songs such as Kiss, Alice Copper, The Who or Guns 
 and Rose's. 5 buttons on your guitar if your new to this play it on easy then work your way trough 
 to the other difficulties after that. There are also boss battles and encore's in the game to either 
 unlock new charcters or new songs. You can also buy and download tracks but you can't put your 
 own music in the game so you can't play Green Day or Chemical Romance but it does offer you Online 
 where you can battle other people to see who is the Rock King or Queen. The graphics look really 
 good for a PS3 but abit of Anime I have just noticed in the game and if your playing it for hours 
 you do get abit herlosernated becuase you do see the walls are moving or your PC screen goes funny 
 for playing Guitar Hero for half an hour at least. It's perfect for anyone who's got a console 
 if you have 2 guitars it can be fun becasue you can play with a friend. Guitar Hero series have 
 always been enjoyable every year let's hope Guitar Hero 4 will have even more stuff in it so yeah 
 go and buy you know that party games like Singstar are already dead so if your new to this go out 
 and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is one of the best games ever made! PERIOD! It is highly addictive and loads of 
 fun! Many people think that the game is very repetitive, but to tell you the truth it isnt! The 
 game features and outstanding soundtrack with bands such as Metallica, Guns and Roses, and The 
 Killers! Other outstanding features of GH3 include the ability to play against bosses like Slash, 
 Tom Morello, and Lou, the Devil while you can also download songs from the PS Store. You can also 
 play online against other users and you can start a band with your friends and rock out in multiplayer 
 career! I cannot say enough about this game! It is simply one of the best games to ever hit the 
 video game world! MAKE SURE YOU PURCHASE THIS GAME IF YOU DONT HAVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlesix
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I have never played guitar hero before and was never really that bothered unitl Guitar Hero III 
 came out with a sexy little les paul number. Guitar was awesome and bigger that what i first thought 
 it would be (you knwo made for kids!!) .
  
  Turned it on and loved everything about it from the graphics to the little sounds it makes when 
 you press start. Chose my Hendrix look-a-likie and started to play.
  Wow difficult to begin with but i avaraged out at about 87% on easy level (Hey you gotta start 
 somewhere!!) . The whammy bar and use of the the strummer is a clever way to play the notes, i didnt 
 realise that these were all involved and thought it was just pressing the keys when you needed 
 to.
  
  I am currently on Average / Medium level and its introduction of the blue fret key has got me stumped. 
 Its going to take alot of practice and committment to the cause. Which lets be honest we all want 
 in a game.
  
  Been playing for far too long and have started to get a headache and my right wrist hurts from 
 where it lies on the guitar's body, no pain no gain now where's my bottle of Jack Daniels!! RoCk 
 oN!!! Cant ..... turn.... it..... off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyBags80403
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III might be one of those games tht you say that, "It looks so repetitive," but it 
 is not. It finds new ways to keep you into the game from the following: Downloadable songs from 
 PS store for free or somw cash, bonus songs, and the seemingly impossible hard and extreme difficulties. 
 Yhese will grab in to trying new songs and old songs at new difficulties to unlock new guitars, 
 characters, outfits, and songs. There are even tournaments for cash when you get good (these tournaments 
 are only for the best of the best (extreme difficulties) ) . Drop me a comment on what you think 
 about this game to MoneyBags80403 (that's my PS ID as well) . The main reason I would reccomend 
 this game over Rock Band is becasue Rock Band makes you buy the other instruments to completely 
 finish the game, other wise I would buy it. I hope this review of Guitar Hero III has changed your 
 thoughs towards it and to hopefully buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant , I can't stop playing.
  When you play you really think that your really playing and the game is simple you only hit 5 buttons 
 in the right time, but you need to practice a lot to reach the expert level which is to hard for 
 me.
  So if you are hesitating on buying this game or not, buy it, and so fun you can also play multiplayer 
 online or play multiplayer with to guitars. There is the new battle mode in this new Guitar Hero, career 
 mode is also great and fun, by doing concerts with your band in the career mode you earn money 
 to buy : Guitars, Guitar skins, songs (28 songs) , characters and clothes.
  You can download new musics on PLASTATION NETWORK but you will have to wait this until 2008.
 
  So to resume this game is great, fun and you can train for hours so you won't get bored, and when 
 you finished easy you still have to do medium, hard and expert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  After Harmonix was bought out by Activision, Activision required the guitar Hero series. Here is 
 their attempt at the game and it didn't turn out half bad.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 Involves the same gameplay from the previous titles, with some new add-on's and features 
 and a great soundtrack to back it up. The Soundtrack includes the Legends of "Metallica". The game 
 introduces older bands like Foghat aswell. The game has newer music like Disturbed's "Stricken" 
 and Slipknot's "Before I Forgot". They even got the Sex Pistols and Living Colour to come in and 
 re-record some songs for the game.
  
  The game has been boosted up with the difficulty which at sometimes is impossible. With "Through 
 the Fire And The Flames" and "Raining Blood" by Dragonforce and Slayer, you will be throwing things. 
 Only very experienced Guitar hero players will be able to tackle those games down.
  
  The game doesn't help beginner's progress up by doing this alot. I mean you are playing on Medium 
 then you switch to hard, you got alot of frustration coming your way. But, the game does throw 
 in some tutorials to help you out. What they show in these, you should know. You need to do hammer-On's 
 and Pull-Off's and strumming up and down will help you out.
  
  If you are horrid at a song and just can't beat it, don't worry, they brought back a practice mode 
 which may or may not help you. You can slow the song down and keep on testing yourself and preparing 
 yourself up. This was tooken from GH2 and it still helps the player out alot.
  
  Many of the same characters are back like Axel Steel and more. There are some new characters too. 
 You know how the game is called Legends of Rock? Well there are 2 in the game. The All so famous 
 Slash and Tom Morello And Exclusive in the 360, PS3, and PC versions is Bret Micheal's singer of 
 Poison. You also got Lou the Devil (Final Boss) who is also a great challenge to beat.
  
  Even though they included these Legends, there should be many more. You verse some of these characters 
 in boss battles throughout the game. Where you have to hit a series of notes (Full Combo Them.) , 
 It works alot like Star Power but is still a good process in the end. It's a good thing and a bad 
 thing at the same time but it is a cool addition. 
  
  There are new venues too unlike Rocks the 80's. You start out in crappy little bars and make your 
 way up to huge stadiums as like the previous GH titles.
  
  This game has very odd placed advertisements. When scrolling down the list's of songs you have 
 to play you will see a 5 Gum pack on the side. Also, there's product placement for Toyota on a 
 venue. Your actually playing on a Truck with Toyota hugely plasted on it.
  
  The game includes odd-looking cartoon cutscenes which is odd but it gives the game a bit more story 
 to it which the other titles were lacking and had barely no story what so ever.
  
  Talking about the cutscenes, the animations on characters in this game are horrible. The Drummer 
 looks like a robot and the singer isn't on sync when singing the lyrics. With Rock Band, Nailing 
 everything about animation and even have the guiar palyer's playing the real notes of the song 
 is amazing, but Guitar Hero 3 just fails here.
  
  The game features a great online mode which you can play with other people in all of the game's 
 modes. Including the new Battle (Like the boss stages) and Co-op and Face-off. This works well 
 and there are very little lags within the game.
  
  
  The new Gibson Les Paul Controller: This guitar may or may not be the best guitar yet, it matters 
 what you like. I like it more then the guitar's on the PS2 and I like the changeable faceplate's 
 and the removable neck. I just don't like the loud strum bar (This may have to do with me getting 
 Rock Band.) But, overall it is a great controller.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't High-End at all but they look like they should. But the character 
 animations aren't great. The singer lip-sings out of tune and the drummer looks horrid. The venues 
 look good but the crowd is pretty meh.
  
  At the end of the day, this Guitar Hero is a great addition to the series. Even though it was made 
 by other people, they still stayed true to the game's and created a good installment, but has not 
 alot new.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinister2016
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first purchased this I thought this was going to be one of those games that you play for 
 a week then forget about it. But the kids wanted it and since I know a manager at the local "Electronics" 
 store I was able to score an extra guitar that was used as a demo (which is suppose to be available 
 in '08) for they both can play together (two teen siblings playing and not fighting ... brings 
 a tear to an old mans eye) . Enough of the B. S.
  This game IS FUN. When you start out on easy it is challenging, when you mastered that Medium is 
 challenging, Hard, Expert, etc. The downloadable extras from PSN are an added bonus.
  It's now been two weeks and I'm still into it as I was in the first few days and I do not see that 
 ending anytime soon. 
  I got TW'08, NHL '08, and COD4 at the same time and barely spent any time on those games yet. GH 
 III is addicting, fun and for an old man like me a blister maker (I have yet to get 100% on easy, 
 though my teens of course reached that on Medium already) . 
  The only fighting now is whom gets to play now and whom gets next.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex13echo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 for the playstation 3. A very innovative series adds another to the bunch. Personally, 
 I found it to be a quite fun game. I am not very good at it, mind you (I can barely pass on medium) 
 but none the less, it is still a very addictive game. it can be played by anyone at any skill level. 
 It features songs from the past, such as "Slow Ride" by Foghat andI Wanna Rock N' Roll All Nite" 
 by Kiss, all they to present times with "Miss Murder" by AFI, plus many more. Another thing I love 
 about it is the fact that Activision is to release additional songs via the playstation store. 
 They have released 1 so far for the holidays, "We Three Kings". I have not yet had the chance to 
 try out the song, but i did download it. All in all, this game is definitely worth buying if you 
 have the money for it and you love to rock out, and need something other than an air guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: * Graphics have been improved from GH2 * many more licensed songs * online is fun * boss 
 battles are a neat addition
  
  The Bad: * Nolvelty from previous installments is wearing off * online has some problems
  
 
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 7.5
  Total: 8.4
  Round: 8.5
  
  
  
  Since MTV Games aquired Harmonix, makers of Guitar Hero 1 & 2, the burden 
 of Guitar Hero 3 was placed on Neversoft. Like the previous games in the series, GH3 is a treat. 
 The graphics have been upgraded from GH2, and looked excellent on my PS3. Many more songs have 
 been added and more can be downloaded from the PS Store. The online play is fun, but it does seem 
 to have some problems. I found myself unable to play on it sometimes, but all my other games work 
 online fine. 
  
  Longtime fans of guitar hero will definitely want to come back for this. However, let me warn you: 
 If you have played the previous games, than the "novelty" feeling will have worn off, so you may 
 want to wait until it is on sale before picking it up. While the boss battles are a neat addition, 
 the game is making me think, "We have seen this before!". 
  
  
  
  The Final Verdict: If you have enjoyed the previous games or want to get into the franchise, definitely 
 buy GH3. If you are afraid the novelty may be wearing thin for you, than borrow it or try it at 
 a friends house before you make your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Heroes latest installment offers new shiny graphics, new shiny guitars and new shiny characters 
 including Tom Morello and Slash.
  
  The only problem with GH3 is the fact that the song list is Mediocre at best which brings me to 
 the point that they should not have called it legends of rock without including true legendary 
 artists and bands such as Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Hendrix. though there are many good bands 
 on GH3 the songs are poor with travesties such as One - Metallica now don't get me wrong One is 
 a great song and all but it is by no means legendary a better choice would have been Master of 
 Puppets.
  
  other than those problems the new guitar feels good to hold with a dip in the neck just before 
 the headstock to relax your thumb and detachable face plates for even more customisation
  
  this version definitely has its flaws and is by no means anywhere near as good as the first two 
 guitar heroes but it is still a great game to rock out to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I've played both Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero II, and they are both very fun. Guitar Hero III improves 
 even more on these already fun games to bring a great experience for any gamer. I don't play guitar, 
 nor do I play instruments of any type. I'm by no means GREAT at Guitar Hero, I just play it because 
 it's plain fun.
  
  The graphics in the game aren't the greatest, but then again it's not your typical game. You don't 
 find yourself exploring through vast uncharted worlds, which might make one desire Crysis level 
 graphics. Instead, you focus on play. The graphics aren't a total slack either. They possess what 
 is needed to present a game that is easy on the eyes (aside from the sometimes fast-moving notes) .
 
  
  The music in this game is excellent. Out of all the Guitar Heroes, I would probably have to say 
 that this game's soundtrack is the best. Many of the songs are very enjoyable to play, and if you 
 know them it brings even more joy to the game.
  
  The gameplay - wow - it's pure fun in every regard. There may virtually no storyline besides becoming 
 a legendary rocker, but this game makes it enjoyable to just sit and play the wireless guitar all 
 day long. It's a complete blast to play from the start. It gives several modes to cater to experts 
 as well as newbs. I'm rather new to the series even though I've played all of them, and I'm not 
 very good at it all. I've played it a lot since opening it (yesterday) , and have beaten Easy mode 
 and am working my way through Medium. It has an excellent variety of difficulty. Some levels are 
 easy for even complete newcomers and others are near impossible. Boss battles aren't the GREATEST 
 things ever, but they are still quite fun. 
  
  It is a great multiplayer game. Though it is a definite negative that at the moment you can't purchase 
 more than one wireless guitar without purchasing multiple copies of the game, that should change 
 eventually. For now, just play with your other friends that have the game and tell them to bring 
 theirs over. It's just a blast to play with other people.
  
  Replayability - wow again - This game has extremely high replayability. I already find myself frequently 
 going back to songs I have beaten in order to better my score or simply just to jam out to them. 
 There are new outfits, guitars, songs and more to unlock with each additional playthrough and many 
 achievements to be gained. 
  
  All in all, Guitar Hero III is a great game. Though it may be devoid of a deep storyline and other 
 aspects that many games have, it still holds the most important aspect in any game - pure fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeTW
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 ! One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 v One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 vvv One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 vv One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 One of the best games Ever made. This game is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  So, instead of rambling on about the game, let me get straight to the review.
  
  Gameplay: Its guitar hero, what else do you need me to say! its the same old addicting makes you 
 wanna rock out for hours gameplay. No different than any other guitar heros's, which is the defineate 
 way to go, stick with the formula that works! 9/10
  
  Graphics: Wow, for the look guitar hero is going for, it looks great. The character models interact 
 so much more, and the lead singer has accurate mouthing to every word of the song, well done! 9/10
 
  
  Sound: The game sounds like it should, Rock, rock, and more rock. Good sound overall, dont really 
 no what else to say. 8.5/10
  
  Difficulty: Now this is where it loses some points. As someone who plays on expert on every song 
 and 5 stars it, i loved the extra challenge, took a little longer for me to advance through the 
 career, but for the new comer, maybe start with guitar hero 2 is my advice. this game is HARD. 
 songs like raining blood, number of the beast, and especially dragonforce took me forever to beat, 
 even at a 3 star level on expert. this one defineately takes practice to get good. needs to be 
 wayy toned down on lower difficultys. 7/10
  
  Overall: A very solid guitar hero experience, something every guitar hero fan should look into, 
 go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candilga
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok... so GHII was all good first rhythm game for xbox 360 and GH3 was scheduled to be good but 
 seriously what sup with the low calibre song list. I don't know if its preferences but there are 
 a lot of songs on GH3 which really would be hard to find on any one's IPOD. Rock band for example 
 has so many so many so many more known songs and good quality songs at that... also DLC leaves 
 a lot to be desired on GH3, why are there no songs.
  
  I could probably name you a maximum of 5 songs on GH3 that people would generally listen to so 
 unless you're a hardcore rock freak into 80's hard rock and thrash rock GH3 is a big letdown... 
 To be honest I was sold on this game and bought it because of the great time I had with GH2 but 
 frankly it is way to difficult to be enjoyable and even more taking into account that 70% of the 
 songs are songs no one would ever listen to anyway and are definately impossible to find on any 
 radio station.
  
  Huge letdown, don't buy just get rock band trust me you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybrcatter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Good: Hammer-on Visual cues. More songs than ever. Lag can be incrementally adjusted. Downloadable 
 songs; Increased difficulty for veterans.
  
  Bad: Increased Difficulty can be excessive to the point where it hurts to play; many songs have 
 very boring note placements; You have to play Co-Op mode if you want to unlock all songs (unless 
 you use cheat code) . In-Your-Face advertising.
  
  GHIII is making Activision giddy from ear to ear with its sales, with or without this review. But 
 if you're the kind who likes to make informed decisions, I'll do my best to give you an objective 
 and honest review of this game.
  
  General:
  Guitar Hero III has more songs now than ever: 74 plus downloadables ( see http://www. videogamesblogger. com/2007/10/26/all-74-guitar-hero-3-new-songs-revealed-see-the-complete-setlist-of-soundtracks-including-videos. htm
 
  for all 74, plus updates on the DLs) . You unlock them in much the same way as you did in the other 
 versions by simply playing through the campaign to earn money from completing songs, for which 
 you earn more per difficulty level and your level of performance. You can then use this money to 
 purchase extra songs from the 'Store', where you can also blow your hard earned virtual money on 
 new guitarists, outfits, guitars, and guitar skins, err, I mean paint jobs. Six of the songs can 
 only be obtained by playing in co-op mode, so if you don't have another guitar, or a friend, or 
 you don't have an internet connection to play with others on-lin, you're out of luck. (HinHint: 
 there is a cheat that you can use ;)
  
  Specifics:
  There are some things that differentiate GHII from its predecessors, for better or worse. The lag 
 can now be manually adjusted to a specific number, so you can fine tune it in addition to the usual 
 follow-the-circle and strut procedure. Almost everyone with a PS3 will need to adjust this, not 
 just HDTV owners, as there is good evidence, and I mean a LOT of it, that the PS3 GHIII's cordless 
 guitar receiver comes equipped with its own lag, FREE OF CHARGE!! I would not recommend playing 
 the game fully until the lag has been calibrated. 
  
  The songs themselves cover a fairly decent amount of rock genres, as you can see in the previously 
 posted link. Unfortunately, it seems when Harmonix left the franchise, it took all of the creativity 
 with them: Many of the songs just contain long streams of notes, or very repetitive patterns. 
 
  When creative combinations of notes do start showing up, a huge gap in the difficulty level is 
 skipped, as it goes from moderate to exceptionally hard, and painful. It seems almost as Neversoft 
 focused all of its efforts on how to make the game excruciatingly difficult, instead of making 
 it FUN.
  
  All in all, it seems as the franchise has taken two steps forward, and one step back. Without taking 
 the expectation that a new addition in a series should have improvements over the last, and just 
 comparing the game side by side to Guitar Hero II, Guitar Hero III is definitely the inferior of 
 the two products. Take that expectation back into account, and the value of this game drops even 
 lower.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahammut125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  The long awaited and much hyped about Guitar Hero 3 finally hit store shelves a couple months ago, 
 and people were not disappointed. The game has some great music on it, as usual, and the difficulty 
 has gone up yet again.
  
  The game introduced cutscenes in between tiers, some of which can be funny, but they do add to 
 the whole band feel. The track listing is quite impressive, with many songs that will make you 
 want to kill yourself trying to beat them, especially if you are crazy enough to try to beat the 
 credits song, Through The Fire and Flames by Dragonforce, which by far is more difficult than Jordan.
 
  
  The graphics have also improved, though it is unlikely you will take a whole lot of notice unless 
 you watch someone else play. The accuracy on notes has also been narrowed, increasing the difficulty 
 and need to be as accurate as possible. The only problem I have found happened to a friend of mine, 
 whose controller registered a downstrum as two strums, so he has to upstrum with it, but other 
 than that I have found only some slight lag problems. All in all, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_guy561
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Ok lets get this straight. Guitar Hero III Legends of Rock is the 4th game in the Guitar Hero series 
 (if you count Encore: Rocks the 80's) and it's well worth the wait. The difficulty of the game 
 has increased and so have the graphics which have been built ground-up from Neversoft. The graphics 
 look proper on the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions, but the stiff and jerky animations on both the Wii 
 and PS2 versions really let the game down (this is probably because the consoles have more graphical 
 power) . Something new to the game is boss battles. These are great fun and highly recommendable, 
 I really don't care what gamespot say, they probably haven't played it that much. The Slash and 
 Lou (Devil) boss battles are the most enjoyable, one because they're dead hard and the other becuase 
 you're against Slash (wow) and the Devil (wow.... that was unexpected) . 
  Online Mulitplayer is here, unless you have a PS2 (sob) . On Xbox 360 and Wii you can play your 
 friends aswell, but unfortunately the PS3 version doesn't have any sort of mode, but there might 
 be a patch for it in the future.
  The games tracklist is most definitely the games strongest aspect, with master track songs from 
 Metallica, Slayer, Pearl Jam, Aerosmith, Slipknot, Iron Maiden, The Rolling Stones and many more. 
 Just to play some of these awesome songs just is truly incredible. Slayer's Raining Blood is my 
 favourite song in the game because it is just so darn hard.
  The graphics on the game are good, but the singer has a huge mouth and the drummer looks like a 
 robot on the PS2 and Wii versions. You get plenty of different outfits for each characters, all 
 of which are superbly detailed. Pandora's hair moves like in real life, Axel's headbanging is as 
 real as ever and Johnny Napalm's chains even swing when he moves. The game's venues are just as 
 awesome, ranging from barbecue parties to the pits of hell (quite literally) . My favourite venue 
 is most certainly the Desert Rock Festival venue. It looks like a real rock venue, with the graphics 
 and crowd looking stunning. 
  Enough of all that, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is Legendary.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light_Jak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Simple. The gameplay is so simple, it is fun and easy to play solo or with other people. The way 
 the game is presented stays true to the franchise and won't disappoint any Guitar Hero fan. The 
 new Les Paul wireless controller is very seamless and has no problems; it is also the most comfortable 
 guitar controller out of all the Guitar Hero controllers and it is very sturdy. A problem with 
 the Les Paul controller would be that it came with wireless receiver dongles to connect the controller 
 to the PS3 but it's no worry and it stays out of the way and usually out of sight.
  
  Perhaps the greatest addition a Guitar Hero video game has ever had was the new addition of Online 
 modes where you can battle against people and really see how good you are. I thought I was pretty 
 good at the game but when I went online, I only lost once out of about 60 matches (and that was 
 Pochep that beat me on one song ) and I found out that I was even better than I thought but I haven't 
 faced most of the guitar gods at the game. Online is so good that you don't even notice you are 
 online, it is just as good as if it were you and your friend playing together in the same room. 
 Imagine me in California and my buddy, someidiot, over on the other coast, with absolutely no lag! 
 That's what really makes this game so great. A huge problem with online was the fact that it is 
 hard to play against someone now because it never puts you in an online match with anyone but I'm 
 sure that will be fixed over time.
  
  The difficulty in this game has increased as well, if you try and play the whole game through at 
 once, you'll be sorry because of that cramped hand you'll have at the end of the day. Then you 
 have the bonus song "Through the Fire and Flames" by Dragonforce, that is practically a difficulty 
 by itself. One thing I did notice was that it was easier for me to 5 Star all songs on Expert on 
 GH3 than it was for GH2 but I have to admit, Raining Blood is damn near impossible to five star 
 (you'll see why at "Mosh 1" on Expert) . Don't get me wrong, the increased difficulty is a good 
 thing for veteran GH players like myself but for newcomers on the Expert scene, it'll be tough 
 to get to our level. The best thing about the game's difficulty is that if you play on Easy, it'll 
 be easy.. so easy that I can't keep up. 
  
  How could I forget the new addition of "Co-Op Career"? This new option is for you co-op fans and 
 you can play through it with a buddy and unlock new songs that aren't even on the solo Career setlist 
 so there is a perk there for those of you with an extra controller or a friend who has the same 
 version of Guitar Hero III that you do. There is one major problem however... if you and a buddy 
 play on Hard - Expert and complete it then want to play Co-Op Career on Expert, you'll have to 
 restart the whole career over again but you'll keep your Hard - Expert scores. That's not bad when 
 you know beforehand but you don't want to be like "what the heck" when you find out on your own.
 
  
  There is also an increased selection of new characters along with the same ones you've seen from 
 previous ones like the famous "Judy Nails" and "Axel Steel". New ones in the mix are real life 
 guitarists "Slash" and "Tom Morello" of Guns N' Roses and Rage Against The Machine, and also, the 
 secret characters that you'll find out when you play the game. A great deal of outfits and looks 
 for each character is available at the in-game store so check those out as well. Also, a HUGE selection 
 of guitars and guitar skins are available in the game which definitely provides a new level of 
 customization which the Guitar Hero franchise has never experienced before.
  
  Character models and stage venues are looking really good compared to the previous games but a 
 major problem that was in the PS3 version was the jaggies and fuzzy characters in the background 
 when you first enter a stage and play a song, it's really noticeable but it isn't anything to worry 
 about because you'll be focusing on the songs for the game. Another annoyance was the addition 
 of in-game advertising such as Axe which was in the game. "Bow-Chicka-Wah-Wah" You'll hear that 
 in the second venue when you start playing Bulls on Parade. Anyway, these annoyances are hardly 
 worth mentioning but it's something some people would go nuts over so I figured I'd mention it.
 
  
  The way Neversoft built the characters is just... wrong. The singer has a HUGE face.. Why? He can't 
 just have a normal face, he has to take all the attention away from Judy Nails with that big ol' 
 head of his. The drummer looks like a monkey, and Johnny Napalm looks like he's had one too many 
 chili peppers. Seriously, they should fix that in the next game but it provides for a great laugh 
 when you first play the game. The resolution is great too, even on a SDTV which I use and which 
 I recommend using. If you use an HDTV, you might experience lag in the worst possible way but with 
 an SDTV, I had an easier time getting used to the game.
  
  The stage venues are really colorful and noticeable in GH3 as well, it has a level of animation 
 during an encore just like Guitar Hero II but nothing special. As I mentioned before, when you 
 start playing a song, the venue and the people in it will look really bad but it's nothing to really 
 gripe about unless you really can't stand jaggies. I know, Jaggies suck but we'll have to get over 
 it. The menu layouts and all that is a bit updated as well and it is a bit easier to navigate the 
 main setlist, bonus songs and even downloadable songs (which we'll get into in the next section 
 of the review) .
  
  Best Guitar Hero soundtrack yet, it has the best guitar songs you can imagine. In the main setlist, 
 we have bands like Rage Against The Machine, Foghat, Eric Johnson, and Slayer and it is easy at 
 first but when you get into the later tiers, you'll really find yourself struggling to get past 
 Raining Blood and the rest of the torture tier. I won't get into much of the story behind the main 
 career but there are cutscenes in between tiers which are fun and cool to watch and most importantly, 
 they don't overdo each cutscene. Seriously, this is the hardest Guitar Hero game to date and if 
 you play on Expert, you are going to be in for a nice treat with the last tier.
  
  Bonus songs contain bands like Senses Fail, An Endless Sporadic, and Dragonforce which again made 
 the hardest song in the game, "Through the Fire and Flames". To be honest, I had a difficult time 
 with a number of bonus songs because of the rhythm for some of them and it really killed me. I 
 need to develop better rhythm skillz or I'll never get anywhere in this game. Mauvais Garcon, is 
 a notable bonus song since it has the most insane rhythm to it but it's nothing after a couple 
 times of playing it. I thought the bonus songs were full of emo and a lot of weird rock which I'm 
 not a fan of usually but I got into some of it like Senses Fail, I love that song that they had 
 on the game. You'll really get into the bonus songs but lack of Dethklok and All That Remains take 
 a toll on the Bonus Songs section.
  
  Downloadable songs are now finally available on the PS3 and the first ones that we saw were Foo 
 Fighters and Velvet Revolver packs on the PSN. The prices are kinda high but worth it when you 
 want to play The Pretender by Foo Fighters. Also, a Boss Battle pack which contains all the boss 
 battles without facing the boss will be available to download for free soon so keep on the lookout 
 for that! Downloadable songs really keep the game alive over a long period of time but sometimes, 
 they really have some bad songs that you won't want to play again but it is a really great feature 
 that I'm grateful for.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is the best Guitar Hero yet but a few issues with online and graphics 
 bring it down a point for me. It's obvious that they should try a bit harder with the PS3 version 
 but it is playable and extremely fun. One thing they do need to add is Friend Invites.. that is 
 the one single thing that I was looking forward to in the Online Mode but it was never there due 
 to the way the PS3 is set up, hopefully they can get that in the next game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH2FaN12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I've waited a very long time for October 28th for the release of Guitar Hero III. When that date 
 finally did roll around, I was immediately hooked with the game's soundtrack. Great songs from 
 each time period make this the best Guitar Hero soundtrack to date. You have some older songs such 
 as Paint It Black, Welcome to the Jungle, One, Schools Out, and Hit Me With Your Best Shot. Some 
 of the newer tracks include When You Were Young, Before I Forget, and Miss Murder. I recognized 
 almost every song on the tracklist and even the ones i didn't recognize, I still had tons of fun 
 playing. The addition of online is a great one because it's just something new to the career mode. 
 One of the things I had been looking forward to was the Battle Mode. Instead of star power, you 
 have battle power which enables you to attack your opponent. You can cut one of their strings, 
 overload their amp, and double all of their notes. This sounds awesome on paper, but when you actually 
 play it, it's not that great. If you're playing on expert, it's pretty much the first person with 
 a good powerup wins. It's also integrated into the Career Mode with boss battles which is a little 
 tedious. There are some returning characters such as Axel and Lars. But the new characters like 
 Slash from Guns N' Roses and Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine are awesome to play as. 
 The places in which you play are creative and look great. Overall, Guitar Hero III is definitely 
 worth your money and anybody with even the smallest dream to become a great guitarist should go 
 out and buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, the 3rd (or 4th if you count Rocks the 80's) entry in the ever 
 popular Guitar Hero franchise, is starting to show it's age. One reason other genres of video games 
 can remain fresh time and time again year after year is because they always have something new 
 that can be incorporated. The Guitar Hero franchise really doesn't. Legends of Rock makes this 
 perfectly clear by adding in trivial new additions that are just begging the general public to 
 think they're playing something different. It's still a fun game that fans are bound to have a 
 good time with, but most of the excitement of this franchise has worn off making it stale over 
 time.
  
  The gameplay should feel very familiar to fans of this series. The notes slide down the screen 
 toward you and you need to hold the corresponding button and hit the strum bar to play them. The 
 more you hit, the higher your multiplier gets, gaining you more points. If you miss too many, you'll 
 start to lose the crowd and eventually fail the song. If you hit special notes, you'll gain star 
 power that doubles your points and pulls you out of a tight jam with the crowd. But the familiarity 
 is the problem. This foundation hasn't changed since the original. The hammer ons and pull offs 
 have gotten much easier since the first installment, but there hasn't been a truly remarkable change 
 yet.
  
  However, even those simple mechanics aren't perfect. Every now and then, you'll hear a part that 
 clearly should be a hammer on or pull off only to see that it isn't. Since the parts are usually 
 somewhat fast, you'll be forced to strum quickly rather than the easier alternative. And I also 
 noticed that some sequences of notes will only have one or two hammer ons or pull offs while the 
 rest are normal. This can be somewhat confusing and it's inexplicable why this was looked over. 
 It's painfully obvious that they shouldn't be normal notes, but they are. Thankfully, it's more 
 apparent in the bonus songs so playing through the actual career mode isn't as frustrating.
  
  The largest differentiation from the norm comes from boss battles. That's right: boss battles. 
 In these battles, you'll get to shred alongside the likes of Tom Morello and Slash. However, you 
 will have to make the other person fail the song before you through the use of power ups. Instead 
 of star power, you will have to hit consecutive notes to gain an attack. These attacks all hurt 
 your opponent in one way or another. There is one that breaks their string, forces them to do the 
 lefty flip, makes the notes blink on and off, and others. This is an interesting idea at first, 
 but that doesn't make it a good one. For starters, the beauty of the Guitar Hero franchise was 
 that you really felt like you were up there on stage rocking in front of a crowd. You won't have 
 that feeling during these battles because it's impossible to play these songs as well as "attacking" 
 your opponent. Plus, if you think about it, it's really quite silly. Can you imagine playing with 
 Slash, then watching him pull out a pair of wire cutters, walking over to you, and cutting through 
 a string, all while keeping up his solo? Yeah, me neither. I understand that they wanted to try 
 something new and it was an intriguing experiment, but unfortunately it failed.
  
  The set list however, is rather impressive. I still don't think it quite has the potential that 
 the original game did, but I liked it a whole lot better than the second installment's set list. 
 You'll get to play through Kiss' "Rock and Roll All Nite," Tenacious D's "The Metal," Alice Cooper's 
 "School's Out," Metallica's "One," and many other notable songs in rock. The game features around 
 70 tracks that are ripe for the picking and it should keep the player busy for quite a long time. 
 However, I have one major bone to pick with the songs. Why are some of them only unlockable through 
 multiplayer? I know that this encourages the player to grab a friend and play through the game, 
 but there's a problem. As far as I know, there aren't any other guitars compatible with Guitar 
 Hero III on the PS3 outside of the one packaged with the game. And nobody wants to play through 
 the game using the Sixaxis controller. So what am I supposed to do? I've had the game since the 
 day of release and I still haven't played the multiplayer exclusive songs because of this very 
 reason. Shame on you Activision. What an idiotic idea.
  
  The difficulty of the game is something that I feel really impartial about. I know that hardcore 
 fans of the franchise are going to love the ramped up difficulty level of this entry so that's 
 good, but unless you have played the other games non-stop, you won't be able to finish this one 
 on expert so that's bad. I finished all 3 of the other games on expert, but there is no way that 
 I will ever conquer it here. I feel that even at the expert difficulty level, a bit of practice 
 should be able to get you through it, but they've made the game so hard that you'll literally have 
 to sit in your room and become a rock god to beat expert... and perhaps lose some friends in the 
 process. I'm not willing to go through that simply for a video game. It really just depends which 
 category you fall into, but I found the even harder difficulty level of expert to be too hard and 
 way too over the top.
  
  The online is pathetic. I rarely ever play video games online, but I was looking forward to this 
 one. However, I haven't once been able to connect to a game. Not once. That is entirely inexcusable. 
 Activision guaranteed a full fledged online mode, but what they delivered was an unfulfilled promise. 
 Unless Activision somehow fixes this problem quick, don't expect to play online at all.
  
  Just like in Guitar Hero I and II, there are plenty of unlockables to obtain. For starters, there 
 are a lot of bonus songs that are bound to please fans of less recognizable bands. It even managed 
 to include some bands that I absolutely love like Killswitch Engage, Rise Against, and Senses Fail. 
 On top of this, there are the usual assortment of clothes, styles, characters, and wacky guitars 
 to purchase.
  
  The graphics aren't all they could be. Some details look blurry and textureless. Nothing really 
 pops out at you in one way or another. Luckily, the graphics have never been the draw of the series. 
 Honestly, the graphics don't mean squat in a game like this so it's hard to criticize it on that 
 front, but it is a problem nonetheless. The Playstation 3 is an immensely powerful system, but 
 you wouldn't know it by looking at this game.
  
  The sound is very good mainly because the vast majority of the tracks in the game are the master 
 tracks. One of my biggest problems with Guitar Hero II was that some of the covers sounded downright 
 horrible. Having the master track is an excellent way to completely avoid that downfall. Even the 
 ones that are covered sounded rather good. I couldn't differentiate between which ones were real 
 and which were fake most of the time.
  
  All in all, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is difficult for me to judge. On one hand, I want 
 to say that I love it because when I think back to my great memories of the first two games, I 
 remember how much fun I had. On the other hand, almost nothing has changed and the things that 
 have changed lean more negative than positive. With the inexplicable absence of hammer ons and 
 pull offs at certain note phrases, ridiculous and implausible boss battles, poorly thought out 
 multiplayer exclusive songs, a piss poor online service, and a refusal to change, Guitar Hero III: 
 Legends of Rock is more of a reminder of how fun the previous titles were than a truly gratifying 
 experience itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This is my first GH game, really, I got it for the track list and cuz i was curious about all these 
 music games (amplitude GH etc EXCEPT DDR [ i hate that game series xD] ) .
  
  Let me just say up front, never played a guitar in my life, always wanted to though xD.
  
  
 but anywho, this game is hard for me on medium (due to me playing easy for least 120 hours then 
 switching over to med and getting my ass kicked by the blu fret) .
  
  music is good, there are a few that i dont like but most of em are awesome, i saw Knights of Cydonia, 
 Stricken, One, Miss Murder, and Closer and i said "Oh f**k yeah!"
  
  So pros:
  good track list, very difficult so it keeps you striving to attain teh next level of skills xD, 
 the guitar controllers
  
  cons:
  the controllers (the neck sometimes comes dislodged and causes a slight signal loss creating a 
 button connection issue) , boss battles (little stupid imo) , difficulty xD.
  
  
  
  so far I have beaten easy and gotten bout 5 songs on med (T. T!) but i am getting better at it, 
 and hammer-ons and lift-offs are becoming easier to do lol.
  
  One thing i hated was that the tutorial's didnt have complex rythms to prepare you for the harder 
 difficulty levels and theres not really much in there anyway. lol
  
  over all 8.7 (marking it as 8.5 due to GS limitations) outa 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldertaco
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I love ddr. It's a combination of music, playing videogames, and actually getting some exercise. 
 Fun to combat your friend and to watch beginers try not to fall. 
  Sing star is the ultimate party game! 8 people can act like fools and bust out some falsetto. This 
 game is great for extroverts!!
  I was excited for this game because I thought I would love it. After shelling out 100$ and more 
 if you want to play 2 player. I just could not get into it. I actually play guitar and maybe thats 
 the down fall but I felt like every moument was a wast of time. Mashing colored buttons on a cheap 
 plastic guitar I found very boring. I can't even describe how I felt other than It's just not my 
 thing. Playing against someone was the only thing that was remotly fun because you were competing 
 against friends. I think I would have had more fun with the Craptacular Time crisis 4 and savesd 
 at least 20$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowellCJ14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  There are two minds of thought when it comes to Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock. The first is 
 the one I am from: this is a great game that I have never experienced before. Although this is 
 the third game of the series, it is the first one that I own and played thoroughly. By the time 
 I realized GH: I and II would be good buys, I had already upgraded to my PS3. For those of you 
 who don't know, there is no perfect system for getting the first two games to work completely on 
 PS3 with any combination of guitars (wired or wireless, with or without adapters) . As such, I just 
 decided to wait for this installment.
  
  As a result, I was really taken aback by how good the game is. I actually play guitar, and this 
 was a real treat for me. The gameplay is easy to note: 5 buttons, strumming up and down, whammy 
 bar for added bonus. The simplicity of it is really what makes it work. You definitely have to 
 work hard at it, but the satisfaction you get in return is HUGE. There are points where I found 
 myself actually rocking to the songs because it was challenging, but still fun at the same time.
 
  
  The soundtrack is pretty solid. Some modern, some classic, it's all good. The ability to do add-ons 
 with downloadable content is definitely a plus, although we'll see how the pricing works out. What 
 would be great is if there was a feature to make your own Guitar Hero tracks from songs you choose. 
 For example, somebody wants to play more Dragonforce, so they can just make the track for the game 
 and design the note patterns. That would be a great community-based component to the game.
  
  The other train of though is: been there, done that. The novelty of the game is definitely 
 starting to wear off, if not already gone. The addition of boss battles is great, where you use 
 attacks like broken strings and lefty-switch instead of star power, but it's all basically the 
 same as the previous games. Also, online is a really great feature, although there's been a lot 
 of problems with that lately. Hopefully that will be fixed soon.
  
  All in all, people from my perspective, who have never had the other games, should definitely buy 
 this. It's a fun game to play by yourself, and only gets better when you have friends over. You 
 can even go online to play with others, if you can get it to work. Otherwise, you could probably 
 skip this game and wait for GH: IV or go try Rock Band. If I can get an extra $200 I'll try and 
 review that game, but for now, I strongly recommend Guitar Hero III for anyone that has yet to 
 have the full experience of this kinds of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I love Guitar Hero 3. I'd have to say the main reason being because of the playlist. Metallica, 
 Disturbed, Slipknot, Slayer, Foghat, Poison, Pat Benetar and much more. Guitar Hero really did 
 well and this is probably the best playlist out of all the guitar heroes. I'm proud of that aspect 
 of the game and also much proud of the new guitar. Firstly, it's black color is just awesome. Secondly, 
 the frets at first may appear to be stiff or worst, but after time become better and more comfortable 
 from the last guitar. Thirdly, it's built in playstation button and improved accuracy really comes 
 in handy. Lastly, it's wireless feature is just sweet. Although besides the guitar and playlist 
 there is not much that's new. Yes there is a online feature, but it's crappy and not supported 
 to well. Overall, I'll give Guitar Hero 3 a good 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosslo77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  For me, this is the perfect game. The only thing I miss is that I could play it with my girlfriend. 
 But for her the learning curve is to steep.
  
  I think they could have added a few more difficulty levels to attract more players.
  
  Its 
 realy a thrill to play hard songs like "the Metal" and still score 93%. The thrill is what makes 
 this game so great. I cant wait to get another guitar so I can beat my friends in this. 
  
  Another small downside that doesnt mean so much to me that hasnt played the earlier games that 
 much is that it doesnt evolve. Playing this is just like playing GH2... or GH1... or GH 80's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock has increased the sales of band merchandise for every band included 
 in the game, and it's easy to see why; along with it's new features (battle, online play, etc...) 
 guitar hero 3 legends of rock delivers the greatest setlist of songs included in a video game to 
 this very date, including: Rock n' roll all night (Kiss) , Stricken (Disturbed) , Before i forget 
 (Slipknot) , One (Metallica) , Number of the beast (Iron Maiden) , Raining blood (Slayer) , and many, 
 many more. The game houses over 70 songs.
  
  The graphics in guitar hero 3 legends of rock are much better than those in the previous guitar 
 hero games, adding to the concert experience. The gameplay in career mode is made more fun than 
 in the previous guitar hero games because it has been given a story line, and in-between each setlist 
 of songs there is a short movie clip to help that story line progress. Not only does the newly 
 added story line make the game better, but it also makes it more addicting, because everyone wants 
 to know how it's going to end up, and believe me the ending is a bit unexpected.
  
  Although guitar hero 3 legends of rock has; great graphics, an amazing setlist, fun newly added 
 features, and some cool newly added characters, it does have a minor downsid: Although the game 
 is clearly stated as 'Legends of Rock' it includes several bands that are not classed as legends 
 of rock and it doesnt include several that are, like: AC/DC, Judas Priest, Megadeth, Pantera, etc..... 
 This is the only downside to the game and although it isnt much it's quite annoying to those people 
 who are fans of the bands not included in the game when they find out that there are several non-legends 
 of rock bands included in the game.
  
  Overall i would highly reccommend this game to anyone who is in the mood for some plastic guitar 
 shredding, Rock on!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero, a great franchise, that has now been tainted with Neversoft's ploy to make a next-gen 
 Guitar playing experience, but does not wipe the rust off its edges therefore resulting in a disappointing 
 game play experience.
  
  I'm a fan of the GH series, I loved what Harmonix did with series on its PS2 days. However many 
 little things along with a few major issues, prevent Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock from being as 
 good as its predecessors.
  
  Let's start with some of the little nuisances, who many may agree or disagree with. First, Poorly 
 implemented guitar battles in the single-player. The single-player game has not changed whatsoever 
 since the first game, play a few songs, encore and rinse and repeat. This time around they added 
 guitar battle with rock legends Tom Morello and Slash. These are just a waste of time to me. On 
 harder difficulties, these can be very annoying, but if you got the right timing can be handled 
 like nothing. Then the last boss is just one big A$$hole altogether You face-off against Lou, playing 
 "The Devil went Down to Georgia" (which is played on a fiddle in the actual song not guitar) . Which 
 comes to my second minor flaw in this game. The extreme difficulty change between GH 2 and 3. Some 
 songs, even on the Hard difficulty, such as One, TTFAF, Cliffs of Dover, and Raining Blood are 
 near impossible to beat. Some having an absolute orgy of notes hitting your screen at once. By 
 the time you figure out you are not in hell and realize what the screen is throwing at you, you 
 will have failed the song. I can five-star just about every song on Expert in the previous installments, 
 but this time around, thats just a mere memory. Also the hilarity of half-hammer on half-strumming 
 segments implemented into these note columns in a mere attempt to make the game even harder is 
 Neversoft's way of adding their gay trademark into the franchise. Plus some songs you fail are 
 mostly songs you hate altogether which comes to my next minor gripe, the song selection. I like 
 that they put some great songs like Paint it Black, Welcome to the Jungle, Pride and Joy, Stricken, 
 and Even Flow are great, but sure turds like Story of my life, Cliffs of Dover, Before i forget, 
 Raining Blood, and Kool Thing, just to name a few make me wonder if they really tried to their best 
 to compile this so-so list. The exclusion of "Voodoo Child" and "Stairway to Heaven" has me scratching 
 my head. Also the focus on current music over classic is beyond me. As far as Bonus tracks go, 
 I believe I like only about 6 of them the rest I hated. But thats an open-call really. Also the 
 idea to have unlockable songs only through co-op career was sure-fire idiot move by the developers. 
 Even dumber is the fact of no extra guitars being sold until later next year. A definite bone head 
 move in my opinion.
  
  Even with these Minor issues, the game can still be enjoyed cause we all have different tastes 
 in music, and some may want to spend hours evens days to try and perfect one song. But the Major 
 flaws of the game bear its ugly head, and make this downright unplayable. One major flaw is the 
 lag. I have never had to adjust the lag so much in a guitar hero game. Too many times have I missed 
 notes when I'm clearly hitting them. I had hoped they would have fixed this issue in this entry 
 but to my surprise it is 10x worse. On a given day my lag will fluctuate between 30ms-69ms. It's 
 something that I had to change on a daily basis, which was very annoying. And to me by far, the 
 worse thing about this game is it's poor online component. Not sure about other systems, but on 
 the PS3 it is just miserable. I have been able to connect to 5 games out of about 500, in the past 
 two weeks. I always see the trademark "Failed to Connect" "Session no Longer available" phrases 
 99.99991% of the time. The fact that this game was gonna have online, was one of the main reasons 
 I bought the game. And to find out how asinine it was implemented was very disappointing.
  
  All in all I believe this game was a rushed product. Developers new GH junkies (like myself) 
 could not wait to get their hands on this, but many of us (or maybe not) were distraught at how 
 poorly this game was made. Game definitely need more time to be worked on. To those who still love 
 the game, well rock on, but for me it is a step backwards in the series, and I hope they can learn 
 from their mistakes when they work on Guitar Hero 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  A video game studio named RedOctane created a game named Guitar Hero two years ago. The game had 
 a huge success and for that reason, they made a second one. That one too was really appreciated 
 by the fans. In this one, there was new modes, for example a co-op mode, a pro face-up and many 
 more. And RedOctane made an expansion that was Guitar Hero 2: Encore Rocks The 80s that was good, 
 but not as good that the previous one. And finally, a few months later, Activison buyed the project 
 and put on the market this Guitar Hero game, Legends Of Rock, and its magnificent. 
  
  The game is composed of a new guitar controller that is better than the previously and of two new 
 modes. For example a battle mode and online mode (Playstation version, because there was one in 
 Guitar Hero 2 for the XBOX 360) .
  Lets begin with the story mode. For the first time, there is cutscenes in it, that made you follow 
 the band that your guitar player is in. The is in the around of 50 songs to play and 3 guitar battle. 
 There is Tom Morello, Slash and Lou. Like in the other ones, you can buy new guitars, songs, characters 
 
  and more. But now you can buy dressing styles for the playing characters. And the most important 
 thing I think to tell about the story mode (it concerns the other modes too) , you remember in the 
 other Guitar Hero that you could have a stars note for your performance, now its not with the more 
 points, now it's with the most you have notes in a strike. That's a bad thing I think for this 
 game.
  The multiplayer/ online mode is quite really fun. Maybe more in Online, because personally I don't 
 know persons that have the game and no you'll not have the same feeling when you plug a Guitar 
 Hero 2 controller, because you need a little gadget and even with it, it doesn't work really well.
 
  So that's why I prefer the Online mode. I've played it for many hours and it's really fun. There's 
 the Co-op , the Face-up, Pro Face-up and Battle mode. The sensation in online while playing at 
 this game is really cool and stressing. That's a plus I think for this game.
  Personally I think I don't need to talk to you about the other few modes, because it's the same.
 
  Now lets talk about the soundtrack. It's the best Guitar Hero 3 lists of song. The buying list 
 and downloading lists are also really good. There's some: Slipknot, Dragonforce, Killswitch Engage, 
 Guns 'n' Roses and Lacuna Coil.
  
  And Finally I want to inform all of you, that the game is hard to play. I've finish with no difficulty 
 the hard mode in Guitar Hero 2 and I was at the 5th song list. But in this one, I've stuck at the 
 end of the 7th list because its too hard. So you need to practice well or be really good to finish 
 it. And if you can play in the Expert mode and you finish it, you are truly a Guitar Hero.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun better than the old ones but it is alot harder. Because it's hard i 
 took off 1 because on expert especially That dragonforce song. All in all it's a great game you 
 need to be in this type of game to like it. AND OMFG THE SONGS!!. Theres 74 amazing songs most 
 master recordings and they sound amazing. Anyone who likes music should own this game it is a music 
 nerds dream. It is... in my opinion... Better than Rock Band which is to much because with Rock 
 Band you need you friends over or it's not fun GH3 you can do alone and have more fun than with 
 others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game!! Great fun and the tracklist is amazing. However there are some issues. The first 
 issue is the hardware. It is harder to use compared to the Xplorer guitar. This can really mess 
 up your gameplay. You would have to push harder on these buttons as well and sliding is also harder. 
 Second is the framerate issues when you activate star power. It can really mess you up especially 
 when you are on expert mode. Ive noticed that I am much better at the 360 version compared to this 
 version. I think it may be the guitar however. 3rd is that the graphics could be so much better 
 and Slash glitches up often for some reason. Now... gamespot gives it an 8 due to its difficulty. 
 That is pathetic. It is indeed hard... but thats the whole point especially for those who played 
 the first 2. Its only logical that the 3rd should be harder. And it is not impossible to beat either. 
 The dragonforce song takes hours of practice!! Newcommers to the series will have to go on easy 
 or medium. Thats why those difficulties are there!! BUY THIS GAME if you are a fan of ryrthm games. 
 ONline is great ( some connection issues) -PS3 go figure..
  
  Battle mode is fun! And boss battles are too.
  9/10 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lombre12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  I recommend that whoever haven't played the guitar hero franchise should play this game and whoever 
 have bought all the franchise must buy this game. This game is freaking awesome! The thing that i 
 like about this game is that you can play online play. I mean you can show off your skills and won't 
 need to post it on youtube anymore (if you like to post it on youtube i don't mine) . I also like 
 the boss battles during the single player mode. I think there are three bosses in guitar hero 3 
 like slash, Tom Morello and Lou (I think is a devil but he is not based on real characters) . Sorry 
 gotta run Peace out! (Oh and another thing BUY THIS GAME!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyking_1993
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the best guitar game right now. The songs are pretty difficult. The hardest 
 song in my opinion is the "Through Fire and Flames" by Dragon-force. It is a long song and has 
 a lot of notes. I could barely do it on medium, I could only imagine how it is on Expert. While 
 playing the songs, the buttons might get a little confusing only because Guitar Hero II was a little 
 slower and there were not that many notes as there are in the third game. The good things about 
 this game are the new unlockable characters and the great song list. Slash, the grim reaper, the 
 god of rock, and Tom Morello are available to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jardef
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The main reason why previous games must step down, is because they cannot be played on the PS3 
 version controller (from what I've heard) .
  
  Battles aren't all they cracked up to be, but playing with your friends on battle mode and co-op 
 is great. Online play has it's faults, but it's Guitar Hero... who needs online? 
  
  A great set list (personal opinion) , and expert has been kicked up a notch. Easy is WAYYYY too 
 easy for people that play even on medium, Medium is just like the other games medium, and hard 
 is the equivilant of GH2's Expert.
  
  A cool addition is the ability to go to guitarhero. com and register your copy of the game with 
 your account to gain 'groupies' and bragging rights. Although, the 3rd graders that have all day 
 to play the game try to brag on their perfect scores. Of course there is whining on the forums 
 about Rock Band and technical issues, system bashing, and just overall ignorant ranting. (but that's 
 a forum!)
  
  If you own a PS3, liked at least 1 & 2, get GHIII... it's well worth the $100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the first Guitar Hero on Playstation 3. And overall, it is a very enjoyable game. 
 However, while being a great game and having great songs (Through the Fire and Flames, When You 
 Were Young, Raining Blood, Knights of Cydonia, My Name is Jonas, Paranoid, Welcome to the Jungle, 
 etc) it's not the best out of the Guitar Hero series. Despite what everyone might say, I still 
 don't feel that this game has the best tracks of the 3. There are several tracks that are really 
 really boring to play. Also, another downside to the game is that to unlock 6 songs you have to 
 do it through co-op and you can't do it online either. And much like last time, the secondary part 
 (bass or rhythm) kinda suck. Especially during songs like Reptillia. However, one nice little fun 
 addition is Battle Mode. while not revolutionary, it is fun to play if you get bored of standard 
 Guitar Hero. Boss Battles however, are not so much fun and i consider them to be quite pointless. 
 Also, they are quite ridiculous. The bosses hardly ever miss anything (especially Lowe) no matter 
 how hard of a section it may be. And speaking of hard, this is by far the hardest guitar hero yet. 
 Anyone who cares to argue can just go play (or lack there of) Through the Fire and Flames on Expert. 
 Another nice thing about the game is how much you can customize your character. While the create 
 a character feature i've always wanted is still missing, there are several different outfits/skins 
 for most of the 13 characters. Overall, Guitar Hero 3 is a game that is a must buy for any PS3 
 guitar hero fans, despite the fact that its not quite as excellent as previous installments. And 
 by far the best addition to the game, online play (though it lacks several important features on 
 the PS3 version IMO) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is basically the same as the other Guitar Hero games except with new songs. First 
 I'll start with the controller. The controller looks awesome and the controls are very responsive, 
 making this probably the best guitar controller yet. 
  
  Visually this game is nothing special, but then again you'll be looking at the notes most of the 
 time so it's not a big deal. The characters and venues look decent though. Activision has also 
 done a nice job with the new hud.
  
  The song list in Guitar Hero 3 is great, yet to me it isn't better than GH2s. It does come close 
 though. It has many great songs but their were none that I felt like I wanted to come back and play 
 again. 
  
  2 new modes have been added to this game, battle mode and only. In battle mode 2 guitarists battle 
 each other while playing a song. Instead of Star Power you get "Battle Power" that lets you attack 
 your opponent with things like broken whammy (you won't be able to hit notes until you whammy) , 
 harder diffaculty, broken string (you have to press one of your buttons to get it to work again) 
 and many more. This mode is a pretty fun addition (except on the final battle) . The other mode 
 allows you to go online and play with other Guitar Hero players. 
  
  One thing that I didn't like about this game was it's diffaculty. The final battle (and other certain 
 songs) just feel impossible, even to Guitar Hero veterans. Maybe the franchise is starting to get 
 stale, or else it could be that some songs are too hard or that the first set lists are too easy, 
 but the game is starting to lose it's fun. Overall this is still a good game and if you enjoyed 
 the previous games you should check this one out.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 7
  
  Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgearstud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  this games is great the add of the features like battling slash i thought that was cool, something 
 new. the had what i would say overall the best soundtrack. the tried to through in th little cartoon 
 skits which i thought was cool two kind of makes it feel like your working your way up, its not 
 state of the art but its cool. i did think it got a little harder i could beat it on medium, and 
 get to the last songs on hard and half way on expert so the difficulty level really went up. thats 
 the only bad thing which isn't really a bad thing i just shows i should practice more. its a buyer 
 especially if you like music or just something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murdertoself
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  All the songs on 1,2,3 are getting to similar. More metal is needed. I mean c'mon enough with the 
 pop rock crap, theres too many of those songs on there. This new downloadable content better contain 
 something a little heavier. I loved that slayer, In Flames, Lamb of God and Pantera have been on 
 these, but just 1 song from each band, compared to all the **** stuff on the others. And i do believe 
 this game is called Guitar Hero which should mean, u battle (which i think is lame) or play songs 
 by Randy Rhoads, Zakk Wylde, Alexi Laiho, Vai, Satriani, George Lynch, some chuck shuldiner (DEATH) 
 would be nice, they would kick Slash and Tom's a$$ in a heartbeat. To be able to create a guitarist 
 would be sick. Last thing, why the hell is Dragonfart on here? Fun game though, but i prefer the 
 real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catana431
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of GH2 I was jumping at the bit to play GH3. At first glance i was disappointed. 
 Sure it has over 60 great tracks and a new wireless controller but it had a very different fell 
 than GH2. However the more i played it the better it got. Now it is my favorite game. If you have 
 played and enjoyed GH2 this should be a must buy. If you have never played guitar hero this is 
 the best game by far to get started in. The sound is great and the wireless controller has just 
 the right amount of weight to feel substantial but not flimsy. All in all this is one of the better 
 games I have ever played and even if you don't enjoy GH games it is worth a look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwest423
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Great game, a lot of songs, and I love that is harder than the other ones, but just not hard enough. 
 Guitar Hero III has awesome songs and a lot of them. The online play is awesome and zz top la grange 
 is so cool and Through the fire and flames by dragonforce. No other game can be compared to it. 
 Everyone can play. It is awesome!!!!! If you do not have it yet go now and buy it. for PS3 if you 
 do not have a PS3 go buy one also. It is awesome awesome awesome awesome great great great awesome 
 awesome it is f*cking awesome!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenC4T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  At first glance, you wouldn't think Guitar Hero 3 would be different now that Harmonix is out of 
 the picture. But as you play the game there is a feeling of difference. It could be the difficulty. 
 Having played the previous two Guitar Hero games, I have to say this one made my fret fingers hurt! 
 Maybe I was rusty from not playing GH, but then I figured that they added a notch of difficulty. 
 It's not unbeatable, but you will be sore the next day. The graphics have been updated for the 
 next generation. Nice sharp visuals but the same cartoonish visuals. As you play career mode they 
 added a sort of story line in which you see a video of the band, except your guitarist of choice. 
 Instead of having recorded dialogue, it is spoken in a series of grunts. Another addition is the 
 three bosses you will encounter. They will annoy you and they will kick your behind. But eventually 
 you will beat them. Although my second attempt at career mode, I beat them with ease. The song 
 selection is good, everyone will tend to like some better than others. And there are plenty of 
 extra songs to get at the store (not downloadable songs, although I haven't seen any at the moment) . 
 And of course it is online now. You can either battle each other. Or just play a song together. 
 It's fun, to play against others. But when you see the boards of the top players, you may feel 
 somewhat discouraged to see a lot of people at the top in expert mode. I'll admit that it's quite 
 intimidating since I'm just at the medium level, at the moment. But practice makes perfect, right? 
 Of course, you can always choose the difficulty level you want. To conclude, the game has some 
 additions such as boss battles, online gamplay, and short videos of the rise of your band, but 
 in the end it feels more of the same Guitar Hero we have played in the past. It' might get weary 
 in single player mode but then again you can always go online and compete against other players 
 in the difficulty of your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prejean123
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  The lag is horrible. Even if you get close to calibrating it, it will still lag, on HDTV and Regular 
 Tv's. I wouldn't take the chance on buying it. I bought it for playstation 2 first. It lagged real 
 bad, and i couldn't calibrate it so i brought it back. Then i got it for the Ps3 and it still was 
 doing the same things no matter how much i tried calibrating it, or changing t. v.'s. I'm happier 
 with my 99.00 dollars, instead of getting frustrated. Very dissappointing because the song selection 
 is the best so far. Also the wireless guitar's upstroke does not work that well. Overall, there 
 was a lot of problems with this release and PS3 should have a recall on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is a fun game. I like it. However, it just doesn't live up to Guitar Hero II in 
 almost every way possible. It's still a good game but a lot of things seem missing or broken that 
 really detract from the gameplay.
  
  I'm not thrilled with the setlist of GH3. It's very lackluster. I look at each venue's track listing 
 and I usually end up truly liking 2 of the 5 songs (including the encore) . This is due to a mixture 
 of things. Some songs just don't feel like they are rockin' enough to be in a GH game ex: Rock 
 and Roll All Night, Hit Me With Your Best Shot, School's Out, even Before I Forget by Slipknot. 
 There are so many better Slipknot songs that could have made their way into the game. Some songs 
 feel like they bought their way into the game ex: Poison's Talk Dirty to Me along with a "cameo" 
 of Bret Michaels. Some songs are just terrible covers ex: Paranoid, Story of My Life could have 
 been better as I love that song. And even though Anarchy in the UK was re-recorded by the Sex Pistols 
 themselves, I would have much rather had that song been left off the track listing as I cringe 
 every time I have to suffer through it. I'm sorry but I love that song and the Sex Pistols themselves, 
 30 years later, have butchered their own song. However, there ARE some great songs on the track 
 listing, Raining Blood, One, Number of the Beast are great songs to play. I'm not a huge Killers 
 fan but When You Were Young is a really cool sounding, fun song to play through. My Name is Jonas 
 is also a GREAT song to play and one of the most fun ones.
  
  The guitar itself is definitely an improvement over the last one. It feels sturdier and feels more 
 like a guitar. However, after picking up the guitar from the Rock Band demo at my local Best Buy, 
 I can say that guitar blows the GH guitar out of the water. It makes it look like a child's toy 
 guitar.
  
  Another thing that upsets the balance of the game is the unbalanced difficulty. I played on Easy 
 first and it was very, very monotonous. I then jumped to medium and almost every song was easier, 
 yes you read that right, and much more fun to play. However, you get to Raining Blood and One and 
 parts of those songs are extremely difficult to hit. Step up to Hard and good luck with Raining 
 Blood or One. It seems like the difficulty of the game is all over the board. I also noticed that 
 there is a lag when activating star power, causing you to miss the first note or two every so often. 
 This becomes a nuisance and make me not want to use Star Power. The locations of where you obtain 
 star power are also inconvenient. I'll have full star power, awaiting a solo or section with lots 
 of notes, yet more star power notes are appearing, being wasted as my star power bar is full. I'm 
 not sure if anyone else has had this problem, but I'm playing with an HD DLP TV and a surround 
 sound receiver and I had a BIG lag problem in the game. Fortunately, there is a lag calibration 
 you can run to correct this but it takes some tweaking.
  
  Well, GH3 may not live up to its previous efforts but it's still a good game overall. Again, my 
 biggest complaint with the game is the core of it, it's song list. I just feel it's too lackluster 
 for a guitar game and some songs were just poor choices. Compound this with difficulty settings 
 which are all over the map, and you have a game that isn't quite what I had hoped. Overall though, 
 GH3 is definitely worth checking out, is still a fun game, and adds a challenge of beating the 
 insanely difficult Raining Blood and One on even Hard mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Though Guitar Hero III's graphics leave much to be desired, all the gameplay and unlockables make 
 it worth playing. It's hard at first but after you get used to the controls the game can probably 
 be finished in a day or two, which isn't anything special but you're sure to take long time getting 
 every item and beating all the difficultys, making this game a must have for PS3 owners. Something 
 helpfull, though not so fun is that the controller can be used as the guitar which can be helpfull 
 for multiplayer. Sure it gets frusturating at some point, but after you're done you're sure to 
 want more! After beating boss battles (Which are fun by the way) you'll unlock new characters, 
 and... not to spoil anything but... one of those characters just happens to be the Devil, his name 
 is Lou and he's a real ladys man! There's also the Grim Ripper who is hilarious to have, you might 
 want to consider buying Slash (The guy on the front of the box) because he's cool to have aswell. 
 But enough about that, let's get to the pros and cons.
  
  Pros: Good gameplay. Lot's of unlockables. Funny. Good art style. Can be played without a guitar. 
 You get a cool guitar. Some good songs.
  
  Cons: Most of the songs aren't good. Eventually it gets too hard. You get tired of hearing the 
 same song over and over again. Graphics aren't good and characters facial expressions are horrible. 
 Sometimes get's repetetive. Entering cheats can be annoying. 
  
  Believe it or not, I think this game is better than Tools of Destruction! (Which is a weird comparison) 
 but I think you should check it out if you have a PS3, it's highly addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bognman420
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  ok well here it is gh3 gets a 8 from me good songs nice new action on the guitar and i love the 
 new online modes here is my beef they should have downloadable songs out allready how come i beat 
 the game in 1 night and now i have to waite weeks for downloadable songs and they dont explain 
 **** about it very upsetting il prob end up selling it back from rockband which is gunna be so 
 much better they allready said their are 100 songs allready for download when the game hits shelves 
 now waiting but if u like guitar hero its still a great game but it will be sidelined by rockband 
 in late november thats for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I know some people say it is expensive and the guitar is broken but first 
 of all the guitar is not broken! Second the price is nothing! You get a game and a guitar for only 
 100 dollars. That is a great deal.
  
  Gameplay: Great! They have added tons of features and new songs as well as a new mode called battle 
 which is lots of fun when played with another person. Online is ok but it does take a long time 
 to join a game so I usally just create a game and let other people to join. 
  
  Graphics: Not too great but your not going to be looking much at anything besides the notes. 
 
  
  Sound: great! The best soundtrack of any Guitar Hero to date! volume some times feels low.
  
 
  Overall this game is worth the money and will last for years to come because of downloadble content 
 and downloadble songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  GH3 is rock solid party game that we are used to playing in GH series. However there is really 
 nothing new that is worth talking about. By far the biggest strength of the game is the setlist. 
 It features an awesome variety combined with some of the greatest songs of all time that are lots 
 of fun to play, along with a good number of less known songs that have also been executed to play 
 fun.
  Online play is fun, but it has many drawbacks, and in my case it required more calibrating. Having 
 in mind that i had to calibrate 4-5 times for regular play, it just adds up to too much tweaking 
 just to get normal play across all game modes.
  Also, the guitar battles in the single player mode are not a fun or necessary addition. Its more 
 or less a shallow attempt to give some depth to the career mode. On a side note the cartoon cut 
 scenes do add some humor and are done very Metalocalypse reminiscent.
  Game difficulty has been amped up, and in my case i had to spend last 2 weeks playing on medium 
 to get back in shape and even attempt playing on hard. This in my opinion is a good thing, as it 
 prolongs the play time and gives more challenge to it.
  Last note is about the axes. Addition of the interchangeable face plates is nice but the current 
 variety is very weak. Personally i used the plain black face plate to write out some stuff on the 
 guitar instead and pay some homage to Tom Morello. Mine says Soul Power ! Also the stickers are 
 weaker than ever. Hopefully we'll get some more customization, and soon.
  
  Overall, GH3 is worth owning. Its a great party game, great fun in 1p, and if the devs take time 
 to start pumping out some xpac's and give us more songs it may still be a better option than overly 
 expensive Rock Band! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mellomr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  First off the good. I picked up the PS3 version because I already had invested in the previous 
 two versions on PS2. I have found that using the previous SG controller with the Pelican adapter 
 does work decent, not perfect, but decent when set to the controller mode. The graphics in GH3 
 are solid. I really enjoy the character models look and the detail to the animation that they were 
 given. The singer for example does a lot of movement and gesturing where in the previous versions 
 he was pretty stiff. The sound is also done well and pounds through my surround sound great! The 
 online component is a much needed addition and works decent, I will elaborate more in the next 
 section. The single player modes and co-op modes are pretty much the same from the previous GH 
 games. It's because of the strong song list that this doesn't hamper the game from being the same 
 ol' song and dance. Pun intended. :) Unlike Gamespot I enjoy the 'Battle Mode'. It's ideas like 
 this going forward with more development that will help keep the game fresh. How many of us have 
 been playing online and there are a lot of people that can get every note, well with the battle 
 mode this can mix things up a bit.
  
  And quickly my comment on the controller is simply... I like it way better than the SG models. 
 No wires and a better feel when pressing the buttons, what's not to love.
  
  Now for the bad. The one thing that sticks out for me is the terrible oversight in the online mode 
 to not to be able to pick from your friend list when setting up custom matches! Sure you can search 
 for your friends name in the list of created matches, but then you have to contend with other people 
 getting into the match before you or getting the constant message that the room is not available 
 which brings me to the next problem for the game. The online mode at least through the PSN needs 
 to be improved a great deal. Many times over and over again when trying to join a match you get 
 the message 'unable to connect' or 'this session is no longer available'. Even when I've created 
 a match I sit for several minutes waiting. The third and final beef in my opinion is the timing 
 of the notes. Just because they included Dragon Force and a couple of other faster songs didn't 
 mean they had to scew the timing of the notes for the whole game, especially when the Dragon Force 
 song is not part of the single or co-op requirements to beat the game.
  
  So in closing if you have never tried or played any of the GH games before you will not be disappointed 
 with GH3. If you have played the others like myself you may want to hold off as there is not a 
 lot different, but if you have been wanting to jam online with your friends then this is a must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gocanes222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The online play has been fixed and works well now. It was a great addition 
 to the game. It gives you the chance to face off against people from all over the world.. This 
 game is a great game with a great track. The singer is horribly ugly. The Gibson Les Paul looks 
 great. I'm still shopping for a faceplate to put on it. This new battle mode isn't anything too 
 special. As soon as someone deploys a power- up the game is just about over. It is hard to get 
 back on track. The difficulty is noticably harder with me possibly strugging with medium. This 
 is a better game than GH II with a better track list and more famous tracks. Overall this game 
 is really all it's cracked up to be. Great game, great idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i-lick-monkeys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 is the 3rd (4th if you count Guitar Hero Encore: Rocks the 80s) Guitar hero of the 
 guitar hero franchise and is the best one of the series. The Reasons why this is the best one out 
 of the series is because of the additions of boss battles, battle mode online, and has the best music 
 track in a video game yet. Another reason why is because of the new guitar. The guitar has a detachable 
 neck to make it easy to carry around, its wireless (but has usb dongles) , is very sturdy and comfortable, and 
 it looks really nice.
  
  Well if your new to the game, guitar hero 3 is a music based game that requires a guitar to complete 
 a song. The guitar has 5 color full fret buttons, a whammy bar, a select and a start button, and strummer. When 
 a song is playing notes will appear on the board and you have to match the same color by pressing 
 the same color fret button and hitting the strummer at the same time. Htting note streaks can give 
 you star power which when you have enough you can tilt your controller up and get alot more points. When 
 you hit long notes you can also use the whammy bar to get more point. You have to this for the entire 
 song and if you miss to many you will fail the song. The tutorial really helps if your a new comer 
 of the game and gets you ready for single player.
  
  The graphics of guitar hero certanaly looks better then the last two games but still dont look 
 next gen. When the camera zooms into the player models they tend to look ver bad at times. The board 
 which you play on looks great. The board is very color full and crisp and just looks plain good.
 
  
  The modes consist of campaign, practice, quick play, online, and campaign coop. Campaign gives you a 
 list of songs and tiers that you have to complete. There are 4 diffuculty modes for campaign which 
 are easy, medium, hard, and expert. You have to complete 3 songs in tier to move on to the next tier. Once 
 you complete a tier their are these short wordless animations that are very weird and dont make 
 much sense. Their are 39 songs in total and 3 boss battles. Boss battles are like normal songs but 
 instead their are 2 boards (one for you and one for the boss) and you guys both play each other till 
 one of you fail or till the song ends. You can attack the boss by getting these weapon things when 
 you do streaks. Their are alot of weapons and could be very use full since the boss barely misses 
 a note and these weapons will make him miss some notes. This is a love or hate mode. Some people 
 will hate it and some people will love it. During campaign you can unlock more  
 some other stuff. You get money based on how well you do during campaign songs.
  
  Online works good for guitar hero. There are stats, leader boards, and anything you need online. There 
 are tons of modes to do online like head to head, co-op, battles, and some other stuff. It may be hard 
 to go into matches sometimes but once your in it works great. Rarely you will miss notes you should 
 have hit and sometimes it will be laggy depending on your connection. Unfortunately there are alot 
 of veterans playing online and if your new and you play online most likely you will get crushed. You 
 also cant play with friends online in the ps3 version.
  
  One of the gripes I have with the game is the diffuculty. On easy the songs are too easy (exept 
 for maybe the last 2 tiers) , use 3 fret buttons, and are very hard to fail them. If your new and beat 
 easy and go to medium and think it will be a little harder then you are wrong. On medium you have 
 to use 4 fret buttons and the notes go alot faster and is harder to hit notes. Its not alot harder 
 but its a bigger step then I thought it would be. The new comers will really struggle with hard 
 and expert and will have to go to practice alot. They should have done smaller steps on the diffucultys.
 
  
  All in all Guitar hero 3 is a great game and should be played by all guitar hero loves and new 
 comers. The guitar works great, their are over 70 songs ,and online is a blast. The new additions 
 are good not great and alltogether will last you a long time. It may take alot of time to get use 
 to the game for new comers but once the new comers get use to this title they will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-micky207
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  this game has a lot of gold songs such as ,Through flames and fire, Welcome to the Jungle, and many 
 more that i loved but it also had very annoying songs as well which annoyed me a lot, some of them 
 might not be that bad but still they give me headache. there is a lot of improvements here such 
 as Bosses which happens after you clear some songs, in the boss battles you get to face rock legends 
 such as Slash very nice touch here! you will have a cartoon-like cutscene after each section of 
 songs have been cleared and makes the game interesting even if not a lot, now the multiplayer and 
 co-up modes are absolute fun! it defiantly adds replayability to the game, being able to play with 
 your friend online on co-up is fun, multiplayer puts you against an opponent whether it was your 
 buddy or someone you don't know, and then face-Off! overall the game doesn't dissapoint me at all 
 it was just like i expected: Fun Fun Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamaSume
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III for the PS3 is about the best game out there right now on PS3 (debatable by Warhawk) . 
 This sequel performs in many ways that the old GH wish it would of. The online play is astonsingly 
 good and online features such as downloadable tracks are a much welcomed addiction. The game stays 
 on the base of GH with only a few altercations. The spacing it seems like is a little different 
 then GH II. I kept missing easy notes that should have been no brainers. Another little problem 
 is that Expert from GH II is NOT as hard as Hard mode on GH III. The game is insanely difficult 
 on Expert. One last pet peave is that not all songs are playable... kinda... Some songs like Rock 
 and Rock All Night are only avaible in certain game modes. Other than those disturbances it's still 
 Guitar Hero baby!!! You will have GH parties, all your frineds will want to play, and you'll spend 
 100+ hours on this thing over it's lifespan especially with online functionally. Sound - 9.5 Good 
 songs but stays too close to main stream music than cool alternatives
  
  Graphics - 8.0 Good graphics yet considering how little you actually control you character it could 
 be a tad better.
  
  Gameplay - 9.0 Solid GH gameplay. Nothing innovative but nothing really to innovate on.
  
  
 Lasting Appeal - 10 You will continue playing this game long past the regualr 40 hours.
  
  Overall. 8.5 Great game that surpassess it's predecessors by milestones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirit_of_truth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  My main complaint about this game is the songlist. The personnel at Harmonix could have had a VASTLY 
 better songlist. It seemed that they picked each band's song that would be the least fun to play, 
 (Miss Murder, Suck my Kiss, Slow Ride, come on...) . Gameplay-wise, the game has some cool additions, 
 and online play should be a blast, and the multiplayer has been enhanced. Another complaint I have 
 is that the individual controllers won't be released for another month. That means that you can't 
 play non-online multiplayer unless you buy two discs and two guitars. It also means that you won't 
 be able to play the several songs that are only unlockable in multiplayer mode for another month, 
 either. The more I think about it, the more I realize how poorly this game was planned out. Overall, 
 the game would be greatly more enjoyable if the majority of the songs on the game weren't HORRENDOUS. 
 There are some good selections, but Harmonix made some seriously poor judgment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredroO
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  If you're expecting a game with the same exact controls and feel as GH2, you are in for a bad surprise. 
 The overall feel of the new wireless guitar, the look, the playability of GH3 for the PS3 is different. 
 Why?
  
  1) Difficulty: After beating GH2 on expert with little problems, I am struggling to beat the last 
 boss battle (Lou) on hard. The note charts are on a whole new level of difficulty, and you'll have 
 notes coming at you that you couldn't even attempt in GH2.
  
  2) Playability: To compensate for more difficult note charts, they are much easier to hit on this 
 game. Neversoft allows more time for you to complete long strings of notes and HOs/POs.
  
  3) Boss Battles: Although the first two are relatively easy, the boss battle is near impossible 
 against Lou on hard or expert. I mean, I'm sure if I stick to it I can get it, but as someone who 
 has mastered GH2 expert, not being able to beat the game on Hard is disheartening, if not frustrating.
 
  
  4) I also don't like that theirs no co-op quickplay, I hope PSN network comes up with a patch so 
 you dont have to unlock songs one at a time in co-op career.
  
  This being said, the game is different, but not necessarily BAD... The set list is better than 
 ever (wish their were a few more metal/metalcore) . The songs are fun to play and challenging, making 
 the replay value VERY HIGH. While there are some negatives, the game is still FUN FUN FUN. Once 
 you adjust to the differences in gameplay, there is solid game. Guitar Hero veterans will revel 
 in the ease of playing notes that would have been previously impossible. I will describe this by 
 saying that your playing would look much more impressive to an on-looker in GH3 as compared to 
 GH2.
  
  For multiplayer, I'd like to try the battle mode. I think a lot of people dislike it from playing 
 Lou and getting owned. Against other humans, I see some potential. Overall, I'm satisfied with 
 my purchase. Although the game is different from the others in the series, it's still good fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykojason
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  GH3 has the biggest, baddest song list out right now. The songs are great and some of them might 
 even rank up there with your favorites. Most of them are master tracks so that makes it all the 
 sweeter. Boss battles and Battle modes are a nice addition, they really bring a new experience 
 to GH games. Lots of unlockable content keep you playing and trying to earn more cash. I think 
 GH3's big-name songlist is actually its weakest point. So what if the songs are great? Some of 
 them seem like they don't really fit the game. GH2 had songs that weren't as well known but were 
 still really fun to play and I think GH3 falls short on that. The difficulty has been raised so 
 much that at times GH3 seems more frustrating than fun. The cut scenes are a nice little addition 
 but it bothered me that they couldn't put your chosen character in there with the rest of your 
 band-mates. Also, why couldn't Activision get someone with more showmanship than Bret Michaels 
 to do the motion capture for the singer? Last but not least, at first I felt like there was a very 
 minutebit of lag between the PS3 guitar and the little reciever, not much, but enough to disrupt 
 my playing and make me miss notes. I've gotten used to it and now I'm able to compensate for it, 
 but I don't knw if there was any lag to begin with, it could've just been me. Anyways, GH3 is still 
 worth playing and it's still a fun game, but to me, it falls short of how much fun I had while 
 playing GH2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Over the years Guitar Hero has always left an impression on the gaming industry. With the ability 
 to play all your favorite songs on guitar is a non-musically inclined persons dream. Guitar Hero 
 3 offers this and more with new songs and new styles of playing. The addition of actual non-cover 
 songs is amazing. The Gameplay is very much the same as the past Guitar Hero games. It is considerably 
 harder this time around as you get towards the end with songs like Raining Blood and One . It is 
 a shame to hear people saying it's way to easy. I mastered Guitar Hero 1 and 2 and found this to 
 be just another game. Of course you're going to find this game similar; It's the same game with 
 different songs! If you played the other Guitar Hero games and found them to be just stupid because 
 you hated the songs, then don't buy this one; unless you actually like these songs. Boss Battles 
 are interesting, but seem very tacked on due to the superiority of all the bosses and the only 
 way to beat them is to get different weapons in order to screw them up. The last boss is extremely 
 difficult and is almost impossible to beat on the first try. You'd almost have to memorize the 
 song in order to get some of the power-ups as the bosses know when to use them to their best advantage. 
 It's a descent challenge but nothing else. Online is an awesome addition if you don't have anybody 
 else to play with. A disappointing aspect is that there seems to be an enormous amount of high 
 scores and at one time I noticed somebody with 42 million on their career which is an impossibility 
 but later is was deleted.
  
  Other than very hard difficulty, stupid boss battles, and descent online play; this is very similar 
 to the other Guitar Hero games. If you enjoy playing some kick ass songs then this is a must buy 
 on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NihilisticNinja
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  The song list for GHIII is excellent and the addition of many master tracks is obviously a huge 
 plus. The Co-Op career is also a pretty cool addition but that's really about all that this game 
 has going for it over its predecessors.
  
  The controllers have been troublesome, as many have stated, idk if its the wireless or what but 
 even after calibrating the lag it seems like every once and a while when you really need to hit 
 a sequence of notes rapidly the guitar just becomes very unresponsive. That coupled with the fact 
 that GHIII controllers won't work with GHII and GHII controllers don't work well with the adapters 
 on the PS3 and you're stuck keeping around your PS2. Also what's with the refusal to sell stand 
 alone extra guitars? I can't play multiplayer because I'm not going to cough up another $100 to 
 buy another bundle just so I can get another guitar. That's totally unacceptable imo, the guys 
 at best buy told me it took almost 5 months for the 360 version of GHII to get seperate guitars, 
 they had to recall them initially because of broken wammys. You'd think they could have working 
 hardware ready for the release.
  
  All that being said, this is still guitar hero, everything you've come to know and love about it 
 is still here and It's still just as fun as it's ever been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdogg69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I think the most important thing about Guitar Hero, since the gameplay is very established already, 
 would have to be the set lists. That being said, THESE SONGS ROCK!!!!!! (no pun intended) The game 
 looks pretty good for a Guitar Hero game, where graphics are not even close to the most important 
 aspect. I don't think this one is as hard as the second one, even though GS thinks differently. 
 This may be because of the songs again. The battles are really fun and exciting new game modes, 
 especially with a group of people around you getting excited when you give Slash a battle-ending 
 Whammy or Double. This game is THE BEST in the series, followed by GH1 and then GH2. GUITAR HERO!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yvarnaud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  greatest game ever especially the graphics woohoo. the guitar looks better especially the co-op 
 online. battle each other this game rocks. the characters looks so real and the kind of music they 
 have is amazing. the cool thing too is that you can customize your guitar. doesn't even cost that 
 much. the cool thing too is that the guitar is wireless don't need to plug anything cool. Im getting 
 mine this weekend and i know this game is great because i played it on my 360 and since i don't 
 have to pay online for the ps3 i will buy it for the ps3 and plus i have good friends on the ps3 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing GH3, I was surprised at how bad the visual lag was, and I thought 
 that at first I had a faulty guitar controller. It was almost unplayable in the fast parts, and 
 seemed very unresponsive. I was very upset at first, but then I found the option in the option 
 menu to configure the audio/ visual lag for the tv. The option mentioned that some HDTVs have lag 
 problems and that it can make it hard to play. After I messed around with that option for a while, 
 the game was much much better. The problems I was experiencing practically disappeared. It was 
 a little frustrating calibrating the ms on the lag option, and I ended up having to do it several 
 times, but once I got it right, I didnt have anymore problems. The song list is really good, although 
 it takes a while for it to get really goin cuz the first few rounds are kinda boring, but some 
 of the later songs are an absolute blast. The graphics were a little bit of a disappointment, but 
 it still looks pretty good. Cant wait for more online content to come out. Hopefully the game will 
 last for a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallterror
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I just got guitar hero yesterday and after playing it for only a couple hours i can tell you there 
 are some very good new things in the game and there are 1 or 2 things that aren't so good.
  
  GOOD
  
  1) The graphics are much much much much better than they were in guitar hero 2. 
 the people in the crowd actually have some variety if you can believe that.
  
  2) The online play is pretty much amazing and there is no lag from what i could tell.
  
  3) 
 The new songs are awesome like Bulls on Parade and round and round.
  
  4) The new guitar looks and feels much better than the old red thing from guitar hero 2. and u 
 can get faceplates if you feel like wasting your money on 1. the strummer is also quieter which 
 is heaven for youtube vids.
  
  BAD: ( ( ( ( (
  
  1) The new guitar feels a little too good. by that i mean it is a little too heavy if you don't 
 like wearing the strap and and buttons feel a little less responsive than they were on the old 
 guitar and harder to press. The strummer also seemed a little less responsive than before but that 
 may be because i got used to the rubberband feel in my old one.
  
  2) The new interface is slower when you want to get from the top of a playlist to the bottom really 
 fast it could get annoying.
  
  3) The in song interface is also a little different and it will take some getting used to.
  
 
  Overall i think this is an amazing game and should definitely be picked up by any music or guitar 
 fan... Actually everyone should get this game because if you don't like music you will like it 
 after playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infidexus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Picked this up the day it came out. Read a lot of people's comments about which system they are 
 picking this up for. I love my PS3 so I went with the PS3 bundle and I am very happy with my decision. 
 The guitar works flawlessly, no lag at all. I noticed there is a way to adjust lag if there is 
 any, but it was precious, when I pushed a button and strummed, it responded immediately. I sat 
 down to play this game for 1 hour, but 5 hours had gone by before I new it. The songs are awesome, 
 a little old rock, and little new, plenty of songs for any rock fan. If I had to complain about 
 anything, it would be the wireless adapter you have to plug into the usb port. Not a big deal, 
 just wish the PS3 had a usb port on the back to hide. If your sitting on the fence deciding whether 
 or not to buy, go for it, this game rocks! You'll be playing it for years to come, so many options. 
 I haven't tried online play yet or downloaded any add ons from the sony store. I'll update when 
 I get to that, in the meantime, I'm having fun playing career mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsciandra
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this review by saying that I have not played any of the previous incarnations of 
 Guitar Hero extensively and my only experience comes from playing GHIII on PS3 and a little of 
 GHII on PS2 (but only for a little while) .
  
  I can now see why this game has been so popular, from the moment that I loaded up the game and 
 pulled the strap over my neck, I was hooked! The graphics are great on a hi-def TV (but only available 
 in 720p) and you immeditely get drawn in from the moment you finish the tutorial and play your 
 first song. At least for me, I found myself replaying songs to get a better score and higher rating 
 and there is something to be said about the feeling that you are playing the songs... obviously 
 not the same skill as someone who can actually play guitar, but the game gives you a very satisfied 
 feeling when you hit the notes and it actually feels like you are 'playing' the song.
  
  At first you are limited in terms of the songs you can play and you need to play in career mode 
 and work your way from backyard band to a stadium band in order to unlock more songs. Some are 
 unlocked via Encores that are requested by the crowd after you play a good set, or after the 'boss 
 battles' with well known guitarists. I was particularly thrilled when I beat Tom Morello of Rage 
 Against the Machine and as a gift was offered the ability to play Bulls on Parade' with the man 
 himself (thus unlocking the song for later practice and play) . You can also 'purchase' songs using 
 the money earned from gigs... I recommend 'She Bangs the Drums' by the Stone Roses. As you progress, 
 you unlock more characters (I can now play as Morello) and songs, as well as outfits, guitars etc 
 that you can purchase with money earned.
  
  The gameplay is solid, I did not experience any lag and when I strummed and hit a fret button in 
 reacted right on cue. The new wireless guitar is awesome (although it comes with a dongle and the 
 cord is too short, 3-4 inches) and it feels more sturdy than the older guitars, with a detachable 
 neck for easy transporting. The fret buttons are less 'spongy' than on the old guitars and the 
 'start' &amp; 'select' buttons were moved to avoid accidental pauses etc in the game.
  
  You can also remove the faceplate to personalize it, however I like the glossy black finish how 
 it comes and have no desire to put an advertisement for Korn on the guitar. Overall, the guitar 
 has a nice weight to it and doesn't feel like you will bend or break it if you get into a song.
 
  
  The tuturial is a little annoying with the voice over help, however if you are new to the game, 
 the tuturial is essential.
  
  The game simply has everything you want from a good game. After you play a song, you always feel 
 like you could do a better job and end up wanting to retry... which keeps you coming back. The animations 
 are very good and entertaining and the cur scenes (although with no talking) are very entertaining 
 and do a great job of getting the message across (whether being signed by a label etc) .
  
  Also the co-op and battle modes are fun. In co-op, you play WITH someone, usually one person on 
 guitar and the other on bass, which also unlocks more songs that are unavailable in the single-player. 
 Or you cab battle another person and based upon your performance you earn 'attacks' that make it 
 harder for your opponent to play (i. e. cutting one of their strings, forcing them to button mash 
 to fix the string, or amp overload, making it harder for them to see the notes that are coming 
 etc) .
  
  As someone who has heard people talk about GH, I now know what all the fuss is about and the replayability 
 is great. You may start on the Easy setting (which only uses 3 of the fret buttons) , but once you 
 master, you will want the challenge of Medium (which uses 4 buttons) or Hard / Expert that uses 
 all 5. You also want to see your career keep progressing to bigger and bigger venues.
  
  I highly recommend getting the game. Unfortunatly there aren't any available wireless guitar controllers 
 that you can buy separtately so you can play with a friend, but they should be out soon. Also, 
 I read that later released guitars will be bluetooth eneabled and rechargable via the USB.
  
  Grab the game, strap that bad boy on and fulfill your rock star dreams! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P0rksterX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  I'm upset at hearing the hardware issues thing since there are none if you know how to do it right. 
 Now to the game, this game is amazing. Awesome soundtrack, great replayability helps too. Its great 
 seeing this game doing so well, it truely is a game everyone can enjoy. The boss battles are extremly 
 fun and playing air guitar has never been better. GH's only competition will be Rock Band once 
 it comes out. I still think focusing one one aspect, guitar, will make this game soar to the top! 
 Once again, guitar hero proves its worth and delivers extremely well in the process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kionox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  For starters, I had never owned any of the previous titles. But, I have to say, GH3 is amazing. 
 I had played GH2 a few times, and I always though it was so unrealistic. But, I do play the real 
 guitar. And I have to say, if nothing else, GH3 will keep my hand in shape! The easy mode is just 
 that, easy. But as you go along, It gets much much harder. The expert mode is just insane. Maybe 
 when I get to that level, I can play better real guitar. As for the features, the set list almost 
 endless; not counting the 25 or so additional songs you can unlock. Unlockables are always great 
 in games. It gives you a way to know you've beaten the game. If there is such a thing. The newest 
 feature is the battle It is no short of awesome. I haven't taken it online yet, but I would image 
 it is also awesome. Another great title from Activision. And another great PS3 game. The only game 
 that's going to beat this one is Rock Band. Sorry GH3, but you should have thought of it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  I loved Guitar Hero 1 and 2, and 3 is even better. Anyone who's ever played air guitar to their 
 favorite song will love this game. Graphically - Who cares. You can barely take the time to blink 
 while those frets are streaming past you, let alone look at anything outside of it. Yeah there's 
 some cool comic like scenes during career mode that break the monotony of moving up in the ranks, 
 but seriously, who buys this game for the graphics?
  
  Sound - If this game had anything less than awesome sound it wouldn't be worth playing. All new 
 songs, including some of your all time favorites plus other songs you never heard of, really works 
 out. Gameplay - You get to play the guitar, without all the years of practice and string-blistered 
 fingers. With a couple days practice you can be playing Santana. It's awesome just for that. This 
 rendition steps it up a notch though, including a battle system during career mode where you battle 
 some famous pickers, and it's pretty fun.
  
  All in all, it's great. If you've never played Guitar hero before, I'll warn you ahead of time, 
 you will become addicted and your wrist will be killing you within a couple hours. For you veterans 
 - you know what to expect. Well worth the rather large $99 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  I'll just get the few bad things out of the way now:
  
  They got rid of Eddie Knox... angered me but I'll live.
  
  Apparently some other unlucky folks 
 have gotten somewhat non-functional versions, sorry to them but I don't know what to tell you, 
 mine runs great.
  
  Apparently not compatible with previous GH's... VERY not pleased about it given the games themselves 
 run perfectly with my 60GB PS3. Rumors of an adapter run high, but I'll believe it when I see it.
 
  
  Now the good stuff:
  
  Best song lineup to date. Boss battles are refreshingly new and not all chaotic like I thought 
 they'd be. The reciever is not nearly as big as they showed before. I bought mine thinking I'd 
 have to accept some massive growth sprouting out of my PS3, but here it was, just a little reciever, 
 MAYBE 3 times the size of a normal guitar pick, which ain't that big mind you. Looks fairly cool 
 hangin' off my PS3. However, they clearly made GH3 with the experienced player in mind. Easy and 
 normal are, well, easy and normal. But if you try to make the jump from normal to hard, I'd suggest 
 brushing up on GH2. The difference between normal and hard is almost ridiculous. Given that I'm 
 not a fanatic player, and was just starting to scratch the surface of hard level on GH2, this was 
 a lil upsetting, but I like the challenge. I have yet to try multiplayer.
  
  The character models look stunning, and given they got rid of Eddie Knox, Axel's my new character, 
 looking almost exactly like Dimebag Darrel (rest his soul) . The new customizations of clothing 
 and guitars and finishes are looking pretty creative. And I cannot thank them enough for getting 
 the lip-synching down on the singer... I don't know why, but it the irks the living crap out of 
 me when I don't see a character's lips move to the words on a game. All in all, I'm happy about 
 the purchase. Despite the $100 tag, my wife got it for me for it was our anniversary the day before 
 launch day. We've been playing it all weekend and I now have sore fingertips. This is definitely 
 a must have for the PS3 if you got one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBrokenNinja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This game did have some lag problems with the wireless controller but after I calibrated the lag 
 the game started to work perfectly. It is definitely the hardest and most in depth game of the 
 series for sure. Compared to the first two this game rocks twice as hard, plays twice as fast, 
 and is twice as difficult. The songs are amazing, the boss battles are intense, and the graphics 
 are stimulating. I truly appreciate all the time and extras that were put into this game to make 
 it a step above the previous installments. All I can say is that I will definitely be playing this 
 game for the next few months non-stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theabridgedevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero III: Legends of Rock is just like the other Guitar hero games. Notes come down the 
 screen and you press the fret and strum to make music. GH3s track list is its strongest asset. 
 Songs from Aerosmith to Iron Maiden and many other artists like Rolling Stone. The song list is 
 42 in the initial set and a load of bonus songs. Also it is said that Downloadable content is coming 
 to the Playstation network. The graphics are quite outstanding. The players and venues look very 
 good and the ummm, notes look well colorful. A new addition to this version is the Battle mode. 
 You can challenge another player or a boss battle in career. You play a series of notes and gain 
 power ups which screw around with your opponents board. This is definitely a nice edition to the 
 game. Also online mode is the biggest new edition to the game and the best. Now you can play against 
 friends and other people around the net. However at this time Im noticing at syncing issue with 
 the controller in online but isnt too horrible. This brings me to the next point, the controller. 
 People have been saying there is a lag issue with the controller and display due to being wireless. 
 I personally havent noticed this so I cant say too much about it. Also for some idiotic reason 
 the guitar isnt compatible with Guitar Hero 1,2, and 80s. That is a very big let down but doesnt 
 hurt the game itself its just I have a gripe with that. All in all Guitar Hero III is a very solid 
 game in many senses though without its flaws. I would recommend it to anyone who wants to plat 
 Guitar hero on the PS3 or anyone wanting to play a music game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wdave92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Ahh guitar hero i have beaten your career in expert loads of times so what do you offer me this 
 time. The answer A really promising soundtrack and a nice online experience. The songs they actually 
 went out of the way to get the really good songs but some of the covers who sing the songs disappoint 
 people even though the best song in the game One is recorded by metallica Yay ^.^ but the doesn't 
 change much of the formula one thing thats noticeable the margin for making the notes has been 
 expanded since GHII and one thing that is fun is the Boss Battles its just fun.
  now there is a Huge problem the wireless guitars they have considerable lag sometimes and the lag 
 in the LCD's do suck if you use interlaces you have to put it in 720P and you can configure the 
 lag so that problem is solved and god willingly the lag in the guitar is a software problem not 
 hardware.
  Overall its a great sequel 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
