-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/harrypotterphoenix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hogwarts is re-created in all its glory for you to explore.
 Minigames are a pleasant diversion.
 Voice acting and music are good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is little more than a virtual reality chore simulator.
 Endless backtracking makes the game even more dull.
 Cutscenes are glitchy and feel unfinished.
 Nearly everything about the game is tedious.
 Story is impossible to follow if you haven't read the book.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.8, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 289 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The video game version of Order of the Phoenix captures none of the magic in the  Harry Potter  
 books or films. 

  The  Harry Potter  series of books has captured both the minds of children and adults alike. The 
 movies haven't disappointed either and are amongst the highest grossing films of all time. For 
 some reason, the video games that have been released haven't been able to reach the same level 
 of quality that the movies and books have achieved. The latest game, Harry Potter and the Order 
 of the Phoenix, continues that trend. There's a faithful re-creation of the Hogwarts campus to 
 explore, but once you've seen the sights, there's not much else to do. Even the most diehard Potter 
 fans will grow tired of seeing the grand staircase as they return from their umpteenth fetch quest. 

  Order of the Phoenix follows the story of the book and the movie of the same name. After narrowly 
 avoiding expulsion for using magic in front of a muggle, Harry finds that Hogwarts' new defense 
 against the dark arts teacher seems to have it out for him. To make matters worse, Voldemort is 
 threatening to rear his ugly mug again, and Harry fears that the school will be unable to defend 
 itself. With the help of Ron and Hermione, Harry rallies the students together to form Dumbledore's 
 Army in an effort to ready them for a fight against the dark lord. This all makes perfect sense 
 if you've read the book, but the story's exceedingly difficult to follow if you haven't read it 
 because vast segments are told via brief rendered video cutscenes and newspaper clippings. It's 
 easy to understand how a three-hour movie might have to leave bits and pieces out, but it's puzzling 
 that an eight-hour game can't tell even the most basic aspect of the story.  

           Who knew that Harry's life was so boring?      

  Though the game's box says you'll 
 get to play as Sirius Black and Dumbledore, you do so for less than five minutes, so you'll spend 
 nearly the entire game controlling Harry. Ron and Hermione will be by your side the whole time 
 offering hints on where to go or what to do next. You'll also encounter every recognizable character 
 from the  Harry Potter  universe along your journey. The game starts off with a tutorial where 
 you'll learn basic spells like wingardium leviosa (levitation) , reparo (repair an object) , accio 
 (pull an object toward you) , and depulso (push an object away) by helping people fix broken dishes, 
 pack their suitcases, and move furniture -- not exactly riveting stuff. On the PC, PlayStation 2, 
 PlayStation, 3, and Xbox 360, you cast spells by pressing a button to point your wand and moving 
 the right analog stick in a specific pattern. Rotating the stick clockwise will cast reparo, pressing 
 down twice will cast accio, and pushing forward twice will cast depulso. You can also use the keyboard 
 and mouse on the PC and this works fine. On the Wii, you'll hold the remote vertically then tilt 
 it forward to cast depulso. To perform wingardium leviosa, you'll raise both the Wii Remote and 
 the Nunchuk to lift the object then move the controllers around to maneuver the object. This works 
 surprisingly well, and it makes it feel as if you are actually casting spells, which goes a long 
 way toward making the game more enjoyable. The PS3 does use the Sixaxis' motion controls, but tilting 
 and twisting the controller as you hold it in your lap doesn't add much to the experience.  

  Later in the game, you'll learn combat spells. These are cast in the same way as noncombat spells 
 and mostly use the same patterns. But there will only be a few instances where you'll need to perform 
 these combat spells because there's hardly any dueling in the game. This is probably a good thing 
 because the combat isn't very good, and it's tough to tell if you're actually hitting someone. 
 Even during the last fight, you just stand there casting the same spell over and over, waiting 
 for a cutscene to signify the end of the battle.  

  Once you've learned some basic spells, it's off to Hogwarts, which is faithfully re-created in 
 a game for the first time. The Hogwarts campus is absolutely huge, which is both a blessing and 
 a curse. Fans should really get a kick out of seeing the grand staircase in motion and candles 
 floating above the tables in the great hall, as well as sneaking into Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. 
 But traversing back and forth across such a large area quickly becomes tiresome. Once you find 
 the proper passwords, you can use the passages behind paintings as shortcuts, but they don't cut 
 that much time off the journey. Another problem is the in-game navigation system. You're given 
 a map that lists all of the different areas on campus, as well as the location of each person you 
 need to find. Once you've highlighted the person or place you're looking for, footprints will appear 
 on the ground to lead the way. Unfortunately, the footprints are black, so they're difficult to 
 see; they don't appear far enough in front of you, so you're constantly forced to stop to wait 
 for them to appear; and the camera will often switch angles midstride, so you don't know which 
 way you're facing.  

           Exploring Hogwarts is interestingfor a while.      

  You've got a huge campus 
 and healthy number of spells at your disposal, so you'll no doubt be doing all sorts of awesome 
 things in incredible, mystical places, right? No. You spend most of the game running around trying 
 to inform everyone as to the whereabouts of the room of requirement. You'll pick a character on 
 the map, follow the footprints, and then tell people about the meeting place. In almost every single 
 case, they'll have a reason for why they can't go. Of course, you've got to help them. This means 
 you'll run all over Hogwarts collecting items, moving benches, fixing things, and helping people 
 with their homework. This is how you spend the entire game. It's literally one fetch quest after 
 another. Being able to pick the quest you want gives the illusion that you've got the freedom to 
 do what you want, but the game is extremely linear in that there's only one way to accomplish any 
 given objective. And sometimes you'll be performing the same exact task over again, such as when 
 you're helping to disable the school's intercom by moving benches then pouring a potion into the 
 speakers. You do this, not once, not twice, but five or six times; each time in a different room. 

  Performing one menial task after another would be bad enough on its own, but other issues conspire 
 to make it worse. The game does a decent job of showing you where people and places are, but once 
 you've met with someone, you're quite often on your own when it comes to figuring out how to help 
 him or her. For example, at one point in the game, you must help a kid find five talking gargoyles. 
 Now, you've encountered several talking gargoyles to this point, but for some reason, you can't 
 tell the kid this and you must find the gargoyles again. Not only are you doing something you've 
 already done, but the map doesn't show you where these gargoyles are, so you're forced to scour 
 the entire campus in an effort to locate them.  

  When you're not playing the role of messenger boy, you'll spend much of your time cleaning up Hogwarts 
 by putting statues, paintings, and urns back together. You can also search behind curtains for 
 giant chess pieces, move blocks to find hidden plaques, light torches, and even sweep floors. These 
 tasks are actually pleasant diversions for a short while, and you can unlock extras by performing 
 them. But the tasks speak poorly for the game as a whole when sweeping the floor is a highlight. 
 Another way to pass the time is to play chess, exploding snap, and gobstones. Gobstones (think 
 marbles) and exploding snap (pick out matching pairs of cards) are simple but fun. Chess plays 
 similar to Battle Chess and is actually quite engaging -- if you've played chess before. The game 
 will show you the moves that each piece can make, but there's no tutorial mode, which may leave 
 many younger players clueless.  

           Even though EA scanned the actors' noggins, the characters still look a bit off.      
 

  Visually, Order of the Phoenix is all over the place. Many areas of Hogwarts, such as the grand 
 staircase or great hall, look spectacular and are very detailed. However, many of the hallways 
 look the same and are largely empty. Combat spells look really cool when you cast them, but there 
 are so few duels that you'll rarely get to enjoy seeing the spells in action. At first glance, 
 character models look just like their movie counterparts and are quite nice. But once you see them 
 in motion, you'll notice that they all look kind of like zombies. Things are even worse in the 
 cutscenes that utilize the in-game engine. Characters stare blankly off into the distance, they 
 face the wrong way, their mouths often don't move when they talk, and they'll appear then disappear 
 from view for no apparent reason. The PS3, 360, and PC versions look the best. Other than lower 
 quality in-game cutscenes and some nasty aliasing, the PS2 and Wii versions hold their own, though 
 the PS2's frame rate is pretty iffy at times. Having the actors from the films voice their characters 
 in the game goes a long way toward immersing you in the experience, even with the shoddy cutscenes 
 and script. The familiar musical score is here and suits the game perfectly, which kind of makes 
 you wonder why it was used so little.  

  It's hard to imagine that the video game version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix will 
 appeal to anyone. Older fans of Harry Potter will enjoy exploring Hogwarts for a while, but they'll 
 soon be bored to tears by the low level of difficulty and the tedious objectives. The younger set 
 will also get a kick out of seeing the sights and will appreciate the forgiving difficulty, as 
 well as the simplicity of the tasks at hand. But they'll quickly grow tired of using their favorite 
 character to perform a seemingly endless parade of chores. If being the most famous wizard in the 
 world were this boring, there wouldn't have been more than one book.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Strider_23
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  I never understood why Harry Potter video games are always a letdown. I mean, yes, they want to 
 release each game along with its grand screen counterpart, but the hiatus between the movies - 
 1 year and a half - 2 years.. is more than enough for the decision making of a great game. Potter`s 
 world is huge, colorful, diverse, and would have made a powerful way of escaping reality while 
 exploring it. Instead, most of the games except GoF, fall short because they ultimately feel rushed, 
 short and without too much depth. The HP stories always were great because of some powerful themes, 
 but oddly enough the game developers chose not to make use of any. It`s as if they took only the 
 flashy stuff, like magic and duels, and then totally randomized it with shallow and cliche' motivations. 
 
  
  The same goes for the latest game from the HP universe. The castle is great, and beautiful... it`s 
 definitely large and I can surely lose myself in it... but I don`t feel any motivation behind doing 
 so. I mean sweeping floors and re-building statues ? And after that I get some stinkin` orbs ? 
 What is this ? "Harry Potter and His Pitiful Attempt at being a Hogwarts cleaning Lady" ?
  
  The pace is really slow and if Harry would have been always busy cleansing Hogwarts, when people 
 were not believing him that Voldemort returned, then he would have been a total moron. Where are 
 the schemes ? The snappy interactions between characters ? Even duels, who are supposed to be exciting 
 are ZzzzZZZzz, because you`re never quite sure what exactly are you doing there.. you just twist 
 that wand and hope something cool comes out.. 
  
  I really hate the development team that was in charge of this game... They took great artistic 
 direction and totally pooped over it with bad ideas gameplay wise, while totally ignoring the seriousness 
 of the story. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadMatty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Well I must admit I expected more from this game. I would have believed there would be much more 
 gameplay and captivating activities to do around Hogwarts, compared to the Goblet of Fire Order 
 of the Phoenix really delivers. I unearthed a couple of weeks ago and was delighted as I replayed 
 it. Sure, it's easy to beat but a lot of fun can be had roaming about Hogwarts hexing Slytherins 
 and filling up the Room of Rewards. I do expect more from the next game in the franchise but the 
 fact that you can roam through the school and grounds after the actual game is a keeper. I have 
 on the PS3 so the graphics are extremely rich and the castle's details are the same as the film. 
 The graphics rock. One of the disappointing parts was the fact that key parts of the book and movie 
 were omitted in the game, you spend virtually no time in Grimmauld place and you don't attend any 
 classes. I think one of the best things they could do for the next game is integrating classes. 
 Having to spend normal school days with Harry would be a really cool experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear619
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  another harry potter movie is enevitably followed by a harry potter game on all platforms... i am 
 going to review the ps3 version of the game... which i thought was quiet good to be honest... far 
 from perfect but a major step forward in some areas from previous potter games games... first the 
 visuals are quiet simply increible... you do actually feel you are in the potter universe with hogwarts 
 magnificently recreated from the highest tower down to the footsteps left in the grass... character 
 models are mostly frightenly like there real lift counterparts. The main characters harry ron and 
 hermione look fantastic with ron looking a bit better then the other two... voice overs are quiet 
 good too with some actors from the film lending there voice for the game such as rupet grint who 
 plays ron... now onto the gameplay... instead of previous games where square, triangle, x and o were 
 useds to cast spells the anolog is now used... differnet spells are cast by moving and twisting 
 the anolog in various directions... this works quiet well which gives you more control over harry... oh 
 ya you play harry for most part of the game... buy the game to find out who else u can play as... the 
 story mode is solid but nothing special, cutscenes are ok but feel unfinished in some areas... besides 
 the main storyline that follows the movie you can explore hogwarts castle and find and unreal amount 
 of unlockabes... you navigate around hogwarts with the marordors map with is a nice touch.... there 
 is also plenty of submissons for you too do during the game
  
  
  
  
  all in all harry potter ootp is a good good game... potter fans will loves this as will some new 
 comers... nothing special but with a bit more work and not so much back tracking this would have 
 been a great game... i give it 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I read the books and watched the movies, so I am writing this with a bit of a subjectve viewpoint. 
 I appreciated the effort that the developers put into this game. 
  
  They didn't limit you to small rooms and silly tasks to perform for an upgrade. This game has no 
 limits to where you can go and what you can do. Feel like climbing all the way to the roof of Hogwarts? 
 You can. Want to have some fun on your broom? You can.
  
  The quests can get tedious but it offers alot for those who thrive on puzzles. You feel at home 
 immediately in the story and with the excellent voice acting. I loved the fully animated environments 
 in the game with no small detail left untouched. For the sake of completeness, you can affect almost 
 everything in the game so you become much more than just a participant in the adventure, you become 
 the real hero in the story. The movie is faithfully recreated in this adventure and when you want 
 to wander away and do your own thing, you can. 
  
  Every little bit of humor is faithfully rendered in the story too and I found myself laughing at 
 many of the voices and things I had to do to complete my missions.
  
  
  I would never say rent this. I would say buy it and play it for yourself. I could try to describe 
 a hot fudge sundae to you but you need to get a spoon for yourself for the full effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazpen90
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good and I enjoyed playing the game. It had some weaknesses such as not enough 
 things to do in the game! It also could be a longer game as in my opinion the game was too short 
 and I had completed it in about a week. The story behind the game was very good and I enjoyed the 
 story and the game. I would recommend the game to anyone who likes adventure games. It would be 
 better if there was more quidditch in the game to make the game more exiting. The graphics are fairly 
 good and there are good sound effects. The game was very good and I am looking forward untill the 
 next game is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelove1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Pheonix takes you into the fifth year of Harry Potters adventures 
 at Hogwarts. It has all the rooms, the puzzels and even makes up for the parts in the book that 
 were cut out of the movie. Yet it just doesn't seem like it's complete.
  
  In Harry Potter and the Order of the Peonix you start out in the order learning all of the moves 
 you learn in every game which makes you think what has the school been teaching if your god father 
 has to teach you to use a wand. You go through many things that lead through the story line.
  Most of it is just learning how to do spells.
  
  Speaking of the story line it's horrible in 
 this game. Half of the cutscenes are newspapers like in the movie but they go so fast you can't 
 read them. The only way to really know the story is if you read or watched year five before.
  
  The graphics aren't that bad. They are pretty good considering other agmes for the HD systems. 
 And the voice acting is excelent. Everyone from the movie helped create the voices. That connects 
 it to the other Harry Potter movies that much more.
  
  So if you want a really good game for the ps3 or just like harry potter this is a great buy! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_well_cook
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well overall Harry Potter and the Order of the Pheniox was a let down. I really didnt know what 
 to expect before i played it, but after playing, not much fun. The game for the most part was boring, 
 you had to keep running back in forth in the castle to help out the DA members, which got very 
 tedious and well...... boring. And if you havent seen the movie or read the book then the game would 
 be confusing and very hard to follow. Hopefully for the next game the makers of the game take their 
 time in creating a well developed and good flowing game, which would definaitaly help out. But 
 of course there were some fun and interesting parts in the game, but they were few and far between. 
 Anyway 5 out of 10 because its Harry Potter, and it did take long to pass, luckily! I dont know 
 if i could have taken another homework assignment mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Iv'e only been playing for a little bit so my opinion could change but this is what I think so 
 far. The graphics are good, but not great. The shape of the faces look accurate but the coloring 
 of them doesn't. The castle resembles the movies very well and is filled with extra bonuses to 
 earn rewards. However to get these bonuses you must do stuff like repair a goblet or knight, and 
 there are times where you use wingardium leviosa to make a broom sweep up a mess. The voice overs 
 sound good due to the fact it's the real actors but some sound awkward. Using the right analog 
 stick is a great new way for casting spells (kind of like the controls in "Skate") compared to 
 "Goblet of Fire" which was just hit a button and it does the right spell for you. The game sticks 
 to movie well enough but the cutscenes skip through a lot to make them a bit shorter. There are 
 some minigames to waste some time, they include Wizards Chess, Exploding Snaps, and Gobstones. 
 The game has added a "rewards room" where you can watch unlocked behind the scenes videos and view 
 cups won for doing bonus activities, which is cool to have. "Harry Potter and the Order of the 
 Phoenix" is a good start for the series on next gen but it really needs to pick up the action for 
 "Half-Blood Prince". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bella1970
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is far by the worst game in the Harry Potter series. Sure, I admit that the graphics 
 are quite impressive and the Hogwarts grounds do look quite realistic to the movie, but lets face 
 it, this game really went low. 
  
  Graphics- I would give this category a 9 because despite that the characters look realistic, there 
 are still some things that just say this looks more like a cartoon.
  
  Gameplay- The game is fairly easy and mostly involves you exploring Hogwarts which is why i give 
 this category a 3. Plus, its just the thing if you have nothing better to do but sit around and 
 hit your head against the wall. You get to help out the D. A. members and everything like in the 
 movie, but if the people call this game action adventure, then they are highly mistaken because 
 this is all a boring adventure.
  
  Storyline- The storyline does follow the movie soo it will do with a 5. The major thing again about 
 this game is that all you are basically doing is exploring the castle and it gets extremely boring. 
 Once again, exactly like the movie but still very boring to play.
  
  
  Overall- I give this game a 3.5 out of 10 because of the poor storyline, gameplay and basically 
 everything. Graphics aent worthy for the PS3 and well this is a non stop adventure which is terribly 
 boring... might as well commit suicide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlesix
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  I have bought the PS3 and after completing Assasins Creed earlier than expected, wa trying really 
 hard to just play the demos until Santa brought some new games (fingers crossed) . 
  Couldnt wait any longer and decided to pop Kel's arry Potter "Order of the Pheonix" in. Started 
 really well with the WB sign looking awesome, just like a film. Started to play the game and well 
 impressed with the graphics which were quite clean and the characters did resemble the on-screen 
 actors. Impressed with the voice actors which are in fact the real actors of the film (Bonus!!!)
 
  After 5 minutes i was getting a little cheesed with the cut scenes and the trapsing around Hogwarts, 
 which is allot bigger than what i thought it was. Moaning Murtloe wouldnt leave me alone and my 
 beer was getting warm with all the practise of spells that i had already achieved.
  I gave up after 10 minutes, was bored out of my skull. A nice idea but the repetativness of the 
 spells to fix stuff was doing my head in. I have never turned of a video game so early before as 
 you really do need to give it a chance, but i couldnt last any longer with this flop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarecrow_br
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  A game for kids and that is it. Lack of a good story, lack of main objectives throughout the game, 
 you will spend hours and hours just going from one point in the school to another without a real 
 challenge.
  
  My daughter loved it but yet, she is only 9 and she is a big fan of Harry Potter. I doubt anyone 
 older or not a fan of the book will like it.
  
  The combat sequences are OK but they are few and scattered through the game, you will spend hours 
 between one fight and another doing countless boring tasks and discovering the hidden on the school, 
 which is nice until you have played the first couple of hours just doing it.
  
  On the good side the game does have good graphics, good sound, the environment is really big and 
 there are plenty of things for look for but, again, this is also de problem of the game that trusted 
 heavily on discovering things and became boring.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  After the dire HP 4 videogame based on 3 yr old's, i wasnt expecting musch from Harry 1st outing 
 on the PS3, i was wrong it might be a bit stubborn a few times and a bit pepetitve but it's worth 
 4 stars, why? I'll tell you. First of all, why didnt i get this on xbox? well not only was i intrigued 
 to see potters first Next gen videogame in Blu ray but this game suits the PS3's control and style 
 very well. The thing i like about it is that it's a sandbox adventure, a free roaming magic carpet 
 ride, sort of a few bumps and knocks along the way but it gets there in the end. the story differs 
 a little from the book and film but overall a decent movie andaption and a decent game. One problem, 
 i would of wanted online play for wizard duels and stuff but you cant have it all can you......: ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-darcwake
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing the fifth installment in the Harry Potter universe I was quite entertained. 
 But that entertainment quickly faded.
  
  The game is not terrible, but it comes very close. Some of the missions Harry Potter, Ron, and 
 Hermione venture on turn out to be very fun and very entertaining. The developers did an amazing 
 job capturing the scale of Hogwarts, but that scale is a little bit too much. For example, some 
 missions will have you running from one side of Hogwarts to the other... and that just isn't fun. 
 But you do not have to memorize your steps because there are little black footprints on the floor 
 to help guide you to your next objective.
  
  Comparing this game to previous Harry Potter games, this one has to be the best. But also the most 
 boring. I remember playing Chamber of Secrets for the Gamecube, and I also remember being entertained. 
 Harry Potter games are improving on graphics and scale each year, but gameplay is key if they wish 
 to return in Half-Blood Prince. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancerex6
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is something that can be enjoyable or a total pain for 
 gamers. With that being said, This new Harry Potter game is by far the best one in its series.
 
  
  This is the first Harry Potter to step in the Next-Gen world. The graphics is definitely on par 
 with next-gen . Character models are very similar to their movie actors. But their face can sometimes 
 be very scary and look very weird. The castle has been redone into a full map with every little 
 corner you see in the movies. It is very fun to just walk around and see the castle filled with 
 life, much like a real-life school.
  
  Some frame rate dips are noticible, especially when outside of the castle near the Hut. Other than 
 that the frame rate is pretty smooth all the way.
  
  The story follows the movie very well, adding little bits of quests from Harry's friends. It will 
 be a near 10 hour experience in Harry's world. The unlockable contents are very impressive, with 
 interviews, behind the scene of various actors working on the game. Worth it? If you don't mind 
 running around the beautiful castle, then yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenture333x2
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I have spent hours upon hours playing this game. I feel terrible because those hours could have 
 been better spent watching paint dry. As a huge Harry Potter fan this game was fun when it started. 
 Hogwarts is huge, and it is very fun to explore a first. At first. The characters look pretty good. 
 At lot of the voices sound very good. Daniel Radcliff and Emma Watson (Harry and Hermoine) aren't 
 voiced by the actors but at lot of the other characters are. The problem is that Hermoine never 
 shuts up. Her voice becomes so annoying you want to break your TV. As I mentioned before, Hogwarts 
 is huge. You will run around it a thousand times. As you go, one of the fun parts is finding all 
 the things in the castle worth fixing. That is literally the most fun you will have with game. 
 The required tasks are drudgingly boring. There are times when you will have to slide against the 
 wall on a ledge, or climb up pipes. Now, these are the most physical movements Harry can do, and 
 he does it very slowly. Sometimes a student will ask you to help with their homework. You will 
 run around this huge castle trying to find something tiny, tucked into a corner. It takes a ridiculous 
 amount of time to find, and it is not worth it. Little footprints show you where to go, but they 
 impossible to see, and they don't show you where the items you are trying to find are. Every task 
 is repeated 5-6 times. There are so many bad things to say about this game, I could go on forever. 
 My final reccomendation is this: Do not make the same mistake I did, do not waste your time with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Which is better the movies or the books?
  My answer to the fifth Harry Potter game is to short what ever happend to the first 3 Potter games 
 Philosopher's stone (PS1) , Chamber of Secrets (PS1) and Prisonar of Azakerban (Xbox and PS2) which 
 were brillient but the 4th one was terrible.
  The fifth game is mostly alot like the Wii version where you use the Wii maote as the wand, but 
 Playstation version your useing the Analog sticks to control your magic, but the best thing about 
 the game is expoleing Hogwarts and finding where you need to go or to find to lose is to find and 
 to find is to lose. The graphics not bad for a PS3 but the gameplay is too short. Whats the best 
 way to get this game? You''l proppley want to rent this game before buying you'll proppley get 
 this game done under 3 or 4 days at least or if not 7 hours or more if your fully playing this 
 game for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixv2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  harry potter the best selling book of all time stuning graphics in the movies but how does the 
 game copare in this review i will tell all...
  
  this game you play mainey as harry going through hogwarts solving puzzles for students and making 
 a secret student society called dumbuldores army harry ix in charge of teaching them but at the 
 same time the ministry is trying to get involved with hogwarts and sends in a minister to be the 
 new defence against the dark arts teacher who later becomes head of the school as dumvuldore is 
 nearly arrested at this time you must take action you round up the army and savotage the school 
 ruining speakers setting the clock to go anticlockwise and setting swamp bombs in the courtyard 
 and setting off fireworks in the school LOL then you travel into the ministry and play as sirius 
 and dumboldore trying to defeat voldemort and his death eaters.
  
  the grapics are amazing.. but the sound and music is a little off and quite slow and has a very 
 quick storyline too but the game is still very enjoyable and entertaining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerectoff
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, so its really aimed at kids, its probably just another EA cash-in and yes it is Harry Potter.
 
  
  But although I'm not a die-hard fan of the books/movies, I do enjoy them and I thought this game 
 really does capture the grand scale of Hogwarts.
  
  When you have to travel around and the camera pans out and you see the whole of the castle, its 
 utterly massive and it makes you feel like you really are in a castle.
  
  Yes it is tedious, thats the biggest gripe, you do have to back track a lot and you have to to 
 the same stuff over and over, but like I said, its for kids, kids that want to cast magic and almost 
 can when they wave their sixaxis around, or their Wii remote, its great fun.
  
  Overall, I found that sitting down with this game, a couple of hours at a time helped me enjoy 
 it, rather then having to repeat all the stuff over the course of a weekend.
  
  If you are a Potter fan after something new, get it, if you, like me, are a casual fan, rent it, 
 but please don't ignore it completely as its deffo worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  For a game to be Best in Series , it usually has to be very good. When it comes to Harry Potter, 
 it's not like that. The Harry Potter series of games don't tend to be very good, and so all the 
 title Best in Series can suggest is that it's better than the last ones. Which is true.
  
  The game is definitely an improvement (especially from the last one, that was rubbish) . There are 
 many things that now work, which didn't work before. It is now a much more playable game. However, 
 it still isn't a classic.
  
  The gameplay is good. If you're a fan of the books, you'll be annoyed to find that a lot of the 
 storyline is missing, but it doesn't matter too much. You control Harry, with Ron and Hermione 
 following you everywhere you go. There are many things to find around Hogwarts, and the new version 
 of the school is much better than the previous ones.
  
  The graphics are pretty good too, with just the odd glitch now and again, but not more than other 
 games.
  
  Sound is pretty neat too. We now get the full Harry Potter theme, which makes a nice change from 
 the odd music of the last few games.
  
  And then there's the REALLY interesting bit. Casting spells!
  This was something I always found 
 tedious in Harry Potter. You switch to a spell you want, then press a button to cast it.
  Not anymore, the right analog stick (or the Tilt) controls Harry's wand, and by moving it in different 
 direction at different times, you can make it do whatever spells you want. It's similar to a lot 
 of EA's games. I was hugely surprised by how easy spell casting is though. You'd think that you 
 would always end up doing the wrong spells, but you don't, it works great!
  
  There are bad points though. The tilt control isn't very easy, and the game is too linear for it 
 to be the GTA Hogwarts that everyone was looking for. However, using the tilt control to throw 
 chairs at Malfoy is well worth it!
  
  If you enjoyed games 1-3, but felt disappointed by game 4, then this is where you need to go! The 
 5th game is by far the best, and maybe even the best game based on a film that I have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyhunter1232
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  After beating the game in about three days I am left stunned on just how simple the game was. On 
 a good side they gave you some nice spells, good Hogwarts graphics, and you even get to play as 
 Dumbledore, Sirius, and Fred/George. However thats about it, otherwise your left with a game that 
 has really bad cutscenes that are choppy and leave you waiting for more information (thank goodness 
 I read the book) Also the new style of gameplay where you do what you want seems good at first 
 but when you find yourself without much to do besides running from one end of the castle to another 
 it can get tedious. Another thing I found irksome was the short storyline. The whole entire game 
 revolves around assemblying the DA members for one meeting. Sure there is the occlumency lesson, 
 or the teacher mini games, or the ministry battle that lasts only about 5-10 minutes at the most 
 but that basically wraps up the game. Otherwise your left to wonder around the castle playing chess 
 and gobstones, and cleaning up and repairing items that earn you points. All in all I think a 7 
 out of 10 is really pushing it except I remember that it was a good three days and the game is 
 only half bad. Would I recommend getting it? Yes, it really is a fun game, but read the books or 
 watch the movie so you know what was really supposed to happen in Order of the Phoenix. Would I 
 recommend spending $59.99? No. If you are considering buying it, wait until the price lowers so 
 you won't feel so empty after playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the order of the pheonix is on ok game but it it is way to easy and short and 
 the missions are pretty stupid to i dont really know why i bought this game when i could have bought 
 a way better game than this one. There are some good things about this game like gameplay and that 
 u can go anywere u want around hogwarts but Ron and Hermione get in your way to much and there 
 isnt much u can do with the DA but teach them like 2 spells. another good thing is the secret passage 
 ways they come in handy alot but for most of them you have to do some stupid things to get the 
 password like find the headline of the daily prophet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFlush
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This Harry Potter game is totally different than all the previous ones. Hogwarts is huge this time, 
 actually, all the locations are there. It's a lot of fun to discover all of Hogwarts secrets and 
 all the locations you know from the books/movies.
  
  Graphics: they are descent, although nothing spectacular. You can obviously see this game has been 
 built with the ps2 and wii in mind, so the ps3 version has just higher resolution and some cooler 
 lighting and reflection effects.
  Even if this game isn't a graphical masterpiece, the framerate tends to slow down in some parts. 
 The characters look quite like their real counterparts.
  
  Sound: the musical score is great and the voice overs are descent. Too bad not all the actors did 
 the voice overs themselves.
  
  Gameplay: as I said above, the gameplay is quite different than in previous HP games. It's basically 
 quest based, meet up with a character and fetch him something or fix something. Those miniquests 
 are fun but they grow a little old after a while. It's nice that you can find secrets in all of 
 the rooms in Hogwarts, trying to find them al is fun!
  Oh did I say the game is terribly easy? If you buy this for 360, you are going to crank up your 
 gamerscore very fast. I haven't died once.... is it even possible to die in this game?? Oh and it's 
 short, you can finish this in about 4-6 hours I guess. But to get 100% you'll need to find everything 
 in the school which takes you a lot longer.
  
  Conclusion: Although quite easy and a slightly repetitive mission based system this game is still 
 pretty good. Not superb, but still satisfying. Note that you should have read the book, otherwise 
 you're not going to make much out of the story. It feels like they forgot to implement some cutscenes, 
 the way some scenes jump straight to another leaving a huge gap in the story is quite confusing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faiylen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  With each release to date, the Harry Potter games have matched the movie more and more. In Harry 
 Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, you can explore the entire of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft 
 and Wizardry, meet all of your favourite characters from the book and film, and work with the DA 
 (Dumbledore's Army) to save the school from the evil Dolores Umbridge, the mad witch who has taken 
 over Hogwarts.
  
  The first, and only thing so far, that upset me about this game was the camera. It takes quite 
 some time to get used to if you've been playing games with a completely different camera setting. 
 As you play more, the camera becomes less of an issue, and you'll understand it fine.
  
  This bit hasn't really affected the game, it's just something that could have been in there; much 
 of the story has been cut out. You'll soon find yourself jumping straight from the Dementor attack 
 in Little Whinging to Grimmauld Place, and then straight off again to Hogwarts. This cuts out a 
 huge section of the book, but they couldn't really have put much action into that part anyway. 
 You can understand why they did it.
  
  The gameplay is great. Explore Hogwarts in immense detail, finding your way around with the handy 
 Marauders Map. Learn new skills, techniques and meet new friends as you make your way through the 
 game. I'd say you'd really need to have read the book at least to play this if you want to know 
 what's going on. That's not really explained in there. Or, if you get this game after watching 
 the film, that's just as good.
  
  The graphics are great - not as good as some of the other next-generation titles, but they're still 
 great. This time round, the in-game characters really look like their film counterparts, and they 
 have managed to get the school as close to in the film as possible. They've done a great job.
 
  
  The sound can be split into two groups - voiceovers and background music / sound effects. The voiceovers 
 are great, but some of the characters don't sound much like they do as characters in the film. 
 The first one like that I noticed was Hermione, but maybe that's just me. The music, on the other 
 hand, should appeal to people who have played the older Harry Potter games - some old music makes 
 a return into this game, but sounds better. Not a lot of sound effects in the game, but the few 
 that there are are good.
  
  This game is great, but maybe not so great at the price of PlayStation 3 games. If you're willing 
 to splash out more on it, go ahead. It's worth it when you're used to it. Your best bet, however, 
 is to buy it cheaper online. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
