-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Haze
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/haze/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some utterly fantastic and thrilling set-piece battles.
 Co-op support for up to four players makes the campaign more entertaining.
 Most of the weapons feel right and are fun to shoot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abysmal storytelling and voice acting squander the interesting premise.
 Stupid artificial &quot;intelligence&quot;.
 Multiplayer is uninspiring and unbalanced.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.7, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 2,250 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Free Radical
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: May 20, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This madly inconsistent shooter offsets a number of thrilling moments with terrible artificial intelligence 
 and an awful story. 

  If you played any given 10-minute chunk of Haze, depending on what part of this futuristic first-person 
 shooter you chose, you would be convinced that it was either incredibly exciting or simply dreadful. 
 Dim-witted artificial intelligence and deeply embarrassing storytelling are mixed with some breathtaking 
 action sequences and thoughtful map design into an awkward and messy hodgepodge of shooting and 
 driving that alternates between the entertaining and the downright unpleasant. It's fitting that 
 Haze's gameplay would embrace such extremes, because its entire fiction is built around shallow 
 absolutes. One faction embodies unlikeable and unredeeming lowbrow sensibilities without a hint 
 of irony; the other embraces its ethical, sympathetic cause with angelically high morals. This 
 is a shooter both easy to love and easy to hate, and you'll probably find yourself feeling both 
 emotions within moments of each other.  

           This review's captions are brought to you courtesy of Haze's witty dialogue. Let's start 
 with: BOOSH!      

  This dichotomy is fueled by the aptly named nectar, a drug that Mantel Global Industries persistently 
 injects into the bloodstreams of its mercenary soldiers. Nectar gives the soldiers extraordinary 
 capabilities, but it also appears to have some unpleasant side effects. As Mantel grunt Shane Carpenter, 
 you see and experience these effects firsthand: the intense focus, the adrenaline-pumping rush -- and 
 the total loss of control that an overdose triggers. Nectar also turns every Mantel soldier into 
 an obnoxious frat boy with barely more emotional range than the average caveman. You'll spend the 
 first hour or so of the game with these unlikeable, overgrown adolescents, who spout abysmal dialogue 
 punctuated with frequent cries of "boosh!" Haze doesn't mean for you to like them, and it succeeds 
 all too well at this task. On the flipside, you're meant to respect and admire the Promised Hand, 
 the South American rebels fighting to defend their villages and expose the evils of Mantel's beloved 
 nectar. These men are the shining beacons of Haze's two-sided moral compass, the rational and ethical 
 antithesis of Mantel's malice, yet they're written with the same lack of subtlety. Eventually, 
 the game acknowledges the missing shades of gray in a few bits of contrived and hackneyed dialogue, 
 but by then it's too late: The story has long been exposed as a shallow mess that simply can't 
 deliver on its intriguing foundation.  

  Nectar is more than a plot device; it's the basis of several mechanics that give each faction distinct 
 play styles. As a Mantel trooper, you can inject a quick gusher of nectar by pulling a trigger, 
 which heightens your senses and causes all of your enemies to glow. While high on the stuff, you 
 are also more resistant to damage, can detect mines more easily, and have better aiming skills. 
 You're also prone to overdose if a stray bullet punctures the nectar administrator strapped to 
 your back. Should you be so unlucky, you will temporarily lose control of your actions. On these 
 occasions, your view becomes muddled and you cannot control your shots, so you'll watch helplessly 
 as you plug your comrades with lead.  

  A short way into the game, you'll gain an entirely new set of abilities, and you'll spend the majority 
 of the campaign using them. At this point, you can infuse standard grenades with nectar, which 
 will in turn cause an overdose if certain enemies come in contact with the resulting cloud of gas. 
 However, chief among these abilities is the capacity to play dead if you take damage. When prompted, 
 you can fall to the ground and your foes will promptly ignore you; after a few moments (or when 
 you press X) , you'll stand again and rejoin the battle. This is a powerful ability, though in the 
 single-player game, you may not always see it as an advantage. If no friendlies are around to take 
 fire once you drop, enemies may hang around, ready to blast you the moment you stand. If there's 
 an automated turret nearby, it will continue to fire even after you've feigned death, so if you 
 find yourself in such a circumstance, you're as good as dead.  

            It's like taking candy from a baby!      

  If only your enemies had the deadly accuracy 
 of those turrets. The term "artificial intelligence" only half-applies to your computer-controlled 
 challengers, who are laughably, painfully stupid. Foes will run directly past you as if you aren't 
 there, stand motionless as you fire, and completely ignore grenades tossed toward them. On the 
 occasions when they do notice that a grenade has been thrown, they will wait a few seconds and 
 then leap forward as if stealing second base -- sometimes choosing to dive toward the grenade, rather 
 than away from it. You may even find an enemy facing a wall, pointing his gun at a texture rather 
 than noticing that you are standing directly beside him. You're frequently accompanied by AI-driven 
 squadmates, and sadly they fare no better. They seem incapable of using cover intelligently, they 
 stand in your line of sight, and they're often more hindrance than help. In tandem, the AI of both 
 factions will create scenes of comical ineptitude, such as when a trooper and rebel circle one 
 another for 30 seconds in a surreal do-si-do.  

  In spite of this brainlessness, Haze offers the occasional golden nugget of utter brilliance, and 
 most of those moments come courtesy of some intelligently designed levels that are too good for 
 the AI that inhabits them. Two on-rails sequences are exceptionally thrilling. In one, you defend 
 a village from behind the turret of an aircraft; in another, you race alongside an enormous land 
 carrier while trying to take down its defenses. The carrier sequence in particular is a total rush, 
 pulverizing you with its sense of breakneck speed and using scripted camera adjustments to enhance 
 the thrill. A few other levels are equally enjoyable in spite of the shortcomings, such as a climb 
 toward an observatory and a tense village battle capped by the destruction of a rocket-launching 
 tank.     

   

  Nevertheless, not every level reaches these heights. In Haze's worst level, you must escort a vehicle 
 from one side of the map to the other. This badly structured mission requires a bit of trial and 
 error, given that the vehicle's driver is cut from the same cloth as his teammates; he'll readily 
 drive over you or your squadmates, or into the minefield that you're supposed to clear before he 
 arrives. Other levels put you behind the wheel of a vehicle, but these scenarios are less detours 
 than they are wrong turns. Vehicles handle very loosely, as if they weigh just a few pounds, and 
 the odd, limited camera implemented during the driving sections adds to the awkwardness.  

            What are you, a Communist?      

  Thankfully, the core gameplay of a first-person 
 shooter -- the shooting proper -- is smooth and silky. The standard assault rifles handle beautifully 
 and have just the right weight and feel, and chances are that you'll be using them for the majority 
 of your journey. Each faction's shotgun also feels good, though it takes a few more close-range 
 shots from the Oso shotgun to defeat a trooper than you may expect. It's also effective at a greater 
 range than with similar weapons in other games. The small blight on the parade of solid weaponry 
 is the flamethrower, not just because of how it feels, but because of the frustration it initiates. 
 If one should set you ablaze, you have to shake your controller to fan away the flames, which disturbs 
 the momentum of battle and simply isn't much fun. The flamethrower also seems to have a much greater 
 range than it should, so though it may not look as if the flames spewing forth are reaching your 
 enemies, somehow you manage to set them alight anyway.  

  That issue could be partly due to the pixellated fire visuals, which look decidedly last-generation. 
 In light of the PlayStation 3's powerful capabilities and the genre's ever-rising standards of 
 technology, Haze looks good but not impressive. It certainly has its bright spots: Some of the 
 outdoor lighting is striking, and the centerpieces of the best levels, such as the aforementioned 
 observatory and a hotel courtyard, are rendered with great detail. The game performs beautifully 
 with few frame-rate jitters, so when the action is heavy or you're traveling at high speeds, things 
 look quite nice. When things slow down, you'll notice how modest Haze actually looks. Textures 
 are muddled, scenery is blocky and lacks detail, and animations are clunky. Character models are 
 also inexpressive, which only reinforces the pettiness of the story.  

  At least Haze sounds big and boisterous, filling your ears with explosions, gunfire, and the rush 
 of aircraft engines. These elements don't sound extraordinary, but they fulfill their roles nicely, 
 as does the orchestral soundtrack, which injects drama into the scenes most in need of it. But 
 this is a game that prizes juvenile leering over multidimensional storytelling, and the voice acting 
 is exactly what you would imagine: a cast of drill sergeant wannabes competing to see who can sound 
 more uncivilized. The Promised Hand is no less annoying; once you hear a rebel cry out "Remember 
 your promise to Merino" for the hundredth time, you may be tempted to look down the barrel of your 
 own weapon. Then there's the awful rap tune that plays while you wait for competitors to join some 
 online matches -- and then continues to play throughout the match. Its presence is absolutely embarrassing. 

  Most shooter campaigns are better when someone else joins you, and Haze is no exception. Up to 
 three others can play along, both online and in split-screen play. The game ramps up the challenge 
 during co-op play, and considering the horrendous AI, that's a welcome change indeed. Vehicle sequences 
 are all the better for having a buddy join you, and some action-packed moments are improved with 
 the presence of a few hired guns. However, not every level is suited for cooperative shooting. 
 Some scripted sequences, such as one in which a bridge collapses, are at complete odds with the 
 existence of another player, as if the possibility wasn't considered when the level was designed. 

           What, you gonna stare at me like you want a piece of my a**?       

  If you held out hope that the multiplayer could succeed in spite of the campaign's shortcomings, 
 you may be disappointed to learn that competitive play is at best underwhelming, and at worst, 
 weirdly out of balance. Up to 16 players can compete in Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Assault 
 modes. You can also fill out unranked matches with bots, but considering the moronic AI, why would 
 you want to? Assault is the clearly superior mode here, in which rebel and trooper teams take on 
 opposing objectives, which in turn lead to the occasional focused and intense firefight. The other 
 modes are exactly what you'd expect. Unfortunately, shortcomings that aren't readily apparent in 
 the campaign due to the horrible AI are obvious the moment that other players join the fray. Although 
 you'd think that the inherent strength that nectar provides troopers would make them the more powerful 
 faction, the upper hand goes easily to the rebels, thanks to the playing-dead mechanic and each 
 rebel's ability to dodge by double-tapping the jump button. An effective rebel can rack up the 
 kills in this manner, because in a full match, opposing players aren't apt to hang around and see 
 if you spring up 10 seconds later. It's also proof that nectar is, at its core, a gimmick. Being 
 able to cause a trooper's overdose is great in theory, but in practice, it's more efficient to 
 just mow them down as you would in any shooter.  

  A seven-hour campaign and uneventful multiplayer modes just don't cut it in light of the far better 
 modern shooters available on the market. The patchy quality of the entire package is surprising, 
 considering the developer's fine pedigree. Yet Haze is a roller-coaster ride made up of tall peaks 
 and unfathomable valleys, and it won't leave you so much breathless as disappointed with its squandered 
 potential.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (184 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SGTiD1NG0
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 10, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Haze was a game which was overhyped all too much for its own good. What gave it the hype? Was it 
 the craze that the creators were Ubisoft or maybe jealousy that Playstation hadn't had any half 
 decent first person shooters since Resistance: Fall of Man. Calling Haze a piece of garbage or 
 mediocre is harsh but it's to all forgiving to call Haze a good game.
  
  Haze puts you in the shoes of Shane Carpenter. Your family is dead and there is nowhere to go. 
 Mantel a global corporation, takes you in at a young age, not knowing anything about the outside 
 world. You're trained up to be a Mantel trooper and fight the good fight. Fighting evil, what turns 
 out to be good people later on. Being in captivity in a small country all your life and not knowing 
 what the rebels wish to gain, eventually you question, not only that but the newly invented drug 
 to enhance all soldiers in all areas called Nectar begins to go wrong. But while you are in question 
 of the corporation's purpose, people overdose themselves to much with Nectar and start going crazy 
 turning on friends and foe alike. Then you find the rebel leader Skincoat all on your own in a 
 thatched hut just in a position where the games story could possibly end where you can just finish 
 him. He explains the situation and how Mantel really on the whole isn't any good to the world which 
 on the whole is true. You join and take out your old friends one by one and aim to take down Mantel. 
 For good!
  
  Mantel's motto is to "fight the good fight" which is yes probably the best part of the story. The 
 fights can be exhilarating and thrilling with the only drag of awful artificial intelligence which 
 cannot be said to drag down the whole area of the battles. The missions are never repetitive and 
 have so variety you will never see anything derivative or repetitive. One mission you could be 
 taking out a mortar crew and using them to your own measure and on the next you could be in a helicopter 
 blasting all in your way with a massive machine gun. If you could describe the story in means of 
 playability and storytelling, the game would probably win the playability part because of the variety 
 of missions. But if you look at the storytelling side, calling it terrible is a mismatch but it 
 is good enough to keep you engaged along with the missions. There is some variety with enemies 
 although there more focused on the Mantel side rather than rebels. Mantel has flamers and machine 
 gunners which are huge but fit the part to carry these huge weapons as well as Mantel Elites with 
 huge armoured plates. But what could have been seen was some sort of mechanically designed robot 
 for Mantel. Rebels have no variety what so ever except from female to male gender. This gives you 
 a measure of how desperate the rebels are of achieving their objective. Rebels could have used 
 some sort of black ops type soldiers to suit the rebels knifes and stealth too. The originality 
 in the game lays in the two sides awesome gimmicks if you'd like to call them gimmicks. The Mantel 
 side has the Nectar drug by pressing L2 where if you are a Mantel Trooper can use it to enhance 
 your speed, health and damage as well as a cool vision which puts all enemies not even in your 
 sight in sight in red colour to help find your targets. But the rebels may not be as good, but 
 well in my opinion it is better. In any game is it possible to cheat death? Well you can as a rebel. 
 When pointed out and you're being meleed or shot you can press the designated L2 button to play 
 dead. This works very well in campaign especially since the artificial intelligence is already 
 dumb enough. Online it works more than most of the time but some cautious players make sure by 
 shooting you just a bit more however it looks real because online it displays you as killed and 
 then when you get off the ground the kill is taken off the supposedly killer. Both techniques are 
 well implemented and balanced to make a worthwhile add on. The best part of the game is the fact 
 you can play four player split screen, while the game isn't great. It's a good excuse to play one 
 of the only four player campaign shooters on the next gen consoles don't forget few four player 
 ONLINE shooters for that matter. Organizing the settings for more than two players is a mission 
 in itself but once done it can be quite nice to play with friends.
  
  The game play is a cross between good and great because the aiming and cross hair wok perfectly 
 but for the fact that some games still use a press of a right analogue years on is tedious. The 
 aiming down sight with an analogue click on works fine in a cover based tactical shooters like 
 Killzone but it just doesn't really shine for Haze where as Haze feels more like a run and gun 
 game compared to Call of Duty. But on the positive side the shooting on the whole while not completely 
 polished feels only just slightly outweighed to other games that really shine like Call of Duty. 
 Weapons are fun to use on the game, Flamers, Machine Guns and all the other big weapons make some 
 awesome sound effects and balanced damage compared to other weapons in the game. But on the inventory 
 side with grenades, Mantel troopers receive grenades while Rebels are given minus or plus if you 
 like Nectar Knifes. They can be hard to master with the weird crosshair although when used correctly 
 they can turn a Mantel Trooper into a friend's worst enemy. This doesn't work especially well online 
 for someone can steal your kill but in campaign mode it can be a real treat to not even shoot someone 
 but rather use them as a slave at your disposal. Of course they will go for you too but if you 
 stay a few five metres away they'll just run like a headless chicken killing all enemies in their 
 path until a few ten seconds is up and they die. Flamers are mediocre but given the right situation 
 can be devastating, if it's an online victim you're forced to shake the controller to rid yourself 
 of the flames. While this is tacked on it really proves to be a fun little mini game in itself. 
 Machine Guns are too fair but given the right situation can be devastating with enough patience 
 the gun will start and kill the enemy within a second except for the fact you might be dead by 
 the time the gun starts. Snipers on the other hand while they maybe reasonable in campaign are 
 the roosters of online maps especially since you can't sprint. There are two snipers, one kills 
 in one shot but has a slow rate of fire, where as the second takes two shots but is almost like 
 a pistol in rate of fire. A surprise add to the game is the addition of vehicles. The so called 
 Warhog which is such a coincidence that it sound just like its Halo counterpart as well as look 
 just like it. Then you have the standard Rebel Truck which too has a back turret and two passenger 
 seats like the Warhog. While these vehicles are easy to drive, their more easy to drive over someone 
 than kill them with the turret. The vehicles have enough health to make them balanced enough with 
 standard players online. Two missions include using the vehicles, one using the Warhog and the 
 other with the Rebel Truck. 
  
  The graphics have seen worse in other games but you can't get very much worse on Haze, well that's 
 too bad but Haze is certainly mediocre or just below average when it comes to graphics. Then again 
 you can do alot worse. The graphics in missions vary but aren't frequently the same to be good. 
 The first mission is almost horrible where the second mission is good for that matter although 
 they are varied environments but some environments feel more focused on than others. The characters 
 look a bit pixelated at times but in the enclosed screen not in cut scenes but where you stop playing. 
 The characters suddenly look great. Online maps have seen better days but there just not detailed 
 enough to call them epic. 
  
  The sound if awful in terms of dialogue and voice acting but if you're looking on the weapons side 
 of view it's awesome. Both sides version of assault rifles have a different chirp which sound which 
 sound very believable. Flamers and Machine Guns too have effects which don't just sound good but 
 give you that feeling that they are heavy with the sound they make for whatever reason they do. 
 Sniper rifles make a nice cling when they shoot, to give it a more realistic feel. But the dialogue, 
 I don't know what they were thinking when they wrote the scripts. Even I would have written a better 
 script than what they achieved and that's saying something. Some sayings are plain funny like "Go 
 and suck some ball **** but when you rescue survivors of a crashed plane, one remains and starts 
 talking to you "I used to, I used to be a boxer". So here he is at deaths daw and he starts saying 
 how he was a boxer? 
  
  Online is half decent and not many games can you play four players split screen online. Of course 
 setting up players is easy, right? Well it is for two players but you'll get frustrated trying 
 to set up three or four players as seen in the campaign above. Although possible the settings will 
 have to altered and changed a bit just to get four players then you'll have to change it back when 
 you are the only one playing after your friends have gone home quickly to find out Haze was more 
 trouble than it was worth. The online itself though is pretty fun, although some maps are pretty 
 bland, some will be played most frequently while darker maps have slower frame rates and won't 
 probably be touched upon. Some maps are pretty cool with one featuring vehicles but only one map, 
 then you have a ground and underground map which is pretty interesting, depending on where you 
 choose to go. As far as scoring goes, there isn't much going on aside from score tracking but then 
 you have headshots, flamer and machine gun kills but weirdly you then get down to how many bullets 
 fired and how many manual reloads. Unfortunately score tracking isn't very fast and takes the scores 
 in every half hour or so which is a disappointment when quickly checking between matches. If you're 
 worried about your score and want to perfect it then you can choose unranked and hopefully play 
 against beginners. There are three game modes deathmatch, team deathmatch and then Assault. There 
 isn't much variation but Haze seems to be best suited to straight up deathmatches and team deathmatches 
 although Assault is pretty fun provided you understand the complex missions. Missions in Assault 
 are varied and mainly based on campaign missions except there isn't any dumb AI well if you want 
 them, which will come on later. You can have missions where you help push a oil truck forward pass 
 a bridge while the Mantel troopers force the rebels back. There are about three or four missions 
 in total on Assault but have to be played once or twice to get a full jist of the game mode. When 
 I talked about AI, you can play unranked matches against bots which is probably a better way to 
 play online than Ranked since few people play more than ten or so hours online before the game 
 collects dust. You can fill teams up with bots and they'll get replaced with human players when 
 they join the session, this is pretty good instead of waiting for real players to join which can 
 take twenty or so minutes to get 16 players although even though there is dumb AI it isn't frequent 
 enough to get annoying.
  
  All in all, you can't really go wrong with Haze especially since it's only 10 or $15 nowadays 
 but just because it's cheap doesn't mean you have to buy it. It's probably worth buying or keeping 
 if you like a variety of missions and some few hours of online and your friends regularly come 
 over and enjoy playing online if not all at the same time provided you have as many controllers. 
 If you think Haze is bad, it really isn't that bad at all but it isn't good enough for you to pay 
 any more than a couple of 5-$5 notes.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Pros:
  .Co op play for up to four players is awesome off and online.
  .Guns are well balanced and sound good too.
  .Mantel and Rebel perks are diffeent, unique and 
 well balanced.
  .Some good variety in missions.
  .Some thrilling set piece battles.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Cons
  .Graphics are quirky, especially in earlier missions.
  .Multi player maps are favoured more than others having bland 
  environments or stuttering frame 
 rates on darker maps
  .Setting up any more than two players in local play is fiddly.
  .Some terrible artificial intelligence.
  .Some weak voice acting but terrible dialogue/script.
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Story 
 Missions: 7.5
  Story Plot: 7.0
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Graphics: 6.0
  Sound: 6.0
  Online: 7.0
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall: 6.4
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lampshade820
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I have no idea where to begin with this game. Should it be the incredibly annoying characters 
 who seem to believe that the 'F' word and other expletives are a perfect substitute for article 
 adjectives, the generic and odd-feeling weapons, the terrible lighting, or the AI that will simply 
 sit and stare at a grenade thrown directly onto their feet? Or maybe the extremely shallow, one-sided 
 plot line? Oh, I know. BOOSH!
  
  The characters in the game will make you want to reach out, grab their throat, and strangle them 
 so you'll never have to hear that dreaded catchphrase ever again. I like how Kevin VanOrd put it: 
 They act like college frat boys. They are CONSTANTLY spouting swear words that don't even make 
 sense in the context of the sentence. And, when you join the rebels, they are the exact opposite, 
 which is mindbogglingly one-sided and unrealistic.
  
  The combat, however, is rather acceptable, although, it's no Halo 3. The battles are intense and 
 engaging, and you really learn to use Nectar (whether it be to your advantage or your enemies' 
 disadvantage) to the fullest and you actually begin to depend on it. The only problems that I can 
 find in the combat is that the lighting is very dark, so much so that it is almost impossible to 
 see sometimes, and that the weapons feel awkwardly light.
  
  Now the AI. Ahh, the AI. All of the horror stories everyone's told you are completely true. I can 
 remember one time I was playing, and I had a big machine gun that I can't remember the name of, 
 and this ally would walk right in front of me while I was shooting at some rebels. He would keep 
 doing this until I finally decided to pull out my pistol, shoot his Nectar tank, and watch him 
 freak out. And, right before he came out of his OD, I shot him in the face. The AI is good for 
 funny stories, but they're simply ammo-wasters in the actual game.
  
  In general, this game is not worth the time. If you're looking for a good PS3 shooter, you can 
 choose any game better than this, such as 'Uncharted: Drake's Fortune', 'Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns 
 of the Patriots', and 'Resistance: Fall of Man' or 'Resistance 2.' Shame on you, Free Radical. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Breadcrab
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Its hard not to get excited about PS3 exclusives, so when I heard about Haze, I got jumpy. But 
 after seeing many trailers and reviews, I didn't think so highly of it. After many quick price 
 drops, I finally got it used for $15. So, here's my review.
  
  Haze is a FPS game where you play as Shane Carpenter, a soldier who works for the Mantel military 
 corporation. his job is to protect the world with the aid of his comrades and a performance-enhancing 
 drug called nectar. Later in the game, you realize the evil of Mantel, so you'll break off to join 
 a resistance called the Promised Hand. The story's got potential, but it's ruined by laughable 
 voice acting, dull presentation, too many unanswered questions, and so on. None of the characters 
 are memorable or even likable, and the only decent voice performance is by Merino, the resistance 
 leader.
  
  Anyways, onto the graphics. Being a PS3 exclusive, you'd expect some nice visuals from Haze, but 
 they're nowhere to be found. The framerate is consistently good, but graphics and even the animations 
 just barley cut it. Some of the textures are very bland, and some of the special effects are just 
 pathetic, with the exploding dropship taking the lead. For the most part, this looks like a mediocre 
 Xbox 360 game. Sound effects are good though, and the music usually fits the situations nicely.
 
  
  Now lets talk about the AI, though I'm not actually sure there is any. enemies and allies will 
 circle around each other, never hit anyone, stick there head up when taking cover, and often try 
 to punch you death. There are even times when I walked past their cover and they didn't notice 
 me. Enough said. A serious contender for worst AI of 2008.
  
  The gameplay, however, is the biggest disappointment. It's really everything you've seen in a shooter 
 for the last million years. They try to add in some things like the ability to use nectar, but 
 it's just not enough. The objectives aren't very clear most of the time and the compass can be 
 confusing. Gunplay in Haze feels finicky and is hardly satisfying thanks to dull death animations 
 and bland weapons. Most of the weapons are balanced and feel right, but there are very few in the 
 game and the ones that are there are as basic as guns get. Also, having to using the iron sights 
 when you're a rebel is an extreme pain, because you can't see or shoot well. No wonder they called 
 it haze. Multi-player is just bad. Not only are teams more unbalanced than a fat and skinny kid 
 on a see-saw, but the maps are poorly designed and the game modes are uninspired. The most fun 
 you'll have will be screwing around and stealing the enemy's weapons and vehicles from their base.
 
  
  There might be a few thrilling moments in single-player thanks to some creative levels, but in 
 the end the mediocre gameplay and underwhelming visuals keep Haze from being worth more than a 
 curious rental. The only purchase I can recommend is to extreme beginners because of the bad AI 
 and cheap price point. But anyone else should just leave Haze in the dust. Lets face it, this game 
 sucks hazelnuts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game a year ago and found it interesting but not worth $59.99. I was 
 able to pick it up new for under $20. So hear we go:
  
  The game starts off with you as a mercenary of types; defending and cleaning up after rebel attacks. 
 Immediately, the firs thing I notice is the long and un-skip-able intro to the game. It's all well 
 and good if it was a good cut seen, but it wasn't. I found it and the rest of the cut scenes to 
 be the same way. Not that they weren't necessary or entertaining at times, they just could have 
 been better if some extra time was spent polishing them, and to the detriment of the game, the 
 whole of the game fallows suet. 
  
  The first half of the game was very interesting. As a mercenary for a privet company, you get all 
 the good stuff. First off, your pumped full of the drug that makes killen a lot easier. It enhances 
 everything from aiming (smoothes it out) , making you harder to kill, and making your enemies stand 
 out like a sore thumb. It's a great thing and you come to rely heavily on it as well. Then, its 
 taken away from you like one of those interventions you see on TV. It's not a subtle thing ether. 
 When it gets "disrupted" you become very disoriented and everything you become accustom to (how 
 you aim, speed of the game, health, and locating you enemies) changes in the heat of battle. I 
 thought it was a good ploy, but executed at the wrong time. The reason being is that you die quite 
 a few times just trying to get down a path because you can see your environment. 
  
  Soon you're told the inevitable truth about what you're doing there and after that epiphany, you're 
 compelled to fight for good (at least, that's what your told) . After all of that (about 3-4 hours 
 of play) the story degrades to nothing and you left to try and figure out the game. There really 
 isn't any good direction in the game and it made it difficult to navigate some areas. The story 
 picks up a little at the end of the game, but nothing substantial. 
  
  Only thing that I noticed was some long-range drawing issues, but nothing that you couldn't forgive. 
 I think the game really suffered from lack of story and over use of prompts. What I mean by that 
 is your fellow rebels will constantly badger you with propaganda like "don't forget you promise". 
 Because of that, you really start to tune them out and when your lost it makes it much more difficult 
 to navigate to the next engagement. Also, your fellow rebels aren't very good. They will stand 
 there and do nothing all day, then they will get in you way while your tying to kill an enemy and 
 cause you to shoot them in the head, the you have to revive them. It made for some frustrating 
 game play. 
  
  Over all, the game felt very boring at times but the game played very well. I think that if they 
 spent more time polishing the finer points of this game, it may have been a much more enjoyable 
 experience. Game play was done very well. It was smooth and everything worked the same way every 
 time. On line was no different from the main game, it was hard to figure out where to go and what 
 you need to do when you get there. I think it would have been a better experience if I had played 
 the game as a new release.
  
  I would rent first, but for the price you can't go wrong in buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to enjoy this game. It had a cool idea and plenty of potential. Unfortunately, 
 it ended up being just another bland shooter that doesn't do anything to set itself apart from 
 the rest of the crowd.
  
  There isn't a whole lot to say about the gameplay. If you have played most any other shooter, you 
 will jump right into this one. Anything that is slightly different about the controls will have 
 a pop-up before you have to perform the action to explain how. The game is simple enough that you 
 won't need a reminder of the controls the way some other titles require. The one unique aspect 
 of the game is the use of the drug Nectar. You can inject this into yourself to increase your combat 
 abilities, but you only have access to this for the first half of the game. After that point, it 
 is replaced by the ability to play dead and, yes, that is as boring as it sounds.
  
  The story was supposed to be the biggest drawn of the game, but ends up being it's greatest failure. 
 It is tagged as a 'mature and compelling storyline' but I had the entire plot figured out from 
 the first one page ad I saw in the game magazines. Even if that wasn't clear enough, the back of 
 the game's box basically ruins the entire first two to three hours. The game begins with your character 
 working for Mantel, a private military corporation that takes jobs from governments to clean up 
 hot spots (like rebel uprisings, in this case) around the world. They keep their troops morale 
 up by giving them a drug called Nectar, which keeps them in good spirits and increases their combat 
 abilities. Right from the start, you notice that everyone is way too happy to be there. Before 
 you can say Sci-fi Channel original movie, you start to see weird occurrences: soldiers being overly 
 brutal, not caring about fallen comrades, and the news stations broadcasting false information 
 about the war. Like the back of the box states, after a few hours of gameplay, you turn your back 
 on Mantel and join the rebels. This hurts the game by making the first part feel like a waste of 
 time since you are killing the same people you already know you will be siding with later. The 
 story may be predictable and unoriginal, but it is still told very well. The voice acting is great 
 (yes, it really is meant to be that cheesy in the beginning) and although I always knew what was 
 going to happen, I was still interested in seeing how. The entire game is seen from your first 
 person perspective, including cutscenes. This can be both a good and bad thing. Good because it 
 really puts you in the experience and makes you feel like part of the story. Bad because you see 
 the big events from the perspective of a single person and the game doesn't feel as epic as it 
 would have with wider camera angles and aerial shots of the pivotal moments.
  
  My favorite thing about the game in the beginning became the reason I didn't like it in the end. 
 Soldiers on Nectar don't see blood or dead bodies because the drug is designed to protect them 
 from the horrors of war. When you kill someone, there is a small impact flash and they disappear 
 almost as soon as they hit the ground. As you continue on with the Mantel section of the game, 
 your nectar wears off (at pre-scripted sections) and you begin to see the real world. An enemy 
 you just killed is writhing around on the ground while screaming in pain, but instantly disappears 
 when the Nectar kicks back in. In another area, you walk through a room where a battle occurred 
 a few days earlier. At first, there is nothing in the room. When your drug wears off for a minute, 
 there are bodies everywhere and blood all over the place. These moments are disturbing and really 
 add to the atmosphere. Once you join the rebels and no longer have access to Nectar, the game loses 
 this aspect. When you shoot someone, there is a small splash of blood, but the bodies still disappear 
 after a bit. Enemies don't stay alive and scream like they did earlier. The game plays almost exactly 
 the same as the first part, just without the ability to use Nectar to improve your combat ability. 
 This successfully removes the one unique aspect from the game and turns into 'just another FPS'. 
 It feels as if the game was designed to lead up to your eventual betrayal of Mantel and then the 
 rest was just slapped together to close out the storyline.
  
  The graphics continue the bland streak the rest of the game started. Nothing really looks bad, 
 but the environments are sparsely decorated and everything is spotlessly clean. There are a couple 
 of panels and barriers that move when you shoot them, but most everything else doesn't react. Plants 
 don't move when you walk through them. Explosions occur just above the ground and don't leave any 
 lasting marks. There is a fade to black every time the game switches between a scripted conversation 
 or event. I've never seen any other game do this and it really breaks up the overall flow. Although 
 the game was relatively glitch free, it did lock up on me four different times. The checkpoints 
 are frequent enough that it didn't set me back too far, but it was still quite annoying. I recall 
 the moment that I completely gave up on the game; a helicopter crash sequence that was incredibly 
 poorly done. My character was inside the chopper and there is a explosion outside. I wasn't even 
 sure we had been hit because there were no windows or open doors. The screen went black and every 
 few seconds I was shown a still shot from my characters point of view, but all the images looked 
 almost identical. After Call of Duty 4 had such an amazing first person crash sequence, seeing 
 this in a game was just pathetic.
  
  There aren't really any saving graces to this title. The gameplay can be seen anywhere else. The 
 story isn't worth more than one play through. The entire campaign can be completed in around five 
 hours. There is some fun to be had here, but it can all be had in a rental period. I didn't see 
 any reason to own this game. Just another opportunity to take advantage of the PS3's superior hardware 
 blown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaman1254
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  the only hard enemy was the turrets and yada yada yada realy easy i was unable to play online bad 
 conection but the co-op idea was a interesting idea but i usualy use it to kill my brothers and 
 there computer allies.
  i hated nector for the one reason on both sides it realy messes u up if u use to much drugs and 
 the suicide idea sucks i lost all three of my allies becuse of a nector grenade and went into a 
 overdose that nealy killed me half way on finding "skin coat" seausly.
  i am running out of bad thing to say so i will say some good thing about this game
  the shooting 
 parts of the game where the enemy is on the ground writhing in pain and you just watch that is 
 the best way to torcher mantel like the rebles keep saying.
  the aming system was slightly off but i expected this becuse any bullet/rocket will have the tendiusy 
 to go off track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  I tried the demo of this game and as a result didn't buy. After now finding it at a reduced price 
 and buying it I am VERY happy that I didn't pass this game by.
  
  The demo of Haze was quite boring and is composed of the first couple of checkpoints in the campaign, 
 which are also boring. I think this was very poorly judged on Free Radical's part as it was enough 
 to turn me off the game.
  
  Having now bought the game and got near the end of the campaign I can say that Haze is actually 
 one of the best shooters of last year! In particular it contains possible the best sequence of 
 environments I have ever played through. The tanker/beach/resort/hotel sequence is mind bogglingly 
 good. The pace is fantastic and the game performs like silk, never slowing for a second. Think 
 Farcry crossed with Halo.
  
  The range of possible actions for taking out Mantel troopers, weapon specials, disarms and play 
 deads are VERY well realised. It gives the game a more thoughtful strategic element than a lot 
 of the run and guns coming out at the moment. Sure, graphicaly it isnt perfect. Textures are sometimes 
 dull and particle effects shoddy, but these aren't the things that make great gameplay. Personaly 
 I am very happy to swap these for excellent frame rate.
  
  Multiplayer is fun also. There are some interesting game modes, eg: assaulting a base to retrieve 
 canisters of nectar. It is also stable and very fast unlike a lot of other multiplayers currently. 
 Level design is intelligent and what is more you can play bots for practice.
  
  All of this leads me to to a bit of a gripe. I can understand why a game like Resistance 2 may 
 score higher than this game on gamespot because of graphics, but in EVERY other respect Haze is 
 a better game. To award it a 6 is quite frankly suspicious. I am almost ready to declare shenanigans. 
 I played 2 hours of resistance 2 and then traded it in, by contrast I played 6 hours straight of 
 Haze yesterday. I know the counter-arguemnt to this is that I have odd taste, but that's not true. 
 I play almost every game that comes out, so I know what I'm talking about. Trust me, Haze is very 
 good. You can also pick it up for very cheap now, seeing as a lot of reviewers unfairly destroyed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Despite the huge Hype and of course, the criticism of other players. this game actually feels like 
 an old PS1 shooter full of bugs but with Updated 7th Generation Graphics. It is not really bad 
 that you'd throw away the game (who would throw something they buy with their hard-earned cash. 
 you could just sell it to Gamestop for all you know) yet this game would be good enough to collect 
 dust after a few days of play.
  
  Yes, the game is full of bugs, the AI is kinda bad but, it is still entertaining to a degree where 
 2 different factions play in 2 different ways. the Promised Hands rebels and the Nectar Soldiers. 
 they both play different ways which is one of the positive things in the game. And well, do not 
 think of getting into Vehicles because much of it is down right useless with really bad controls.
 
  
  the Multiplayer is good. but lately there aren't really that much people playing it. and of course, 
 after awhile it'll get really frustrating and boring.
  
  Storywise, it is short and simple and cliched. Nectar soldiers are over the top and the Rebels 
 are more idiots then the rebels in Star wars.
  
  but i will just pass this game cause its still entertaining enough for FPS deprived people. you 
 can rent it. if you'd like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Xavius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME HAZE:
  
  The game is god and has the most of what i need for having a grate time when am playing.
  
 
  I think the game has a over all god story and do not agree weed the critics in the score that 
 has given Haze.
  
  That the are little to much stupid comment bay the mental in the first part of the game is not 
 a very big deal they are in fact affected bay the nectar .
  
  I prefer to play the rebels because of the whey you playing them.
  Wan of the best ting in the 
 game am think is the weapon steal and the second is to play death it is sow awesome!!
  
  What ewer another tells you don't only go after what the say but tray it off your self and than 
 decide off your self what you mean about the game .
  
  I have not sow much more to say sow and remember have fun when you are paying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavven
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  VALUE 5.0
  A bland story with weak characters and simplistic commentaries on serious topics, Haze is a generic 
 tale at best about war.
  
  GRAPHICS 7.0
  Tons of visual issues abound within the game, from texture tears and non-descript environments 
 to pop-in and odd animation problems. But it does have some quite detailed stuff and nice viewings 
 though.
  
  SOUNDS 6.0
  Dialogue is hokey and repetitive regardless of what side you're on. Sound effects are good, but 
 that's not enough and it feels like there is no life around.
  
  GAMEPLAY 6.0
  A creative concept hampered by gimmicks, a weak story and poor AI, Haze is a disappointment from 
 a developer well versed in shooter mechanics.
  
  TILT 6.5
  Two player split-screen and four player co-op helps put a minor spin on the campaign, it will extend 
 the replayability of the game much just a bit. Nor will do multiplayer modes and its useless merit 
 system.
  
  OVERALL 6.35
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Haze is a decent first person shooter. The grapics are not up to the next gen pertential in my 
 opinion. The games weapons are bad ass. The game gives you a decent amount of weapons to mess around 
 with. The best weapon has to be the knife. The enemy A. I. is not all that great even though in 
 some parts they can make you want to throw the controller sometimes there not that immpressive. 
 The story is not all that interesting. The only thing about the story that was good was the soldiers 
 talking to each other. The soldiers are funny and so rambo since they are on the drug called nector. 
 The game revolves around this drug called nector. Nector is the only thing that is different from 
 any other first person shooter. You can do allot of cool things with nector but at the same time 
 it doesnt seem like nector did enough to pull aways from being just another first person shooter. 
 The multiplayer is not all that great. It is enjoyable for a little while but then it just gets 
 to old. You end up finding yourself doing the same thing over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgordonfan24
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Haze gets a few things right. First of all, it has a strong multiplayer and a nice refreshing story 
 to keep you distratracted from nerds in your school who tend to talk about Master Chief and the 
 Coventant. 
  
  Singleplayer places you in the boots of a private army soldier, known as a Mantle Trooper. The 
 company that owns the army enhance its soliders with Nectar, a drug that increases their vision, 
 focus etc. You are fighting againat Rebels, who are mostly ex-Mantle Troopers who want to end this 
 apparently evil company. What they learned seems to be that this amry isn't all that good. You 
 can only play as the Mantle Trooper in singleplayer. Multiplayer brings some cool modes, lots of 
 vehicles, perks, and you can play as the Rebels or Mantle Troopers. Each team has adavantages. 
 Rebels can use their Mantle knowledge to play dead, while Troopers have Nectar to enhance their 
 fighting ability.
  
  In conclusion, Haze isn't a huge success, but it isn't a bug on your windshield either. If you 
 want a good FPS, buy Call of Duty, Battlefield, or even Fracture (which sucks) . Keep your money. 
 My Rating: 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlockfarrel
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought the game was awesome and I was right, everything is pretty good I enjoyed to 
 story line, but it seems there should be another game because it is very short. The language choice 
 is used properly and does not use the language for no reason such as Grand Theft Auto 4.
  
  I don't like the small variety of weapons in the game. I estimate about 11 or so weapons. The game 
 is not in the basic obviously. The controls are more advanced and have more variety's of things 
 to do like make a Nector grenades . It also gives a bad idea with the vehicles for the rebellion 
 side where you can only look behind them and with the truck you get to use the turret up front 
 is very useless unless you can move it better.
  
  It is a great idea to have 2 player co-op and it is a great co-operative game with the fact that 
 you can heal your player by pressing the square button before they completely die and you have 
 to wait until the next checkpoint. Overall this is a great game but to detailed and not basic enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 98_percent
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  The Haze demo looked promising and to be fair the opening level of the game where the demo is taken 
 from was somewhat playable.
  After this the gameplay becomes very irritating. I cannot elaborate much without giving any spoilers 
 but the choice of weapons is small and brings nothing new to the genre and the constant nectar 
 fueled OTT verbal rampages the Mantel troops go on are very irritating. Controlling the vehicles 
 presents a challenge which on long hazardous journeys becomes very frustrating (particularly the 
 quad bike.)
  The games visual and audio as quite good and certain abilites the rebels have were enjoyable for 
 the first time, like nectar grenades.
  
  Overall, Haze offers an experience which is highly disappointing considering th hype about it before 
 release. I wouldn't get this game unless you want to the experience the slightly comical stereotypical 
 hardcore army guys yelling abuse or u just have money to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Now Haze, i had the pleasure of only paying 25 for it but i think even that would be pushing it 
 if im being totally honest considering its what i like to call an '' every shooter '' with a gimmick 
 thats supposed to make it one in a million, but fails short of course.
  
  Story:
  
  Over a series of missions fighting for Mantel, Shane's Nectar administrator fails to drug him on 
 several occasions, causing him to witness a number of disturbing events; he hears screams (implied 
 to be Duvall torturing someone) which Duvall dismisses as "just an animal", he has a conversation 
 with a dying pilot whom Duvall appears oblivious to, and he sees the dead bodies of civilian factory 
 workers that Duvall's squad massacred in an earlier mission because "an empty hand is just a grip 
 away from holding a weapon".
  
  Eventually, Shane and his squad are sent to capture Gabriel "Skincoat" Merino, the leader of the 
 Promise Hand who supposedly eats his enemies and wears a longcoat made of their skins. Shane captures 
 Merino only to find that he's an old man who's only wearing "100% cotton". Duvall arrives and begins 
 torturing Merino, cutting off his finger. When Duvall starts trying to cut off both of Merino's 
 hands, Shane pulls a gun on him and the rest of his squad, leading to a shootout which causes the 
 helicopter they're all on to crash. Mantel, realizing that Shane is not taking the proper levels 
 of Nectar (making him a "Code Haze") , sends in their Black Ops (professional soldiers, in contrast 
 to Mantel's regular drug-fueled troopers) to kill him.
  
  Shane is rescued by Merino and the Promise Hand, and realizes that everything he's been told about 
 them has been false propaganda by Mantel. Shane is forced to kill Peshy and Watchstrap (who were 
 also rescued from the crash by the Promise Hand) when they start shooting up the village. Duvall, 
 also alive, escapes after telling Shane he's "just an animal" just like the rebels. Having witnessed 
 the atrocities committed by Mantel's soldiers, Shane joins the Promise Hand in hopes of doing the 
 right thing.
  
  Answering a distress call from a Mantel cargo ship, Shane meets up with Teare. Teare reveals that 
 when they first met, he sabotaged Shane's Nectar administrator to let him see "a taste of reality". 
 Teare reveals the cargo ship is filled with the bodies of Mantel troopers that Mantel was secretly 
 disposing of; prolonged Nectar use is eventually fatal, and Mantel has been concealing this fact 
 by hiding all the bodies of Mantel troopers who have died from the drug. Teare also reveals that 
 Mantel's stated humanitarian reasons for intervening in Boa are false propaganda, and their real 
 goal is the destruction of Nectar plants being grown by the local population, in order for Mantel 
 to maintain its monopoly on Nectar production. Teare is then killed by Mantel's Black Ops soldiers.
 
  
  Leading the Promise Hand forces, Shane succeeds in destroying Mantel's regional supply of Nectar, 
 causing the Mantel troopers to break down mentally and physically (he also witnesses Mantel troopers 
 committing suicide when their Nectar withdrawal causes them to realize the atrocities they've committed) . 
 Merino orders an assault on Mantel's Landcarrier HQ to finish the war, but Shane is reluctant because 
 Mantel's troopers are now largely defenseless and no longer a threat without their Nectar. During 
 the assault on the Landcarrier, Shane confronts Duvall, who has taken over the Landcarrier due 
 to being the only one disciplined enough to remain sane after suffering Nectar withdrawal. After 
 a shootout in the control room in which the two argue over right and wrong and the nature of war, 
 Shane kills Duvall and escapes the exploding Landcarrier. The story ends with Merino revealing 
 that he plans to use Nectar to give his people "confidence", but promises to combine it with free 
 will, stating that Mantel were "just animals". Shane finds this highly disturbing.
  
  Now apart from some major annoyances with bad voice acting ( depending on how you feel about it 
 ) the story wasn't bad but it didn't exactly make me care about about how the rebels were being 
 treated by mantel.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  n the game, soldiers make use of Nectar, a performance-enhancing pharmaceutical drug that grants 
 the user enhanced speed, accuracy and strength. Mantel uses this drug to control the minds of its 
 soldiers. When administered, Nectar can control -- among other things -- what a soldier sees, similar 
 to the effects of a hallucinogenic drug. It makes enemies stand out as bright orange silhouettes 
 against the darker grey background. Nectar also drowns out the surrounding images of death and 
 destruction (for instance, bodies will vanish ) . Nectar also reduces recoil, and allows the player 
 to zoom in further while scoped. An overdose of Nectar is dangerous, with loss of mental control 
 and death being possible side-effects. A Mantel Soldier experiencing an overdose is shown by a 
 change in their armor, changing in color from yellow to red.
  
  Rebel soldiers may go in to a "Play Dead" state just before they are killed, allowing them to regenerate 
 health and disappear from the Mantel soldiers' sight, since they can't see dead people while on 
 Nectar. In addition, they have been given the capability to exploit Mantel's dependence on Nectar 
 by attacking the Nectar injector, extracting Nectar to use on throwing knives from dead Mantel 
 troopers and using the injector to create Nectar grenades. These Nectar-enhanced weapons will cause 
 a Mantel trooper to overdose on Nectar, as will attacking the Nectar injector. Later in the game 
 players also encounter special forces and overdosed soldiers that can not be affected by Nectar-based 
 weaponry. They can also steal a Mantel trooper's gun, dodge, and bury grenades in the ground as 
 mines.
  
  Gameplay within the game isn't anything special, i mean you press a button to shoot and aim for 
 your target, just like an ordinary shooter pretty much but what was so hyped up was the fact that 
 you can use this '' nector '' well let me tell you the only thing this Nector does is make your 
 enemys glow so you can see then under cover. Also this '' playing dead '' makes the game FAR too 
 easy thats its almost embarassing, but none of this can compare to the viechles which feels far 
 to much like Halo, with clunkly handling of course.
  
  Controls:
  
  Always nice and short..
  
  Exactly the same as an ordinary shooter with the R2 to fire with 
 using the L2 to use nector, with O playing dead... so not alot to say about it the controls work 
 fine so i can't particuly complain about anything.
  
  Conclution:
  
  In the end Haze cannot be classed as a '' horrible '' game becuase it's not really but theres nothing 
 here to make you remember the game bar a few hickups with dodgy A. I. and almost strange difficulty.
 
  
  
  The Good: 
  
  Amost as soon as it came out it wasnt full price
  4 Player co-op 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Questionable A. I. 
  Graphically not the best
  Nector 
 and playing dead is pretty much useless
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Easy and Short (especially on 4 player xD)
  Sorta tries to be like halo at times, but fails epically 
 xD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firextreme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Haze is a good game, overall, but unfortunately is far off perfect.
  
  Lets start with multiplayer. Its got actually pretty decent multiplayer, with snipers to die ffor 
 if your a mantel trooper. Also some of the Team game modes really bring the comunity together, 
 and are strategic. The multiplayer, isn't bad, it's just with everyone just coming off COD4 it 
 seems different, but to the hardcore resistance fan this game is no 1 on your list to buy.
  
  The story fits a lot into a short campaign, but in extra hard the story seems to last eight 
 time the length, weather thats a good thing or not remains to be seen. The guns themselves also 
 feel comfortable and controlable, and although mantel troopers can withstand two clips to the cheast, 
 one headshot and there down. The vehicles have hellish oversteer, but are fun to pummel into enemies 
 and get from point a to b in next to no time.
  
  Overall this game is nowhere near as bad as its made to be, I genuinely think it is because its 
 a ps3 exclusive. People always have had it in for PS3 people and always will. This game is promising, 
 and definately could be improved on by a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlad180
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Haze. I had been looking forward to it since august 07. With the ability to use nectar to make 
 you more powerful and the ability to play on 2 different sides, what could possibly go wrong? Nearly 
 a year later, May '08 The game arrived. I ran straight to my tv shoved it in the PS3 and that is 
 where the disappointment begins. Firstly the game is packed with the most awful one-liners ever, 
 and they are constantly repeated over and over. Secondly, the graphics arent all that either, not 
 as good as the screenshots lead me to believe. On top of that, Nectar is pretty dull, as you only 
 need it really because the enemy are wearing camoflage, so when you switch sides and work for the 
 rebels, you dont need nectar, as mantel troops wear bright yellow costumes! As for the multiplayer, 
 its not too bad. There is still those awful one-liners, and a very small amount of levels. However, 
 there is a free download with 4 new maps on the psn. Your time as a mantel trooper is short, as 
 you spend most of the game as a rebel, and the game is pretty short anyway. It might kill some 
 time if u rent it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidley
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  All those who expect a wicked fps where they could have all these wicked effects at their disposal, 
 should not even bother with this game. After months of hype, possibly the biggest game of the year, 
 may very well be the biggest let down in the past 5 years. The game is flawed, straight up not 
 fun, and run of the mill style play, all part of the right cocktail for the worst advertised game 
 this year. This isn't even one of those games that you wait to hit the 10 dollar bargain bin, try, 
 then throw away. To spend the time in the bargain bin merely looking for it is a waste. I truly 
 feel sorry for anyone that payed full price for this game, not truly realizing what they were getting 
 into. So if you're reading about this game, trying to figure out if it's worth renting or whatever, 
 think about all the better games you could play on the PS3, like anything else on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1BO
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  A better story line and better things for the dumass rebles (and even dumber mantel troopers) to 
 say would have made this game. But no! The game play was good but you struggle to see that when 
 your useless reble or mantel trooper friends shoughting the the same things again and again down 
 your ear. Oh and when i said they where useless i lied! There is one thing i repeat ONE THING! 
 that they are good for and that is taking a bullet for u! Yeh thats right little rebel you go stand 
 over there and get shot, and while your destacting them i'll finish mission take all the credit 
 and become a hero! NICE PLAN! Oh yeh i almost forgot. the only clever thing a enemy mantel trooper 
 can do is sometimes only SOMETIMES they MIGHT Jump out of the way of a grenade but most of the 
 time they mess it up end up flying head first into it!!! And if u lob a nector granade it doesnt 
 matter which way they ump they gonna get hit!!! So now end this by saying JUST AN ANIMAL!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt-dude
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Haze is an all round bad game. Despite the massive amount of hype and everyone saying it was to 
 be a 'Halo Killer', Haze still manages to be dreadful. It's storyline is extremely short and the 
 internet multiplayer is only reasonably average.
  
  The nectar is addictive to start with but the novelty soon wears off. The bosses (Watchstrap, Peshy, 
 and Duvall) are painfully easy to kill, with the only excuse for failing is running out of ammo. 
 Switching to the Promised Hand rebels is much more enjoyable, with playing dead, knives, nectar 
 grenades, and scavenging ammo now possible, however it is still below average on the gameplay side 
 of things.
  
  The graphics are not terrible, but they are nothing special when compared with the likes of 'Metal 
 Gear Solid 4', 'Call Of Duty 4', and 'Grand Theft Auto IV'. The split screen is more enjoyable 
 when playing with a friend than on your own.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence (AI) is appalling. So bad I'm not even going to say how bad. The online 
 multiplayer has a few game types to choose from and split screen online is about the only fun thing 
 in Haze (apart from forcing an overdose on your team mates when playing as Mantel) . Overall, this 
 game is dreadful. Don't believe the hype. Seriously. Don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegreatollie
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  when i saw the trailer a while back i thought WOOW but then launch date come played the game and 
 was like NOOO the graphics werent as good as i ahd anticipated nor was the gameplay. it bought 
 nothing new to the fps world and i got frustrated with the gameplay and graphics withing the first 
 45 mins. the game got discarded. truly a waste of hard earnt dough. But you may be different to 
 me but on top of this fps games arent well suited for ps3 the pad isnt good for it bad triggers 
 lack of rumble and joysticks in the wrong places just feels uncomfortable!. The audio is okay and 
 the presentation is decent. However the story was confusing and i didnt follow it very well. ig 
 you own a ps3 i would recommend you buy a better game than this like metal gear solid 4 which is 
 incredible or even resistence or uncharted all of these games are either decent or great. Basically 
 to sum up this game lacks a good story gameplay and originallity i would of reviewed it but then 
 people would of turned the nose up at this game. I think this is an overrated game that should 
 be binned nationwide. I cant comment on online as i didnt play it it could be good i dont know 
 but ill leave that to you..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooklynsez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  That is why there is a game for every taste out on the market. Haze received it's share of knocks 
 and undeserved bashing, likely from the "Duh, I don't get it gang"... it was touted as "Strange"... what 
 was strange about it? It was completely ingenious if any player was actually in-tuned enough to 
 understand the concept of where the developer was going with this little gem. 
  
  Here is where the game is very creative... you start out with just a bit of the Nectar... once you 
 see what it can do, you reach for that button more and more often, liking what your seeing, enhancing 
 your ability to wipe out the "Golden Glow" with one shot, Awesome! The game rolls along nicely, 
 until you no longer have the Nectar! But you need it! You constantly reach for that button because 
 the game has so adeptly addicted you to that NEED, that WANT and NOW, it is gone because you are 
 no longer a part of Mantel. I say it was ingenious, insightful and just plain fun.... so BRING ON 
 THE NECTAR! 
  
  Haze was well executed in all areas of game play, easy movement, realistic character portrayal's, 
 nice graphics and good voice acting with a more than decent story line! All in all Haze did it 
 for me in every aspect. There is lots of junk out there to be sure, however, Haze is not anywhere 
 close to that HEAP! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  One of the most delayed PS3 exclusive titles is finally here and it turns out to be a rushed (but 
 still very late) , short, ugly mess. This first-person shooter from the makers of the excellent 
 TimeSplitters series is nowhere near Free Radical's usual high standards.
  
  The story is a yawnsome futuristic affair about a soldier "fighting the good fight" for the Mantel 
 Corporation against the 'evil' rebel faction, The Promised Hand and their leader Skincoat. Unsurprisingly 
 all is not what it seems and Mantel are not quite the good guys they appear to be. Not really much 
 of a surprise as they keep their soldiers wired on their Nectar drug, all the time.
  
  The much talked about Nectar effect is best summed up by one of your squadies early on: "It's easier 
 than shooting fish in a barrel." And it is. It makes all enemies appear as brightly glowing figures 
 even when they're hiding in the jungle. The self administered drug also makes you faster and stronger. 
 To be honest it makes the game too easy.
  
  However, you don't get too long to become complacent, as you switch sides and leave the Nectar 
 enhanced Mantel Corporation and join the rebels. This means no more Nectar for you and less efficient 
 weapons and vehicles. So you have to plan your attacks a bit more carefully but you have the ability 
 to play dead when you're at your weakest for surprise attacks, perform evasive rolls and you can 
 use Nectar as a weapon against mantel troops. 
  
  By shooting the nectar packs on the soldiers backs or attacking them with a Nectar grenade or knife 
 you can get them to overdose. This basically sends them into a blind rage usually causing them 
 to open fire on each other.
  
  As a Promised Hand member you are able to run up to a mantel soldier and cheekily rip the gun out 
 of his hands and use it on him. Sounds like a good idea, but there are two problems here. There's 
 no sprint option so you'll probably be cut down before you get there and if he melee attacks you 
 first you're dead in one hit.
  
  For most of the game you are forced to play as part of a team, but like many shooters they just 
 get in your way. Your rebel squad mates prattle on with the same lines over and over again. Whatsmore, 
 they seem have more lines for shouting at you when you melee them than they do for any other scenario. 
 It's like the developers knew you'd want to smack them around a lot. The Mantel troops are annoyingly 
 jacked up on Nectar so much their over-excitement will remind you of Brucie from GTA4, but more 
 annoying and less funny. One level is very enjoyable, it's set in an abandoned hotel. Arming yourself 
 with a shotgun you can run through the level barely breaking your stride, clearing each floor as 
 you go. It's possibly the only decent level in the game.
  
  The vehicle sections are cumbersome and sometimes result in an Austin Powers-esque jamming between 
 two walls. One of the on-rails levels is in a gunship which has you shooting anything that moves 
 on the beaches and cliffs. It looks pretty impressive with a lush tropical setting, but up close 
 it's a different matter.
  
  A few years ago there was a tech demo for Haze that showed the player walking through the jungle, 
 as he moved the big leaves out of the way they would bend and react to his touch. This seems to 
 have been dumped for paper a thin jungle which you walk through like it's not there and the rest 
 of the game is coloured using the FPS favourite: Industrial Grey Shade 1. Plus, you'll get past 
 the 'Press Start' screen and think you've got a way with it then BAM! "Installing game data 3.8 
 GB."
  
  Just as you start to forgive these shortcomings and get stuck into things, it finishes! It raises 
 the question: why the hell has it been delayed for so long when it's only four hours long? 
  
  The fact that there are online options including the ability to play through the story in 4 
 player Co-op will leave you feeling cold. The competitive matches are slightly better with the 
 tactical choice of choosing to play as a Mantel or Promised Hand soldier online.
  
  So it's a better game than Turning Point, but Call of Duty 4 and even Blacksite (a guilty pleasure 
 of mine) provide a more solid FPS experience. Free Radical has damaged its reputation with Haze, 
 but all will be forgiven if they don't screw up the next TimeSplitters game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was complete and utter disgust from the second I picked up the controller. I am honestly 
 surprised that my playstation 3 didnt puke that game out of its chassis. I knew I was off to a 
 rough start when I couldn't even skip any of the cutscenes, now in Metal Gear 4, I could skip the 
 cutscenes and those are cutscenes that are worth seeing. The acting was lackluster and worth of 
 Razzie nominations. The voice overs seemes like they recorded it while they were on the toilet. 
 Now, this game wasn't all bad the guns where really cool and the fact I could get high also, the 
 cover was dreadfully cool. However, the guns on a shooter should always be cool, the drugs shouldn't 
 be one of the only good things and finally if the cover of the game is one of the best things then 
 well you know what kind of game you're dealing with. If you own this game I feel bad for you or 
 your should kick the person who bout it for you in the face with your crap covered shoe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxbilly05
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start by saying, this game was over hyped. It was disappointing to see after so 
 much anticipation, reviews on this game were so bad. And I can see why, but the game should never 
 get below a 5.
  
  The good
  
  The games weapons are excellent. End of. They feel right, well calibrated, you can feel power without 
 the pad vibrating and gives a powerful punch which I think is very important in a shooter game.
 
  
  The graphics have been criticised by many, but I tell you what. Go and tuurn on the best shooter 
 for the PS2 or Xbox, now, are the graphics really that bad. SEriously, there is so much to concentrate 
 on in the game instead of worrying whether a tree is to square or the ground isnt robust. I think 
 the graphics deserve a 7/10 for a ps3 game.
  
  Gameplay is very good. Necter and playing dead is one of the best things I have seen in a shooter. 
 ESPECIALLY when playing online. Mantel troopers get much more life and advantages, but when a rebel 
 soldier is just about to die, they can play dead, and believe me this CAN trick the most experienced 
 player.
  
  The okay
  
  Multiplayer is fun. Theres no doubt that running around gunning people while high on nexter or 
 shooting a mantel troopers back to send them crazy. But mabye there could have been a rank, as 
 in, not just "You are 36'001 place out of 50'000". There should be more game modes, but after the 
 recent update you now find yourself with 11 maps.
  
  The campaign has many ups and many downs. Some moments are amazing, and the visual effects, (in 
 the swamp lol) can be thrilling. I just really, really wish that the game could have done better 
 in this area. The ideology is very good, the plot if Mantel is also good. The game should have 
 lived upto its trailers. The trailers show shane, in a city beating up two mantel troopers. Not 
 one level in the game is based in a city. Which is disappointing. I really think if they got this 
 right the game could have been the next HALO for the ps3....
  
  The bad
  
  A. I. Run in walls, in circles, on top of each other, into each other, into you, into you and then 
 by you, then fall of a cliff. I mean come on.
  
  Teammates might as well be left on the land carrier. Repetitive sayings, bad acting (although you 
 have to remember they are all high on necter and this shows why the characters are so stupid and 
 weird, people keep forgetting this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!)
  
  Some minor glitches
  
  And most terribly of all, the level design. There are no twists (except the mantel to promise hand, 
 very good, but I wish this could happen mabye a bit later on instead of very early in the game. 
 Or mabye YOU could of had the choice to go mantel or promise hand, that would have been good.
 
  
  Overall
  
  I would get this game, not for 40 but mabye for around 20-30. I am glad I got this game, disappointed, 
 but glad.
  
  I WILL DEFINETLY GET HAZE 2. AND I HOPE TO GOD THERE WILL BE A HAZE 2. THE GAME HAS SO MUCH POTENTIAL. 
 I PERSONALLY WILL GIVE HAZE ANOTHER CHANCE, PLEASE DONT MUCK IT UP GUYS~!!!!!
  
  My personal top 10 of improvements to the game:
  
  10 - The switch in storyline (Mantel and 
 Promise Hand)
  9 - No stupid escort missions
  8 - Sort the vehicles out. They are not good.
  7 - More weapons
  6 - Better level design to 
 keep people interested
  5 - Better graphics
  4 - Better AI
  3 - Different types of enemies
  2 - BETTER VOICE AND CHARACTER ACTING
  
  
  1 
  
  Please, 
 MAKE A GOOD STORYLINE. YOU HAVE THE IDEAS FOR A GREAT GAME, PUT THEM INTO REALITY.
  
  
  I can se Free Radical going back to TimeSplitters 4 very soon. But I really don't want to see Haze 
 disappear. People say that sequels with a bad first game do not strive well. Think very hard. There 
 are lots of games that failed completely first time.
  
  Thats all. Thanks for Reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkness117
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Haze, What a wonderful game with excellent graphics great story and really **** multiplayer. Nectar 
 is Great and easy to use and playing with friends is just swell.... NOTT!!!!
  
  Ok keep everything i just said in mind and now imagine the EXACT opposite.
  
  Haze is an FPS 
 shooter were you play as some guy named shane carpenter and you have just joined an elite army 
 named Mantel. You are equiped with weapons, pants and an enhancing combat drug called necter. Necter 
 makes you stronger, Faster and incredibly inhumanly, smart. Sounds cool doesn't it?
  Well you tell me after putting 10 hours into this peice of **** seriously You cant make a game 
 this bad, This is so bad it reaches almost impossibly bad standards and thats what haze is.... BAD!!! 
 It feels rushed and unfinished and the explosions and graphics are terrible. The vehicles look 
 great but in reality its a F@#king nightmare trying to drive these peices of ****.
  
  Ok lets calm down there is 1 thing good about the game.
  "Multiplayer"
  Yes thats right i mean 
 sure the story and its features are **** but the multiplayer takes haze to a different world, a 
 world where you can escape high-tech prisons or kill prisioners, fight rebels or fight mantel troops. 
 In this world its the only thing keepin the 3.5 rating in haze. It feels good to get in a vehicle 
 with a mate and go to the enemy's base and blow **** up, kill troops and look at haze at a different 
 view. Unfortunately the shadow of the **** gay story stands in its way.
  
  Overall im giving it a 3.5. Because of graphics, story and a whole other pile of **** at least 
 the multiplayer gave the game some hope but other than that im disgusted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einxart
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Haze isn't a great shooter, it's not the best I've ever played. But at the same time, it isn't 
 terrible. I think I just have an uncommon taste when it comes to shooters. I thought Half Life 
 2 was good but waaaaay too long, Call of Duty 4 was cheesy and left me feeling unsatisfied. I don't 
 care about multi-player in games at all, they don't effect my decisions.
  I liked Haze, because it was fun (for me) and it seemed like the developers were actually trying 
 to say something. The game seems to have a message, I don't think the story is as terrible as people 
 say it is. The story isn't a masterpiece, but it had social commentary (at least in my mind) . It 
 at least had more of a story than some shooters I've played. I mean, I couldn't get through the 
 Halo games because there was such a lack of story in them. Rainbow Six Vegas 2, I didn't really 
 even realize had a story line until I got to the end.
  Graphics never matter to me, I never judge a game by how good it looks, this game could look like 
 it came out 10 years ago and I would still play it and call it good.
  Maybe it's because I'm not a big shooter fan to begin with, but this game didn't bother me. Nothing 
 bothered me about the game, if you know how to play it it doesn't get frustrating. And it's pretty 
 fun. It gets a 7 because if you convert it into a 5 star rating system it'd be about a 3, I guess. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  I don't know why but I kinda can see the future of some games... and this was one of my victims.
 
  Everyone was talking so good about this game, and i for some reason said to myself 'this game 
 is going to s***', even so i bought it, and just confirmed my fears...
  
  The voice acting in this game is the worst in my game collection alongside with spider-man 3.
 
  
  The game is about some guy that joined a PMC called Mantel, that was supposed to free the world 
 from bad guys in godforsaken places. From what i know... Cidade de Deus is a brazilian city, but 
 even so the characters that belong to that place talk spanish for some reason... but thats a minor 
 detail, what it could be better in the game was definitely the voice acting and graphics, which 
 are bad, kinda seems a ps2 game in some parts, our beloved ps3 isn't worthy of such graphics, also 
 the IA isn't that good, i mean it could be better...
  There aren't much weapons in the game but the existing ones are cool, futuristic design and a cool 
 little monitor that says the number of bullets on the magazine... it's cool and helpful.
  
  As a Mantel troop you can inject the famous nectar, thats actually a drug (duh) that increases 
 your abilities: your enemies will glow being much easier to spot them, your strength will increase, 
 you'll run faster... stuff like that...
  The problem is... you can abuse of it. The nectar doses restore with time, making like almost impossible 
 for you to be out of nectar... i just don't like that...
  
  The GPS thing or whatever its called, that you have in the bottom of the screen doesn't help many 
 times, and you'll get lost easily. 
  It isn't a game that makes you stuck to it, sometimes you just want to get to a checkpoint to stop 
 playing.
  
  As a Promise Hand member, you won't be able to use nectar but instead you'll be able to faint death. 
 (Never liked the idea, but wth...) your aim will be less accurate and you'll loose some abilities, 
 and win some others, such as making traps, steal your opponent's weapon after giving him a punch, 
 stuff like that...
  
  The game is small, but that isn't bad since, you just want to finish the game as fast as you can, 
 so you can sell the game or put it away from your sight...
  Not worth the money dudes! Do not buy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeyminime
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Sadly i must disagree with the Gamespots rating for this game. I couldnt believe that at the time 
 i was buying GTA 4, the store Game said do i want to preorder the next best selling game that will 
 come out. I didnt buy it straight away or preorder it, but man, the game was very confusing. The 
 characters where on steriods right the moment the game starts. The drug they use is rather stuppid 
 in my oppinion, speacialy when it comes to over kill splat shoot my friend next to me kind of thing. 
 I have not even got past the second level, i got so pissed off where i had to drive this car with 
 3 of my other comrades through these cliffs and all, only for the rocks to come down, bombs explode 
 and just when im about to get to the saving point, a bomb detonates and my character is set alite. 
 if i die or load the game, im where the game just saved and guess what, im screaming because im 
 still set alite, so i have to replay the entire level again. not only was the level rather none 
 enjoyable but like omg come on. the action is not life like or somthing where you could play for 
 hours. i was going to give the game back, but for 1 or 3, hell no! im going to keep it now, and 
 try to complete it, i may just play the game once a year and when im 95 years old, celebrate the 
 day i finaly completed the game for the first time, only to die 2 seconds later because it was 
 not enjoyable. the controls are tricky enough some times. games like Halo, Call of Duty 4, Medal 
 of Honor Frontline are games that should be made for F. P. S not games like Haze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellthetruth
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start,1st no game is perfect, really there isn't a perfect game. when you take a game 
 and release it to the public whos got all types of preferences. some people expect it all in a 
 game and there isn't a game thats got it all. Haze is not perfect, but it's a solid shooter. I donot 
 think it's got a chance to prove it's potential when compared to cod4, mgs, gta etc.... haze is not 
 one of them but in its's own way it has a little of each which people in my opinion don't see that. The 
 graphics is very good, gameplay is satisfying, sound is realistic, and the story is there and is easy 
 to follow. What i think killed this game is the way the mantle fighters spoke and acted during battle, sure 
 they sounded and acted like idiots but if you can look past that, the true beauty of this game 
 is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan552
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  the game haze made for the sony playstation 3 is a big rip off of peoples money. it is a first 
 person shooter and is rated m for mature. but i think m stands for "moron you bought this terrible 
 game!". there is alot of other better games out there for the sony playstation 3. if i were you 
 i would avoid this game at all costs. the thing good for this game is the online play. it will 
 bore you out of your mind when u play the game for the first time. there is talk for like a half 
 an hour and you cant skip it. if i were you and u have this game i would sell it. it is boring 
 it wont keep u entertained. if i were u and you like first person shooters get call of duty 4 or 
 counter strike. those are one of my favorite games of all time. im terribly sorry if you have this 
 game and you like it. this review is only my opinion but i owned the game i got bored of it the 
 day i got it. please avoid this game. the online for this game is okay but have to be good at the 
 game because there are alot of skilled players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  HAZE a game that had so much hype and fails on it just like may titles before like (kane&lynch) .
 
  
  the story of the game was crap dint know what was happening for a long time and when u know whats 
 all the shooting for u will wish u dint knew.
  
  There are some interesting ideas for example the usage of nectar the controls are fairly smooth 
 the sensitive triggers feel nice and the sound effects are decent this is where the goodness ends.
 
  
  the gameplay is bad too the multiplayer and the single player was filled with bugs.
  
  do not buy this game and waste ur money this piece of crap like did instead get some other game.
 
  
  i cant belive that this game is published buy ubisoft after games like (graw1/2, rainbow six vegas1/2, assassins 
 creed, etc) .
  
  perhaps not even worth your five bucks for a rental! . I am going to sell this on Ebay if anyone 
 wants it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdmatt
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  When you look back to mid last year, Free Radical's *of Timesplitters fame* Haze should have been 
 released amongst the Assassins Creeds, Heavenly Swords and Bioshocks of the gaming year and really 
 should have blown everything away with everything it promised. When you think about Haze as a FPS, 
 it should have been perfect, for starters, its created by the monkey loving fellows at Free Radical 
 who have bought us the insanely fun and frantic Timesplitter games, during its E3 and gameshow 
 displays, we were injected with exciting gameplay info left, right and centre from the ace cartoon 
 style visuals, the novel looking Nectar idea and inventive weaponry that looked like it would put 
 Resistance and Ratchet and Clanks crazy arsenal to shame, then we were prodded with 4 player co-op 
 news and vehicles ranging from desert buggy jeeps and futuristic air carriers to inflict havoc 
 in. Remember, all this is going back to late last year, when everything about Haze was looking 
 rosy.
  
  
  
  
  
  The question was ushered: will HAZE be the first PS3 exclusive to sway gamers to the PS3? Will 
 it be the black beasts first true killer app? It was looking VERY likely for the time being...... until 
 a formula such as this came along. HAZE official release date = delay, Haze official release date 
 = delay, anticipated/excited gamers started turning into impatient whingers as every gaming sites 
 headline news was the same: Haze delayed yet again, or, Haze due out next year. By early this year 
 in the 08, people were just over it, Resistance 2 was announced, Killzone 2 is looking more stunning 
 as it progresses, Bioshock is recently announced for PS3 and that once amazing Haze game is at 
 the back of everyones mind, forgotten. Everyone had moved on with the times, and Haze was still 
 back into yesteryear still trying to grasp for everyones attention. Until it released a less than 
 amazing demo that looked like an unfinished preview code of the game, atleast that is what i was 
 hoping.
  
  
  
  Well we're approaching June now, which means Haze is finally revealing itself, defeating the plethora 
 of delays and arriving on shop shelves with Kojimas masterpiece, MGS4 just on the horizon. Its 
 horrible timing and a sure swift army boot to the rear for Free Radical and Haze considering GTA 
 IV came out abit before and has already won every gamers mind, its an uncomfy position to be in 
 when your game has been released between GTA IV and MGS4, almost like a sloppy muddy bunker you 
 cant dig yourself out of. And after experiencing the full retail copy of Haze, all i can say is, 
 bring on MGS4!
  
  
  
  I can't explain enough how bitterly saddened i am with Haze as a video game, im more cut that this 
 game was developed from such a highly praised development team, Free Radical. After years of PS2 
 madness with Timesplitters, there is simply no excuse for them to deliver a watery dud like Haze. 
 Haze's downfall will most certainly put a permament dent in Free Radicals records and certainly 
 make many gamers nervous about the eventual outcome of Timesplitters 4. I for one am worried about 
 the future for this once brilliant company.
  
  
  
  Sadly, Haze's negatives clearly outwiegh the positives, so why is this game such a let down? Was 
 the staff nervous about the constant delays? Under pressure from next generation gaming demands? 
 Over marketing such a shameful title that promised so much and delivered merely 50%? Maybe the 
 fan requests and impatient gamers on internet blogs were forcing the guys to rush out Haze? Who 
 knows, but the sad truth is that Haze has failed and was utterly crushed by media hype and has 
 crumbled under the weight that titles such as MGS4, Killzone 2 and Resistance 2 have now taken. 
 A confusing plot, shallow minded AI, extremely average graphics and embarrassing voice acting act 
 as the killer punctures in Haze as a title.
  
  
  
  The storyline centres around Shane Carpenter, a Mantel trooper whom having just witnessed the yellow 
 substance known as Nectar *a honey style liquid drug developed by Mantel Global Industries* and 
 the startling effects it has on his soldiers, encourages him to switch sides and fight along side 
 a barrage of jungle rebels known as *The Promised Hand* in a bid to berid of Mantel, its black 
 & yellow troops and its bio-lab full of Nectar. Hardly a storyline worth remembering to be brutally 
 honest.
  
  
  
  To Haze's credit, Nectar is a unique idea that works quite well, this golden acid, once injected 
 into grunts can improve your ability in a number of ways, from speed enhancement, steadier accuracy 
 with your weaponry and inner body strength giving you more muscle as an advantage over your enemies. 
 Vision wise, the background gets awashed in a yellow blur and the characters on screen are high 
 lighted a different colour making identifying friend from foe much easier. Its not all immortal 
 super natural bliss though, as if you overdose on Nectar can result in you having hazy hallucinations, 
 decrease in health and stamina as well as a severe lack of mental control and balance. The most 
 enjoyable part about the Nectar feature is being able to dip your weapons in it, dipping your knife 
 into some Nectar and use it against the Mantel can result in the Mantel soldiers going against 
 eachother, you will know if your Nectar blade has worked its magic, as a Mantel trooper will start 
 frantically flailing about, blasting his machine gun in all directions killing his own men, and 
 his yellow helmet will change into red, these unique styles of melee attacks result in your enemies 
 overdosing on the yellow drug and killing eachother, its one gameplay moment i never get tired 
 of watching. Overdosing on too much Nectar yourself can result in the screen turning blood red, 
 with everything on screen resembling a black shadowy silhouette, during this sequence, your gun 
 will automatically fire itself in all directions, it is an awesome effect and really makes you 
 feel like you're losing control as the Nectar drug takes over your body and controls your movements.
 
  
  
  
  Another big plus for me in gameplay was the use of traps, some of these are pure class and will 
 hopefully provide other FPS to follow suit in these refreshing ideas. For example, you could kill 
 Mantel troops by making them inhale the fumes of gas grenades you attached to an enemies Nectar 
 pack, or you can even bury grenades into the ground. These Nectar fuelling moments can be a pure 
 joy and a delight to pull off, sadly its a novelty that quickly wears thin when it becomes the 
 only interesting method of disposing of your enemies. The only other form of attack worthy of mention 
 would be the disarm melee move, which has you snatching your enemies rifle from them and shooting 
 them in the face. Some of the weapons on offer are also quite bizarre and very fun to use, my faves 
 would be the rib kevlar shattering Donkey Puncher shotgun, the Hard Candy rocket launcher which 
 can blow Mantel grunts skywards, the Razor Tongue throwing knives that allow you to stab and slit 
 enemy throats, the Dragon De Le Gente flamethrower that turns flesh into crisp ash and makes enemies 
 look like a damp pile of soot, and finally, the PinPoint sinper rifle which pops Mantel troopers 
 yellow helmets like soft egg shells full of warm yolk. So there is quite a juicy array of weaponry 
 to get your mitts on, but nothing here compares to the inventive weirdness of Resistances arsenal, 
 the sticky mine gun that blasts pus balls still beats anything in Haze.
  
  
  
  Vehicles also become an intrical part especially in the story campaign and more importantly, in 
 online co op modes. Some of these rides are fantastic, the Boxcart is like a black armoured V8 
 that speeds at break neck pace along the jungle terrain, you also have the Macho rebel truck that 
 is heavily equipped and great for crushing hordes of oncoming soldiers. My fave vehicle would be 
 the Mula rebel dirt quad bikes, hiking over desert terrain in one of these bad boys is incredible 
 fun and can also be a great escape tool to escape frantic gun battles or jungle shoot outs.
  
  
  
  Visually, the game is far from next gen, its quite a drab display for a PS3 game, what 
 happened to the stunning looking jungle environment in early preview codes? The bright green awashed 
 forest and photo like water effects are replaced by a sketchy jaggy bush populated by paper thin 
 cardboard cut out trees and dull white flowing waterfalls, very disappointing. The textures are 
 also very blurry and, excuse the pun, hazy, i think this is due to the dismal 576p resolution which 
 is simply inexcusable for a next generation game on a next generation console. Many of the games 
 environments lack any real polish, the jungle looks flat and dull, the murky swamp, the mountain-side 
 landing facility, and the chemical plant facility environments shows off a dull palette of greys 
 and light blacks. It's very average to look at and compares to eye burners such as FEAR, Viking 
 and Kane & Lynch, which isnt something to be proud about.
  
  
  
  Vocally the game fares abit better compared to its visuals..... but not much better, the inclusion 
 of the band, Korn, as the soundtrack adds some nice tunes to the game, but the voice acting is 
 downright laughable, the big offender being "its like taking candy from a crippled baby" wether 
 this line was meant to be for abit of comical relief from the game as a whole or wether the game 
 testers were trying that little bit too hard to make the one liners funny, it didnt work either 
 way, resulting in pub like one liners that are cringe worthy, wear ear muffs while playing Haze, 
 because honestly, its fairly embarrassing and just a severe pain on youe ears.
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall, Haze missed its window of opportunity last year, releasing it this year was a 
 bad decision and the results are there for all to see, but Haze's demise will be shortlived with 
 titles such as Resistance 2, Bioshock and Killzone 2 all coming soon in the not too distant future. 
 So for the majority, most of us will let this crawl to the bargain bin where it belongs while we 
 all get back into GTA IV and wait for MGS4. But which ever way you want to look at it, Haze is 
 a massive disappointment, right up there with echoing flops that Turok and Lair left us some time 
 ago. Its probably a blessing in disguise, not only can we gamers rest from the never ending spiral 
 of Haze delays, but it wouldnt surprise me if Free Radical port Haze to the Xbox 360 in a desperate 
 bid to grab some lost dollars and gain abit of a fan base. By all means give it a rent, you may 
 like it as the 4 player co op can provide some good thrills, just dont expect the holy grail of 
 gaming. Its time for Free Radical to go back to the drawing board and start beginning work on Timesplitters 
 4, which im sure will be a sure fire hit and a big improvement over Haze. Bring on those monkeys 
 and that multiplayer brilliance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambomambo7984
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  It has nice gameplay to it but as i said there isn't any unique points to it. The choice of guns 
 and fire arms are too narrow. 1 type of sub-machine, 1 pistol, 1 rocket launcher. they are the 
 same for the 2 factions but differ in design only.
  The option of nectar is nice a bit like FEAR option; however the rebels havnt got a unique fighting 
 point to counter. Rebals got a dodge move and faking death which isnt efficient as nectar that 
 glows all enemies on the screen
  
  It could have scored a bit higher by placing higher variety of guns and different fighting terrains. 
 
  
  I couldnt help noticing that it could be a rip off of Microsoft HALO. nearly same name and nearly 
 same soldiers design. But i think it could have been a coincidene.
  
  Average game to be played once and then move on to the next. the only concern i have is that Sony 
 & Ubisoft made a huge fuss over its release; ending up with an average game nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timex2020
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was going to be the ps3's killer app, but what do we get instead? We get an uninspired 
 tub of lard. The controls were simple and easy, but the whole nectar mechanic takes the backseat. 
 I don't want to spoil it for you if you decide to play this mess, but it's the only cool thing 
 about this game. The shooting is just boring and the weapons aren't fun to shoot. The dialouge 
 is horrendous, especially the sissy character you play as. The multiplayer doesn't fair much better. 
 I played online and it was just a mess and the fact that there are only a handful of weapons does 
 not help. I got up to a point in the game where I said, f**k it and popped the disc out of my ps3. 
 I checked online to see how much I had left in the game and I was surprised to see that I wasn't 
 that far from the end. If you want to buy this game, don't, you're better off just renting it and 
 thats even too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Haze, one of the most hyped games of 2008 is ruined by a crummy story and unbalanced multiplayer 
 that makes you wonder why you even wanted to buy or even rent this game in the first place.
  
  The story in haze is quite plain you are a drugged up mantel trooper on a mindless killing 
 spree, get screwed up and change sides then all you've been fighting comes over to your team, yes 
 very rubbish.
  
  The most frustrating element is the multiplayer where you get to obviously play as either a rebel 
 or manteel trooper but everyone tries to play as the rebels because you can play dead because the 
 mantel troopers nectar (the drug) doesn't let them see the horrors of war so dead bodies dissapear 
 and stuff like that so when you play dead you dissapear, and all the rebels do that........ seriously, 
 it is so frustrating i got almost no kills as a trooper about 4 i think.
  
  The most amazing thing is the bugs, i was being attacked by 3 floating mantel troopers who were 
 supposed to be in a car and the dont even get me started on the dialogue, its almost as bad as 
 jericho's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wnichols4
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  OK, so the story is pretty light, the weapons aren't very special, the campaign is a little short, 
 and practically no one is playing the multiplayer.... BUT... it does have split-screen co-op! And 
 there is something to be said about a game that you can enjoy with a friend. I'm not here to describe 
 frame rate, texturing, or anything like that. I just want to say this game gets an extra point 
 on my rating scale because it has split screen co-op. I realize that we live in an age where you 
 don't need to share the TV with someone just to play a co-op game, but there are a lot of people 
 out there that might never play certain games (specifically shooters) unless they had a friend 
 who knew what they were doing sitting next to them. 
  
  And, yes, this game was supremely over-hyped.
  
  Just my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  
  
  Haze has been one of the most eagerly anticipated games of the year so far. Being a PS3 exclusive 
 and created by Free Radical (the people who brought Timesplitters) does HAZE live up to the hype 
 or does it fall right on it's ass?
  
  Story
  
  HAZE is set in the year 2042 where you play as Shane Carpenter. Shane is a soldier for a company 
 called Mantel who has been sent out to South America to defeat the evil promised hand rebels. The 
 leader of the rebels "Skin Coat" (who heats his enemies and then wears their skin) is your target. 
 But you change sides to be a rebel. This might sound interesting but dew to bad dialogue and annoying 
 characters make it hard to love.
  
  Design
  
  HAZE has a 6-8 hours campaign mode which can be played in coop on or of line. This is a really 
 nice feature and makes the game more enjoyable when playing with friends. The levels are good at 
 times and bad at others. Good when in the shanty town and bad when driving in open spaces. The 
 multiplayer has death match and team death and several objective modes which fit in with the storyline. 
 Like deleted scenes of a movie. You can play as a Mantel Trooper or a Rebel each with their own 
 skills. Mantel troopers have a drug called Nectar which helps them fight better. Rebels can play 
 dead, plant mines and can do nasty overdoses. But the problem is that both sides arsenal of weapons 
 are the usually and are boring. (Machinegun, Shotgun and sniper rifle) It's in the year 2042 for 
 Christ sake!! Couldn't the developers imagine a little. These are the same guys that made Timesplitters. 
 Come on!!
  
  Gameplay 
  
  You spend the first hour of the campaign as a Mantel trooper. The powers you acquire are really 
 interesting and are fun to use. You get a super punch, perfect aiming and a danger warning power. 
 But you swap to a rebel and lose these abilities which you get used to and you get a whole new 
 set of abilities. These suck accept for the play dead move. This allows you to heal and sneak up 
 on enemies. The AI is terrible. It makes the story like it makes no sense. When you're a trooper 
 you feel Mantel is winning the war. And when you're a rebel you feel rebels are winning. Enemies 
 will run past you, ignore grenades and some times alias and enemies will run around each other. 
 You never seem to get the feel that they are using their abilities. Best too play with real people. 
 Another problem is stupid objectives and a wave point that leaves wondering around. At least it's 
 a cool feeling when you shoot people.
  
  Presentation
  
  For a PS3 exclusive you would think the graphics rule!! Wrong. Up close the characters look alright 
 but as you walk away they lose texture and they lose there eyes. The set pieces are really bad 
 too. When you are playing there is endless voice clips which keep on being said. "Remember you 
 promise!"
  
  This doesn't suck it's just not very good. 6.5/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  For those who read my reviews I have always tried my best to be a glass half full sort of guy. 
 I can normally find the silver lining in even the darkest of clouds. However when it comes to Haze 
 I really don't see much that is positive or even passable. 
  
  Like far to many games that seem to be in development for a while, the concept and the story of 
 the game seemed rather interesting, and as we were fed more and more details I became more and 
 more impressed with what I may potentially see from screens or short play video. 
  
  Haze is the poster child for all sizzle and no steak. 
  
  The gameplay mechanics would have 
 been interesting, the concept of nectar, nectar infused weapons, and the abilities that you are 
 given are quickly overwhelmed by the simply mind-blowingly stupid AI that makes the guys running 
 around in Killzone look like Rhode Scholars. 
  
  Some of the aspects such as "faking dead" are really interesting save for the fact unless some 
 of your friendly allies are firing at them the enemy will simply stand around you and plaster you 
 with ammo the moment you spring to life. 
  
  The level design is also awkward, thank goodness for the "objective indicator" otherwise I would 
 be clueless as to where I was going and what I was to do next in an environment where one area 
 seems just like the last. Trying to find your way through the jungle on the first mission without 
 the use of the indicator would be nearly an impossible task. Silly me felt that a jungle environment 
 would allow me to go between all trees that are equally spaced apart, but because of the odd level 
 design you can only walk between the "right" trees to move forward. 
  
  Which brings me to the simply dated looking graphics, goodness knows that I can live with average 
 to below average graphics in games, but in a genre such as shooters I expect more. When you are 
 competing with the Gears of War's, Halo's, and Resistance's of the world I think its reasonable 
 to expect something not necessarily on par but certainly something approaching that sort of quality. 
 When I look at the quality of the characters and the environments I think of some of the higher 
 end Xbox games from last generation. This game really does come off as having The Chronicles of 
 Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay-esk graphics in terms of the level of quality. 
  
  They are not terrible, but consider what we have seen other developers do with the power of the 
 PS3 I did expect at least launch quality PS3 graphics. Needless to say that is not what I got. 
 
  
  The sound is passable, but really the tale of two games. 
  The effects and the combat, basically everything short of the voice acting may very well be Haze's 
 strongest quality. The fire fights come from all around you and this game does take full advantage 
 of a surround sound system. The battles sound epic. 
  
  Then we get to the voice acting
  
  My first reaction when I heard my crew chatting amongst themselves was "you have to be kidding" 
 I understand the reasoning behind making soldiers on nectar seeming laid back and relaxed and not 
 taking the battle or fighting seriously, although the voice acting takes it from what is intending 
 on being and takes it entirely too far. 
  
  It comes off worse then a poorly acted Van Damme movies, because at least in those you can see 
 that an effort is being made, here it comes off as a giant joke and had there been an option to 
 play the game with a Japanese voice over I may have just opted for that instead as the voice acting 
 lends very little to a story that is not all that deep in the first place. 
  
  Perhaps another saving grace is the multiplayer which is actually pretty functional. The environments 
 seem to lend themselves for a brawl for all style shoot em up online game, but tragically when 
 you have options like Resistance, Orange Box and Call of Duty 4 with the same price point, and 
 Warhawk in a lower price point it's hard to justify a new game price for it. 
  
  The most tragic part of Haze is that it could have been so much more, it may be worth a rent to 
 determine if its your type of game of not although once this generation is finished Haze will be 
 a title lost in a sea of superior games within its genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The story takes place in the near future 2040, where a person named Shane Carpenter witnessed his 
 mother die in a war. The odds are that Shane may not survive but he is saved by a non-government 
 group called Mantel who has their own army. He is made a Mantel Soldier and they give him a drug 
 called Nectar which improves awareness and damage. But the downfall of this drug is that if you 
 ue too much you will have a malfucntion and you will start shooting everywhere recklessly. When 
 Shane and his partner get assaulted by the rebels called Promised Hand led by a man called Skincoat. 
 Shane soon realizes that he is not fighting the good fight and Mantel lied abut their Nectar, so 
 he changes sides and joins the Promised Hand. 
  
  You will not have the abilities of Nectar while your playing as a Promised Hand member but you 
 can inject nectar into your grenades to throw at enemies. 
  
  The game's campaign has its merits and demerits. The good is that the action never stops and the 
 sound of explosions and gun fire is very intense and improves the action and the weapons you use 
 are very stable and easy to use. Demerits include poor A. I and unchallenging enemies. 
  
  The graphics are not that good nor bad, but occasionally the levels look spectacular. The sound 
 is what keeps the action going on the most, and is probably the best aspect of the game.
  
  There is online in Haze upto 16 players and is fun and enjoyable. The online may not be like Halo 
 or Resistance but it is at least present as an option for online players.
  
  Haze is an enjoyable shooter but was extrememly hyped and has its downfalls but they are equal 
 to the experience of being drugged and undrugged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Haze is a game that has fair graphics. However, i wouldn't say its the best game ever, as it has 
 poor campaign. Although the Online has said to be twitchy, but i have to say it is exciting.
  
  However, the sound does let you down. The gunfire noise is very disapointing, which puts the 
 overall score down.
  
  The background music while playing is good, but i thought it needed more enphisis for the game 
 to build up. As i said ealier the graphics are no amazing, but are still applicible. Good for the 
 gamer who is not critical about graphics.
  
  The gameplay is allright and have many differernt difficulty levels to choose from. I have completed 
 this game many times on all difficutly levels, but wasn't that hard to complete. I was hoping that 
 the campaign would be longer, but i was left disapointed. Overall it is a good game. But to be 
 sure, rent it first!
  
  Overall Score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper-1978
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  i don't know how I'm going to write 100 words about this game but I'll give it a try, I've been 
 following this game for what seems like a lifetime and was really looking forward to playing it 
 but just before it come out the reviews started coming out and most of them were very disappointed 
 so instead of buying it i rented it and how glad i was i didn't pay for it, if it wasn't for the 
 graphics (and they aren't that good considering the power of the ps3) the game feels like a much 
 older game the story was very average at best and to be totally honest i can't think of anything 
 good to say about it.
  
  i just hope killzone and resistance 2 play as good as they look and don't follow in the footsteps 
 of this game and totally disappoint as if they do it might be time to trade the ps3 and get some 
 of the cool games coming out on the 360
  
  anyway back to haze I've given it a 5 only because i rented it, if i had bought it the score would 
 have been much lower.
  
  there might be people who liked this game and if you do sorry if you take offense to this review 
 but i believe that a review should be honest and as such these are my views on the game, if only 
 they hadn't hyped it up so much!!!
  
  anyway if you want to give it a try for yourself i would rent it first and i think blockbuster 
 do a discount of the rental charge off the price of the game if you want to buy it so you won't 
 be losing any cash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Some horrible story telling and acting to boot. Poor A I, have given this game a bad name but it 
 does manage to shine sometimes. Judging by all the other reviews I had read, I wasn't going to 
 rent this. But you cant always believe everybody else either.
  
  
  Graphics = Not too bad, a couple cutscenes were noticeably muddy, but the stages looked great and 
 characters were good.
  
  
  Sound = Effects are awesome, Voice acting is treacherous, enough to make you not like the game 
 at first.
  
  
  Story = Not really the bread and butter of this game, standard change of heart bad guy to good.
 
  
  
  Controls = Responsive and easy, 1/4 through the game theyll change a bit though, with new abilities
 
  
  
  Learning curve = About 15 minutes because the enemy AI is so bad it wont matter how good you are 
 really.
  
  
  Value = I seen this game for $40 new at best buy, Id say if you can find it used for $30-35 pick 
 it up.
  
  
  Overall value = The story, acting suck pretty bad but once you get down to the core gameplay its 
 still a good game, There are a couple levels that will blow you away, but others that just suffer. 
 Rent first, decide later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Free Radical has been known for having some worthwhile first person shooters in the past with their 
 acclaimed TimeSplitters series. Which is why when playing Haze you kind of wonder, what happened? 
 Timesplitters had plenty of personality, whereas their next gen shooter Haze, feels like something 
 that was churned out in 6 months. At times Haze shows signs of being a solid shooter, but it's 
 inconsistency and lack of originality that keep it from shining.
  
  Haze is the common first person shooter, and it uses a pretty simple and easy to pick up control 
 scheme. It plays like almost all other shooters, in terms of button layout and the gunplay is actually 
 pretty smooth. The weapons will also be pretty familiar as Haze features the common shotgun and 
 assault rifle mix. Most of these guns are pretty accurate and fun to shoot and they're all accompanied 
 with a correct sound. Besides the basic run and gun gameplay, Haze offers some generic driving 
 sequences that feel ripped straight from other shooters. Even the vehicles look very similarly 
 patterned Halo. The whole package doesn't play bad, by no means, but it really doesn't feel like 
 you haven't been there before or done something similar.
  
  Unfortunately, the AI in Haze can be downright awful. The friendly AI is the worst, and the only 
 effect they have is a slight distraction to the enemy. Often times you can see them going in different 
 direction, running into things, or firing in different locations. It is just so frustrating to 
 see many developers get the basic idea of AI right, but an 'evolved' shooter in 2008 can't even 
 get the basics concept right. 
  
  In Haze you take the roll of Shane Carpenter, a young soldier who is part of Mantel Global Industries. 
 Mantel is the equivalent of the military in Haze, and you learn soon enough that their not exactly 
 out for doing what is right. This is where Shane breaks away from Mantel, and fights for the rebel 
 group. About a 1/4 of the game you'll play as a Mantel soldier, then the rest of the time you'll 
 be fighting alongside rebels. This is for the best, as the Mantel portion of the game is really 
 monotonous. 
  
  The difference between the two factions have very small variations in them. Each side has it's 
 own advantage, but the rebels have a really distinct plus. Rebels can quickly hit the 'fake death' 
 button, which makes for an imbalance as enemies will just leave immediately giving you perfect 
 position to hit them from behind. The benefit of playing as a Mantel soldier is that you can inject 
 yourself with the mysterious drug nectar. This nectar gives the Mantel soldiers the ability to 
 detect grenades and it lets the player see a glowing aura around the enemy. 
  
  Multiplayer is split into these two factions, and even though the rebels have the advantage in 
 the campaign, it doesn't always translate into an unbalance in the multiplayer portion. The better 
 player and team will win almost 90% of the time. There are 3 modes in which to choose from, including 
 the basic Death match and Team Death match. Assault is the final mode, and it's an objective based 
 gameplay makes it the better of the three. Although the multiplayer really doesn't have any glares, 
 unless you're using the AI bots, it just won't catch the attention of any hardcore multiplayer 
 fan especially while games like Call of Duty 4 and Warhawk offer many more modes and maps. 
  
  The story is told in a high dramatic fashion, but in all honesty you can probably tell Haze's 
 story in a paragraph or two. The whole corrupted government angle that Haze takes is good, though 
 it's been done before and it's been done a lot better.
  
  Haze's dialog certainly doesn't help in the progression of the story. Some of the worst, most obnoxious 
 lines are not only uttered in Haze, but are consistently repeated. The AI converses through a broken 
 record of laughable lines, including such Shakespearean-esque conversations as "Is there a medal 
 for most bad ass gangster?" or "this is more fun than I have ever had with my pants on." The rebel 
 voices also deliver some of the most flat and dull lines, which also cycle through every three 
 or four times.
  
  Haze also hits some pretty rough spots in it's graphical presentation. The overall look is very 
 average, and it wouldn't be better to compare it to launch titles than recently released PS3 games. 
 Plenty of problems such as flat textures and texture pop-ins really make for a 'passable at best' 
 look. Even with the problems, the guns are modeled quite nicely and the frame-rate stays consistent. 
 
  
  Haze has plenty of different environments and their is a lot of variety in each separate level. 
 As Shane, you'll go through about eight different level variations. There are a lot of generic 
 locations like the copper mine and jungle, but there are a few worthwhile levels such as the hotel 
 and landing carrier.
  
  Upon finishing Haze's campaign you'll have invested about 8 hours or so pending on what difficulty 
 level you started on. Haze has three difficulties from the go, and one more unlockable one. You 
 probably won't spend a lot of time on the aforementioned multiplayer, but once you do finish Haze 
 does offer 4 player co-op through the entire campaign.
  
  At times, Haze comes close to accomplishing what it sets out to do, unfortunately, it falls short 
 more times than not. The lackluster AI, poor dialog, and relatively straightforward story do not 
 help its cause either. Although it's not a pain to play, in fact Haze has its fun moments, it does 
 almost nothing to excel or evolve the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Heyz, well i read loads of bad reviews on this game, but i enjoyed the demo so i thought meh and 
 brought it anywayz. This game was highly dissapointing. 
  
  Story
  The story isnt half bad actully. Big company with loads of troops thinking they are helping the 
 world when really they are just making it worse.
  
  Graphics
  Bad. Its like Resistance mixed with PS2 graphics.
  
  Gameplay
  Ok, well its just a FPS but 
 the nectar gives the game an edge. It improves everything and makes it much easier to spot enemys 
 and kill them. You have a little nectar bar at the side which shows you how much nectar your using. 
 If you send the nectar over the bar you go into overdose and everything is really hard to see and 
 you wont be able to make out friend from foe.
  The rebels play dead abilty works and used alot actully. Also stealing guns from enemys works and 
 is pretty helpful. Plus using nectar knifes and grenades can help massivly.
  
  Driving
  Ok i gave this a sepreate bit to gameplay because i want people to know that the driving on this 
 game is terrible. You get a few vehcails and they are big and small. But they all go the same speed 
 and skid around the place like crazy.
  
  Online
  Ok, online is almost as bad as the driving. It really is bad. Usally Mantel win. Also as Mantal 
 your'll get some teams mates that steal your nectar or make you go into overdose, which really 
 does ruin it. The story togther is good though.
  
  Overall
  Ok game but majorally let down at points that ruins the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esspessa
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  ya it realy sucks its definatly not all its cracked up to be and its about a drug called necter 
 and its suppose to make u fight better but its basicaly speed at first you are in some kind of 
 mlitary then they brian wash you to make you think that the opposing team is bad but they are realy 
 just defending theyre selves so you go on missions and fight along side the mantel forces and you 
 get farther in the game and catch this guy and he tells you fighting the wrong side and he take 
 their "meds" and that is why they are mad at this general guy so they cut his finger off and so 
 they take him to the helecopter and the sergent trys to cut his arm off but you stop him then abunch 
 of other crap happens then the chopper crashes then a promise hand guy takes you to hide cuz apparently 
 youre one of them know then you stop the mantel guys and then uyou live happily ever after...... but 
 not realy cuz in youre mind youre thinking that this game sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear619
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say about this fps haze... well rubbish would be one abysmal would be another... timesplitters 
 had hyped up haze to changed the way we played first person shoot when in fact it just bores us... everthing 
 about the game feels half done... the graphics are quiet frankly **** ps2 like even... no were near 
 the standard of other ps3 games such as mgs4... the gameplay is nothing we havent seen before save 
 the nectar... when you press L2 you get a shot of nectar which makes your sences sharper and makes 
 your enemies glow yellow... this makes the game very easy even on the hardest difficulty... so on 
 to the story which i finished in about 3 hours... u start off as a mantel troop but u switch to 
 the rebels early on in the game... you would thing this would maked the game more exciting and difficult 
 right??? wrong the game same as before except hat you can role forward thats it... in conclusion 
 haze a massive disapointment and i would recommened to not buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Haze, what can i say? With all the bad reviews about it here on gamespot, i think i go by them 
 alot. I have really felt sorry for this gamr giving it a overrated 7.5, but it is a bit fun! You 
 play as a sargent of the Nectar team, batteling the Skin Coats army. It is fun, until it gets repeative. 
 Same enemies, same guns, same everything. The story line is also a bit boring, and a bit childish...
 
  
  Firstly, the graphics are amazing, using nectar is also good, as it shows up enemies as white and 
 is easier to shoot at, and some enemies are really hard to fight, which makes it overall more challenging. 
 The thing that you always find is ammo for your guns. You would find ammo for your sides gun in 
 a enemie base, how culd you find it there when they use differant guns to you? Anyway, using the 
 guns is really effective and makes you feel that it's you.
  
  Driving in Haze is really good to, except driving quad bikes, as they easily blow up and you die. 
 The driving could of been improved, but it gives a good feel about the game overal! But, as soon 
 as your getting used to fighting poor enimies with low tech guns, you get turned into one, and 
 you find yourself fighting the yellow and black soldiors that you were once. The bad side, that 
 actually turns out to be the good side, has lo tech guns, but much more abilities, like playing 
 dead and chucking grenades with nectar in, that disables the other armies nectar and they choke 
 to death. So, you end up a trator, for what, nothing really!
  
  This game is worth buying, but eventually you will get bored, but a good and fair 7.5 our of 10! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwind_017
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  I got haze when i got my PS3 at my birthday, i could had gotten a guide for MGS4 and i am legend 
 on blue ray, But i wanted to try out haze. I seen a review from "Armake21", So i thought "Lets 
 see if i like it and, while im at it, See what is wrong with Haze.", I see what people are coming 
 from. Sure, Haze isnt your Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3, But yet it isnt your Turning point Or Hour 
 of Victory.
  
  The story was... Comfusing, Including the ending (Which comes to the lines of Halo 2, wtf?) , the 
 story wasnt rewarding at the slightest. You are a soldier of Mantel who are invaiding South America 
 (i think) , The Mantel "super*" soldiers all use a Drug called "Nectar", Which gives them super 
 strength, Perception, Focus and so on aswell as letting them enjoy combat. Your character "SGT. 
 Shane Carpenter" starts out as a Soldier of Mantel but quickly changes side with the "Promise Hand", 
 A Rebel army who are defending there homeland. The Hand are more crafty, being able to fake them 
 being dead as the Mantel Super soldiers cant see blood. In terms this is quite oringinal but Haze 
 turns out to be just another shooter with a complecated story. it starts off slowly before things 
 start to kick off. It has its moments but they are often short lived.
  
  Gameplay is just what makes it another shooter, its just: Go somewere, Shoot soldiers/Rebels, Take 
 weapon, Kill some more Soldiers/rebels, Move on to next target, Shoot some more, rinse and repeat, 
 The game was far to easy for me. Apart from a few times were i done something stupid. Weapons are 
 disappointing for a game made by Free Radical (Who made the timesplitters games, in those games 
 you had so many weapons it was boom-tastic!) , you have your rifles, your shotguns, snipers, flamethrower, 
 minigun, rocket launcher, Gernades. there isnt much of a choice as the Mantel's Rifle is effective 
 agesnt nearly any enemy you see in the game. Its good to see some vehicles used in the game, But 
 they arnt so effective. However, Being a Mantel soldier, You cant see blood but in the story mode 
 your Nector administator starts to act up, Casuing you to see the horror of combat, Also in i think 
 it was the second mission, One of your Mantel friends swore, But the word was beeped out, Could 
 it be the combat drug or was it that your Friend was a raicst?
  
  I must say that most of the sound track however is awesome, And i guess that kept me awake playing 
 this game. Im sure you can buy it off the internet because the music is that damn good.
  
  Ive seen the glitches with the textures, And yeah most were bland like if it was a PS2 title. Thought 
 this didnt effect gameplay it was a shame that there wasnt that much done indoors but a good ammount 
 out doors. (unless the mission area was mostly indoors, you seen alot of stuff inbetween that could 
 be used as cover) Ive also noticed the ragdolls have went thought the walls and sometimes stayed 
 there. So it was seen that the game didnt get so much care and attenton...
  
  Online was often unbalanced as the Mantel soldiers could just eleminate all the rebels unless the 
 soldier was stupid. However the online experance is often a blast with friends. so get some friends 
 on, Go soldier and shoot them in the back and watch them go nuts with a overdose!
  
  So, Now that ive explained everything there is to explain about HAZE, all i can really say is that 
 if Free Radical had put much more care and attention into it, Maybe this game would be much more 
 better. Im hopping that Timesplitters 4 is much more than what haze is. Highwind017 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Foxtrot
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for Haze for ages.
  The idea behind the Nectar was a gem.
  The hype lead to disapointment on a grand scale.
  
  The Good:
  
  Good concept, Fun multiplayer 
 (although nothing compared to COD4) , Nectar is a nice touch. The Bad:
  
  Pitiful voice acting, Bad AI which dulls gameplay experience so much that Its not worth it. Storyline 
 is predictable and boring. main character feels disconnected and is very annoying. Nectar, the 
 reason I wanted to play the game, is removed from you after the second level. Short. Easy.
  
  The Ugly: Ugly fire effects that are incrediably basic, bland enviroments.
  
  SUMMARY:
 
  
  A bog standard, disapointing shooter which had the potential to be an awesome one. This game is 
 not even worth a rental. I have been so disapointed about a game that showed as much potential 
 since Golden Eye: Rouge Agent . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt437
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few weeks back expecting it to be brilliant. But i couldnt be more wrong. 
 The ai in this game is horriffic, and a bunch of lemmings has more common sense than the enemies 
 do in this game! The graphics are also incredibly poor. I mean, this is meant to be a PS3 title, 
 and its meant to be 'better than the xbox 360' well after playing this game i was shocked by how 
 bad the graphics were. Timesplitters Future Perfect had better grahpics on the ps2, and that is 
 no joke. The voices in this game are poor, the multiplayer is shallow and boring, this game just 
 is rubbish, and its a title and the PS3 should be ashamed of. So far i havnt really seen the PS3's 
 full potential that it claims to have, and if it doesnt do so soon, the xbox will be the superior 
 console. What a waste of 45, wont get any trade in money either because everybody else probs has 
 done the same! 1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersingh614
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  with all the delays and all the hype this is wht we get. waste of time if u ask me . the story 
 is ok but playing through the game is just gets boring after a while. the game has some of the 
 worst A. I. ive ever seen in a video game, A. I. on my dreamcast are better than this, absoloutly 
 ridiculous.
  
  Some levels are gd whereas others are just ridiculous such as the firefly level, stupid as sticking 
 toast in the toaster. Also the idea of nectar is gr8 for the first few levels but after a while 
 u begin to depend on it and the whole concept feels stupid. 
  
  
  
  All in all the game is a flop and a half, worse than assassins creed a major let down from ubisoft 
 and free radical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1noteshort
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted this game to be good. I really did. But, with regret, I must tell the truth. Haze 
 sucked. It plays like a crappy Killzone as far as multiplayer. The single player was only ok. The 
 graphics looked like it could be something from the last gen era at times. Most of all, the A. I. 
 can just be stupid at times. For example, I was playing multiplayer against bots. I was a rebel 
 and a trooper shoots me once with the rifle, once and turns his back to me so I am able to cut 
 his necter supply. I would actually write a full review but I don't want to waste people's time. 
 To sum it up in one simple statement ; "For every high, there's a low". Save you money for a decent 
 FPS like Resistance or wait for Killzone 2 or for a good online COD4. But for the love of your 
 money dont buy this game. If you really must play this game, wait for it to hit the bargin bin 
 used. Not worth the $35 I paid.
  
  -1noteshort 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I was really pumped for this game, and I finally got around to renting it today. It was 
 pretty good for the first little bit, the idea of Nectar improving your characters' performance 
 was cool, but then it got dull.
  
  The voice acting is absolutely terrible. The characters suck. I was hoping for something a lot 
 better. They have to compete with shooters like Battlefield Bad Company and soon enough, Resistance 
 2. Bad Company, I played it for a few days, and I really need to buy it now. The characters are 
 great, and funny. Resistance 2 is going to reveal more about Nathan Hale, so I'm looking forward 
 to it.
  
  Haze had potential to be a very good game, they had a good concept, but Ubisoft and Free Radical 
 did not execute it well at all. I haven't finished it, and I don't really want to at this point. 
 A sequel should not be in the cards at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pridak123
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game, very much. I wanted to get it the first day it came out. But 
 the day it came out i couldnt get it, i then read a few reviews, which were terrible, so i decided 
 id be safe and rent it. So after downloading the large data file required to play, i started finally 
 playing the game. It was awful. The graphics are choppy, the voicing and dialogue is horrific, 
 and the gameplay gets boring fast. I couldnt even get past the fifth mission because it was so 
 boring. The guns are also very boring to use, vehicle control is awful, combat can get very boring 
 and aggrivating and multiplayer sucks. The only good part is shooting your teammates in the back 
 :D . I wouldn't reccomend this game to anyone, unless there are people out there who collect crappy 
 games. To me this is one of the worst games on the PS3 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wayvrn
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is overally good, since You play as the drugged so You can say 'drugged' up Mantel in 
 the campagin as You are a seargent excited in the this new war between the Mantel Troopers and 
 Promise Hand Rebels. Soon after You play though some missions YOu discover that The drug nectar 
 aint all that great asAll highs has its lowsand Nectar sure does have some lows since a rebel 
 can shoot Your nectar pack on Your pack which will make You overdose, they can throw a nectar knife 
 anywhere at You and You will yet overdose and if You get cought up in a nectar cloud from a nectar 
 grenade then Youll most likley overdose again!
  
  Overdosing aint that fun at all, since You loose half of Your control and sight. You start to randomly 
 shoot anyone, yes even allies since everyone is black ( not african black ) just pure-pitch black 
 and You really cant tell from friend or foe, soon after You get out of the overdose and Youll be 
 back to normal... for now, expect to overdose ALOT if Your mantel because the Rebel always have 
 at least 1 tool/tactic to use on You to make You overdose.
  
  You then capture Gabriel Merion IE : Skin-Coat in a copper plant, as Duvall ( Your ally seargent 
 ) comes and takes Him in an elevator and well, cuts off something of Hes ( Not where You think! 
 ) . You then take Him into a Mantel Chopper and then Duvall goes off He's nut at Skin-Coat because 
 He got hes Rebels to take/steal Mantel Nectar which You NEVER find out WHY! Then You hold out Your 
 pistol and aim it at Duvall, Duvall stops and explains how Your a **** ect, something goes wrong, 
 one of Your other allies shoots the pilot by accident, they crash into a deserted swamp.
  
  You then 'wake-up' and Your in this freakyish swamp, You have no nectar and no weapons, You cant 
 see any bodies around You at all, which also doesnt make sence! Wheres Skin-Coat, Duvall, Pilot 
 and Co-pilot, Watchstrap and Peashey? Where are they, You dont see them at all. Anyway You try 
 to contact base which they cannot hear You at all, but You can hear them, they talk about all this 
 stuff about how they have crashed and that they will kill You 'Shane Carpenter' everyone kill-on-sight 
 on Shane Carptenter, this is code 'HAZE' which is most likley where the game gets its name from! 
 You have no idea of where You are and where to go, so You get an idea of following fire-flies, 
 silly but if You were getting off a very powerful drug and had no idea where You were, then following 
 fire-flies wouldnt be a bad idea at all.
  
  You go looking around and stuff to try and get a concept of the whole area, a sudden noise rises 
 in volume, continues and continues, then it instally stops and Duvalls face pops up ( black and 
 white ) shouting outJUST AN ANIMAL! which is ment to scare people as people posted them being 
 scared on the forums, which I didnt because I have personally seen heaps of screamer animations, 
 pop-ups, they dont scare Me much at all, and this one was obviously coming because of the noise, 
 suprised Me a bit because a big realeased game had a screamer face, I just laughed. Then You follow 
 the fire flies, then this little Rebel guy says follow Me, You say "You real?" He just says something 
 like 'follow me'. You follow Him, some Special Op's troops start shooting You and all, but then 
 You escape in this little hole with the Rebel guy. Your vision spins around with this weird noise 
 quite a few times, then You pass out.
  
  You wake up in a village, Merino gets You, then You pass out again, You wake up again and thats 
 when You pritty much become rebel beause You saved Merino by stopping Duvall killing Him. I wont 
 spoil to much of the game but it really is good if You respect its aspects of it as a game.
  
  Good that online You can choose from deathmatch, Team death match and the new objective based 
 which is pretty new and excited as each team battles out having an objective to do as on one map, 
 the Rebels have to open up two security doors and then steal 4 nectar crates from VIA a steam of 
 water ( river ) and as Mantel pritty much go along, gunning down Rebels in all 6 maps, Mantel pritty 
 much defend and doesnt require much team work as Rebels will overcome Mantel if there is teamwork 
 involved which there isnt really because all people online just kill, kill and kill, no team work 
 so that lets You down and gets You to do the objective. Alot of people team kill, since there are 
 no online admins to kick and ban people. Also people cheat the online stats thing for kills, head-shots, 
 everything. They make an online game, get a friend or more to join, get their friend (s) to keep 
 on going to one spot while one guy keeps on killing them getting good stats to outcome people who 
 actrully try to kill people! That is a very big let down for online, Ive seen it happen alot and 
 You look through peoples stats and they obviously do that stat cheating.
  
  Each sides are equally balanced very well as terms for Rebel VS Mantel, some say Rebel are better, 
 others Mantel, they just REALLY mean that their personally better with one and not the other so 
 its obvious that each team is balanced VERY well. The game play is very good but there is some 
 bits online where You just shout outSurley that f****g killed him! Or, One shot with a assault 
 rifle?! ect and ect, it can be dodgey but, nothing You can do as most online games are dodgey!
 
  
  The new four player co-op ONLINE is quite new and very good because it allows players from anywhere 
 allowing them to drop in and out from any game online. If You are the host then You can hold a 
 spot for a private friend in Your PSN friends list, You can have a spot for 1, 2 and 3 Online friends 
 so it can be just You and Your PSN friends. Useally people kick because Your better then them like 
 advancing while their back doing nothing, so if Your kicked dont enter back, their obviously stupid 
 and have no teamwork.
  
  All the guns feel and reload really well to, the main winners are pritty obvious, Rebel and Mantel 
 Assault Rifles, Mantel Shotgun and Mantel Sniper since the sniper is one hit kills, yep, even on 
 the foot, arm. The rebel flame-thrower sucks, only good if Your in groups because the flame slowley 
 drains HP and as I said good in groups because Youll have a couple guys shooting at Him, and flame 
 on Him, not only is it bad for the player in game but also out of game, He has to shake the controller 
 to shake of the flame and also shoot back, quite mentally challenging for a bit but Youll get use 
 to it. Rebels have many sneaky abilites like Weapon steal which allows You to steal any weapon 
 from a Mantel guy, walk up to Him, Punch, take weapon, *BLAAM!*, its very cool doing it since it 
 is all done very well. Rebels can Dive and roll around the joint to dodge bullets, it doesnt make 
 You get to point A and B quicker, if anyting itd be slower. Also rig any grenades to be a mine, 
 just rig it, and burry it and lure a Mantel guy to come to it then *BOOM!* and He'd most lilley 
 be dead if not, just a couple shots will do it! You can change the controlls for ANYTHING, any 
 vehicle controls and personal controls, any command to any button and vise-versa as it can suit 
 for Your likling. The game has in-built controlls You can change to which are very good to, have 
 a flick through them and if none suit, then just make a custom control and have it to Your like! 
 In campagin You can also change from four difficulties from Easy, Medium, Hard and Extra Hard to 
 also suit Your level of difficulty liking.
  
  If You aint sure about buying it, rent it, it is sure worth a rent!
  
  I personally give this 
 a 8.0/10, its a very good playstation 3 game, without HD may not be awesome but he graphics are 
 nice, with HD its amazing so if You want the full potential from this game, get HD and maybe surround 
 sound, then Youll be talking an awesome one of a kind shooter! Hope You liked this review and find 
 it usefull at all and thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Man I wanted this game to be good...
  
  I went out to buy it before any of the reviews were up. I heard before on a few podcast that it 
 was NOT what anyone had hoped for.
  
  I was really wishing for a good story... never found it. It could had been GREAT... but it seems 
 that the team of creators threw out some ideas that had alread been done and said "ok... but let 
 make sure when you play it... you dont remeber ANYTHING about it."
  
  I played the game... but it is a HAZE for me.
  
  The game looked good when it was paused... 
 but I felt it wa a little sluggish at times... could of been me though... after playing some of 
 the best games that I have ever played... then putting HAZE in... kinda made me... sad.
  
  The sound was not all that great either... a few time i had it kinda MUTE out during a fight. I 
 played that part a few times to see if it was something on my end... NOPE... it was the game... 
 even the sound was HAZEY
  
  This is I do believe the lowest score I have given a game... My hope for HAZE was big I guess... 
 Im glad now it did not come out last Holiday... but then again... it could had been a GOOD thing... 
 I would not had bought it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Soldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  First off, let me introduce myself. My name is Alpha_Soldier and this is my first review. Why did 
 I pick Haze? I don't know Perhaps no one ever will. ;) Anyhow, let's get on to the review. I'm 
 going to break it up into five categories: story, sound, music, graphics, and gameplay.
  
  Story: The story was great. I'm not going to spoil anything, but it consists of two factions: the 
 Mantels (the troopers) and the Promised Hand (the Rebels) . The year is 2038 and the government 
 has outsourced its military to private groups. At the top of these private military groups is Mantel. 
 Mantel keeps the world peaceful and they are proudly commended for it. However, a Rebellion known 
 as the Promised Hand is made and tries to put an end to Mantel. Overall, I give the story an eight.
 
  
  Sound: For the most part, the sound was horrible. The guns don't sound too overpowered (which I 
 like) and you can tell where your enemies are fairly well just by listening. However, what makes 
 the sound horrible is the voice acting. The voice actors over-accented almost everything that came 
 out of their mouths. So, instead of saying something like "I like to eat pie," they would say "I 
 LIKE TO EATS MAH PIE!" Needless to say, it gets annoying after awhile. Overall I give the sound 
 a five.
  
  Music: Well, the music wasn't too good either. As a Mantel trooper, when you took a dose of nectar, 
 you got this cool music that had a techno vibe to it. It added to the suspense of hunting down 
 the Promised Hand. However, for the rest of the time you either had some really bad rap music playing 
 or you had some overly-dramatic music playing. Overall, I give the music a six.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, while great in some parts, were bad in all the others. An example of the 
 great graphics is in the forest level (the first one) . The level is filled with vibrant colors, 
 and everything seems to come alive. This didn't last long though, as many of the other levels just 
 weren't up to par with the next gen graphics. A few other things that weren't up to par with the 
 next gen graphics were the blood, fire, vehicle modeling and character modeling. But, the campaign 
 doesn't have any loading times at all (unless you die) . Overall, I give the graphics a six.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very unique to the FPS genre. The Mantels and the Rebels both have 
 their advantages and disadvantages. The Mantels have a drug called nectar, which is basically a 
 performance enhancer that makes them super soldiers. The Rebels, however, can use nectar against 
 them. They can overdose the Mantel troopers through several methods. They can smear nectar on knives 
 and stab troopers with them, they can make nectar grenades, and they can shoot the troopers nectar 
 administrator (found on their backs) . All these advantages carry over to online play. This stuff 
 would be great but the game is very glitchy, freezing most of the time. Plus, it is also very repetitive, 
 with bad AI during the campaign. Overall, due to annoying glitches, I give the gameplay a six and 
 a half.
  
  In general, Haze is a very poor and glitchy game that has shallow online and a tedious campaign. 
 My final score for Haze: 6.5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I don't understand why this game has gotten such rotten reviews. The critics for this game must 
 have something personal against the developer or Free Radical and if that is the case that makes 
 me sick. I loved this game. I played it all the way thru and enjoyed it. Play control for this 
 game was great. I loved the story. Yes it was bazaar at times and that is what made it great. As 
 far as the player reviews for this game, sickening. These people are following the critics like 
 sheep when they bash this game. Get a mind out your own stop being cattle. I am going to play this 
 game again and enjoy ever minute of it. I really don't understand why this game was put down so 
 hard. It really pisses me off!!!!!!! When critics review Metal Gear Solid 4 they take every opportunity 
 to kiss Kojima's ass that they can find. Politics and ambition. Disgusting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Haze, I was hyped up. But the the reviews came out and heard from others 
 that this was a waste of money at best and shouldn't be played. Well I had proven people wrong 
 with my opinion with Lair and I did it again with Haze. I finally broke down and rented it at Blockbuster. 
 I started playing it and the story was kind of bland with overly manly guys, that were gay in my 
 opinion and a pompous bumhole were my squad mates who seemed to take pleasure on leaving me and 
 doing their own thing. If the game wanted me to hate them and make me want to punch them in the 
 face, well they sure did a good job at it. But I was warned not to read the back of the box. I 
 listened and I didn't. Turns out that you switch sides. I thought it was cool to see enemies light 
 up like christmas trees on crack and have health regenerate quickly and be able to zoom in on targets 
 when I used the scope on just about every mother efeen gun, but when I switched, I was sort of 
 disappointed that the other side lacked that. But there again, the Mantel guys easy to spot. It 
 was sort of like they were holding a sign saying "Shoot me! I'm RIGHT HERE!" But the good part 
 was that I could steal weapons and have them OD on Nectar which was always funny to watch the guy 
 blow himself up which laughing all crazy-loony like.
  Haze was fun for about a day or so then all the fun decided to pack its crap and move away when 
 I got to the bridge part. At which point I stopped and said the hell with it. I do recommend Haze 
 though. It's fun for a while and it's a competent shooter that should AT LEAST be tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake0084
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I havent fully beatin this game yet but so far its not to bad, its not the greatest game ive played 
 but if you enjoy shooters than its a game that you can at least try out. Who ever made this game 
 mustve been high though cuz you'll take at least 10 steps then go on acid trips or somethng cuz 
 ur guy starts losing it. I honestly havent payed to much attention to the story because all the 
 characters in this game are so corny, but the main idea of the game is your working for some military, 
 then you realize there bad and you join the opposite team... i really dont know lol, so im sorry 
 if i mislead you. but continueing on the gameplays not to bad, its just like any old first person 
 shooter. riding in vehicles can be pretty fun sometimes. I dont think this games quite worth a 
 whole 60 dollars, so id just rent it if i were you. and well if you enjoy it then go out in buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wada1azn
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  People are so over critical this was a great game. The weapons and play mode was fun for me and 
 the story was cracked out!!! in a good way. So take a step back you friggin pessimists! Try having 
 a bit of an open mind and good old fashioned shoot em up! Remember you dont have to have amazing 
 graphics, just for an amazing game. Come on man look at tetris and pac man and such, still plays 
 awesome to date. This game made me laugh so many times at the drug abuse, and cry so many times 
 (not literally) at the times where drugged up soldiers lose the drug and realize what they've done. 
 Very interesting topic and game! ^__^ power to ya ubisoft! And more more thing all you people ready 
 to bad mouth ubisoft, remember they've made some amazing sword and medieval games, they could also 
 make an amazing shooter game. I seem to remember "brother's in arms road to hill 30" to be more 
 than a sufficiently fun game! With all that said keep playing and gettin headshots! this is runningryan 
 signin off!!! ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pirple
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I first say Haze on the spot and I thought it looked realy cool so a downloaded the demo of Haze 
 and it was cind of fun.
  
  So I rinly got to play the reel game of Haze the first day I played it by my self and beat three 
 missions.
  The next day I played Haze online on co-op and beat it today.
  
  The story in Haze is not the best ever but the battles in Haze are lots of fun.
  
  Haze was 
 best ment for online co-op for you can play online with three people in online co-op, or try the 
 three other modes online.
  
  I dont know why gamespot only gave Haze a six, but shure the story is not that good, but the game 
 play is grate and it does not look as bad as they say.
  
  If you like 1st pirson shooters be shure to give Haze a try.
  Its not the best Ps3 game, but you 
 will have fun with Haze.
  But one of the problems with Haze is its a short game, around the 6 to 10 hour mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurlyburlycurly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Coming at this game with little knowlege and eager hands was not the way i should have worked at 
 it. Unlike most other games I buy i didn't check the info on this game, instead trusting Free Radical 
 to do what they do best. Make great and fun games.
  
  And whilst it is fun, it just feels too plain. Shooting gives you the wanted thud but with rather 
 useless AI and The ability's hyped about for sometime being very dissappointing (more on that in 
 a sec) you quickly want to return to the danger of COD4 or even Bad Company. The graphics are very 
 pretty when in jungles and the moments when your nectar fails and you see the world for what it 
 truly is are striking and fun. But indoors it's plain mazes that lead nowhere and a typical uninspired 
 shopping mall roof level.
  
  The Nectar powers are, as I said above. Dissappointing. Your character see's everything as if hyped 
 up, and you get super human aiming and strength but it's over too soon. And when you turn rouge 
 (Dissappointingly doe so) the Nectar fueled soliders aren't half as strong as wanted.
  
  Not saying this game isn't fun. I wouldn't give it 7.5 for being bad!
  
  The shooting is solid 
 if plain. And 4 player, be it on or off -line is a hoot. Witht eh risk f overdosing on Nectar being 
 a fun risk. And online play is great. The powers actually being put to good use!
  
  But all in all it's a dissappointment from theacclaimed developers. Lets hope their next effort 
 is a bit better!
  
  HBC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Im guessing that the only reason you will be reading this review will be because you are thinking 
 of getting Haze despite all of the games negative criticism. Well let me start you off by saying 
 DON'T. The game is terrible in so many areas I don't know where to start. The graphics are terrible 
 and look like something from a few years ago, there is basically a clone of every weapon for both 
 the Rebels and Mantel soldier, apart from one or two weapons that you will rarely get to use. The 
 singleplayer was very short, AI was worse than that of the police in GTA Vice City (that might 
 have been a slight exzageration but it's still very bad) . All of these features make the multiplayer 
 very unappealing, and on top of all this the game requires around 5GB of free data for installation. 
 Not to mention the charecters have about as much creativity as most modern art, you get your badass 
 American psycho killer and your humble and modest South American rebels. 
  
  And just when you thought things couldn't get any worse, the feature of Nectar that you get to 
 use if almost completely useless, it makes you run a bit faster and makes the enemies glow and 
 appear better. And you hardly loose those abilities when you become a rebel, the Mantel soldiers 
 stick out like a sore thumb so that hardly makes them difficult to spot. And the Nectar grenades/knives 
 are about as useful as a cap gun in the middle of a sword fight, it's alot easier to just shoot 
 them dead.
  
  Long story short, the game is terrible and you will hate yourself for days for buying the game, 
 I realised that the hard way. Don't buy Haze, there are plenty of other games for the PS3 that 
 are so much more fun for alot cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  i was very disappointed when i played haze for the playstation 3. there was so much talk about 
 how cool and great this game was going to be before it came out. i mean everybody was talking about 
 haze. i mean it even looked nice on the commercial. who wouldnt say good things about haze. anyways 
 when i put haze into my playstation3 and it started the first movie i was very 
  impressed with the way that things looked. the grapics looked great. then i started the gameplay. 
 and i thought that was okay. but as i keep playing. i keep thinking. what the hell is going on 
 with the story. i just didnt really understand anything. i just know you switched sides. there 
 really wasnt much information why the main player did this. come to think of it. there really wasnt 
 any story at all. the game was nothing more then 8hrs. there wasnt any boss battles. and the one 
 you did was really lame and boring. this game got old really quick. there really wasnt anything 
 special about haze. and it was so easy anybody could beat this game on hard without any problems. 
 haze was a huge upset. if your going to play this game. you should rent it. im sure your going 
 to beat it that day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatesy917
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Well since i have had my Playstation 3, the games i have been really looking forward to have been 
 Haze & MGS4. MGS4 is probably the greatest game ever made. Haze is for me average, the previews 
 looked amazing however the game does feel rushed despite all the crazy hype.
  
  AI makes me want to throw up, i mean come on guys were not still play the PS2, its PS3 now, it 
 can do so much, better i hope your kicking yourselves for your crap AI.
  
  Despite the AI the single player is brilliant! Yeah it is, though i still wish i could have played 
 as those mantel guys for abit longer I loved pumping nectar in my vein and killing everyone like 
 i was Rambo/The Terminator.
  
  A Good story and great use of the minor vechicles.
  
  It beats games like Resistance because that game personally for me looks way too cartoony.
  
 
  Multiplayer is actually quite addictive and it gives teams opsite advantages an works out quite 
 well, 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  I wonder if I should just write the word cr*p here about 100 times to sum this one up - that would 
 offer you more imaginiation that the writers gave us in Haze. 
  
  Like the story of the optimistic boy who searched the manure because he figured their must be a 
 pony in it somewhere, you will find yourself in a similar situation as you go work through haze. 
 
  
  Basically, if you list all the elements of the game and rated them its a pretty solid mediocre 
 effort. I don't know the details, but from the designer interviews I got a sense they were trying 
 to create a new engine to run these kind of games on, so maybe this whole thing was really a hyped 
 up experiment. I notice most games have the "UNREAL" engine logo at the start up, so maybe the 
 plan is to compete with that. Given the results, I would hope they are competing on price, not 
 quality.
  
  So we got ourselves a so-so game, but it has split screen co-op and it even allows split screen 
 co-op online multi-player - this is why I bought it. But here is the killer - this so-so game is 
 bundled in one of the dumbest, most pathetically executed stories. How many times can we listen 
 to the rebel guy yelling in a Spanish accent "Remember your Promise to Moreno" (or whatever his 
 name is, I can't care) . We could go on and on with the stupidity. Why are the rebels Hispanic anyway? 
 Why not, I dunno, Polish or Swedish... oh, that would have taken a speck of imagination. 
  
  I'll bet everyone has there own favorite STUPID HAZE MOMENT - I think mine is after our main 
 character kills 100's and 100's of nectar dependant soldiers, on the final assault he suddenly 
 decides its no longer nice to kill them. Well, it's hard to relate just how dumb that comes off 
 without having to grind through this painful story.
  
  This game is really actually over-rated, as low as the critics scores have been. We are all hungry 
 for a satisfying new FPS. There were so many titles so far this year, but here we are... not just 
 hungry but STARVING for a FPS that rocks our world. 
  
  Give UBISOFT credit for holding back the release of this one - I would never have bought it except 
 I needed something to get some co-op play while I wait for something good (Resistance 2 ??? )
 
  
  But let's be clear - there is no pony hidden in this manure... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game really/honestly made me mad. I planned on buying based on a demo. It was scheduled to 
 have a 60 player online. Does anyone know what happened to it? The A. I in this game is pretty bad 
 with the enemies walking into the open and getting caught on stuff. The only alright thing about 
 this game is the nectar that you can get in it. It bascially drives you crazy and you get "superpowers." 
 The endding is something else, (as I've said in other reviews) someone dies at the end (I'm not 
 saying who.) After you play the game you should likely take it back and trade it in for a discount 
 on like COD4 (or maybe soon COD5) I wasn't happy with the game, if you are reading this tell me 
 what you think. I hope that the next game that promises something comes through with it.
  
  
  Verdict: Don't get it unless you have no other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to get this game.. even after reading the reviews.. I always loved a good shooter, 
 Well not this time.
  The worst 60 bucks I ever spent is what I'm about to review..
  Gameplay: Sure throwing nector from a dagger was fun, nah..
  the AI is so stupid they run into 
 the walls and shoot at nothing..
  I can't even believe this was a ps3 exclusive.. Might as well go on 360..
  Value: yes there's 
 still some hope here. Co-op online is good.
  especially when the AI sucks as I pointed out before..
  story: does this remind you of killzone? 
 no it doesn't, killzone owns this game...
  sound: Yeah you know.. I hate crappy 4ss voice casts, Especially when their over done.. Even I 
 sound stupid in that game..
  So I turned down the tv and listened to some of my favorite music..
  You expect that a next gen 
 game could look better, play better, or even sound better? guess not this time... I can't call 
 this game good if I'd rather do the dishes....
  this game stinks and I can smell it... By the way korn sucks.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillbillyyahoo1
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is getting trashed a little too much in my opinion. The graphics are servicable, the 
 gunplay holds up well, everything else... Well if you don't mind playing a cheesy story, with gameplay 
 from last gen then dig in. Otherwise dont bother. The single player is executed rather poorly. 
 Not enough clear direction in the levels for a linear game, and the a. i. acts like they really 
 on drugs sometimes. The multiplayer is fun but unbalanced. I love that there is splitscreen though, 
 I wish more developers would put it in. Back to the game though, I'm an army of darkness, adult 
 swim and mst3k kinda guy. So I enjoyed the crappy voices and story, personally I give this game 
 a 7. There really is some fun to be had in the story mode (single and co-op) , and the multiplayer 
 is quick to get into. but hey I played wolfenstein 3D when it was the new thing. Its sad that this 
 is Free Radical's first next-gen effort cause it doesn't really feel too next gen. Still its got 
 some fun solid gameplay, wait for the price to drop to around 30, grab some friends, and have some 
 lame co-op fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWesker
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  It's sad that, even in 2008, we still have to put up with this amount of sheer mediocrity.
  
  Haze has been looked at as an interesting first person shooter since it was first announced. 
 Coming from the developers of TimeSplitters, expectations were a bit high. It's also garnered plenty 
 of attention from being an exclusive PS3 game. Unfortunately, for every step Haze takes forward, 
 it takes 5 steps back.
  
  The graphics in Haze are nothing special. While it doesn't look bad necessarily, I expect more 
 from games after playing through the powerhouses like GTA IV and MGS4. This game would have looked 
 superb back in 2005, but in 2008 it does not cut it any longer. The 'Nectar' effects look nice, 
 but as with the rest of the game, nothing special.
  
  As you already know, Haze is a first person shooter, and it plays just like any of the rest. Haze 
 plays akin to the original Halo, nothing more, nothing less. The gunplay feels okay, but is stiff 
 at the same time. There were points in the game where I was desperately trying to shoot an enemy, 
 but failed because the cursor on screen decided it wasn't going to do what I say. It makes for 
 several frustrating moments that made me want to turn my Sixaxis into a bullet so I could shoot 
 myself with it. 
  
  One of the 'features' of Haze is the Nectar system. Nectar is billed as a 'performance-enhancing 
 pharmaceutical drug that grants the user enhanced speed, accuracy and strength'. It really is nothing 
 more than a mind controlling hallucinogenic. What this means in-game though, is that you will be 
 able to see enemies more clearly, bodies will vanish as to drown out images of death and destruction, 
 reduces recoil, and allows the player to zoom in further while scoped. An overdose of Nectar is 
 dangerous, with loss of mental control and death being possible side-effects. A lot of what Nectar 
 does is nothing really special, and is really nothing more than a gimmick.
  
  The vehicle controls in Haze are primitive, to say the least. It only utilizes one stick to steer, 
 and it just doesn't work. Remember the M35 Mako from Mass Effect? Now try to steer it with enemies 
 all around you shooting you every second that there is. Now watch yourself die a lot, as I did. 
 As much as Haze took notes from other games, they forgot something very important, vehicle control. 
 I find it to be rather embarrassing that vehicles can still be controlled this way these days.
 
  
  The story in Haze is nothing special either. You and your squad of insecure idiots are sent out 
 to find a rebel group called "The Promise Hand." Only to find out later in the game that everything 
 that has been said about the group is wrong. The game is very gritty in regards to the story, and 
 takes nothing into account when it comes to dialogue. There were plenty of moments during cutscenes 
 where I was wondering why certain things needed to be said. Some of the dialogue felt so out of 
 place that I just shook my head and turned it off, being disgusted by it all. In a day in age where 
 he have great games with great stories like GTA IV and MGS4, we still have hundreds of throw-aways 
 like Haze.
  
  After finishing the single player campaign, there isn't much to come back for. Haze has an online 
 multiplayer mode, but doesn't fix any of the problems as far as controls, so it is not worth your 
 time. Not to mention, every game I was able to get into was extremely laggy, making it unplayable. 
 Haze also has a Four-Player Co-op Mode that went unplayed by myself. I could not torture myself 
 through the same bad campaign again. 
  
  Haze had potential. I'll admit, I was curious to see where Free Radical was going with it. Unfortunately, 
 it turned out to be nothing special. Haze may be worth a rent if you can get past the awful control 
 and laughably terrible story, but should be strictly avoided otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaffarooni
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  It has to be said that Haze is a major let down from the get go. I own a 360 and a PS3 and was 
 looking forward to this game for ages due to it being a PS3 exclusive. It sounded like that it 
 was going to be awesome but the truth is pretty far from that. Yes the shooting system is good 
 but that's where my praise ends. The graphics are very average I would not consider them next gen 
 for a game that has been so long in development. The characters in the game are acted poorly and 
 if you play co-op there is no references to your friends in the cut scenes. The idea of Nectar 
 was good and the ability to use it to your advantage when playing as ether side quite innovative 
 but it doesn't make up for this sub standard game. The multiplayer is ok but not enough to warrant 
 buying this game, stick with COD4 or halo 3. Do not believe the hype, don't buy this!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbooch
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Played the demo so I thought I give it a rent. What a disappointment. The graphics are shabby right 
 off the bat. No detail and generic environments. The characters and acting left me feeling ashamed 
 I was even playing the game, a poor attempt at cool.... comes off like I'm watching a bad episode 
 of the A-Team from the 80's.
  I made it to the second area where you command a vehicle and I lost all interest. The vehicle play 
 looked like it was ripped off of Half Life 2 from 3 yeas ago. I honestly felt like I was playing 
 a game that came out from that era of games. What a clunker, don't waste your time. Gamespot was 
 generous with a 6. The whole premise of this game was to be the nectar and how it betters the game 
 play, but all it does is highlight the bad guys, make your accuracy better and make you near invincable. 
 That doesnt enhance the gameplay, it makes it boring. I can't understand how this company invested 
 so much money to put out this below par product. I'm guessing since it was in development as one 
 of the first PS3 games they had to build it from the ground up and it just got too costly because 
 the end product is pure adulterated garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Some games rise to the occasion, managing to ride the wave of hype into gaming history, but others 
 crumble. Haze, from TimeSplitters developer Free Radical, feels like a game crushed under the weight 
 of expectation, a game that appears to have been frozen in time from four years ago. As solid as 
 certain parts of the game are, no amount of nectar coursing through your veins will disguise the 
 ugly truth that Haze is one of the most disappointing releases of the year.
  
  Haze begins with you, Shane Carpenter, fighting as part of the Mantel Global Industries' army, 
 an army tanked up on a yellow liquid known as Nectar. This is administered to every soldier while 
 out in the battlefield and paints a very different view of war compared to reality. While high 
 on the yellow stuff you can't see dead bodies, the world is brighter, enemies stick out as if they're 
 on fire and threats are seen before they happen. Essentially Nectar turns normal soldiers into 
 super soldiers, able to take on pretty much whatever stands in their way.
  
  Your Nectar high is lost fairly quickly though. Although you can tap L2 to administer another dose 
 (assuming you haven't used your supply) it's far better to keep the high going by taking down enemies. 
 Each successful kill replenishes your meter slightly, allowing you to remain a super soldier for 
 as long as there are enemies to kill.
  
  Things aren't quite as clear cut as they sound. As with all drugs, an overdose isn't recommended. 
 Take too much and your vision will blur and your view of the world will change for the worst. Worst 
 still, you'll start shooting uncontrollably. While you can just about control this, when it happens 
 to a team-mate you better find a safe place very quickly. The inconsistent AI soldiers have a habit 
 of running in the line of fire, so you'll frequently hit their Nectar dispensers causing an OD 
 - very annoying.
  
  It's fair to say that the opening few levels of Haze are interesting, if not spectacular. The Nectar 
 system makes for a game that feels different to the rest of first-person shooters on offer, and 
 the banter between characters gives a good insight into the lives of soldiers and the politics 
 going on. Sadly the game changes rather drastically quite early on, with you seeing the truth behind 
 the Nectar. Seeing the error of your ways you switch sides, opting to help out the rebels of the 
 Promise Hand in their fight against Mantel.
  
  From here on you don't have access to the ability enhancing Nectar, meaning what plays out is simply 
 a rather generic, bland FPS. Instead of using Nectar to enhance your own abilities you use it against 
 the Mantel soldiers. Lob a Nectar grenade into a group of soldiers and they'll OD on the gas. Losing 
 all control, they'll turn on their own team mates, leaving you to mop up the remaining soldiers. 
 The same goes for a knife dipped in the yellow liquid, which is deadly in the right hands. Aside 
 from these offensive weapons, as a rebel you can also double tap jump to dodge incoming fire and 
 press L2 to play dead - making you invisible to Mantel soldiers. You don't really need to use the 
 Nectar weapons, as the enemies aren't too smart, but playing dead comes in handy every once in 
 a while and means you'll rarely die on the game's standard difficulty setting.
  
  Haze's campaign is pretty unspectacular, lacking in spectacular moments and set-pieces that other 
 modern shooters have in spades. Problems caused by dumb AI squad mates, instant kills from unseen 
 rockets and unimpressive vehicle controls don't help matters - trying to manoeuvre a buggy along 
 a narrow road with instant death on either side isn't fun. As original and unique as the Nectar 
 administrating gameplay sounded, by the end of the short six-hour campaign (less if you're at all 
 experienced with the genre) you'll be glad it's all over. In fact the last level gives the appearance 
 of being cut to pieces, with a high-speed vehicle section losing any sense of excitement because 
 of constant fades to black to skip to slightly later moments in time.
  
  The core gameplay behind Haze isn't bad at all. Gun-play is solid, with the zoomed in view allowing 
 anyone with some experience and enough accuracy to take down enemies with relative ease. Weapons 
 feel powerful too, able to down enemies without the need to unload tons of lead. None of this matters 
 though when you're up against enemies that don't seem to care about self preservation (the fact 
 that they're high on Nectar is no excuse) . Level design isn't great either, like the terrible missile 
 carrier escort mission which requires you to guard the slowest moving vehicle known to man as it 
 moves across a bridge. I dislike escort missions at the best of times, but this particular level 
 tested my patience to near breaking point.
  
  By far the biggest criticism I can level at Haze is how dated it feels. Nothing about the single-player 
 campaign feels fresh once you're through the opening few levels, with environments, gameplay and 
 combat feeling like the games we were playing on the original Xbox and PlayStation 2. This doesn't 
 make Haze a bad game, but just nothing we haven't played over and over again in the past few years. 
 The storyline is one of its defining features, but some cheesy acting and a dodgy script often 
 lessen the serious impact it could have had.
  
  Haze's potential saviour is its multiplayer functionality. The 16-player online competitive play 
 is solid and works well online, offering plenty of game modes and an in-game friends list. You've 
 got your standard deathmatch and team deathmatch as well as an object-based game mode that should 
 offer some decent matches once the servers are full. It's hard to see Haze's online component drawing 
 too many players over from CoD4, but decent sales should see it gain a strong user base.
  
  Perhaps an even bigger selling point is the four-player drop in and out co-op online or LAN - two 
 players are supported via split-screen. Played with real people taking the place of AI team mates 
 the game is better, there's no question about it. You no longer have to contend with allies running 
 directly into your line of fire and it no longer takes two to three guys to take down a single 
 enemy. It does make the game incredibly easy though, making it possible to run through the levels 
 in double quick time. Had this co-op been slotted into an all-round more exciting campaign we'd 
 be singing its praises no end, but sadly here it just makes a disappointing game a little bit more 
 entertaining.
  
  Much has been made of Haze's exclusivity to the PlayStation 3, with many believing this would allow 
 for some of the best visuals seen on the console. Although Free Radical's game isn't ugly, it has 
 the look of a PC game from a few years ago, and pales in comparison to the likes of Halo 3, Gears 
 of War and Resistance. For the most part it runs at a smooth frame rate, only bogging down during 
 intense fire-fights, but it still disappoints considering its status as a high-profile PS3 exclusive. 
 Little blemishes like AI soldiers repeatedly walking into walls or into fire don't help, and on 
 numerous occasions my checkpoint save would re-load with my character stuck in some scenery - nothing 
 that couldn't be overcome, but sloppy nonetheless.
  
  Haze is far from a complete disaster but, given the high level of hype surrounding its release 
 and the pedigree of developer Free Radical, it still stands as one of the biggest disappointments 
 of this generation. Good ideas are there, but it all descends into a bog standard FPS before too 
 long. Playing with friends is definitely the way to go if you can, avoiding the dodgy AI team mates 
 as much as possible, but this can't make up for a lacklustre campaign and underwhelming presentation. 
 While certainly better than Turok and other severe disappointments the FPS genre has seen in recent 
 months, Haze is nowhere near the classic slice of entertainment we originally expected.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 6
  Overall: 6
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Decent multiplayer.
 
  - Co-op is handled well.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Drab visuals.
  - Soon becomes too generic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulkiller225
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  First off I am going to say I have been anxiously waiting for the release of this game. I am a 
 big COD4 fan. On the PS3, it sets the stage for all FPS games. Haze, is right up there. They both 
 have their strengths. COD4 is an awesome game because it is very realistic with the missions, real 
 weapons, & warfare. Haze's strength is that it is not as realistic, but more fun because of the 
 science fiction aspect of it. The weapons that you use actually have the cartridge gauge on them 
 which makes the weapons appear futuristic. Really cool... The reload time is good & realistic just 
 like COD4. The load time for the shotgun for example is realistic on both games. The explosions 
 are very rich in detail in Haze as you can actually see a lot of fire & smoke, & even when you 
 are in Nectar mode you can see the shockwaves from grenade blasts. For some reason this really 
 impressed me.. I guess it's the detail. The graphics in COD4 are sharper than Haze. To be honest 
 I will be surprised to see any game that has equal sharpness in the graphics like COD4. I'm not 
 sure but it appears like COD4 has 1080 resolution, but I could be wrong. Haze's graphics appear 
 a little, well lets say Hazy LOL. But it's done well & it looks like the developer's did it intentionally 
 as I have seen games with graphics that are so sharp until the game looks fake. Haze is perfect.. 
 The animations are great. There is a lot of detail in the backgrounds. In the first level the butterfly 
 animations are an added plus for detail. Like I said Haze is fun in the fact that it isn't as realistic 
 as COD4. The premise of the performance drug Nectar is great & is written in good with the storyline. 
 I say this because the soldiers for Mantel are no more that drug seeking killing machines. It is 
 written well because they are supposed to be the good guys but in fact they are cocky arrogant 
 drug addicts. During the game even when not in battle you can hear the sound of nectar being pumped 
 into members of your team. When in nectar mode your character has superhuman reflexes & perception 
 & strength. COD4 can't mess with that. Also, you get to use vehicles. It is very similar to Resistance 
 Fall of Man in that aspect because some levels you drove tanks & jeeps which made that game really 
 fun. I haven't had the game but a day, but I can see myself wanting to play over & over again because 
 it's just plain fun... Buy this title, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Haze at first looks like a great game, what could've made it better was a few more months of work 
 and patching up. i mean its great, ur a soldier in a future army eliminateing "teorrorist" or rebles 
 and ur under the influence of drugs. they make u have super human powers such as being fast and 
 see better but if over loaded can make u stop dead in ur tracks.
  i'll make it brief
  THE GOOD:
  -fun shooter 
  -Probably tries to tell us that drugs are dangerous ( maybe)
  -ok 
 story
  -good graphics
  -Good sound
  -Can do a specil move here u go up to some 1 disarm their weapon and shoot it at them point blank. 
 (but they will most likely kill u before u can do it)
  THE BAD:
  -very repedative, fight the same enemies no variety
  -with the smoke trails u wonder who put 
 it there for u (maybe thats just for me)
  -guns are the same like shooting the same guys with the same guns.
  -complex controls for me
 
  ENDGAME:
  even though it seems good at some points it has some bad and enen though it may be a great game 
 your better getting a different games such as Resistance: fall of man or Rainbow six Vagas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmiillee
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely pathetic! It had a poor story plot, the guns just didn't feel right (a 
 bullet from a pistol does more than one from an assult rifle!) , the stroy mode is extremely short 
 and the online mode is unbalanced and pointless. Although there is one good aspect of this game, 
 it has pretty good graphics.
  
  Honestly buying this game was a waste of my hard earned money, it did not live up to all of the 
 months of advertising and I do not recommend it.
  
  If you want a fun game, get Battlefeild: Bad Company or Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndyColts29
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I played this game at my friend's house, and I was like WTF, I thought this game would kick a$$, 
 but it's average. I thought that the NECTAR or whatever the hell it's called would make this game 
 a must have, but Ubisoft made me look like an a$$hole, thanks ubi. I told everybody to get Haze, 
 but now i am probably going to get the business end of a homemade shank. There were some cool ideas, 
 but if you dig through all of the sh**, you might enjoy yourself. I am tired of every developer 
 trying to be like Halo 3, which is mediocre, Gears of War kicks way more a$$, Cliffy B!! And why 
 the hell did ubi get those horrible voice actors, I was one more bad voice-over away from taking 
 a rusty butter knife and jaming it in my ear, through my brain, and out the other side. I'f you 
 are a freak for FPS's buy it, but if not, wait till Resistence 2, or wait untill the best game 
 ever, Resident Evil 5, Chris Redfield is a pimp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  PROS: 4 player co-op, Sixaxis controls work well, Character models look decent, Nectar makes things 
 interesting
  
  Cons: Without Nectar = just another FPS, Terrible A. I. makes things too easy and makes your guys 
 useless, Voice acting sucks, Environments look like someone smeared it with crap (aside from the 
 jungle, that looks nice)
  
  Haze was in my top 3 most anticipated games for the PS3. I think Free Radical is a great developer 
 and I think Timespliterrs was a great series. So once word got out that they had a new IP started, 
 and it was on next-gen consoles, I couldn't wait to get my hands on it. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS in Haze are unbalanced. When you first begin, the game looks pretty good. From the 
 Landcarrier to the Mantel suits and the lush looking jungle. You'll think your in for an eye treament. 
 WRONG. Once you get further into the game, such as the Smelding Plant, you'll see some ugly and 
 overly dark envrionments. Then you start to realize that all these dudes look like they just transfered 
 from Quake 4. 
  
  THE STORY has potential. Its weak in the end but when you begin you automatically see the potential 
 in the story. If you have played the game, you probably remember the part in the beginning when 
 you first board the plane to head into the jungle and your guy says, "What, no beer?" And Morgan 
 says, "There no poison in my tea." Ok, after that part you remember the part where its playing 
 hip hop music in the backround and Morgan is just staring at you and the bald dude is tweaking 
 out with a dumb smile on his face? WTF WAS THAT?!
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is where it was fun and then melded into "meh" zone. When your a Mantel soldier, the 
 game was more interesting and more fun. You have nectar at your disposal and you look badass. Now 
 the Nectar enhances your body with super strength, improved agility, and better accuracy. Its a 
 performance enhancer. This is the main strength of this game. BUT, they decided to take this power 
 away from you 1/3 into the game. So for the remaining 2/3 of the game, you gotta play as a Rebel 
 soldier without any Nectar or anything in replacement. So what does making you a Rebel soldier 
 do to make it worhwhile? Literally nothing. Once you become a Rebel soldier the game goes downhill, 
 and becomes just another mediocre FPS. Now there is things that keep this game entertaining. And 
 that is 4 player co-op. It runs pretty smooth and during the entire campaign you can jump in and 
 out of other people's games and terrorize everyone with 4 real life people. A whole lot better 
 than the game's A. I. Now theres another problem; the A. I. Not only are your enemies dumb but it 
 doesn't help that your own teammates are just as brain damaged. You'll constantly see them running 
 towards nothing and not wanting to follow you. There was also a moment where I was driving a vehicle 
 and my comrade didn't want to jump in the side seat. Instead he wanted to run in circles and chase 
 his own ass next to the vehicle. There is also the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, nothing 
 we haven't seen before. And when you play with other people in co-op, be sure to shoot their Nectar 
 pack on their back when they're not looking to make them overdose. It's HILARIOUS.
  
  THE SOUND is unbalanced as well. The music doesn't sound bad, nor does the weapons. But boy do 
 the voices suck. Morgan probably has the best voice out of everyone aside from Skincoat.
  
  OVERALL Haze was overhyped. And honestly, I have yet to figure why this game was delayed so much 
 and yet we still get this just average game. I expected better from Free Radical, but thats not 
 to say that this game didn't have enjoyable features or potential. It definately did. And thats 
 why I scored it a 6.5.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Haze is definitely not without it's faults; but giving it a mediocre "6" for 
 a rating is just plain robbery. It's true, the campaign is short, the vocal talent does get annoying 
 after a while & Haze's game-play isn't anything revolutionary, but it's no worse than say "Resistance", 
 or some of the other FPS's out there. The truth is, is that Haze is a fun game that at the very 
 least is worth a rental. I'll admit that it is a little disappointing that after all the waiting 
 for this title that this is what we got, but still no reason to only give it a "6" for a rating. 
 The other thing going for this game is of course the online play. The online play here is ALOT 
 of fun!! In the end there's really no excuse for such poor ratings for this title. It's not MGS4, 
 or GTA4, or even Halo 3, but I don't think it was trying to be. It's a summer release for god's 
 sake, pickin's are pretty slim this time of year anyway. I'm not saying pick this one up over GTA, 
 COD, or MGS if you haven't played those yet, but at least a rental is due here regardless. Due 
 to the low rating alot of people are gonna skip this one assuming the game really is that bad (I 
 almost did) , take it from me, it's not and is absolutely worth playing. Give it a chance & I'm 
 sure you'll agree that "Haze" deserves at least a 7 rating. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshaDeus0
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Sometimes there is a game with a great story line , amazing graphics , stunning even mind blowing 
 special effects everybody wan'ts to play it on-line . Othertimes a game is hyped :they "say that 
 everybody is gonna play it , that the story is great ,the graphics and special effects amazing 
 ,that it's gonna be a stuning game like there was no other , you will play nothing else for a long 
 time "they "say you r gonna be addicted like the game was nectar it self . Well.............. not 
 haze played like sh*t , felled like a bad hangover of verry cheap ,cheap beer and sorry to say 
 it out loud .... IT'S OUTDATED !!!!!!!! damit a year aggo it had ben a great game but this is @#!!! 
 absolute crap . so ive there is a heaven for games haze is not gonna make it , Haze is a patient 
 on life-support .... PULL THE PLUG please ill pay for it . it's a struggle of old verry old ......... 
 aaaaaaaaahhhhh F**K the hype . Next time u think u got something golden bring it out don't wait 
 almost a year . Things go bad when u do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Ultimately, Haze is still sitting in the wake of Call of Duty 4, and falls into that category of 
 being just another FPS. The game tries to include different content with Nectar abilities and rebel 
 dynamics, but a confused story, lacking gameplay elements and technical bugs bog the game down 
 from being a stellar PS3 exclusive. It's worth a rental, but know that Haze isn't a name you want 
 throw out there next time you're having a console-focused debate.
  
  Hell yeah:
  + Bots in online play ensure you always have 16 players
  + Great animations give characters a 
 "realer" feeling
  + Tries to death with the philosophical/ideological dilemma of war
  
  Oh, hell no: - Short campaign, without the ability to skip in-game cinematics
  - Overacted, "Huh?" 
 plot - Mantel-Rebel dynamic misses the mark.
  worth renting first, and not the game that it was hyped up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hey1its2me4
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion this game was way better then cod4 and gamespot gave it nine the only thing that 
 was good about cod4 was the online the campain was way to short. Haze had amazing graphics and 
 the nectur made the gameplay better in campain and online. also they had pretty sweet veicles and 
 nice explosions. the online was great with 4 person coop ,its multiplyer was good but wasnt as 
 good as cod4. thou i hate it sometimes playing 4 player coop when im a mantel soldier because some 
 people online try to overdose me on nectur. also enjoyed playing as the rebels because of how you 
 could overdose mantel soldiers , lay mines, roll, and play dead it made it totaly awsome how you 
 could switch sides from mantel to rebel. i really believe that game was underrated it at least 
 deserved a eight point five or a nine. this game was also jusst right in diffuculty i didnt find 
 it to hard or to easy. I think that this is a game that all ps3 owners should get
  
  
  p. s this was a halo killer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Haze is definitely not without it's faults; but giving it a mediocre "6" for 
 a rating is just plain robbery. It's true, the campaign is short, the vocal talent does get annoying 
 after a while & Haze's game-play isn't anything revolutionary, but it's no worse than say "Resistance", 
 or some of the other FPS's out there. The truth is, is that Haze is a fun game that at the very 
 least is worth a rental. I'll admit that it is a little disappointing that after all the waiting 
 for this title that this is what we got, but still no reason to only give it a "6" for a rating. 
 The other thing going for this game is of course the online play. The online play here is ALOT 
 of fun!! In the end there's really no excuse for such poor ratings for this title. It's not MGS4, 
 or GTA4, or even Halo 3, but I don't think it was trying to be. It's a summer release for god's 
 sake, pickin's are pretty slim this time of year anyway. I'm not saying pick this one up over GTA, 
 COD, or MGS if you haven't played those yet, but at least a rental is due here regardless. Due 
 to the low rating alot of people are gonna skip this one assuming the game really is that bad (I 
 almost did) , take it from me, it's not and is absolutely worth playing. Give it a chance & I'm 
 sure you'll agree that "Haze" deserves at least a 7 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: Didn't play long enough to give it one
  
  Score: 1 out of 10
  
  It 
 takes alot for a game of the newer generation of games to really turn me off and congrats we have 
 a winner for the PS3, I introduce you to Haze You start off in a cutscene aparently your at war 
 with someone I don't know who and I don't really care about 10 minutes later your now on your first 
 missions if I remember correctly your fighting Space Pirates who are after your Necter, now your 
 wondering are they after plants? No Necter is a Stimulant that is spose to give you enhanced reactive 
 times, I just couldn't get into this game and that's why I ended it after the 1st stage, that's 
 right I stoped playing the game after the first mission it just didn't apeal to me and I love freaking 
 FPS's so this is going to be a short review just enough to post, This game is why the PS3 shouldn't 
 do FPS's the controler isn't made for it, First Turok and now Haze I just didn't like either and 
 that's a shame. Sony should stick with what is good for the PS3 and that's the Third Person games 
 like Ratchet and Clank and Resident Evil along with GTA. The Controls for Haze are Bad to say at 
 least and the voice acting isn't much better. So for this game bombing on everything I give it 
 a 1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaotic-Soul
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  I've been following this game for a long time before it came out, since september, and was dissapointed 
 at all the delays. But who cares? itll be awesome right? Haze finally comes out, but starts getting 
 some bad reviews. OK.... it cant be that bad right? 
  
  I finally get the game, and i pop it into my PS3. Sure, it has to download some stuff for a couple 
 minutes. Then you're ready to roll! Also, there's a couple more minutes of cut scenes before you 
 can start playing. The dialogue isnt bad, it seems right actually, more casual than any other games, 
 even if theres alot of cliches. The graphics are good, not bad by any means, and who really notices 
 while theyre shooting people anyways? The A. I. can be a little ridiculous at times, but hardly 
 ever that noticable. The rebels will roll around and what ever, while the matnel dudes will just 
 attack you.
  
  All the levels ive played so far are interesting, and fun to play. The first level is just the 
 same one from the demo, but the others are great. I haven't found the story bad at all, im really 
 enjoying it. 
  
  The multiplayer is really fun. There are the odd times when you'll get into a really un even match, 
 like where is 100-30 on team death but dont blame free radical, the guys on one team must just 
 suck! Team assualt is sweet, like in one you have to get a giant missle truck to your base, or 
 kill all the prisoners before they escape. 
  
  The gameplay is terrifice, and its easy to get hooked on nectar, you just feel so naked while not 
 on it!!! Mantels are the more basic side, while rebels you have to use more tactics, since you'll 
 die too easily one on one against a mantel trooper. Like in the gamespot review, the guns are fun 
 to shoot, i personally like setting people on fire with the falme thrower! whats more fun than 
 that?
  
  In my non proffessional opinion, Haze is a great game to buy, and all fans of ps3 should buy it!
 
  
  Story- 10
  Visuals- 9.0
  Gameplay- 10
  Multiplayer- 9.9
  Entertainment Value- 100
  
  Overall 10.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Haze. My personal most anticipated game of the year. It's good, don't get me wrong, it's a very 
 capable shooter, but it is just so undoubtedly average and inconsistent, that it disappoints beyond 
 belief. I could have easily given Haze big points off for letting me down so horribly, as I write 
 this review totally heartbroken, but I decided to let it go. It does have reasonable merits, but 
 I really have to wonder where the hell the Free Radical shine and polish went, in this shooter 
 that could've honestly taken a lot more time in development. Now I wonder what the hell were they 
 doing during the delay?
  
  The guns in Haze are fun to shoot. There aren't a lot of them, but they do feel right and the controls 
 are smooth. It's easy to aim, and you'll be able to kill enemies with just a few bullets. The weapons 
 are roughly the same on both sides, except for the snipers and rocket launchers for the troopers, 
 and the minigun for the rebels.
  
  Nectar is something that you'll use regularly as a Mantel soldier. It makes you faster, stronger, 
 your aim is increased, and enemies glow in the dark as if they'd rolled around in nuclear waste. 
 You rarely run out, and it's not such a gameplay mechanic as it is a simple gimmick. Nectar is 
 unique, don't get me wrong, but it could have been implemented much better. Luckily, as a rebel, 
 the idea of nectar becomes much stronger. Instead of using it to your advantage, you try to make 
 it Mantel's disadvantage. By dipping your knife in nectar, you can make enemies overdose (where 
 they turn red, and don't have control over their bodies) by stabbing them or throwing the blade 
 at them. It's cool and it's tactical, and I appreciate the idea. Nectar grenades are made by strapping 
 a nectar administrator to a normal grenade. When these explode, a cloud of nectar fills the air, 
 and any soldiers standing in it will overdose. It's more of a run and gun Rambo technique, that 
 also works well. Nectar has its highs and lows, as most drugs are.
  
  Enemy AI is poor. Whether it's your allies or your enemies, they refuse to take cover, stand in 
 your way, miss where they're aiming, get crushed by cars, fall off cliffs, don't evade grenades, 
 and their dialogue repeats over and over. It wrecks the immersion factor in Haze that could've 
 been so much better. The Ai isn't so bad that it'll distract you, but these guys simply aren't 
 very tough or smart at all.
  
  What's worse, is that when you're on nectar, you feel as if you're unstoppable, and that's what 
 Free Radical was aiming for. However, when you are a rebel, and you watch how stupid and predictable 
 that Mantel troopers are, you wonder if they even are on nectar at all. Again, it just forces you 
 to wonder if nectar is as deep as it could've been.
  
  As a rebel, you have the ability to play dead. After you've taken a few shots, you can pull L2, 
 and just flop to the ground. This works both in campaign and in single player, and almost always 
 fools the enemy. When they've left you alone, you can get up and silently kill them from behind. 
 In campaign, you rarely see your allies do this, but that's just because of the simple AI. Playing 
 dead is a unique gameplay mechanic that works well, and is one of Haze's redeeming factors of originality.
 
  
  The story in Haze has you as Shane Carpenter, a man who can't make up his mind. He joined Mantel 
 after seeing an ad on TV, where Mantel soldiers are helping women and children in distress, saving 
 people from flood, and stopping terrorists. He enlists, only to find out quickly that Mantel is 
 more of an evil corporation than a peace corps. He then switches to the rebels after finding out 
 that Mantel and nectar isn't all it seems. The story is told through in game cutscenes, with impressive 
 facial animations, and decent voice acting. Overall, the narrative in Haze is good, but with so 
 much predictability, and a short 7 hour experience, I bet it isn't what the writer had in mind.
 
  
  Graphically, Haze falls flat. Textures look ripped out of a TimeSplitters game from the Ps2, character 
 models are all the same, and special effects aren't very strong. There are glitches such as clipping 
 as well. There are some times of great art, and the framerate is smooth, but what game doesn't 
 these days? As a Playstation 3 exclusive, I was hoping Haze would have been a graphical showpiece 
 for the system, but that obviously isn't the case.
  
  The sound effects in Haze are hit or miss. Guns sound amazing, and voice acting is good. However, 
 all the well voiced dialogue repeats over and over the same lines, and all vehicles have the same 
 generic sound. At least the orchestral score is good, as it the overall soundtrack. The sound quality 
 in this game trumps graphics so harshly, which is why I've given it a higher score than it deserves.
 
  
  Aside from the short campaign, which you won't want to play more than once, there is multiplayer 
 for up to 16 people. You can play against other humans, or AI controlled bots, or both. There are 
 6 maps, but only 2 of them, Carrier and Shanty Town, are actually worth a look. All the same gameplay 
 aspects are in MP, and the balance between Mantel and the Rebels is well done for the most part. 
 If you can look past Haze's flaws, the online multiplayer is very well done, and can take up hours 
 of your life, if not days.
  
  So, is Haze any good? Yes, of course it is. Unfortunately, those of you looking for a great shooter 
 for the Playstation 3, you should look elsewhere. A shallow campaign, poor production values, and 
 utter disappointment keep Haze from reaching any status higher than an okay shooter with big drug 
 issues. Free Radical needs an intervention before continuing anything.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadoc81
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  I've been hanging around waiting for this since before Christmas when it was originally meant to 
 come out... It's not often I get really excited about a game but I was with this one. I wouldn't 
 say I was disappointed because at the end of the day it's just an FPS so what were we really expecting? 
 It's a tired genre with little new to offer. I feel that Haze has tried o give us something we 
 haven't seen before. Firstly and most obviously theres nectre. When you start using this you realise 
 how useful it really is. Advanced sight both with the gun and also your enemies glow up which makes 
 them far easier to identify and kill. You can also run a bit faster and are apparently stronger, 
 this is evident in your melee attack. Once you turn from Mantle to the Promised Hand you obviously 
 have to give up your nectre. You're instead given a few other aids for your journey. The first 
 of which is the ability to 'play dead' which if you're under heavy fire will give you an opportunity 
 to recover slightly. Also you can steal guns from the soldiers and also convert pretty much any 
 ammo type into the right sort for whichever gun you're currently holding... this is one of the 
 most useful things I found as I was often finding myself low on ammo during the bigger firefights. 
 You'll also find yourself more agile in that you can roll around to avoid being shot making yourself 
 a harder target.
  The storyline is OK but isn't going to win any awards and the acting is the same. You'll enjoy 
 it but you won't start playing it after dinner to suddenly realise it's 2am and you're still playing.
 
  The online multiplayer is quite good fun although I've only had a few quick shots on it... and 
 despite my lack of any sort of talent it is quite good fun. I haven't tried the co-op yet but imagine 
 it'd probably be a fun experience.
  Unfortunately this game isn't quite the work of genius I'd been hoping for but it is very good 
 fun. If you generally enjoy an FPS then it's likely you'll enjoy this. Decent story, decent graphics 
 and pretty fun gameplay just don't expect it to be groundbreaking
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vette68
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought haze was going to be the next top shooter game, and the best multiplayer game 
 online for playstation 3. The first time you play I played haze i was like "this is pretty cool" 
 later on through the game I got bored. I didnt really like the storyline throughout the game. Graphics 
 were not so "state of the art" as I put it and I got really irratated with voices in the game. 
 And the enemies were easy to kill. On the good side you get really cool weapons (not as many as 
 i hoped for though) and you get to have some fun use with the nectar. Overall it was a decent game 
 that some people may find to be very enjoyable. I didnt like as much because i expect high expectations. 
 I dont want to say this was a bad game but it wasnt worth $60. It was a bit enjoying in a way though, 
 but this is more of a must rent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The problem with Haze is quite simply the hype that preceded it. If you pick it up with no expectations, 
 you get a simple but fun FPS with a nice online component and a reasonable story and graphics.
 
  If you expect it to be a "Halo killer" or the best FPS of all time, you'll be disappointed and 
 you will hate it. 
  Haze starts with you as a soldier working for Mantel Corporation, in a not so distant future. Governments 
 don't have armies anymore and Mantel has stepped in, hired to maintain order around the world. 
 The game takes place in a South American country, where ethnic cleansing is going on and where 
 Mantel is trying to save the people from an evil dictator. Mantel soldiers not only have better 
 and more powerful weapons they also have Nectar, a drug that makes them stronger, quicker and fearless. 
 The first third of the game is all about Nectar. When you push L2 you get a shot of the drug which 
 makes enemies shine, gives you more health and gives you an edge in most situations. 
  Soon enough you see that Mantel is not so innocent and you will then turn on your fellow soldiers 
 and join the rebels. You then lose Nectar but gain other abilities like the agility to dodge bullets 
 or playing dead. You can also plant grenades on the floor, as traps or steal a Mantel's soldier's 
 weapon by pressing R2 and then square. These are not bad abilities but the game takes Nectar away 
 too soon and you miss it. Nectar is fun to use and some of the rebels attributes are somewhat useless. 
 For example, you can steal weapons but expect to die most of the times you try it.
  Another problem with the game are the vehicles which are not very easy to control, sometimes being 
 downright frustrating. 
  The graphics are from average to bad. With Uncharted or CoD4 you really expect more and Haze is 
 not even close to it. 
  The gameplay is where the game shines. The guns are fun to use and the controls are tight. You 
 can also customize all the controls, if you wish. Simply put, the game is fun. You also have online 
 co-op with 3 other players which works flawlessly. Players come in or leave, seamlessly and everything 
 works perfectly. It's really entertaining to play with other people by your side. 
  There's also the usual Team Death Match and there's a mode called Team Assault where you play as 
 the rebels or Mantel soldiers and where you have objectives to achieve such as preventing a Nectar 
 field from being burned or Nectar crates in the caves, from being destroyed among others. 
  The game is easy, even on harder difficulties and at about 7 hours, not very long. The story is 
 overly simplistic and underdeveloped but if you look closely, there's actually a message to it. 
 The acting goes from acceptable to abysmal. Some fault also goes to some lines which are almost 
 unbelievably bad. 
  Haze is in its essence an average game. Its gameplay shines and nothing about it is really bad. 
 A good online component and a fun and rewarding shooting mechanic make it a good bet for fans of 
 the genre. Take is for what it is. It's an entertaining, flawed but very enjoyable experience. 
 I loved it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Haze is a first-person shooter (FPS) that has been made by Free Radical exclusively for the Playstation 
 3 (PS3) . Free Radical has had a good run with the shooter genre, starting off strong with 007: 
 Goldeneye for the Nintendo 64 console, and then providing more high quality titles, such as the 
 Timesplitters series.
  
  With all of that experience behind them, its quite shocking to see how Free Radical messed up with 
 Haze. Haze is still a solid shooter that is worth a look, but the game's merits are almost completely 
 lost in the game's own hazy mist.
  
  The premise of Haze has you playing as a character named Shane Carpenter, a character who has had 
 a rough past but wants to do good deeds for the world. As a result, Carpenter joins the army of 
 Mantel, a mysterious military industrial corporation that provides its troops with a drug called 
 nectar, which makes Mantel's troops more powerful and neatly shields their eyes from the ugly sights 
 of warfare, such as blood and dead bodies.
  
  You'll probably appreciate it more if you do your research and get familiar with the undertones 
 used in Haze's story, which include the mockery of generic shooter characters, the consequences 
 of drug usage, media manipulation, and more. Even with these undertones, however, Haze's story 
 is very boring, and never gets you truly involved.
  
  The basic game play of Haze revolves around two different sides, the Mantel Troopers and the Promised 
 Hand Rebels, and their distinct usage of nectar. 
  
  The Mantel Troopers use nectar to make fighting their enemies easier. When used, nectar increases 
 the trooper's fighting capability and highlights enemies with a red glow, making them very to see. 
 Nectar also gives the troopers other advantages, such as the ability to see the blast radius of 
 an explosive before it goes off. 
  
  The troopers have to be careful and avoid going into an overdose or else they will lose control 
 and start shooting everyone in their vicinity.
  
  The rebels don't use nectar directly on themselves like the troopers do. Instead, the rebels have 
 abilities such as dodge rolls, the ability to use nectar-infused knives and grenades to force overdoses 
 on the troopers, and the power to play dead to hide from the troopers, since they can't see dead 
 bodies.
  
  The game's short and uninteresting single player campaign doesn't do that good of a job introducing 
 players to each side's differences. This is primarily because you quickly discover that nectar 
 usage doesn't really change how you play the game in any meaningful way. 
  
  With the troopers, you probably won't be very selective with how and when to use nectar; since 
 you have little to no excuse to ever be caught in a firefight without it. 
  
  With the rebels, you'll see that forcing overdoses is not as effective of a tactic as just running-and-gunning. 
 The dodge roll and playing dead abilities are more than enough to counter the trooper's strengths.
 
  
  When you're done with the campaign, Haze offers a few multiplayer modes for you to check out, although 
 you've seen them all before. Haze offers basic death match and team death match modes, along with 
 the more interesting team assault mode, which has each team going for specific objectives.
  
  A nice touch in the death match modes is that you are allowed to play against the artificial 
 intelligence (AI) , even though its quality can be questionable at times. 
  
  Unfortunately, the death match mode suffers from some slight balance issues between the game's 
 two sides. At first glance, you'd think the troopers would have the upper hand with all of nectar's 
 advantages. But the balance of the game is actually in favor of the rebels, since nectar can't 
 effectively counter playing dead.
  
  Haze also allows you to play through the campaign cooperatively with up to three other people online, 
 or with one other person locally via split screen. This does make the campaign a bit more enjoyable, 
 since you now have intelligent players on your side instead of the lackluster allied AI.
  
  Graphically, Haze is an ugly sight to behold as a PS3 game. The graphics look like they were made 
 using the 4-year-old Doom 3 engine. Haze has some good looking character and weapon models, but 
 everything else, from the stiff animation to the low resolution textures, looks downright dated. 
 The game's fire effects are particularly hideous and could even put a Playstation 2 (PS2) to shame.
 
  
  Haze doesn't fare much better with the sound department either. Haze does have some decent music, 
 but none of it is truly memorable. The game's voice acting is also decent, but is sabotaged by 
 a lack of decent dialogue. The voice acting also gets very repetitive since many characters repeat 
 the same few lines way too often. At least the game's weapons all sound and feel right.
  
  What makes Haze all the more disappointing is the fact that the developers of the game have had 
 plenty of experience in the genre. They had no excuse to send Haze out in its current state. 
 
  
  Despite all its flaws however, Haze is still a solid shooter that is worth checking out, as long 
 as you haven't been spoiled by the likes of Resistance: Fall of Man or Call of Duty 4.
  
  Pros: Rebels are fun to play as. Decent multiplayer. 4 player cooperative campaign mode can make 
 the campaign more enjoyable. The Weapons all sound great.
  
  Cons: Previous-generation graphics. Nectar doesn't change the gameplay that much. Boring campaign. 
 Somewhat decent voice acting is hampered by lousy dialogue. The AI is lackluster in deathmatches, 
 and really bad in the campaign.
  
  Recommendable for: If you haven't been spoiled by superior shooters- such as Call of duty 4 or 
 the PS3's own Resistance: Fall of man, Haze is worth a look- just don't come in with high expectations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobwhu
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight, after reading reviews, I expected to hate this game and regret the 
 day I ever placed my pre-order, after first firing up Haze I was a little disappointed. The Graphics 
 were OK , in some places Great in others poor. 
  
  As others had stated, the voice acting was over the top and the mantel troopers to put it bluntly, 
 were a bunch of idiots. I should hate this game, but I don't, after all, the very nature of the 
 game dictates you change sides, the sheer fact mantel troopers act like immature college boys only 
 adds to make the switch in sides obvious in game, your not supposed to like them.
  
  However, the main reason I like this game is that fundamentally, it just plays nicely, it just 
 seems to work, Take COD2, Graphically not that pretty, but a joy to play, The guns seem to work, 
 the Nectar element is fun, while playing dead amazingly works quite often on-line. Its fun to play, 
 and that's what matters
  
  This is by no means a classic, and compared in quality to the likes of GTA4 although a different 
 game it isn't in the same league. This is however a fun shooter with plenty to offer, just look 
 past the graphics and you might just enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  
  This is a FPS from Free radical, the people who made timesplitters, haze maintans the same fast 
 paced intensity as TS.
  
  Short Story: Buy rent pass? a much as i want to tell you to buy this game i understand that these 
 kind of shooters are an acquired taste. If you like Intense Arcade like action this is the game 
 for you. Also the graphics may make it seem like you shouldn't pay full price for this game so 
 waiting until the price drops is best. If this isn't your kind of game then a rent is still worth 
 it
  
  You play Sergent Shane Carpenter Just you adverage dude who just wants to help people. So he joins 
 Mantel because "you don't make it right it will never be right." He wants to be a hero and hey 
 who doesn't. As a mantel soldier shane has access to state of the art weapons and something better, 
 Necter, which is the probably the coolest thing ever. its is an important part of the story, a 
 brilliant metaphor for ignorance, and a powerful weapon. 
  
  Graphics: Are below average, though some moments and some effects look great, the graphics seem 
 a bit last gen. The lack aesthetic appeal of this game does take away from the game as a whole
 
  
  Game play: Is brillant, it combines intense fast pace combat with the unique effects of necter. 
 As a mantel trooper you can use necter which makes you ALOT stronger and a generally more effective 
 soldier, (Powerful melee, more accurate, more endurance, and enemys glow) capable of routing rebels 
 with ease. As a rebel you must you your wits and many special abiltys to take advantage of necters 
 side effects. like you can cause Mantel troopers to OD making them flip out and kill each other 
 or lay a necter or frag mine to take out charging enemys or play dead to turn the tables on a mantel 
 ambush. 
  
  SOME SAY THE AI IS BAD THIS IS COMPLETELY FALSE IN EVERY WAY.
  Controls: Are silky smooth and fully customizable.
  
  Multiplayer: is fantastic. Mantels superior 
 strength Balances well with Rebel abilities, the most important ablility has got to be laying mines, 
 thou its nice to play dead you can still be killed, laying mines fortifies sniper posts and spawn 
 points letting intelligent rebels even the playing field.
  
  Pros: Intense fire fights, good story, surberb Multiplayer, Necter is fun to use an abuse, CO-OP!!!!!!!
 
  
  cons: AI have tourettes , lackluster graphics
  
  
  
  S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  When i picked up haze, as with most FPS i wasn't expecting a very long game. But what i was surprised 
 with is how smooth the game played, the adaptive storyline, Unique gameplay features. All in all 
 i think Haze is a very solid FPS with great gameplay, and the multiplayer offers very fair competition. 
 There's no over powered vehicles to jump into and thrash everyone in. Rebels or Troopers both have 
 advantages alongside their disadvantages. I look at user reviews and see low scores, yet Kane and 
 Lynch received high user scores. Kane and Lynch was the biggest let down i've seen in a game. It 
 had a huge amount of hype and didn't deliver anything worthwhile. Yet Haze offers amazing graphics 
 alongside smooth gameplay. Something many titles fail to deliver. Given the storyline is short, 
 but it has quiet a bit more depth then most FPS's i've seen. And did a nice job of stepping away 
 from the "think halo" plague that has been in so many FPS's before it. I highly recommend Haze 
 for any FPS player that enjoys online ranked matches or even a challenging single player (i played 
 on hard, then extra hard) . The AI adapts surprisingly well and constantly changes tatics against 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THORINATOR
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  It really was expected that Haze would be up there with the cream of FPS. The hype surrounding 
 its release was huge, but when it arrived the letdown was even bigger. How could they allow this 
 title to be released...'Free radical' had even delayed the release date a few times, giving people 
 the impression that when we would eventually get Haze, it would have been worth the wait! I expected 
 a slick & polished game, but it ended up being the opposite!
  People that spent a lot of money on a PS3 expect to get the very best in next-gen entertainment... Haze 
 certainly doesn't offer this, it has at best average graphics (thats being generous!) , poor & cheesy 
 storyline... characters are shallow & the dialogue is a joke. On a positive note Gameplay isn't 
 bad, it offers a variation from other normal FPS's, the troopers ability to use nectar, a performance 
 enhancing drug. Other features in game- weapons, vehicles & missions aren't great, online objective 
 based missions where you can choose to play as either a mantel trooper or a Rebel fighter can be 
 fun.
  To finish up i'd describe this game as an average FPS, That had alot of potential, but didn't live 
 up to the hype. I'm sure i speak for all PS3 fans when i say to Sony & PS3 developers- "STOP PUSHING 
 OUT SUBSTANDARD GAMES, PS3 FANS DESERVE MUCH BETTER QUALITY THAN THIS!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mel4teza
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game had so much potential considering how many times it's release date was pushed back. Really 
 with as much time it took for the game to come out. You would think that at least the game should 
 have been a little more fulfilling than it was. I mean the concept of necter inhancing your senses 
 was a great implement into fps gameplay evened out with the opposing force having the ability to 
 create ammo from fallen enemies for the current weapon and fashioning the necter distributor onto 
 grenades which could be either thrown or buried into the ground as a booby trap. Was pretty original. 
 But, the campaign..., really come on. I've played N64 games that were longer. The graphics were 
 so so. The gameplay mechanics were also so so. Online seemed to be designed a little rushed together. 
 All that time they spent on pushing back the games release really didn't seem to help it's outcome. 
 What it really boils down to is..., "Did it live up to the hype?". Sorry to say my opinion was 
 "No!". I really wanted to like the game. But, I was left with wanting more. So enough said, "Rent 
 Before Buy!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11Gary11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Haze is a great game and i think that it is a must buy for any PS3 Addict. Haze has been given 
 alot of stick but i don't see why, i think that it has great shooting abilities i. e aiming etc. 
 Everyone is going on about the bad voice acting and the glitches, firstly who really cares about 
 voice acting anyway and plus u cannot even notice it that much because i certainly didn't and everyone 
 says about the glitches, wot glitches, i think that it must be ur PS3 or something or some Halo 
 3 lover making it up because i have not had one glitch wot so ever. Alot of reviews go on about 
 the bad storyline etc. personally i think that the storyline is absolutely great maybe first two 
 missions takes u time to get your head around it but there after i thought that the story was genius 
 and the only people that think otherwise are people that are not smart enough to understand the 
 story because i think that the last few missions are so exhilarating and it all adds up to the 
 great final mission where you destroy Mantel once an for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Story/Concept (14/20)
  Set in the year 2048 in a world where governments have outsourced military operations to private 
 military corporations (PMCs) , you play as Shane Carpenter, a newly enlisted soldier seeking fulfillment 
 and thrills by fighting for a good cause. As the leading PMC, Mantel Global Industries offers an 
 array of cutting-edge military equipment, including a high-tech arsenal of vehicles, deadly weaponry, 
 and the performance-enhancing drug Nectar.
  Your conflict begins in a war-torn country where you have been sent to fight a vicious rebel faction, 
 the Promise Hand. At first all is well, but things quickly begin to look a little strange. Uncover 
 the truth, switch sides, and break away from Mantel's manipulative grip when you join your former 
 enemies, the Promise Hand.
  
  Graphics (10/20)
  Haze renders at 576p, which isn't technically true hi-def, even though it is just upscaled. With 
 that being said, Haze still doesn't look like a beauty, now if it had been released when it was 
 originally supposed to then it may have looked a bit better. There are far better looking titles 
 on the market now, even better looking FPS titles.
  
  Sound (5/10)
  Ugh Scary. I honestly found the voice acting to be a bit overdone. The lines didn't exactly come 
 off as the smoothest Hell, I've heard better dialog in a short film a few friends of mine shot 
 back in High School. It moves the story along, but they could have had better voice actors if you 
 ask me. I'll admit a few of the characters voices grew on my by the end, but I'm just happy I didn't 
 have to listen to 3 specific lug heads throughout the whole game.
  
  Playability (12/15)
  The game plays fine without a doubt, as it should with such a low resolution. I didn't experience 
 a single frame drop, and the controls felt pretty natural though I did keep forgetting the grenade 
 and feign death buttons.
  
  Entertainment (12/15)
  While I found the story to be pretty good, the characters just drove me crazy. They all acted like 
 testosterone overdosed muscle head freaks, not a pretty sight.
  
  Replay Value (10/15)
  Aside from the almost required multiple difficulty settings there really isn't much of a reason 
 to play again other than to possibly catch a few things you missed story wise the first time around.
 
  
  Multiplayer (2/5)
  Just like every other shooter online, the games dominated by Snipers go figure. The scenarios 
 are kinda cool, but when you're running down a long open area with a bunch of snipers on you it 
 doesn't work out so wonderful.
  
  Final Thoughts (65/100)
  While Haze basically comes out to become just your basic average shooter, the story is rather compelling. 
 If you were to buy the game, I would ask you 'Why?' I would suggest doing the smart thing with 
 this title, rent it. There is nothing special about it other than the above average story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidShark001
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I first looked at Haze as a great opportunity to buy a split screen multiplayer. Not only does 
 it not have four player split screen it was almost a total letdown. The biggest knock i have about 
 it is the use of nectar. Nectar was flaunted as the selling point of the game but when you really 
 need it later in your mantel career you always seem to have a nectar disruption. Not only is nectar 
 not properly used but when your finally start to learn to use and abuse nectar Shane Carpenter 
 decides he's had enough and floats over to the rebles. Even then nectar as a weapon is almost a 
 complete bust its more fun just to shoot the matel soldiers. Also the voice work can get on your 
 nerves. The mantel soldiers are funny in terms of their goofiness but the rebles ughhh. "Remember 
 your promise to Marino!" has been heard sveral thousand times in three days. The positives though 
 are the great weapons who both sound and feel. Nectar is also fun to use while it lasts. The multiplayer, 
 although lacking splitscreen is still fun with its online co-op. All in all Haze is just a decent 
 game worth a rent or mabey a used game buy (when its 20.00) . Not worth $60.00 when your coming 
 off quality games like CoD4 and Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Haze was just a disastrous game. It was canceled for PC and Xbox 360. Now after playing it I see 
 why.
  
  First of all it was way too short. There was like 10 missions and it took me like 5 hours to beat 
 it. So I would not recommend buying it. It has just about one of the worst stories I've ever seen 
 too. The only good thing about the game is it has decent graphics and the nectar thing was kind 
 of cool. Other than that there is like only 5 weapons to chose from and they all suck. The game 
 also has a terrible multiplayer. The AI in the game was bad too. Most of the time you can walk 
 up right to the people and kill them. The game has a terrible value too. $60 just to play a extremely 
 short second rate game. So definitely check the bargain bins on this one.
  
  So, in my opinion this game is downright, utterly pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JD190
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Haze is one of those games which you may end up loving or hating, me for one love this game.
  
  The story is good but the doesn't really drive the game forward, you may end up completing 
 the it and think what the hell has just happened. Another thing that doesn't go it's favour is 
 the story is too short it will probably take you between 6-8 hours to complete it, but don't get 
 me wrong for the most of it, it's a fun 6-8 hours. There are quite a few twist to tale of haze 
 each one makes you think, hmm what might happen next?
  
  The gameplay to Haze is amazing, its fast ,fun and can be tough. The AI is good, i didn't get them 
 facing walls or running past you like the Gamespot reviewer did, they also jumped out of the way 
 of my grenades. The guns in haze feel right, the aiming system is fluid and works well, unlike 
 other console FPS's. 
  
  The voice acting in the game isn't bad, i thought that the dialogue that the mantle troopers used 
 was actually quite funny and showed how drugged up they were. 
  
  The graphic really let this game down, they are bland and to be honest don't look anything like 
 the screenshots, that were released earlier on. I can't think of game to compare them too, but 
 they are not what i had expected.
  
  All in all this game should not really be over looked, it is definitely worth a go. It has all 
 the key components to make a great game, but fails to be one due to its lack in story. Its still 
 a very good game and i haven't stop playing it since i bought it on it's release. 
  
  Go on give it go, you will not be disappointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_XYZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Okay, so Haze isn't exactly the worlds most popular game in the world right now, as reviewers are 
 saying how dissapointing this game was. I don't know what game some of them were playing, because 
 it doesn't deserve all those bad reviews.
  
  Anyway, Haze is made by Free Radical, who people will know as the developers of Time splitters 
 and various other games I have never played, and aren't planning to.
  
  The story of the game is basic and you probably know most of it. You start off as a Mantel Trooper, 
 a super Trooper who dose themselves up on a drug called Nectar, which improves everything about 
 them. Sadly, not they're attitude. As you progress you realise that the world your in is edited 
 as Nectar removes dead bodies, blood and anything else that would demoralize the soldier. Eventually, 
 about 1/3 of the way through, you change sides, and you fight for the Promised Hand; a Rebel organisation 
 who lived in this country before Mantel went Parading in. Thats all I'll say as the point onwards 
 is confusing and weird.
  
  Good parts is that the game is fun, consistent, great online. Thats all I can think of.
  
  
 Bad Points is that the game had too much Hype. The game was good but couldn't manage to be as good 
 as I wanted it to be. The story is strange, the scripter is obviously stupid as the dialogue is 
 horrorble in places. But in honest Opinion, it wouldn't have mattered if they didn't delay the 
 game. The game looked so much better, in the trailers and then they change it around so they can 
 afford some Ice-cream. Now that was dissapointing.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a strange one to rate. It is a partly fun shooter, poor dialogue, Great 
 online, bland visuals, consistent, and dissapointing. What could we do to review this. I had to 
 compare to a few other FPS' to find out. I found this better than Turok, but worse thand COD4 and 
 UTIII. So it seems fair to give it a modest 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Now adays every month many new FPS are released. A huge competition has been made between all these 
 games for which is the best of them all. I no way is haze the number one FPS or even in the top 
 20 best FPS but it isnt the worst..... and well thats definitaly something. 
  
  Story: the story is all about a company that is hired to do missions in countries around the world. 
 This company inputs a sort of drug into their fighters that enhance their fighting capablities. 
 You join the company to do something with your life but soon realize that what he is doing is evil 
 so he goes over to the other side. The story is really nothing great.... it isn't the worst story 
 out there but it is pretty dull. The cut scenes look ok, but sadly the voice acting and the acting 
 from all the characters you meet in the game is just something that will make you cry. Your team 
 mates that you meet along the way are well.... just a bunch of loser frat boys who need to headbutt 
 each other every two seconds and make some horrible joke about balls. Everytime someone talks you 
 just want to shut the game off or skip the scene. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is what makes this game great. WHile your fighting for the company known 
 as mantle you have the ability to use nectar to your advantage. Using nectar increases your accuracy, 
 health reg, and the damage you deal using melee. It also allows your to see your enemies more cleary. 
 While fighting with the rebels you recieve the ability to dodge which might not sound like much 
 but it really comes in handy. You can also play dead and create nectar knivies and grenades that 
 can really mess up anyone who uses nectar. The guns in the game are pretty cool, both sides have 
 their assualt rifles, shotguns, etc. They all feel really good yet you will find yourself using 
 the assualt rifles pretty much the entire game. The AI in the game is just crazy horrible. The 
 will just stand there and stare at you for awhile, they wont run away from grenades, they can't 
 shoot to save their lives. Its really pathetic and on top of that your teammates are just as bad. 
 Another big problem is the amount of glitches that you will encounter during your adventures through 
 the world of haze. Believe me before the singleplayer story ends you will have had your fair share 
 of glitch moments. 
  
  Multiplayer: the online multiplayer is a nice touch to the game. There are about 6 maps and 3 different 
 types of games to play. They are all really fun to play.... for the first ouple of hours. After 
 that it seems that the multiplayer is the same and since there are no ranks and upgrades that you 
 can get in the multiplayer you will find yourself putting the online down quickly. But still its 
 nice to have it in there. Probably one of the greatest parts of the game is the fact that HAze 
 supports up to 4 player Co-op play. This is something thats great to see now adays... since alot 
 of FPS seem to be forgetting about co-op. 
  
  All in All: The game is pretty well done. It doesnt really live up to the hype, but it still isnt 
 a total let down. Its nice to see a game thats only for the PS3 for once even though it isnt perfect. 
 It isnt a Halo killer like some people have thought it would be but hey..... guess what in 2009 
 we get resistance 2 and killzone 2.... so until then lets enjoy our PS3 only game that we have 
 been waiting for. Maybe not worth a buy but still worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud-squallroc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Haze was a good game, with the weapon system that is in the game, the health system, and also the 
 necter system that is there makes the fun and addicting for some people. There are a few set backs 
 in the game, like that the game was way to short from my point of view, and in the shooting system 
 it is hard to be able to shoot people from a distance without a sniper rifle, but on top of all 
 that the game is a good on that most people need to try to play and if the person does then they 
 will find that there is alot more to the game then what most people will tell and give credit for. 
 The people that need to play it is the people that like to play games that allow you go out into 
 a battle field or where ever and have enemies that is a good fight, and also people that like on 
 your toes thinking games because in this game you never know what maybe standing around that next 
 corner waiting to try and kill you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degoodwin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Has this game defined the PS3 - no 
  Does it provide days of addictive campaigh gameplay and online matches? - no
  Is it a deep, imersive 
 experience? - no 
  Is this a game I just want to pick up, play and enjoy? - yes
  
  I've noticed a lot of people saying this is all hype, and I can understand why. Free Radical defined 
 this as an opportunity to create a game that people think of when they think of ps3, which I hope 
 it isn't, and the endless seeming delays didn't help anyone. But what's come out at the end of 
 the waiting is game that is dissapointing in some ways, but also provides some enjoyable gameplay 
 and in my oppinion - great multiplayer.
  
  The singleplayer experience is cheesy although I did enjoy it, but I think that the online is where 
 this game shines. The objective based - Team Assault, is a great, enjoyable mode where each map 
 has it's own objective and mini-story that ties in with the campaign. I really love jumping in 
 with some mates and escpaing a P. O. W camp, destroying a nectar stash or escorting a rebel leader 
 to an evac chopper and I really believe that if Free Radical continue these maps through future 
 downloads, I'll keep picking it up of my shelf... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Haze has been given average reviews but I think otherwise.
  
  First off the graphics aren't that bad. They look great in places and my only criticism is the 
 explosions and fire.
  
  The story is O. K. with a bit of originality but follows your basic bad army vs Rebels een even 
 in Star wars. Oh, and it's 5-6 hours long.
  
  The gameplay though is what really sticks out though. Each side has advantadges to give them the 
 edge. You probably know they troopers have nectar which boosts their performance..... but how? Firstly 
 the take less damage, move faster, rebels glow and have a super melle attack. Rebels though can 
 modify knives and grenades with nectar to give troopers an overdose , driving them mad. Also shooting 
 the little circular admionastrator at the back gives them an overdose aswell. Rebels can also melle 
 and steal the enemies weapon aswell ss bury grenades as mines. Troopers semm better for offence 
 but rebels for defence.
  
  The multiplayer is good. I played through the campaign onbline with 4 people which was the best 
 thing ( although the 4 people changed all the time) . I haven't really tested the versus online but 
 it didnt seem great.
  
  Overall its a good game, though it's probably best as a rental (which is what I did!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 31, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Political commentary is just fine for FOX News and its ilk. I do not enjoy it nor am I informed 
 enough to care and can avoid it entirely just by skipping a channel. It has its own bloviated space 
 and that's fine, so long as it leaves me and one of my favorite pastimes alone. Things were nice 
 and separated until Haze arrived, the video game equivalent of either a radical right wing recruitment 
 video or a liberal left wing smear campaign, maybe both. I am well aware of the opinions held by 
 the rest of the world about America, its government, policies, religious hypocrisy and eating habits. 
 I get enough of it on the evening news, the last thing I need is a below average shooter tarted 
 up with a topical pseudo-political message trying to pile on. It's just in poor taste.
  
  Haze is about as subtle as Rush Limbaugh on a cheap vodka bender. The mantel troops are drug addicted 
 sociopaths, brain washed by the nectar and the media into believing they are heroes doing good 
 for the world. Imagine the characters from Kane & Lynch rolled in with the cast from Army of Two, 
 then have all their lines written by rich white kids who wear their pants around their ankles and 
 think Jack Ass is high comedy. The mantel soldiers couldn't be any more stereotypical and offensive 
 if they tried. They don't see the atrocities they commit, literally; they are conditioned by the 
 nectar to not see the bodies of their victims. This is at least an interesting idea but it is never 
 used intelligently in either game play or story, coming into play mostly in the by the numbers 
 multiplayer. 
  
  The troopers are only the tip of the iceberg. The Mantel Corporation is actually a giant pharmaceutical 
 conglomerate that invaded a small (probably Mexican) country. The only reason that they invaded 
 was because there was a supply of nectar plants there and they wanted to corner the market. Add 
 to that soldiers misinterpreting Old Testament scripture and bizarre references to being carnivores 
 and the message is clear: the US military, big business, drugs, God, and meat are all bad. They 
 turn you into mindless killing machines in silly yellow masks that only follow orders and eat babies 
 while badly rapping the same phrase over and over. I only got my head around this travesty of a 
 plot when I remembered that Haze was published by Ubisoft, a French company. *rim shot*
  
  To be fair, the rebels aren't much better. They are militant hippies that don't mind fighting and 
 murder so much, setting up improvised explosive devices on the corpses of the enemy. I only spent 
 an hour or so as a mantel trooper before defecting for the "right" side and fighting as a rebel 
 for the rest of the game. They were just as obnoxious, yelling "Remember the promise!" when no 
 one else was in the room. The main character, Carpenter, is clearly some kind of super man with 
 confidence issues. As a trooper he killed the rebels with east, as a rebel without the nifty armor 
 and drugs he killed the troopers with ease. Haze is such a mess that it isn't even consistent with 
 itself.
  
  What seems to have happened is that somewhere along the way Free Radical realized that they had 
 a below average shooter on their hands and they didn't have a lot of money left to fix it. Instead 
 of not releasing it or working on the game play problems they scraped the bottom of the barrel 
 for the cheapest writers and voice actors they could find. I can see the board meeting going something 
 like this:
  
  "How do we distract people from our plain looking shooter with clich vehicle sections, cookie 
 cutter levels and a generic, reluctant hero protagonist?"
  "Paste on a poorly written, offensive plot that mocks the American military?"
  "You, sir, get 
 a promotion! And a baguette!" 
  
  I kid, I have no idea if Free Radical likes dinner roles or wears funny hats.
  
  Despite what 
 it looks like, I am not trying to take the high road with this. My socially liberal, economically 
 conservative, borderline libertarian leanings are as meaningless as they are unelectable. What 
 I am saying is that political propaganda has no place in a video game, especially in one as ham 
 fisted, unsubtle and bad as Haze. Ubisoft and Free Radical should have taken the loss and just 
 released a below average shooter, not upped the ante and put out a below average, offensive shooter. 
 Yes, the PS3 is starved for exclusives, but this I could have really done without. Seriously, Turok 
 was better then this, and that was about a native American in space killing dinosaurs with a bow 
 and arrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 6
Date: May 30, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  [opening comment]
  Haze was supposed to be a huge breakthrough game for the PS3, great multiplayer, and so on, but, 
 it just falls short in so many categoreys, but it isn't horrible either.
  
  [Graphics] - 5 - 
  The graphics look pretty bad in this game, blurry textures and bad AI, no 
 emotions in game, and playing as a soldier, if you looks down at your gun, your hand and gun looks 
 N64 era. Atleast, from far away it looks decent, but up close it's not great at all, bad textures. 
 But other things looks okay in the game, just dont go to close.
  
  [Gameplay] - 7.5 -
  The gameplay is a normal first person shooter, but too responsive with the analog sticks and sorta 
 wacked out. Hard to aim, and the nextar aiming thing is off when a soldier, and when aiming as 
 a rebel, it just wont work for you good.
  
  [Multiplayer] - 7 -
  The online on Haze is nothing close to big games like Halo or Call of Duty, the classes seem unbalanced, 
 so it seems pretty unfair at times, and it's just sorta boring, nectar and the stuff rebels can 
 do dont really mix it up, no no restrictions, so basicly rebels can act dead the whole time and 
 soldiers can have nectar the whole time. The maps are sometimes too big and bland also, but it 
 is far from horrible. Just, not very great.
  
  [Funness] - 7 -
  
  [closing comments]
  With all the glitches and not well thought out features and abilities, extremly annoying characters 
 and not a very fun multiplayer, and a just below standard campaign that will grab your attention 
 a little bit with the story, this game just isnt the game it was thought to be.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Haze was thought to be the breakthrough game for the PS3 but was rated bad and no one gave it a 
 second thought. I am hear to tell you to buy this game is you own a PS3. Its a top notch shooter 
 with awesome multiplayer. I no longer care what gamespot says because this game is amazing.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in Haze is awesome. The controls are wacky on default but you can 
 change them to be exactly like COD4 or another bigshot game if you want. The story in the game 
 is very immersive and you feel like Shane Carpenter at times (in the swamp) and you feel bad for 
 Skincoat when he gets captured and beaten.
  The first person action is awesome by itself also. It's very creative with the two classes Rebels 
 and Troopers. The online itself is nothing way incredible but its definately worth trying. The 
 two classes feel very well balanced most of the time but at times the rebels do feel overpowered 
 slightly.
  
  Graphics-
  Though nothing amazing the graphics in Haze are definitely not the worst on the system or of any 
 game to date. The guns look awesome as does the enviroments from afar. after closing in on mountains 
 and things they get blurry and just not as good. They good have worked on that a little more.
 
  
  Overall this game is a solid game that a PS3 owner should look into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojocon40
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Free Radical Design has been known to make great games. Sadly this isn't one of them. Even though 
 this game had promise it falls flat on its face for many things.
  
  You start off as a soldier named Shane Carpenter for a corporation named Mantel Global Industries. 
 Mantel Global Industries is a multinational corporation with bio-medical expertise. This has led 
 to the development of Nectar. Nectar is like steroids. It beefs up your character to run, jump, 
 shoot and heal faster. In the game you'll be able to use Nectar to your advantage. But you'll have 
 to be careful not to overdose. If you overdose your vision will go red and you'll randomly start 
 shooting. Later on you'll see what exactly Nectar can actually do to your body and comrades. This 
 will open your eyes and make you shift sides over to the Rebel side. You are then stripped of your 
 Nectar and left with tricks instead of the latest equipment. When you're a Rebel you can take your 
 enemies Nectar pack and slap in on a grenade. The grenade will explode with nectar in the air and 
 fellow Mantel soldiers will overdose leading them to go suicidal or go on a rampage killing their 
 own. 
  
  This all sounds fine and swell until you actually start to play the game. You'll get the sense 
 that this was quickly rushed out the door. With lack luster visuals that will leave you wanting 
 more from your PS3 to the horrid voice acting. You'll always find something that will nag you. 
 Just like as soon as you put the disk into your PS3. You are forced to install the game. Sure it's 
 only once but it's annoying. The game is also about 5 hours long. So you can beat this game in 
 about two to one sitting if you wanted to.
  
  The games story is something that was praised about through the whole time Haze was about to be 
 released. There is nothing to be praised here. It's pretty much a lack luster conspiracy theory 
 that was probably ripped from some web page out there. Add that with some stereotypical situations 
 (Evil fellow soldier) and characters (Meat head and redneck soldiers) and you have yourself a horrible 
 story. 
  
  With a under whelming story you think that Haze would try to blow you away with graphics. Well... it 
 doesn't. It'll leave you scratching your head about why is everything so murky and bland. While 
 forest areas can look decent everything else just looks like crap. Characters also don't look that 
 great either. They all just seem really plastic. 
  
  Sounds are very important in a game. Sound makes or breaks the mood in a game. Every sound in the 
 game breaks the mood. Mostly the horrid voice acting. It will have you cringe every time a word 
 is uttered. Add that with repetitive sayings (Like "Remember your promise to Merino.") , bad car 
 and ATV sounds. Bland gunfire is also a problem. When you fire your gun it seems like your gun 
 isn't powerful or working right. Another weird thing I ran into is that at one point they actually 
 censor some words in this game. Yes with the *beep* sound and all. It'll leave you wondering why? 
 This game already has an M rating for Strong Language so why not put it in? 
  
  One good thing about this game is that the controls are solid, except when driving. It's pretty 
 much your standard shooter controls. R1 to fire, R2 to melee, R3 zoom, L1 throw grenade, L3 crouch, 
 X jump, Square interact, Circle to go through your weapons and triangle to reload and pick up weapons. 
 L2 is for your Nectar. The controls are smooth.
  
  Multiplayer has three game modes Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Assault. The game also has six 
 different maps. All can be played online and offline. Only Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch can have 
 bots. When I was playing online I found that most servers only had about five to three people in 
 them with the rest bots. The both teams have different skills just like in the game. It seemed 
 pretty well balanced when I was playing. But while playing you get a feel like the whole multiplayer 
 experience was rushed and half-assed.
  
  All around this game just feels rushed. This game could have been so much more but it isn't. The 
 thing is that this game isn't broken, it's just not well executed. So if you are really in some 
 serious need for some FPS action on the PS3 just give this game a rent. Otherwise just skip it 
 all together.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 4
Date: May 29, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Lots of new games, especially first-person shooters, are victims of bad timing. If Halo 3, Call 
 of Duty 4, or Orange Box never existed, a lot of swept-under-the-rug shooters would be receiving 
 much more positive reception. But Haze is worse off for their existence, whether it likes it or 
 not. And at the end of the day, your enjoyment of Haze relies heavily on your personal expectations 
 of the genre in this post Halo 3 and COD4 world.
  
  There's certainly something to be said about assessing a game's quality based solely on its own 
 merits, as if it lived in a self-contained bubble separated from the rest of the gaming world. 
 In which case, yes, Haze is fun to play. I mean, what's not to love about shooting bad guys in 
 the face? And the developers certainly know how to make these kinds of games; the members of Free 
 Radical are responsible for some of the best and most influential console shooters ever. Goldeneye 
 007 ring a bell?
  
  Playing Haze, though, isn't likely to evoke any sense that the game was handled by experts at their 
 craft. Unless that craft is ham-fisted narrative and voice acting. Hope you aren't tired of the 
 "bald space marine" clich of this generation of shooters, because all the armed soldiers in Haze 
 are not only bald, but also act and sound like overgrown frat boys and rednecks. What kind of moron 
 utters lines like "This is awesome!" or "I'm the baddest motherf***er on the planet!" during a 
 bloody firefight?
  
  Maybe all of those troopers are supposed to be completely unlikable, though, since about a third 
 of the way through the eight-hour campaign, players will switch sides and fight along side the 
 very same Promise Hand rebels that they were killing just a few moments before. The story becomes 
 notably more sincere and believable from here onward, though your fellow rebels still spurt annoying 
 voice samples. Haze clearly undervalues the difference good voice acting can have on a player's 
 experience.
  
  Only one thing distinguishes Haze from the endless sea of console shooters on the market: Nectar. 
 No, not the plant juice that insects drink. Mantel Corporation fuels all of its mercenary soldiers 
 with Nectar, a performance-enhancing drug. While fighting for Mantel, you'll get to experience 
 the benefits of Nectar first-hand: increased speed, higher accuracy, larger damage resistance, 
 and most importantly, the highlighting of enemies within your view.
  
  You'll also experience the drug's side-effects. Promise Hand rebels have ways of forcing Mantel 
 soldiers from administering too much Nectar into their bloodstreams, making the soldiers basically 
 go insane and unable to differentiate friend from foe. The effect is legitimately disorienting 
 and pretty cool to experience, and the ability to turn soldiers' Nectar against them is one of 
 many advantages at the rebels' disposal.
  
  The side-effect that has almost no gameplay relevance, yet is integral to the campaign's plot, 
 is a desensitization of the horrors of war. Dead bodies are literally invisible to Mantel troopers 
 hopped up on Nectar. Turns out that the corporation's greed for the drug is its true motivation 
 for disrupting these Argentinean rebels' way of life, and the Nectar itself prevents the soldiers 
 from questioning the corporation's motives.
  
  Haze seems like a no-thinking-necessary action thrill ride at first glance, but Free Radical does 
 its best to tell a compelling story. An overt theme permeates the sequence of narrative events: 
 the most powerful weapon an army can have is confidence. Nectar, being the source of the Mantel 
 troopers' confidence, then becomes the clear target for the rebels. Free Radical's insistence on 
 teaching some sort of important life lesson with Haze is perplexing. Plus, when the voice acting 
 is so grating, taking their message seriously becomes impossible.
  
  Much of Haze's campaign plays out eerily reminiscent to Half-Life 2, but without any of the concepts 
 that made Half-Life 2 great. The first-person narrative is there, but the script is so lame that 
 you'll wish those cutscenes were skippable. The main character represents much of what Gordon Freeman 
 represented, especially the "one free man" moniker. The attack on the main Nectar administrator 
 plays out a lot like the assault on the Citadel, the vehicle sequences require you to get out of 
 the car and find a way to remove a blockade, just like Highway 17, and the Mantel troopers basically 
 look like the Combine. Half-Life 2 is a great shooter to draw inspiration from, but Free Radical 
 only implemented its structure, not its underlying brilliance, so Haze presents itself more as 
 a wannabe poser.
  
  The vehicles suck, by the way. The turning is way too sensitive, and they'll fall apart after even 
 light taps against any wall or object. The mounted turrets also have a restricted range of motion, 
 so just be grateful that these sections of the campaign don't last very long.
  
  They are useful transport devices in multiplayer, though. Multiplayer, being one of Free Radical's 
 strengths in the past, also disappoints in Haze, unfortunately. You can play as either a Mantel 
 soldier or Promise Hand rebel, so their benefits (the soldiers' Nectar enhancements vs. the rebels' 
 agility and sneaky tactics) definitely make the combat more exciting than if every player were 
 on an equal playing field. To sum it up: it's different enough to carve its own niche in the online 
 shooter world, but not fun enough to tear you away from your favorite shooter for very long.
  
  The selection of weapons also couldn't be more disappointing. You'll find the same layout of 
 weapons that have been shooter staples since the original Doom: pistol, assault rifle, shotgun, 
 chain gun, sniper rifle, flamethrower, rocket launcher, grenade, and a melee weapon. The grenade 
 and knife have Nectar variations designed to make Mantel troopers overdose, but other than that, 
 this is one of the most generic selections of guns I've seen in a first-person shooter.
  
  Now, this is a PlayStation 3 exclusive, so it's reasonable to assume that it looks pretty hot, 
 right? Quite frankly, Haze is one of, if not THE worst looking shooters on the console. The texture 
 quality is absolutely abysmal, and even with such low detail, it only runs at thirty frames per 
 second. The environments themselves do feel pretty large, and the framerate stays steady throughout, 
 but equating the graphics to "high-rez PS2" level wouldn't be that unfair. The audio presentation 
 is also on the weak side. I've lamented about the voice acting enough already, but the weapon effects 
 and background music also feel uncomfortably muted.
  
  I have to commend the inclusion of a co-op mode for the campaign, though, especially for supporting 
 any combination of four online and offline players. This feature is highly recommended, since it 
 doesn't remove any of the story elements, and also replaces the brain-dead behavior of your AI 
 squad mates. Co-op doesn't vindicate the game's quality, though. Co-op makes any shooter fun, even 
 the mediocre ones.
  
  And that's just what Haze is: mediocre. I get the distinct feeling that Free Radical, even after 
 two to three years of development and delays, didn't put their best efforts behind this game. Maybe 
 they'll redeem themselves with a new Timesplitters game eventually, but as it stands, Haze really 
 isn't worth anyone's time, and quite frankly, the PlayStation 3 deserves better than half-hearted 
 efforts like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Like many, I was looking forward to Haze, for awhile. With the many set-backs and delays this game 
 had, I was hoping they were polishing off the final product, but it turns out after all the wait, 
 Haze turns out to be disastrous in every way. I still find it hard to believe the developers of 
 the Timesplitters series, Free Radical, had a hand in this title.
  
  Haze takes place in the future. You play as Mantel trooper Shane Carpenter, who fights along with 
 Mantel, in a war against the Rebels. Slowly he starts to feel things just aren't right. During 
 the game you'll see yourself going a little crazy under the influence of Nectar, whilst the effects 
 of this stimulant gives heightened awareness and strength. But as quickly as you become accustomed 
 to The drug, it is taken away from you, as you jump sides and now fight for the rebels. The story 
 is you typical bad guy gone good plot, without any surprises whatsoever. At many points I found 
 the story not making any sense during its long unskipable cut-scenes. To top off the typical boring 
 plot, we are treated with some of the worst voice-acting to ever grace a video game. I have never 
 heard so many puns, slang, and wannabe-gangster taunts muttered within ten minutes of a game. This 
 game suffers from severe baditude. Not only that, when you are a rebel, you will have to hear about 
 12 long conversations with Merino, the rebel leader, and you have to deal with Rebels on your side 
 saying the same two phrases every 2 minutes ( I am not lying, it's kinda scary how truthful I'm 
 being :p) .
  
  First and Foremost, I am not a graphics aficionado whatsoever, but the visuals in this game must 
 be presented, especially when it can hinder gameplay at times. The game suffers from not only bland 
 visuals, but extreme instances of pop-up and lighting issues. Developers for this game must have 
 never heard of dynamic lighting. Many areas will have solid black shadows, making it very hard 
 to see enemies or where you are walking. But it's inexcusable to call this "next-gen" Resistance 
 has much better visuals, and was a PS3 launch title. With the graphical capabilities of the PS3 
 and the storing capacity of Blu-Ray, it makes me wonder if Free Radical put enough effort in this 
 department. i have come to the conclusion that BLACK, on the last-gen systems, had better graphics 
 than these. Sound on the other hand is an entirely different mess altogether. Bad voice-overs and 
 gun sounds... I think you get the picture.
  
  I saw many reviewers commenting on Sound, visuals, and story being the worst part of Haze, but 
 had barely any mention of it's game play. i figured this would be this title's selling point (also 
 it's multi-player) , but I was wrong. Haze suffers from boring FPS mechanics that are to be expected 
 from last-gen software, not next-gen. The game adds Nectar to the experience, for the first 2 missions, 
 and lets you become stronger and more alert, but it's really just a gimmick, cause you will feel 
 over-powered as you trample over the rebels and their stupid A. I. When you become a rebel, you 
 can use the Nectar against your enemies, which I thought was a pretty neat idea, but could've been 
 implemented a little better, since it seems so easy to make Mantel troops go crazy. Also as a rebel 
 you can disarm your opponents, but to tell you the truth I used this about once, cause ammo is 
 so easy to come by in this game. You can also play dead, but this also suffers cause of bad A. I. 
 I faked death to the same group of enemies multiple times, and they would always just walk away 
 from me until I blasted them a few times with my rifle. The game feels like a chore throughout 
 the whole thing, never altering or changing the game play. The game will just keep spewing enemies 
 your way, which wouldn't be so bad if it weren't for their bad A. I. In my game time I saw many 
 enemies staying stationary, running into my line of fire, or just shooting the wrong direction. 
 This is where the title really suffers the most.
  
  The game itself will take about 8-10 hours to complete, seems short, but for me it felt like forever, 
 I just wanted it to end so I could return it back to blockbuster (I am so grateful I rented this) . 
 One cool thing is the four-player Co-op campaign which is nice, but it's just so your friends can 
 suffer with you as well. Of course, after it's all said and done, the abysmal story ends with an 
 equally crappy ending. You be the judge on that.
  
  Now we get on to Multi-player. If I can describe it in one word: Basic. It offers up just three 
 modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Assault. For what it is, it works. With the few games available, 
 I was able to connect pretty easily to all of them, and didn't experience lag whatsoever. The same 
 Mantel and Rebel mechanics found in the Campaign are also here, which gives a nice twist to things. 
 But me being a avid player of CoD 4, UT3, GTA4, and RFoM's multi-player offerings, Haze's online 
 component does too little too late, and I don't see myself playing it for than a week or two. Also 
 the lack of Clan suport and the fact this title was going to boast 24-player online (It's only 16-player 
 now) is a definite low blow.
  
  All-in-all, Haze is just a rental... only if there is nothing else to rent. To pay $60+tax on this 
 title would be foolish and downright insane. i was looking forward to this title, to start off 
 the summer of great games to come for the PS3, but I was dreadfully wrong. Haze does too little, 
 if anything at all, to improve on the FPS genre. with games like Call of Duty 4, Unreal Tournament 
 3, and Resistance, Haze feels like a definite leap backwards for PS3 owners. If this game were a 
 launch title, then maybe it would have fared differently. But since it is not, what Free Radical 
 did is inexcusable. To those still wanting to play, rent first... and only. Or wait a few weeks, 
 cause this game ain't selling and will probably wind up on the bottom of the bargain bin. Here's 
 hoping for Timesplitters 4... and hoping the devs of Haze have nothing to do with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Haze definitely leaves much to be desired, and definitely wasn't what I expected. The story is 
 by far the worst part of the game in my opinion. They honestly paid some guy for what seems to 
 be a quarter of a script if that?! The driving is ok, until you try to turn... The graphics were 
 fine I don't know what all the fuss is about graphics anyway. Music I didn't care either way, I 
 usually don't. Controls simple but depending on the situation can be annoying. Free Radical is 
 none for balancing multiplayer in they're games, but not sure they succeeded this time. Getting 
 stuck in areas is going to get on your nerves most likely. I will say, Free Radical has lost respect; 
 this is a partial product in my view. Even with all the flaws its still a fun game, and that's 
 what matters though. Yet even with all the bad its still a solid game, and I don't regret buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDI_SOLDIER_94
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 29, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been borrowing this from a friend and completed it within about 7 hours.
  
  It's not brilliant but it's not a total let down either, the story line is ok some action packed 
 parts but some scenes are a bit dragged out for my liking.
  But i would say you should at least play Haze for a good hour or so before you make your mind up 
 as it can slowly grow on you as you play.
  
  campaign seems better played in co-op mode with a friend as it seems to be the small features that 
 count such as you have to revive your team mate if he's down injured and other stuff alike. Not 
 so thrilling when played alone
  and you can give up in boredom although its not the difficulty, its quite easy really, but just 
 the repetitiveness in the game gets too much to bare at times.
  
  But i believe it is B-rate game that you SHOULD play at least once or twice as it's daring to be 
 different but it's definitely not worth the money it's priced at at this moment in time. (40) 
 
  
  I rate it a 7.0
  
  (please tell me what you thought of this review as it is my first, Thank you) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figo16v
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Haze will be remembered for a long time.. Laughed by the Halo crowd as something as puny as its 
 grunts.. Laughed by the Killzone crowd as it aint really been the PS3 defining shooter and probably 
 laughed at its older brother Timesplitters for trying to milk some of its greatness and not quite 
 injecting it back into its own game style..
  
  Me?
  
  Ill be laughing to.
  
  Having just had a fantastic session of 4 player / 1 Screen - yes thats correct... Remember how 
 we used to do it? - I can honestly say that it is the most fun i have had with this generation 
 of shooters thus far and here is why...
  
  Haze is a strange being. Its trying to do the "Wii" thing on PS3. Not that you have to flail about 
 like a nonce but the fact that it is trying to take the media down a slightly different route.. 
 Haze allows you to come over to a friends and simply press the PS button and jump right in.. Instant 
 Multiplayer Co-op Fun.. and it is in this element that you will probably get the most enjoyment 
 out of the game. 
  
  As you will have read the GS review then no doubt you will be under all sorts of impressions that 
 the AI is terrible and the Graphics are below par and the like.. well its all kinda true. 
  
  The AI is not upto games like RSV or Uncharted. But at the same time there is reason behind 
 the way the game plays everything is explained and if you take your time and get into it it all 
 clicks into place... aaahhh thats why the dead bodies (appear to) dissappear!!
  
  The visuals are sometimes brilliant and there are cases where the game looks brilliant and feels 
 up there with Drakes Fortune. However there are examples of uglyness but really they cant really 
 expect to set the world alight visually and allow 4 players at any time! 
  
  There is too much to say about it but It is very enjoyable the Story and whole idea of Nectar and 
 its themes of drug abuse tries to approach you eye to eye rather than patronise you in the way 
 GTA deals with the subjects.
  
  Its not quite revolutionary but... Please play it.. You are missing out on what will become a classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newbie555
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  The Bad: 1) Short story-less than 5 hours of gameplay. 2) Bad AI-your AI team members are no help 
 at all, and the enemy do some of the dumbest stuff (like run right past you or shoot at walls) . 
 3) Voice acting makes all the Soldiers sound like dumb frat guys and rednecks. 4) No mini-map-makes 
 navigating some areas tuff. 5) Not enough Multiplayer Maps. 6) Team matches in Multiplayer feel 
 unbalanced, but are a lot of fun. 7) Vehicles are kinda lame.
  
  The Good: 1) Graphics and Sounds are great. 2) Weapons are a lot of fun. Excellent design. 3) 4 
 player Co-Op for Campaign. Lots of fun. 4) Multiplayer offers some fun too. Especially Assault.
 
  
  Even though, as you can read, there are more negatives than positives for this game, I still recommended 
 it. Simply because, believe it or not, it's a lot a fun to replay when you're bored and need some 
 empty fun. You don't get a lot of depth from this game, but what you do get, is a lot of fun for 
 a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky17
Rating: 1
Date: May 28, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Haze is one of the worst games I have ever played, the graphics are horrible and the AI is worse. 
 I was really excited about this game by how much hype the game was getting so I thought it would 
 be a great game and I thought that the delays in making the game would only make it better, but 
 I guess I was wrong. Haze had so much potential but can never live up to it now. This game was the 
 biggest disappointment to me yet for a game on the PS3. PS3 games have so much that they can live 
 up to being that you can use a blu-ray disc which holds so much more information on it but this 
 game does not go to any limit of using the size of the disc to make the game any better. I would 
 recommend that you either rent or try this game some other way before you buy, unless you like 
 really crappy games. Dont buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey39470
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Haze is one of the top two games I've played on the ps3. I would have to say the best shooter that 
 I've ever played. The only reason I didn't give it a perfect ten is there's no mini map. In some 
 of the levels it's a little difficult to find your way around. Multiplayer is fantastic and addictive 
 fun. Wide variety of weapons are most welcome. Only way I can see that people don't like is maybe 
 not insanely difficult. I thought the difficulty was challenging but not insane. Buy this game 
 if you want hours and hours of time to be lost in front of your tv. Especially fun with a friend.
 
  This is by far one of the best releases on the ps3 to date. I only hope they give us add on content, 
 so we can enjoy even more maps in multiplayer. Maybe some new weapon packs would be a nice addition, 
 but certainly not necessary. I totally fell in love with this game. I only hope they make a sequel 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Even though it was developed by one of the best developers Free Radical Haze doesn't really live 
 up to the hype. Its not because of the fun and entertaining gameplay but more down to the fact 
 that the graphics were not the best and that there were few gliche problems. Despite all of that 
 there are some brilliant multiplayer options which also include bots which every game should have 
 in my opion and also some very well balanced advantages and disadvantages to each side.
  the Mantel troopers have the better guns and vehicles which include the Blacksaw Assualt rifle, 
 the Donkey puncher combat shotgun and the Hard candy rocket launcher. They also use a drug called 
 nectar which inhances their combat skills so that they have more deadly accuarcy and can take more 
 damage while being shot at. They also can see enemies more easier and can avoid incoming danger. 
 
  On the other hand though we have the Rebels who inlike Mantel have not so good weapons and vehicles 
 but rely on their Guerilla tactics to take down their enemy. They can play dead when being injured 
 so that they can out smart the Mantel troopers by attacking them from behind and can even steal 
 one of their guns in close quaters combat. All they have to do is melee a trooper and quickly tap 
 square, mind you it only works for certain guns. But the main thing of all the rebels can use Nectar 
 against the Mantel Troopers so that they go mad and kill themselves or each other. To do this all 
 the rebel side have to do is either break the pipe or adminestrator on the Mantels neck or either 
 throw a knife with nectar at a trooper or use a nectar greande which is more easier. The rebels 
 can also plant mines.
  Overall it is a great game but let down by a few flaws like the graphics and the story could also 
 be improved. There could possibly be a sequel
  my final rating is 8/10 just because of those flaws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 28, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Well I have been anxiously waiting for this game for a while since it was delayed then delayed 
 then delayed again. Then the demo was realesed and the demo wasn't bad and I was definatly going 
 to get this. But launch date rolls around (suprisingly) and I read the IGN review then the great 
 Kevin V's review on Gamespot, and they hated it so I just rented it and I'm glad I did. Well the 
 story isn't as bad to me as everybody else says I thought it was quite interesting but it won't 
 suck you in like others will. I'll be suprised if you stick around long enough to beat it. The graphics 
 are pretty good although I did run into a pretty good bit of graphical glitches. The level design 
 is nice and varied but this is all killed by the worst voice acting and the worst writing ever, horrid 
 A. I. the guns are pretty bad to, the machine guns are all the same just a different color. Also the 
 story is kinda weird I mean is it a horror game cause there are some freaky moments like when one 
 of the other characters says BOOSH! It scares the hell out of me. The shooting is odd too sometimes 
 it takes two shots to kill somebody then sometimes it takes like ten shots. But I do love the whole 
 necter thing. I love that you can through necter grenades and they go crazy. It is supposed to be 
 bad when you are Mantel and that happens to you but I like it you go crazy and shoot everybody. It 
 is also a very very short story I beat it in a night..... that tells you something right there.
 
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: I loved the multiplayer that is the only reason I would recommend you even rent this. Although 
 it only has three multiplayer modes (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Assault) They are all entertaining 
 and there are some good maps even though there aren't very many of them. I played the community 
 game night last night with this and it was real fun. There is a pretty good bit of guns online and 
 they are better than the story modes weapons I didn't get a rocket launcher during the story mode.
 
  
  
  
  Re-play value: There isn't to much re-play value for this game you will not won't to play the story 
 mode again unless you are playing it co-op online which is exciting for a little bit. But the online 
 is really nice and might keep you interested for a week or so.
  
  
  
  End It! This game is a major disappointment and should not be bought maybe rented for the online. With 
 bad AI, clunky guns, horrible voice acting, and bad writing this game is horrific plain and simple.
 
  
  Real Score:5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z4R4TH0S
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Haze has great and surprisingly balanced multiplayer. Don't listen to the critics, it might not 
 be the best but it's good. All the guns are easy and fun to use, and the Necter is FREAKING AWESOME!! 
 It is a little too short but it's still good. But believe me, this game is addicting as hell, the 
 more you play, the more you don't want to stop. This is probably one of the best playstation 3 
 shooters, it's right up there with COD4 and Resistance. Everyone should go out and buy this game, 
 hell i'd buy it just for the multiplayer. That's all i got  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcaliber26
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun especially if you were a fan of Timesplitters 2. The graphics are ok some 
 places look better than others and some places just look like straight ass. So dont go pick up 
 this game thinking your going to be blown away with it's graphics because you are not. The best 
 way for me to describe it is Timesplitters 2 in HD because there is a ressemblance between HAZE 
 and Timesplitters 2 to me which is not really a bad thing. 
  
  Gameplay is unique depending on if you are a trooper or rebel you have different ablities that 
 you can use. For instance troopers use a drug called Nectar that they inject into themselves which 
 gives you a slight boost and lets you spot enemy's by having them glow. Just be careful not to 
 overdose because your guy will freak out and start shooting like crazy at everything and everyone 
 included your buddies. Gunplay feels about right for a FPS except that you can only carry 1 primary 
 weapon like a rifle and a secondary weapon like a knife or handgun. I have not been able to figure 
 out how to carry more than one weapon so I dont know if you can or not. Guns have a kick so it 
 can be kinda tricky to be accurate. 
  
  The story is more comical than anything I have trouble being serious with the story. But some places 
 can be more serious then others. But dont be expecting an amazing story with HAZE because your 
 just not going to get it. 
  
  Multiplayer consists of ranked and unranked matches. Ranked matches has you going up against other 
 people and you rank up. How you ask? Well I dont know much about the ranking system. I may look 
 into it later but I dont see anything that is too appealing. Now if it had a system like COD4 were 
 you level up and gain attributes and what not then ya I might be more intruiged to get into it. 
 Unranked matches you can have one of your friends jump and play with ya. I have yet to try it myself 
 but the feature is there.
  
  The only major things I have found wrong with this game is it sometimes likes to crash. Since I 
 have owned HAZE it has crashed a total of 5 times which caused my PS3 to totally freeze up and 
 had to be reset with the switch. I have not experienced any lag or frame rate issues and seems 
 to run smoothly for the most part. 
  
  Overall HAZE is a fun game and I have gotten my $60's worth that I paid for it. While it's not 
 the perfect game it's still full of excitement and way under-rated. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JanTheMetal
Rating: 3
Date: May 27, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, haze takes the idea of nectar straight out of far cry instincts. You fight rebels 
 (far cry) , you use chemicals to enhance your fighting ability (far cry) and you have very similar 
 eyes and facial features to those of Jack Carver. I don't like haze much.
  if played in small chunks, it can be enjoyable. shooting stupid enemies is fun. The AI is appalling 
 by the way. The storyline is weaker than that of Halo 3. The coop is entertaining but again, the 
 story is too weak to really enjoy playing the game. The epic vehicle chase was good but was weakened 
 by the poor AI! it anoys me so much. If the AI were better (like in far cry) then the game could 
 have alot more potential. The story line needed improving as well as i hardly noticed it.
  In my books, not a good game at all.
  
  PS what was ubisoft thinking with the voiceing. ARGH! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Rick
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Despite the games extremely poor reception and not without its disappointments, HAZE is a solid 
 shooter, that provides a varied gaming experience. I had high hopes for this game, as the concept 
 and style intrigued me since the games was announced. Unfortunately, upon release the game was 
 let down by surprisingly poor graphics and fairly weak voice acting.
  
  Although the aforementioned elements were enough to put off many critics, the developer Free Radical 
 have done a good job of ensuring the gameplay is tight and responsive, as well as introducing elements 
 of depth into the roles of both Mantel Trooper and Rebel, such as Nectar and the various ways it 
 can be exploited. The plot was an interesting insight into the effects Propaganda can have in a 
 war effort, which was suitably engaging, despite its abrupt ending.
  
  The Multiplayer element of Haze proved a pleasant surprise, with various game types, enough to 
 keep you coming back for more. What makes this game stand out from a Multiplayer perspective is 
 the fact that the two opposing forces have genuinely different play styles, with advantages or 
 disadvantages that can be exploited, adding a new layer of tactical play.
  
  HAZE, in my opinion, has been judged far too harshly by critics. This could be due to the fact 
 that many were expecting so much more from the game, which it failed to deliver. It could also 
 be that many critics have lowered themselves to the point of caring only for aesthetics (I hope 
 this is not the case) . This does not mean that it isn't a decent shooter, well worth a try if even 
 just for the Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Haze is a good game, DO NOT believe Gamespot.
  
  As usual, and if you read my other reviews, i'll repeat this occasionally, but wow, Gamespot you 
 make games sound way worse then what they really are. I myself couldn't believe the 6/10 that Gamespot 
 gave the game, so I went out and bought it. After playing the game mostly through, I really like 
 this game. The graphics are good, gameplay is great, and the sound effects and controls are good 
 as well. Storyline is a little weak, but it is still pretty decent. Multiplayer is very fun on 
 this game. I've spent hours online for the game, and it indeed is very fun. If I were any of you 
 PS3 owners, i'd go buy a copy right now. It's ratings like the harsh 6/10 that game sites give 
 these kinds of games that makes Xbox fanboys talk crap about PS3 all the time. This is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivinitySkate
Rating: 2
Date: May 26, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft really let us down on this one there series of golden eye was nearly flawless but haze 
 was just a crash on our hopes of a next gen FPS from ubisoft . me and my friend did the entire 
 campaign with mouth's open from this absolutely horrendous game. I also got to experience the online 
 game play it was the most unbalanced game play i have ever seen one with nectar one with knives 
 it was just terrible. I really expected more from haze it was extremely over hyped. it makes PS3 
 owners wonder if there next major FPS will turn out like this, i just can't believe a next gen 
 game could of turned out this bad even worse the ones who made assassins creed the ultimate realistic 
 game play expirence known to man today. I really hope they make a update or something just to save 
 the online play, but it is defiantly to late to save the campaign with it's absolutely terrible 
 story line and it's bad voice and acting i can guarantee this game will be in your local bargain 
 bin for $15 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod4_MADDOG104
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  haze has a unique game experence with it's fair share of ups and downs which can make it playable 
 1minute not the next. story mode lacks some key features with a pretty quick story mode which can 
 be beaten in about 7 hours which isn't good considering how easy the ai can be. yet it still contains 
 fun playable parts in the game. as it is made by the developers that made timespillters (free radical) 
 it does have some of them old blast from the past time spillter moments with miniguns and melee 
 moves which can be remembered from the games, though the game has good features some people can 
 argue about the lack of modes avalible online but every map has it's own different objective. key 
 features in this game is the ablity to use necter to boost powers as mantle and play dead and nick 
 mantle guns with the promise hand. haze is a fast paced game on and offline. though seeing as it's 
 set in 2048 you would think it would include more futuristic maps in story and online which is 
 one of my main dislikes.
  in the story you play as shane carpenter a mantle trooper who eventally breaks free to the promise 
 hand and try to take down mantle.
  haze is a good fast action shooter that is worth more than 6.0
  
  if u still want to buy it 
 but have some questions about haze pm and i will try and help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I had high for Haze, once again sucked into the hype-machine. In the week prior to it's release 
 I saw many reviews and even tried the demo off the Playstation store, suddenly things looked very 
 mundane. When release day came I decided to rent the game instead of buying it, a good decision 
 as it did not take long to play through and left me in no wish to replay it.
  The game itself is not actually bad it is just not good either, a more typically middle of the 
 road shooter does not spring to mind. The premise of the use of nectar was good but I was suprised 
 very early on in the game I switched sides and could no longer use the nectar, not on myself at 
 least. I could harvest it and use it in grenades making the enemies turn on one another. This was 
 a surprise to me as the hype surrounding the game had made a big point on the nectar.
  Graphically the game was not good by todays high standards, I enjoy graphics in games. I admire 
 water effects and volumetric smoke etc. Haze did not not provide any moments of awe. I also judge 
 a game by it physics engine, I like tyres that deflate when shot, items that break and the such 
 like. Haze again did not impress.
  The driving sections were a mild distraction but put me in mind of the superior Resistance: Fall 
 of Man as did the final stage of the game. (The physics in RFoM did not impress me either but I 
 enjoyed the game more!)
  All in all not a total sham but not worth the full price, either rent borrow or wait a couple of 
 weeks for the inevitable price slashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Have has been in the works for a fair while and with the 2 Release date extention's pushed it to 
 come out in may. From what i read from gamespot the game was nothing special so I wasn't expecting 
 much when i rented it.
  The second i got home i slotted it in my Playstation and loaded it up, the first few levels sucked 
 me into the game and so I continued playing it.
  There are a few bad things about this game, 1 being the story, while being longer than some other 
 games is very boring in the fact that it doesn't explain to much until near the end. Second is 
 the AI which has made the troopers, almost like fighting a frozen coke bottle, soldiers will literally 
 walk past you/ into walls while firing off random shots.
  Basically the story is about a company called "Mantel" who have created a Physical enhancing drug 
 called nectar, this makes people stronger, a better aim, and also can take more damage than usual. 
 
  (spoiler)
  this drug also makes the world seem better than it is by blocking out blood splatter, bad weather 
 conditions and also makes them do bad to feel good.
  You soon find out this and join a rebellion against mantel, this faction has the ability to play 
 dead against mantel soldiers and plant traps.
  (end spoiler)
  The online multiplayer I haven't played yet but the Action packed levels, fun to use weapons, and 
 versing bots are extremly fun on they're own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickv
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Haze may have dull graphics, but that should not take away from the overall experience. The combat 
 system was great with a decent variety of weapons to choose from. The AI in the game was good, 
 and great on harder difficulties. Anyone doing a review after playing the game on easy and saying 
 the AI sucked then go back and play on the "hard", or like normal people, on "medium". 
  
  The overall story was very simple and to the point, but I loved it. This game has a story line 
 that would definitely make a good movie. The voice acting, though hard to understand at times, 
 was very realistic. Most of the rebels spoke Spanish fluently so they are supposed to be hard to 
 understand. 
  
  There are no real achievements to tackle, but the game can definitely be played over and over. 
 Killing Mantel soldiers will never get old. I can say that this game is a must rent but it would 
 not hurt to add to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm finally back after being sick for a couple of days.
  
  While I was sick, I finally finished the story mode and now I'm playing it on Extra Hard.
  
 
  Let's get this review started:
  
  Graphics:
  
  They don't have the best graphics in this game. Alot of people like to use the "Call of Duty 4" 
 as their base of best graphics, which are good, so I'll leave it at that. Theses graphics remind 
 me of Turok, but alot sharper and crispy looking. There were a few parts of the graphics I wish 
 they would of fixed for example: Jungle stage, should of had the bushes being pushed down as you 
 walk into it. More body sound when you walk or sorta run (while on nectar) . I wouldn't say that 
 the graphics suck, but they aren't the best. Perfect middle as I would say.
  
  Sound:
  
  To tell you the truth, I digged the sound. The reloading of the gun was top notched and voices 
 were okay (some parts I thought was kinda whack, but you get over it after while) Bullet sounded 
 very good too. 
  
  Controls:
  
  If you leave it on standard it will be a new thing, but you have that WONDERFUL custom control 
 power and I had it just like Call of Duty 4 (YES!!) . 
  
  Replay Value:
  
  It depends on YOU. For me, I think it has good amount of RP value. Online mode is pretty cool, 
 it's nothing to WOW over, but it's a nice little kick back game to play with a couple of buddies. 
 Now, if you can't play online (for some people) I believe it will be low due to the short story 
 mode (I thought it was short, some said 7-8 hrs, but I thought it was like 5-6 IMO) Extra Hard 
 mode gives you a challenge, I'll admit that. It's very good and it will test out your skills. So, 
 if you like a challenge, then I suggest you play it on this level. Will you get anything for finishing 
 it? I don't know, I'll be finding out soon.
  
  Overall:
  
  Game isn't that bad, I think it lacks a long story mode. Needed more time on graphic works, but 
 everything else was dead set on. I had my fun time playing this game and hopefully you too. 
  
  Should you buy this game for $59 price tag? Yes and No, I'll explain.
  
  Yes, If you have 
 the money to spare and in need of a new shooter game, then yes. If you want to play online and 
 smack that you know what all over the floor, go for it. Like I said, it's not a bad online game, 
 it will take you sometime to get used to all the stuff around the map, but it's cool. 
  
  No, Story mode too short. 
  
  If you can find this game for $40 -$45 dollars, I suggest you 
 pick it up. Give it a month or two and I'm sure you'll see it on sale for that price in stores.
 
  
  Well, I hope this helped you out. Probably my most longest review since I got back.
  
  Thanks for looking.
  
  -RMANPOWER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnmachine244
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've been tracking this game since August of 2007, and was extremely happy when it came out 
 on May 20th. It's just about everything I was waiting for, save for the bad reviews really killing 
 my anticipation. I went ahead and picked up the game anyway, since the reviews have been wrong 
 in my opinion before (Check Lair and Army of Two) . This game is great, and should at least be rented 
 by everyone who owns a PS3.
  
  Blow off the reviews about the dialogue being bad and the story being boring and uneventful. Nectar 
 makes for a great pivotal point in the story, and the characters are interesting, even if they 
 have run-of-the-mill backrounds. 
  
  Although there is something else about Haze I'd like to praise: the box art. Good box art is extremely 
 important in influencing possible buyers, and Free Radical got it right with Haze. Another thing 
 Free Radical did well was getting Ubisoft as a publisher. With two great companies working on a 
 game, it was going to be a great experience, and it definitely turned out that way.
  
  I've even managed to convince my 360-owning friend that the reviews were wrong, and he says he'd 
 buy it if he had a PS3. Haze is a great game, and deserves to be experienced by gamers everywhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, Haze was one of those games that had a bunch of hype coming in to its launch date. Because 
 it didnt fit the hype, Haze got hammered by many gaming sites. I personally believe that this game 
 is A LOT better than every one is saying it is. First off:
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  The story for Haze is great. You play as Shane Carpenter, a sergeant for the Mantel industry army. 
 Mantel uses a performance-enhancing drug called Nectar, which increases a soldier's strength, speed, 
 health, bullet damage and accuracy. Over time, you begin to question why you are fighting besides 
 the men that you are. You then become a rebel and fight back against Mantel. The story is very 
 good and has a bunch of cut scenes in the game to clarify parts and give good insight. However, 
 sometimes it can kind of be confusing to follow a long.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Well, what can i say. This game doesnt look so hot in 1080p on my tv. it has amazing graphics in 
 some parts such as cutscenes, yet, some points show ps2 quality graphics. However, the environment 
 in the levels of Haze looks very crisp. What most impressed me was the swamp at the beginning of 
 the game.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  Love the controls. Typical FPS. R1 is the trigger to fire your gun. Haze has all the features. 
 From crouching, to scoping, to throwing grenades, to interacting with the environment by pullin 
 levers, it has all the controls.
  
  Online: 8/10
  
  Online play is awesome! It is the first game for the PS3 that allows splitscreen online play, just 
 like Halo 3. It also has a Halo 3 feeling to it as far as playing online. I love how you can play 
 co-op campaign with other friends online. The only things that i dont like about online play in 
 Haze is that there is no organized clan system, there are no rankings, and there isnt a messaging 
 system. There is also only 6 maps. But DLC might be coming soon...
  
  Voice Acting: 6/10
  
  Semi-par voice acting. Some of the characters are very cheesy. Most of the time, when they 
 talk, their words wont match with their lips. Some of the characters' voices dont sound like they 
 would match with their face. However, when someone is dying or hurt, their voice sounds very realistic.
 
  
  Weapons: 9/10
  
  I personally love the weapon choices for this game. They have everything you can imagine from shotguns, 
 to rocket launchers, and even snipers. They have different weapon types for both Rebels and Mantel 
 Troops.
  
  Overall, I think Haze is a very good game. It may not be R: FoM or CoD4, but it is a very solid 
 FPS. It is a good game to hold you over until Resistance 2 or MGS4. If you want a solid story and 
 online splitscreen, then this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshc23
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Haze is a first person shooter that stays true to the classic fps formula, 'here's a big gun, and 
 theres people to shoot at'. In short the gamplay is there, but theres a lack of graphical sheen 
 for all you picky people out there. Personally I dont think that graphics makes a game, (in most 
 cases) and if your like me, then i think haze is the fps for you! Plotline is basically non existant, 
 there is a drizzle of story to keep you going through the game, and a few twists and turns, but 
 is not the highlight of the game. The contols and video options are open to tinkering, eg, button 
 layout, brightness (i point this out because i own an lcd tv which when playing games, even with 
 the brightness altered on the tv, is very dark, and im sure there are people out there who may 
 have the same problem) , however no analog sensitivity options. Difficulty is variable as there 
 are 3 difficulty settings initially. The game stars you off as a soldier called shane, part of 
 a private military corporation called mantel positioned in south america (game enviroments include 
 jungle fights, quarrys, desert, which have multiple vehicular sections, and indoor enviroments) 
 and you have use of a performance enhancing drug called nectar, which basically just highlights 
 your enemies, makes you stronger for one hit kill melee attacks and increases your accuracy. Theres 
 a nice feature in this nectar use which i realy liked the idea of, which is that you control your 
 nectar intake (R2 by default) and thus can overdose, causing you to lose control of your character 
 as he fires at anything that moves, and the same can happen to your team mates if their nectar 
 administrator on their back is shot. But a few missions into the game and you get involed in an 
 accident and you are cut off of your nectar supply and make the decison to switch sides, removing 
 the free use of nectar, but at the same time giving you a couple of new abilities, such as the 
 ability to play dead (handy in multiplayer) . The gameplay is solid, its a fun game to play, the 
 guns just feel so right to shoot, but as i said before, this isnt the next best looking game out 
 there, thats not to say its not a nice looking game, i really liked the lighting at some points, 
 but its graphics wernt its selling point, the ai can infrequently be well, dumb, but i have to 
 point out, during my playthrough of the campaign, i have only experienced unusual ai behaviour 
 on 2 occasions, which is no where near as bad as gamespot makes it out to be. the multiplayer is 
 gd, solid framerate and well balanced, i have to say i havent played enough of the multiplayer 
 to give a gd enough verdict on it, so this review is based on the single player campaign. i feel 
 that it has been underrated, its a good first person shooter with all the foundations in the right 
 place, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I personally think gamespot REALLY NEEDS TO STOP RANKING GAMES BECAUSE OF THE COMPANY'S REPUTATION. 
 Lets face it, this companys last game, Timesplitters, really SUCKED. But if this isnt a great step 
 forward, then I dont know what the problem is. They might be whining because it isnt coming out 
 for xbox 360, I dont know.
  
  Anyway, this game gives a great storyline and warefare a hilarious twist with drugs, addiction, 
 vehicles, gangstaz, great dialouge, and balanced online teams.
  As a trooper, you can take drugs and see you enemies twice as well, as well as shoot straighter, 
 sense danger, and hit harder with melee.
  As a rebel, you may seem unbalanced at first, but you can steal troopers' weapons, stun them, disappear 
 from their sight when close to death, set down mines to overdose them and send them in a frenzy 
 on their teammates, and run pretty dern fast.
  
  The teams are balanced, i do not see how gamespot screwed that up. Maybe they played the first 
 few missions only, and played an online game with a bunch of noobs. 
  
  Buy the game, its a great influence for next gen shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 25, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  First I have to admitt I was really looking forward to this game. I like many felt that the nectur 
 element would really add something new to a FPS game. Boy was I wrong.
  
  To start I was blown away when i loaded the disk into my machine and found it went to a res of 
 480p instead of 720p standard for this generation of games. For a game that had several delays 
 why I dont understand the time sure wasnt spent on visuals or even on the so called 1000 page script. 
 
  
  Graphics are blurred and scratchy to start. the fram rate is even worse and textures look better 
 in a ps 2 game 5 years ago.
  
  Game play was some what ok if you enjoy really dumb IA i mean this is the worst i have ever seen 
 in a video game.
  
  Sound well what sound effects and the script seems like it was tried to be a comedy instead of 
 a action adventure followed by juvinile remarks that even todays kids wouldnt even understand let 
 alone mine.
  
  online is even worse
  
  value i wouldnt waste 60 bucks on this if it was the last game on the market. I am so glad I have 
 gamefly for this one.
  
  I in good consious can and wont reccomend this game in any form to any gamer i respect. I have 
 been pretty hard on Gamespot on there reviews of PS3 games of late but I have to agree with this 
 one and even feel he was very nice to give it a 6 when i have a even harder time giving it a 5.5 
 it does have some good parts to the gsame and after a while i did find myself having a little fun 
 but for the life of me i sure dont understand the game at all. the script is dumb and with all 
 the time they had to amke this why cant it be a true HD game 480p come on this isnt for the ps2 
 it was a ps3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Haze is a new game designed by the makers of Timesplitters, Free Radical. You take the role of Shane 
 Carpenter, a Mantel soldier, who is sent to the Boa region of South America to fight a dangerous 
 guerrilla faction, The Promised Hand, led by Gabriel "Skin Coat" Merino. Shane soon learns that 
 he is being deceived by Mantel with their battle enhancing drug, Nectar, and begins fighting for 
 the other side.
  
  The graphics in Haze are nothing like Call of Duty 4's graphics but they're certainly not horrible. 
 You fight through a lot of pretty locales (and some not so pretty) and during a few scripted events 
 things get pretty horrifying. Some minor details seem to be missing like when the drop ship fires 
 it's turrets, there's sound but the barrel's don't flash. The cut scenes are nicely done at times 
 and there is a nice amount of detail when it comes to character models. You'll occasionally notice 
 a mantel trooper covered in blood or how Shane's arms are covered in dirt and blood.
  
  The A. I. is not at all great. Enemies have a tendency to just rush at you while blindly firing 
 their guns in your general direction. They'll take cover but there's usually some vital part of 
 their body sticking out so you can easily dispatch them a well placed bullet. Enemies will use 
 their abilities more often depending on the difficulty setting but it still doesn't make much of 
 a difference during a fire fight unless it's a rebel playing dead.
  
  The gameplay is smooth and easy to learn. Each side gets certain perks that really sets them apart 
 from one another. Mantel gets Nectar and better weaponry. Nectar gives the user a boost of speed, 
 strength, and highlights the enemies and hazardous things in your environment, such as grenades, 
 and traps. They're also harder to kill while dosing. Rebels can set traps, roll, play dead, and 
 they can steal guns from Mantel soldiers, their weaponry is significantly weaker but they can scavenge 
 ammunition and Nectar packs from corpses to create Nectar grenades and coat their knives in nectar. 
 Nectar grenades and knives can make Mantel troopers overdose but I never found much use for them 
 during the single player campaign. Since the A. I. has a fetish for rushing you, overdosing is kind 
 of useless because it causes them to become trigger happy and attack whatever is in their line 
 of sight, mainly you. Rolling, although useful, feels more like some kind of weird double jump. 
 The driving sections are a pain and your comrades are useless while you're driving.
  
  The single player campaign isn't long but the story is good, it leaves you constantly wondering 
 if you're fighting for the right thing. It also features 4 player co-op, which is a god send when 
 you think about your A. I. partners, who have a sick habit of screaming the same things over and 
 over again. Shane also shows a lot of his personality during the story which makes it all the more 
 interesting. There are times where he's not quite sure what he knows what to do and doesn't seem 
 to be a battle hardened soldier.
  
  The multi player is fun but it lacks variety. There's 3 game modes and six maps. Your objective 
 changes depending on the map if you're playing Team Assault but they don't seem to require much 
 team work. The lack of guns also takes away from the multi player experience. It also seems a little 
 one sided since Mantel gets better weaponry and Nectar which, again, makes the user harder to kill. 
 
  
  All in all, the game isn't bad. It's a good game to pick up if you really enjoy Free Radical or 
 FPS games. If not, then you may as well save your money and wait for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaKtical_SniPa
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I know there are a lot of reviews for this game, because I read them all and still decided to go 
 and buy it. Let's begin.
  
  The very first thing I want to comment on is the weapons. Now, there aren't a plethora of weapons 
 to choose from, which is kinda dissapointing, but the weapons they put in the game are done very 
 well. The shooting is rewarding and I could personally just use the gun they start you out with 
 the whole time, because it's pretty fun. Being a FPS, they did a good job of focusing on the basics 
 with the weapons and did a nice job.
  
  Nectar. This is a very interesting twist on the genre and I happen to enjoy it. People keep saying 
 they want a sprint button, that I guess would be nice, but when you are on nectar you are definitely 
 moving faster, snipe better (the scope zooms in and its sweet) , take more damage, and sometimes 
 overdose and go nuts (awesome) . Nectar is addicting and even though its a videogame it makes you 
 want to be on Nectar the whole time; when I run out of it I personally start withdrawal immediately 
 (In real life) . Very cool twist on a genre we see the same thing repeated over and over.
  
  AI. I'm not sure why everyone thinks the AI is rediculously terrible, because it's not so bad, 
 not perfect. I would recommend playing the game on Hard, that's what I'm playing it on the first 
 time through and it is honestly challenging, some parts more than others. You're teammates help 
 you out at times and sometimes they will overdose themselves and start shooting you (i've died 
 a couple of times by them) , so you have to keep a third eye on them (Im not sure if you can stop 
 them from being overdosed or not, I'll check it out) .
  
  Storyline/Acting. Plain and simple it's not the best I've ever seen. I don't even really care about 
 the plot, even though it's kinda cool how you switch sides and what not, goes together well. The 
 voice acting is awful, but they say some funny stuff that makes you laugh (well, I laughed) . Free 
 Radical would have been better off if they took a little more time developing the story and made 
 the cutscenes more intense to try and capture your interest a little better. The cutscenes are 
 ok at best and I would've personally liked it better if they were actual cutscenes instead of your 
 character being able to look around and stuff like that. The story in Resistance/COD4 is much better 
 and seems to immerse you in the action a little more.
  
  Online. Multiplayer is really fun and a good change of pace from some of the other shooters we 
 all have beat to death with hundreds of hours. I've only personally played a couplde of matches 
 (I like to beat the campaign in every game before I play online) , this portion of the game is fun 
 and I found myself last night while at the bar drinking with friends kinda thinking about the online 
 matches I have played. If I had some buddies who had this game it would be a whole lot better, 
 because you can play the campaign with a friend. NOW, I haven't heard anybody using a mic at all, 
 but I think you can chat in the game (i sure hope so) . Online is fun, especially that you can do 
 the story with some friends.
  
  Graphics. I put this last, because even though games like Uncharted almost take ur breath away 
 with the awesome graphics, I don't really care a whole lot if they are outstanding or not. Explosions, 
 fire, bullets are all a little PS2ish. The graphics aren't the best, but who really cares (I've 
 had the most fun this past month playing MGS1) .
  
  Overall. Fun game, good FPS, online is fun, story mode is weak, acting is dumb, Nectar is awesome. 
 If you aren't quite sure to get this game or not, I would maybe rent it first; but with that being 
 said and you ARE a FPS fan, then I know you will enjoy the game. a 4.5 and a 6.5/10 are a little 
 low in my opinion. I'm not even really sure what number to give, but I'll through one out there. 
 7.75
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller11
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  first off i disagree with some reviews of this game, this game has good gameplay, and good online 
 but the bad stuff is graphics and voice-acting.
  
  i think its fair to say the voice-acting on this game is quite bad, i have heard more games badder 
 voice-acting but because it was a more popular game, more people took notice to the voice-acting 
 more
  
  the story is ok not great not bad about adverage if not mediocre i will not go on with the story 
 because of spoliers.
  
  the single player is good first it was good but i didn't like one level felt more of an add on 
 but then in the swamp, while it was not scary i was not expecting it i will not say what it was. 
 but the guns and shooting feels spot on and good, only weapon i don't like is mini-gun feels too 
 weak
  
  the vechicles are not so good but luckly you don't go on them alot they feel too light like the 
 game full auto, vechicles can come in handy on online but the turret on this geep felt stupid could 
 not aim with it at all.
  
  nectar, this what makes mantel different to the others its a drug, and because of it so you don't 
 have fear on the battle field so the rebel and your team mates will dissapear, and no blood til 
 go on the rebel side it does come in handy, though but being a rebel and shooting their backs for 
 over-dose is priceless.
  
  the co-op is also what makes this game good up to 4 players can join.
  the graphics can be dissapointing 
 at times and decent other times, its a mixed bag but don't hope for gears of war or uncharted graphics.
 
  
  so overall while story is mediocre, and voice-acting is poor (i heard badder voice acting in other 
 games ) the gameplay makes up for it and nectar, co-op and shooting is very good. give this a rent 
 first if having money issues or not enough because of buying mgs 4, but if you have enough and 
 getting mgs 4 already ,give this a go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Timesplitters: Great game.
  
  That is important, as many people it seems, have been trying to think of Haze as a story based, 
 next gen game. But it just isn't. It never was supposed to be.
  
  You start playing as a Mantel Trooper. The main aspect of the Mantel Trooper is the ability to 
 use Nectar. This allows you to see your enemies much clearer (which is very important, as they 
 are almost invisible sometimes) , as well as making you stronger, faster, better at aiming, etc.
 
  
  You very clearly start to pick up how to use Nectar. It doesn't require much thought, and really 
 helps you play the game. You start to learn your own little tricks, and this is important to the 
 games attraction. It is all about you. Sure, it's a linear and straight pathed game, but it allows 
 you to adopt your own techniques.
  
  Because of this, when you first become a Rebel, and no longer have Nectar, it's like being thrown 
 in the deep end of a swimming pool, for the first time, with a blind fold on. You feel bare without 
 it, and you very quickly have to get used to not using it. You learn tricks, not only to get round 
 not having Nectar, but also how to exploit your opponents.
  
  Everything I have just told you, you could have read anywhere. That's their advertisment campaign, 
 but it really does feel like that.
  
  
  The controls of the game can be completely customised, and the physics feel... not realistic, but 
 necessary. You don't think "That wouldn't happen!" at any point.
  
  Many people have said the graphics are not up to scratch. But personally, while playing through 
 the game, and enjoying it as much as I did, I didn't notice these.
  
  I could give you a list of things that are wrong with COD4. There are glitches, more than in Haze, 
 there are some very VERY recycled textures, and the explosions, quite frankly, are appalling. But 
 you know why COD4 hasn't got good reviews? Because people didn't expect it.
  
  If you enjoy immersive games, you should love this. If you have friends, then this is a great choice. 
 I can do nothing but applaud FRD's efforts. Sure, there are some minor problems, which stops it 
 getting full marks, but you'll have read about all of those.
  
  While you're playing the game, whether IGN gave it 4.5 or not, won't matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truenextgen
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  After spending hours tracking the users of the bad scores. Trying to find just how they came to 
 their conclusion. Im clueless. Well actually im not ;) 
  
  I rented the game. And as I played threw, I kept reminding myself of how this was gonna stink. 
 Just like all the kids 15 years younger than me, that write for game mags told me it would. 
  
  So I start off, "OK, here we go, this might stink." I play for a while. "Well that was actually 
 kinda fun. Ok maybe the next part will stink? Well that was pretty fun also actually. Maybe its 
 the next part that bad stuff those kids wrote about. Hummm? no that was ok to."
  
  In fact I never came across a bad spot. But I never came across a life changing game experience 
 either. But that does not call for a 6! 
  
  People said Halo Killer. No MGS4 is a Halo killer. RESISTANCE 2 is a Halo killer. Maybe even KZ2. 
 And Halo killed itself anyways. Really Halo is not all bad, and It kinda felt like this game. In 
 fact I would go as far to give both the games equal scores. 
  
  The graphics are not out of this world. They dont touch Cod4. But on the flip side of things. They 
 look dang sharp. And run fairly smooth. The game looks better the the Orange Box did on the PS3 
 by a mile. And are a tad above R6V 1 and 2 even. Which are two of my fav first persons shooters 
 this gen so far.
  
  The story is typical. And the acting is good old Resident Evil 1 B movie style. So nothing special. 
 One complaint is, that the voice actors all kinda sound alike. And its hard to distinguish whos 
 who sometimes. Or even your characters own voice. Their no distinguishing voices in their. 
  
  But once you get past that, the story is not bad. In fact the twist that has you going from 
 one side of a game, to the other. Is actually a pretty cool one. And B acting is what some of these 
 games need again. And it has that down to a T. And you almost have to think it was kinda on purpose.
 
  
  The Shooting mechanics, were one of the plus areas In this game. Yet some may hate them "Maybe 
 to much auto Cod4 has made some loose their skills?" While one the first side "Mantal." You have 
 these cool zoom ins. And the players glow when your jacked up on X/Nector :P. The guns fire vary 
 smoothly and nice. And you dont feel yourself having to force to aim. Or over aiming. Its a vary 
 smooth and rewarding feel. On the other side its about thesame. But you have some cool moves, such 
 as playing dead, and kinves. the grenades work how their supposed to. Dont worry, unlike Cod4. 
 Everyone in not John Elway with grenades in this game. 
  
  The game does alot of good stuff. Nothing great. And noting at all bad. 
  
  In a time when 
 will get Reviews by people who never play the games they review. Or review by demos lol. And with 
 games like Killzone 2, RESISTANCE 2, God of War 3, MGS4, Little Big Planet, Infamous, Socom, and 
 SOCOM the series, FF12, FF12 versus, GT 5, The Agency, Motostorm 2, Ico projects, The Uncharted 
 series, the Ratchet Series, Afrika, And tuns more. 
  
  I can see why HAZE dont mean much to some. And thats fair. It does not mean much when you have 
 a sick looking 2 year game library ahead of you. Thats just out of this world deep. So yea, HAZE 
 will fade. Buts its not a 6. And its one heck of a rent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 67gt500
Rating: 5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Juxtaposed alongside this storied developers other 'offspring' (Goldeneye 007, Perfect Dark and 
 the venerable Timesplitters series) , Haze's genetic resemblance to it's stellar siblings is only 
 half there.
  
  For a developer who's resume consists almost exclusively of First-Person Shooters, it's odd how 
 Haze somehow managed to get out the door in such an inconsistent state. For everything that Haze 
 tries to do, it just comes off poor to mediocre in nearly every respect. Every cool or innovative 
 thing is offset by some maddening broken, aggravating, redundant and down-right ugly flaw that 
 reminds you at every turnthis game really should have been out four years ago on PS2."
  
  In fairness, at times, the game can look quite stunning - some of the set-pieces are very well 
 done and you'll likely find yourself marvelling at how bizarre some things become while under the 
 influence of Nectar, the game's Premier Gimmick ( uh, Game Mechanic... ) and then you'll turn around 
 a see a wall, or ladder or railing or prop of some variety with a texture so nasty that you just 
 might laugh. Out loud, no less... 
  
 Hey Haze... N64 called - they'd like their tree trunk back. "
  
  *** PLOT SPOILERS, AHOY!!! 
 ***
  
  The Mantel Soldier's Nectar Gimm... uh, that is, Game Mechanic is especially useful IF you like 
 your shooters to feel like you are John Rambo running about willy-nilly shooting fish in a barrel. 
 Then, around about the time you finally get used to using it ( or, you could just not use it at 
 all... ) it's ganked away from you and you get to switch sides and play as a Promise Hand rebel. 
 Even using the rebel ability to make Nectar grenades ( which send Mantel troops into O. D. and attack 
 each other... ) quickly becomes a moot point as the Mantel troopers are just as likely to attack 
 you and your allies as they are each other. In short, Nectar grenades are a waste of time - you'll 
 only end up shooting the poor sods anyways.
  
  Not to worry though, as a rebel you get to make 'booby-traps' by burying grenades ( or not - I 
 managed to play-through twice without needing to do this even once... ) and you can fall down and 
 play dead ( again, or not - there was no need to do this even once either... ) You also get to 
 listen to your fellow 'Hands' repeat the same grating phrases over and over ad-nauseum until you 
 find yourself madly jabbing the mute button on your monitor/system's remote control. Which is a 
 shame, because some of the weapon/ambient sound effects in Haze can be pretty good.
  
  The weapons that you can wield (as either faction) are cool and feel satisfying to use ( not "Halo, 
 Black or Call of Duty cool mind you, but cool nonetheless... ) It's too bad that these weapons 
 are often in the hands of some of the most daft A. I. I've ever seen. Now, this is a curious point 
 because it's my understanding that Free Radical spent a lot of time on the A. I. - so much so, that 
 they apparently gave it's own name "Conspire TM" and patented it. I hope the patent application 
 didn't cost too much. It might improve somewhat on higher difficulty levels, but on Normal it's 
 laughably bad.
  
  The online co-op mode is a lot of fun - you, and up to three other friends/players can opt to go 
 through the SP Campaign together. You can join someone else's campaign or host your own jaunt. 
 i tried this a couple times and it was good fun. Props to Free Radical for including this option 
 and pulling this off. The other online multiplayer options are good as well, (not AAA good, mind 
 you, but passable) if you want the standard online multiplayer experience that comes with most 
 contemporary game packages
  
  Haze is such a mixed-bag that it's hard to label it as being definitively good or bad per-se because 
 it's such a strange blend of both. Ultimately, I would suggest that interested parties consider 
 renting this one as opposed to just running out and buying it ( like I did... ) at 'full-pop'. 
 Haze is not a $60 game, so I strenuously recommend holding off until the big price drop.
  
  Something tells me that you won't be waiting long... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Well the first time that struck me with Haze is the graphics and I know that its not all about 
 graphics, but since this was supposed to be a groundbreaking ps3 title (cough) I would have expected 
 better than this.
  There is nothing next gen about the graphics a little sun reflection would have made a world of 
 difference.
  
  And there is the linear storyline witch gives the player no choice what so ever to how the game 
 is gonna play out.
  
  The cheesy dialog and the mediocre cut-scenes, I just felt insulted and really dissepointed I was 
 really looking forward to this game.
  
  The only positive aspect of this game has to the co op in the singleplayer campaign where players 
 can play through the story together.
  
  And this game was ridiculosy overhyped and will be forgotten pretty quickly.
  
  No save your 
 money for june 12th instead :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: testingyo
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Haze is a great game, the graphics aren't amazing, but if you ignore the bad reviews (ign etc.) 
 and get it, you won't regret it!
  The campaign is fun (even more so in co-op) , but I was a little annoyed that you can't do 4 player 
 split screen co-op which I had been led to believe, but only 2. The voice acting is a little cheesy 
 but it adds humour to it and is definately not a reason to not consider buying it. The online play 
 is great fun, even though there are only 6 maps and 3 modes (team assault, deathmatch, team deathmatch) , 
 luckily though after playing for hours on the different maps I still happily go back for more, 
 and also the back of the box states that downloadable content is free, so i take it more maps etc. 
 are going to be released, which is a good, especially as we aren't going to be charged for it (call 
 of duty 4 map pack?) . Another good point is the fact that you can play with 2 people on the same 
 screen online, which makes it a lot more fun, and apart from Warhawk, i believe it's the only game 
 on PS3 which allows you to do so.
  So ignore the hype and all of the negative reviews, and buy it and have fun with it!
  See you 
 online ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wittinator
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I have no idea why so many people are bashing this game. I recently rented it and I am a fair ways 
 through the single player campaign and it is fantastic!! The constant first person view of the 
 game really keeps you totally immersed in it, the guns feel very satisfying to shoot, and, by far, 
 the greatest part of this game is the transition between being a mantel and a rebel. The experience 
 you, well, experience, are breath-taking as they are done so well. 
  
  I'm not exaggerating one bit when I say that HAZE has the greatest campaign I have ever played 
 simply because it's not just shooting you do, there's tons of other first person scenes you get 
 to play. From talking to your mantel buddies on a carrier and watching one of your ships get slammed 
 by a rocket, to being lost in an insane swamp running away from advancing mantel troopers and having 
 a nice long walk, talking to the leader of the promise hand. 
  
  I absolutely love the changes you experience when your nectar gets disrupted... seeing reality with 
 the bodies and all. The overall gameplay (which is really all that matters) is extremely fun! 
 
  
  I believe you will either hate this game or love it to death. The only flaws in this game are things 
 I couldn't give a rats behind about. Such as voice acting, graphics etc. All that matters to me 
 - and many others I do believe - is the gameplay and honestly, the gameplay is fantastic! 
  
  All in all, HAZE is a brilliant game and should not be bashed for stupid things such as voice 
 acting, graphics and story ( even though I thought it was a great story) because when it comes 
 down to it, gameplay is 90% of what makes a game fun, and the gameplay is great in HAZE.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time waiting for Free Radical's new first person shooter, Haze. After plenty of 
 delays and a whole lot of hype, has it lived up to the reputation that Timespiltters has built 
 for this development team? 
  Sadly, it really hasn't. There are many small and large disappointments to be had when playing 
 through Haze.
  
  Haze's storyline was revealed a long time ago, so I'll keep this short. Shane Carpenter joins Mantel, 
 a private military organization, hoping to make a difference, to fight the good fight. You notice 
 quickly however that he's not fitting in well with the other Mantel troopers and seems to disagree 
 with a lot of what they're doing. Fact is everyone apart from Shane is arrogant and trigger happy 
 thanks to their supplementary drug, Nectar.
  So a few crazy events after another and we see our hero defecting sides against Mantel, fighting 
 for the 'real' good guys. You'd think that would mean that people would start being nice to you, 
 but your leader, some guy named 'skin coat', is constantly screaming at you. It's annoying. It 
 seems like no one likes Shane Carpenter, and this ends up with you not liking him much either. 
 In fact, he's a bit of a wimp, always complaining about something, and then being screamed at for 
 it by someone else. 
  Aside from your wimpy main character however, the story of the game does play out pretty well, 
 with a just above average dialogue (although badly performed) , that keeps you interested in the 
 main campaign.
  Problem is, the campaign is about 6 hours long. I finished it in one sit-through and was definitely 
 disappointed with the length. It's definitely too short and too easy. 
  Another of the disappointments of Haze is the multiplayer. Although it's one of the first PS3 exclusives 
 where the multiplayer actually works properly on release date, it all feels a little uninspiring, 
 especially considering Free Radical where behind the excellent multiplayer of Timesplitters 2. 
 It's just that it doesn't feel like it has anything special, and there are a definite lack of modes, 
 the best probably being the campaign co-op. With only 6 maps, this won't make the game last much 
 longer.
  Another thing that doesn't work quite as well as it should is the gimmick of two sides with very 
 different skills. It usually just comes down to shooting each other endlessly, as opposed to using 
 the differently skills tactically. Plus, the play dead thing rebels do is really frustrating. 
 
  
  Graphically, Haze ranges from pretty good to pretty bad. Some of the textures are so bland and 
 unimaginative, you really can't help but wonder why you're seeing this kind of thing on a next-gen 
 game, but then characters look pretty good, and the some of the set-pieces look awesome. 
  
  Gameplay is also pretty solid, and feels different in pace from most FPSs. Playing as a mantel 
 trooper, gunplay is great and you'll find yourself getting 'addicted' to using Nectar, as it helps 
 you pick out enemies, and, more importantly, punch them like, 15 feet away!
  As a rebel, the gameplay pace picks up, you run faster, and become near invisible because of the 
 'playing dead' skill, which makes Mantel troopers ignore you.
  Whilst gameplay is fun, the AI does ruin it a little, facing the wrong way or running into walls. 
 This happens with both people fighting with and against you, and it's quite aggravating, and just 
 adds to the ease of the game, when you walk up to an enemy and he decides he'll just run straight 
 past you.
  
  So, Haze is definitely a very flawed game, especially when you look at all the hype that was made 
 for it. Still, it's not the worst, and though a little short, the campaign is tightly told and 
 engaging, and while it lasts there's some fun to be had. 
  I'd rank it alongside the likes of Turok. It's flawed, it's fun, and it's for fans of the genre.
 
  
  6.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons and LEGO People. Two great things that were yellow. Haze not so much. I have never 
 been entirely sure what to think about this game before it came out. Some days I thought it looked 
 pretty cool, you know playing as a uber soldier on crack, and others it just didn't look right. 
 There has always been something about it I have never been able to put my finger on that was just 
 niggling at my soft brain. And I think I know what it is...
  
  I played the demo and thought it was fantastic, and based upon that would score the game a little 
 higher, however when playing the final product and finding how irritating a lot of aspects of the 
 game were, I began doubting how incredible Haze was actually going to be.
  
  It suffers from many diseases such as American Hoo-Ha Jock Syndrome. A lot like the mildly impressive 
 Turok recently, it feature big guys with an big American attitude. Extremely unintelectual dialogue 
 that makes Andy from Little Britain like a scientific genius. Yeah I Know. They have that stereotypical 
 American way of cheering eccstatically when something goes boom and Yee-hawing constantly, crashing 
 chests and generally disintergrating into something very similar to an American Football Squad. 
 They are big but unfortunately not very clever. 
  
  Which brings me onto the horrific dialogue of the entire game which is genuinely dreadful, more 
 squirmly awful than the "actor" Haiden Christainson. There is no emotion what so ever, so much 
 so you 99% of the time break up laughing when something fairly serious has happened. 
  
  This isn't at all helped by the terrible character animations, which for a PS3 game are shameful. 
 Reactions are non existant and due to this nothing ever feels threatening or real. It feels like 
 a retro shooter, a lot like Doom, which in the day was phenomenal, but today it just doesn't quite 
 cut it. 
  
  So they've added the use of Nectar, a drug which uber-fies your soldier and makes him mega, which 
 makes the game become incredibly easier and again, denies any threat of enemies as your are all 
 powerful and nothing can really stop you. Until you swap sides where things become more tactical 
 and use the term tactical very loosely. 
  
  The irritating thing is as soon as you're getting used to the Nectar it swaps you over to The Promise 
 Hand (sorry, that is such a **** name) and power is stripped right down and the game totally changes, 
 from bad to worse. How I would have done it is offer two separate campaigns, one for the Rebels 
 and one for the Troopers, all the same story, but told from different points of view, and that 
 way you get a good feel for each side. However, this switch in the middle cuts short what could 
 have potentially evolved into something incredible into something barely credible.
  
  This was supposed to be a system seller for PS3, in the state it's in, it won't be. Graphically 
 is just beats Black on PS2, every FPS on the console looks better than it (apart from Conflict 
 Denied Ops and Blacksite) the idea of enemy swamped jungles could have looked awesome but they 
 look bland and washed out in comparison to the lush greeness of Uncharted.
  
  On the up side though the campaign is multiplayer for up to 4 players, a rarity these days and 
 well worth a play through as there are a few set pieces that are quite phenomenal, and where Haze 
 makes up a lot of lost ground. The shooting is spot on, as it should be from the legendary TimeSplitters 
 team and online and multiplayer options are plentiful if a little lacking.
  
  However, Haze is game that had so much potential, a great concept, a fantastic developer and incredible 
 ideas that could have blown everyone away and caught them by surprise. Which it did - by not fufilling 
 any of these. The story is awkwardly told, the acting is stiff and wooden and it's graphically 
 lacking. Nectar doesn't pack the punch it should have done.
  
  But after playing it and establishing my opinion of the game I still have one major concern. TimeSplitters 
 4. It's running on the Haze engine which is a slight worry as explained, Haze is visually as exciting 
 as a Jacob's cream cracker, and with the expectations of TS4 the can not afford to fail, Again. 
 And its going to be hyped even more than Haze was. Free Radical, make TS4 good and we may just 
 forget about this Haze business - for the love of harry Tipper - don't ruin it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamirElrasoul
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 24, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  It was alright. I mean the previews of the game made it look like it was going to be an awesome 
 game, but that wasn't the case. I am not going to trash it but it didn't have that many good moments 
 plus the story wasn't that good, the whole thing about the necter is cool just because you can 
 preform a lot better and it is fun when your enemies overdose on the necter. Besides the necter 
 the game play was short, your AI's are stupid (as most games are lol) , game play seemed to have 
 an ok feel to it, sound wasn't the greatest I mean the voice was horrible. This is a game that 
 should be rented if you want to play it because you really wont follow the story and you will just 
 want to run around killing everything until you are happy and have beat the game. Online play seems 
 to be much much better. If you do buy this game try out the online play you will enjoy that way 
 more than the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Haze is a shoot them up and use drugs game. You are Shane Carpenter a man that just want too bring 
 peace. You fight 2 side's First Mantel because the world looks troubled by Skin Coat later you 
 find out that the drug is not letting you showing what's real the whole world is in Chaos thanks 
 too Mantel. Then you join the Promised hand. The guns are fast too reload and you can use your 
 environment (Some times) the vehicles are assume I can't believe Gamespot game it a 6.5 this game 
 is assume only they are not match levels. The weapons are assume the multiplayer is assume. ONLINE 
 COOP 4-8 now that's difficult too make. This game stays in my top 10 BEST GAMES EVER. P. S Haze 
 is a code and In the swamp don't freak out there will be freaky stuff there. Go kick Mantels but. 
 Hope you have fun and use some Nectar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jester9800
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this review somewhat in defense of Haze (clearly) and partly against the GTA IV hype 
 that apparently makes a "perfect" video game these days. I read the Gamespot review for both games 
 and for Haze it seems as if most of the criticism there was directed at the graphics and the lack 
 of story. I'll agree with the former, but not with the latter.
  
  ****There are SPOILERS contained herein, but nothing major and nothing beyond the first 2-3 missions 
 --- Needless to say, if you care deeply about the plot and aren't on the fence about Haze, come 
 back once you are off the beach :) ****
  
  The focus of Haze seems very clearly to have been on a few aspects (storyline of Nectar, importance 
 of Nectar and its impact on gameplay) , and it seems as if the other portions of the game weren't 
 paid the same amount of attention or at times simply recycled from previous games.
  
  So here's what Haze does well. It immerses you into the world of the future at almost every turn 
 and it's fun, do people still rate video games for just being fun? It's even more fun when you 
 play Co-Op and can get rid of the stupid AI and repetitive battle cries that your teammates so 
 enjoy.
  
  This may be one of the few times in a video game where I actually feel like I am the main character. 
 If you play the free Haze Demo available on the PS3 store, a few things are absent. The corpses 
 disappear, there's not much blood, everything is bright and in high contrast (like looking through 
 shooting goggles) , as if the world is a Saturday morning cartoon. At various points in the game 
 (and once in the demo) , the main character undergoes a "nectar disruption" and the computer system 
 may have to reboot. What I noticed during this time actually shocked me with its vivid imagery.
 
  
  In the total abscence of nectar, the player's vision switches from a glorified bloodless warfare, 
 where killing is as easy as pointing at the glowing objects and pulling the trigger until they 
 die, to a black and white world reminiscent of Frank Miller's Sin City where blood glows bright 
 red and corpses stay at your feet. Even the glowing, immaculate Mantelar trooper armor is seen 
 for what it really is in the abscence of Nectar. The visor is dotted with blood, and the black 
 armor grayed with dirt and soaked in blood. Even the player's hands appear drenched in blood unless 
 the Nectar administrator is rebooted and fixed. The imagery here of a black and white world and 
 of a soldier's hands literally soaked in blood was impossible to miss and for me a very powerful 
 and poignant moment in the story. When this happened I actually started to hate my Mantelar teammates 
 and hate myself for what my video game self had become. That really impressed me.
  
  Later mission shows the true form of my teammates. Without Nectar, the gleaming, noble yellow and 
 black armor I had worn before appeared worn and beaten in a dim, and gray, and the world seemed 
 a bloodier, grittier, morally ambiguous place. My brothers in arms from the first few levels were 
 transformed from the tan, fit, good looking (albeit obnoxiously cocky) soldiers they were before 
 into shriveled, white, scarred addicts needing a score and too strung out to see just how bad they 
 were. This may have been done before in video games, but I had never seen it and it was done exceptionally 
 well in Haze. For me that it has good story telling and was fun to play is enough. That it's being 
 criticized for not using a modern enough engine, poor texturing, or poor rendering, not enough 
 facial expression, and lips that don't sync well enough with the dialogue (to I guess look less 
 like a video game?) seems a silly criticism to level. Even CGI used in movies made by ILM still 
 look fake, and good graphics only impress me for the first few hours of a game at best. Good graphics 
 to me are just icing and won't make a crap game less crap, just crap with some chocolate chips 
 and sprinkles on top. Either way, your breath will stink. I'm talking to you Phantom Menace.
  
  I think almost every review so far has hit on what Haze isn't , i. e. the revolutionary leap 
 forward in games that everyone always wants. The graphics seem recycled from PC games from 1-2 
 years ago, portions of the missions seem almost plagiarised (Far Cry's beaches and another beached 
 tankership) , and the AI of your teammates puts the "DUH" in dumb. Seriously, your jaw will drop. 
 (I suggest killing them since they come back at most checkpoints, though they can occassionally 
 be helpful.)
  
  But what I haven't seen anyone say is how impressive the details of the story are in Haze and how 
 enjoyable it is. This was conspicuously absent from the Gamespot review, perhaps because the author 
 was a little too eager to get back to playing GTA IV (which Gamespot VERY generaously rated as 
 a 10.0) .
  
  But I wanted to make sure that people on the fence in getting this game still give it a try. So 
 far it's much more enjoyable to me than GTA IV (also the E-brake works like it supposed to in Haze 
 and there's no cell phone where my "friends" make me want to stop being a hitman and go play darts, 
 I guess that's what it takes to be "Perfect" anymore... but I digress) .
  
  In summary, if you can handle graphics that are better than the Eldar Scrolls: Oblivion but won't 
 get you sexually aroused, if you enjoy first person shooters, and like games that may make you 
 think or contain solid imagery and messages without beating you over the head with it, then I suggest 
 you give Haze a try. I almost didn't when I read the Gamespot review and I'm really glad I ignored 
 the reviewer.
  
  I'm starting to wish each Gamespot reviewer would have a profile or a record of types of games 
 they like, because some games that are actually really good get scored poorly by "critics" and 
 don't get a fair shake with the public. But I suppose that's for another place.
  
  Thanks for reading, I'm going to go review GTA IV now. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zexcel
Rating: 4
Date: May 23, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  *Sigh* first, let it be known that I own all 3 consoles (a PS3, Xbox 360 and a Wii) so I don't 
 have the time of day for the Sony fan boys that accuse the rest of us of distorting the truth and 
 downplaying the 'magnificence' that is Haze and the PS3 in general. 
  
  Personally I found the graphics, game play and story (*shudder*) of Haze extremely disappointing. 
 There is nothing new or inspiring to look forward to in this title and although I will admit the 
 vehicle parts were okay the whole 'nectar' thing is just a twisted rip-off of the 'body suit enhancement' 
 of Crysis or the 'animal abilities' of Farcry (Super human powers seem to be a Ubisoft trademark) . 
 Couple that with the below average weapon selection (a grand total of around 5) and Haze is just 
 a complete let down in any FPS comparison. In my personal opinion 'Haze' represents everything 
 that's wrong with PS3 exclusives in general. Massive promises that transpire into betrayal and 
 (dare I say it) 'Painful boredom' are all too common on this platform and it really isn't good 
 timing for me. I'm just going to say what needs to be said. Nobody thought the PS3 was going to 
 end up being THIS disappointing. The sad fact is however that a console is only as good as its 
 software and when a game like Haze is hyped beyond belief, gets released and hits the dirt in this 
 manner I immediately question; 
  
  1. Will I ever buy another PS3 game again? and
  2. How much can I get for my PS3 on ebay? 
  
  Until now the Blueray player in my mind was the 
 only justifiable benefit for me in owning the system but even the viability of that statement is 
 now in question. Although Sony won the HD movie war and HD DVD is deceased, heading down to Blockbuster 
 and seeing a total 12 Blueray titles to rent begs to differ. 
  At this point in the proceedings Ladies and Gentleman, nobody won. 
  
  *Deeper sigh* In conclusion, 
 I know my Haze review has become more of a rant on the broader range of problems facing PS3 owners 
 these days but I just had to vent myself and try and put everything in perspective for my own sanities 
 sake. I don't recommend Haze unless it's for rent but even if you don't you won't be missing out 
 on much. Instead, start praying a developer learns how to actually USE the power and the potential 
 of the PS3. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian_is_king5745
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  For a game that focuses mainly on the story, it does a pretty poor job of selling it with the poor 
 voice acting and cheesy, repetitive lines. The story has good potential, but honestly still feels 
 half-baked. 
  
  Yes, the A. I. is pretty much awful for both your allies and your enemies, but some of that makes 
 it difficult to predict their actions and makes you think on your feet and really learn how computer 
 players will react, much more difficult than it would seem. guns feel good, grenades feel decent, 
 at times are hard to determine how far away you actually are throwing it. Both sides have generous 
 advantages depending on your playing style, both feel good and are truly fun to play with. Online 
 game-play at first will feel one sided, first impressions to mantel, then to the promise-hand, 
 but after awhile of playing both sides will feel equal once you get used to playing.
  
  Although the game does get very annoying at times, and i will actually change the channel on my 
 TV to watch cable during some split scenes and dialog, i liked playing the game a lot, for just 
 pure shooting fun, i don't think i could have much of a better decision, and enjoyed the campaign 
 much more than COD4's short lived campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanokano
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 23, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  this game had high hopes and before the game released watching the trailers i would have at least 
 gave this game a 7/10, but playing the game made me think again and i gave this terrible single 
 player/co-op game 5.5/10
  
  the only reason i gave this 5.5 is because it had some o. k parts like for an example the beach 
 where the water is pretty good.
  
  the voice acting was terrible, but i do seem one of them were alright which were i think had the 
 same voice for brucie in gta iv. but the rest were so bad that i could just wake up in the morning 
 and do a better job.
  
  well the rest i can say is
  
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  bad
  
  i could not understand why after 
 playing this game that people thought or sony thought this would challenge or even try to challenge 
 halo 3.
  
  even on the highest difficultly setting the a. i just sucked big time. they were so stupid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mia_bori
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I've liked haze so far and the online is fun and enjoyable. I know people have bashed this game 
 but its not bad, its good and fun, I would recomemed buying this game. Yea the voice acting of the 
 mantel troopers are pretty stupid the gameplay is good and the graphic are nice. the story line 
 is good ,the way shane changes side is logical and not lame at all.
  Yea i know this isnt RFOM ,COD4 or a HALO killer like some people said it would be, but this game 
 is fun and good to play until MGS4 or Resistance 2. Everyone is saying "it's nothing new but was 
 halo 2 new was halo 3 new" not really but they were good and were given good ratings but it always 
 seems that ps3 exclusives get poor ratings but it sgood. Online is fun and not the least bet boring, 
 yea the PH have a bit of an advantage but if you make sure they're dead you wont have a problem. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mendeleev135
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Haze for quite some time. Today it was released here in the UK (23rd May 
 2008) . Got it home, installed it on my PS3, and started to play.
  I personally believe that the reviews currently written about this game, are rather harsh. I've 
 decided therefore to write a brief summary of my experiences with this game.
  
  1) Graphics
  Thought I'd get the major flaw out of the way first. Much as I do think the game 
 is good ... the graphics are not. It looks more like a PS2 game (in fact, games like Final Fantasy 
 X etc looked better) . I was rather disappointed to install this game for my 'next generation' console, 
 to get a PS2 experience. It has been up-scaled to run on larger TV's etc, but without any Anti-aliasing 
 the corners of some objects (especially the shadows) seem extremely jagged. The game also doesn't 
 seem to have the most gorgeous textures in the world, with most of the walls and floors looking 
 painted on as opposed to realistic. They also look very monotone in colour etc. 
  
  2) Sound
  I am the sort of person that thinks good sound is a must, and personally I have nothing 
 against this games sound quality. Many reviews I have read state that the sound (and especially 
 voice acting) are off a poor quality. The guns and explosions have the correct sound the fit the 
 game. They leave you feeling a proper rumble under your feet and bullets and grenades are travelling 
 all around. The background noise also nicely fits in, with birds singing in the background when 
 in the jungles to rumbles from distant explosions. The voice acting is also of a fair quality. 
 Anyone who has seen the voice acting in possibly ANY Command and Conquer game will agree there 
 has been worse in the past. The dialogue of the fuelled, nectar pumped soldiers fits their characters, 
 cheering and shouting for violence to let off some steam.
  
  3) Story
  This is another attacked area of the game by reviewers. Comments state that the story is 'awful' 
 (gamespot itself) and 'inconsistent'. The story for me was a good idea. It isn't very confusing, 
 however, a story doesn't have to be complex to be good. During the game you follow the story, taking 
 in how the 'Heroes' perception changes. I've seen films with poorer plots... and they survived 
 =P
  
  4) Controls
  Standard shooter controls really, not a lot to say about them. The controls are fully customizable, 
 so it you don't like the controls, you can easily change them, although I thought they were fine.
 
  
  5) Multiplayer
  Pretty good at the moment, the servers all seem to be running lagg free, been getting green connections 
 all day. Of time of writing, the multiplayer is a hive of activity, so there's also plenty of games 
 going on. Bots are allowed to play along side human players in mulitplayer games, meaning that 
 the numbers can easily be made up if there isn't enough people online at the time to fill your 
 game. The game also involves the ability to play co-operative story and friends and jump in and 
 out at anytime, much like the Perfect Dark way of doing things, however, Haze has 4 player co-operative 
 (as far as I'm aware) . 
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  I have enjoyed playing this game, and with the multiplayer, I plan to continue playing for a long 
 time to come (as long as everyone else does the same) . The story is simple yet involving, and with 
 many possibilities with multiplayer gaming, the game should be worth a purchase. The graphics are 
 disappointing for a PS3 game, but the game is still fun no less. 
  
  If you want a game that's not too foreign to what your used to, but with a few added extras to 
 keep it interesting, this is well worth considering.
  
  7.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know why this game is getting such horrible reviews. No it is not genre defining, 
 no it is not the best game I have ever played, but it still stands on its own as a solid shooter. 
 With the other reviews this game is getting, you would think it is broken or unplayable, well it 
 isn't. What is the most important thing in a shooter? For me, it is guess what... the shooting, 
 and Haze does it very well. The weapons feel very balanced and just feel right. The shotgun acts 
 as it should, the assault rifles are spot on and so forth... The graphics are average, not horrible, 
 but not the best thing I have ever seen either. I find the story to be very good. It puts a spin 
 on shooter games and war in general and really makes you think about motives and being on the "right 
 side", etc. Once you take a look at the whole scale of things, Mantel troops' behavior and the 
 war itself makes sense. If you were juiced up on 'roids you wouldn't be acting right either. The 
 sound is good. The guns sound powerful and generally sound like you would expect them too. Voice 
 acting is ok. Sometimes you really have to put yourself into the situation to understand some of 
 the random crap people say, but isn't that what gaming is about, immersing yourself into another 
 world, to get the full experience? I haven't tried the multiplayer so no comment on that. I will 
 leave you with this: This game is fun. It is not groundbreaking stuff but the sum of its parts 
 will give you a solid shooter to enjoy for 10 or so hours and be a little different from all the 
 other shooters out there like the Halos and the CODs etc. If you enjoy shooters and a different 
 spin on them (story wise) , PLAY HAZE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Haze is a game which attempts to blur the line between good and bad in terms of morality. In an 
 ironic twist it also blurs the line between good and bad in terms of the game's quality.
  
  Shane Carpenter enlists to the army of Mantel Global Industries, an influential global company 
 which amongst other things lends its troops to countries willing to pay. Carpenter is sent off 
 to fight the good fight in the Boa region of South America where a group of rebels lead by Gabriel 
 "Skin Coat" Merino is terrorizing the population. To better deal with the resistance, Mantel's 
 troops are supplied with a "nutritional supplement" AKA a performance enhancing drug, AKA Nectar, 
 which is injected into their bloodstream to aid them in combat, make them better, faster, stronger. 
 But Mantel has forgotten to print out the side effects... It's not long before you begin to realize 
 the Mantel troops' perception of reality is a bit skewed and that Nectar might not be all that 
 hunky dorey. This eventually leads to the twist you've probably heard about already.
  
  Right about here I'm gonna start to actually talk about the story rather than around it, so you 
 might wanna scroll through this section if you haven't played the game. Potential spoilers in other 
 words.
  
  The Mantel troops are initially just portrayed as overly aggressive, loud and obnoxious clowns 
 who like shooting things. They're not very likeable to begin with, but progressingly you become 
 more concerned and repulsed by their behavior. Which makes it easy to turn your gun on them when 
 the time comes.
  
  But as the story progresses you'll realize that it's not the Mantel soldiers who are evil, it's 
 the propaganda they were told, the drugs they were given. They were tricked into joining the army, 
 deceived by Mantel, brainwashed into performing acts of evil against their own judgment, used as 
 puppets for the company's own interests. So I at least grew to empathize with them. I don't think 
 I've ever empathized with a video game character before. I felt sorry for Peshy when I had to kill 
 him and I didn't want to shoot the defenseless and confused Mantel soldiers on the land carrier. 
 I didn't see these people as "animals" or "meat", I saw them as human beings who had been deceived 
 and abused by the company they were employed by. And my squad just mauled them down. : (. So I think 
 the script did something right. I mean, I can see why some people might find it hard to take seriously, 
 but I managed to.
  
  What some critics are criticizing about the story is that it's too blatant in how it portrays its 
 morality, and the meat-headed state of your Mantel buddies. I guess that's true. The game frequently 
 reminds you that these people are evil a-holes, it's not particularly subtle. And Merino's dialog 
 inferring to Duvall's speeches does feel contrived. The guy is generally portrayed as a kind old 
 man with a heart of gold, and then near the end he gets a couple of lines that are supposed to 
 make you question his ideals, but I'm not really buying it.
  
  DONE WITH THE SPOILERING!
  
  But while story is kind of blunt and occasionally silly with contrived dialog, I find it a 
 lot better and a lot more interesting than what most other first person shooters out there have 
 to offer. Which can generally be summed up with something like; "Aliens! Kill them!" Haze certainly 
 deals with a more interesting subject matter, and it does work pretty well, for the most part.
 
  
  With that said, the dialog can take away from the coherency of the story. "Mantel is going down!" 
 "Remember your promise to Merino!" "Vaya con dios!" etc. etc. It kind of makes sense for the Mantel 
 troopers yelling out their immature slurs and one-liners, but the rebels are supposed to NOT be 
 on drugs, yes? Then why are they shouting out retarded phrases every four seconds? I'm not even 
 kidding, that's about how frequent it is and it almost makes me wanna kill the ****ing apes and 
 urinate on their graves. It makes me think like a Mantel soldier, and that's not the intention 
 is it?
  
  The characters in general behave... questionably. Mostly the AI does its job and can appear rather 
 smart and mobile. But while there are brainwaves there's also the occasional brainfart. And it 
 happens more often than you'd like, stinking up the place. Friendly AI will run in front of your 
 line of fire... as you're firing. They'll stand in doorways when you're throwing a grenade through 
 it, blocking it with their head. They'll push you, they'll block you, they'll follow you, they'll 
 spazz out, they'll just stand there etc. The enemy AI probably does the same, it's just that it's 
 not as noticeable to you. The AI is somewhat good and somewhat ridiculously frustrating. Just really 
 inconsistent and glitchy. One time my squad refused to follow me as I sped off alone on an ATV 
 as my supposed passenger died when I caressed his thigh with the bumper, so I had to Rambo through 
 the rest of the level by myself. When I reach a checkpoint inside a building it said "squad catching 
 up", but I didn't see any squad. Eventually I spotted them near the blast door entrance, standing 
 there, doing nothing. The AI had been turned off for some reason. As I pushed them they slid across 
 the floor. I wondered what would happen if I hit them in the face. They started to run into the 
 blast door, then back up and apparently tried to break the huge metal door down. Well that makes 
 sense. Then they suddenly disappeared into thin air, never to return again. Alrighty then.
  
  Speaking of bugs and glitches, the game has a few of them. Mostly it's rather insignificant, 
 like flickering textures, textures popping in and such. The visual glitches are no biggies, apart 
 from the janky animations, which can look rather jarring. But the one other real bug I've come 
 across is a biggie. During one of the later vehicle sections, I died. As the game reloaded a checkpoint 
 it somehow forgot to load all the assets. The only things that were rendered were the grass, background 
 imagery, flares, tire tracks and vehicles, occasionally. As you can probably guess it was rather 
 difficult to reach my goal, seeing how I couldn't see it, or anything else. When the buggy started 
 beeping I jumped out, fell through the nothingness and died. Loaded fine this time, but a mortar 
 managed to get me dead. Did not load fine this time. I bailed out to die from the nothingness again. 
 This time it didn't load at all. PS3 froze.
  
  The vehicle sections in general are just pure ass. The physics are ridiculously awkward. Vehicles 
 feel too sensitive and floaty, near uncontrollable. They're not even... you're just blasting through 
 enemy roadblocks and whatnot, so in addition to being awkward and frustrating, they feel redundant 
 as well. Luckily the level design mostly accommodates for the whacky handling by being rather wide, 
 apart from a later section where you're driving on a small piece of road with steep drops every 
 here and there, killing you dead. To make things even more fun you're chased by artillery fire, 
 so you have to drive moderately fast. Earlier vehicle sections are rather bad and awkward, but 
 acceptable, this one however, is ****ing stupid. I want it to die.
  
  Luckily the majority of the game requires you to simply shoot people in the face. This works much 
 better. It controls really well and the weapons feel good to shoot. Haze gets the basic shooting 
 mechanics right, and due to this and some occasionally good level design and occasionally decent 
 AI, it can be quite entertaining to play. The mechanics relating to the different sides of the 
 war can also be useful and fun to use. On the Mantel side, using nectar makes enemies glow, which 
 plays into the whole "the enemy isn't human" thing the narrative has going on, by making them seem 
 more like targets than humans. You also get a higher rate of zoom and can take a bit more damage. 
 What's interesting is that it actually feels like a drug, you become addicted to it and want to 
 use it. But in general it doesn't make the game play much differently compared to other shooters. 
 It basically boils down to run n gun with Mantel.
  
  The Promise Hand side is a bit more tactful as you can't take as many bullets to the face and have 
 more active abilities for use. You have to think more. While it does work moderately well to run 
 n gun, playing dead and using nectar grenades properly is encouraged. There are a lot of abilities 
 that are rather redundant though. They're there for you to take advantage of, but I never really 
 felt I needed to. Razor Tongues (knifes dipped in nectar which make soldiers OD) , stealing weapons 
 and shooting soldiers' nectar administrators on their backs. They're just not viable options when 
 playing the game. You might as well just shoot them, ammo is plentiful, and I'd rather have another 
 secondary weapons than knives. Oh and laying traps, almost forgot about that one. It takes too 
 long to hide grenades under the dirt, it's pretty much only of use during a couple of scenes where 
 you're pretty much told to use it.
  
  Graphically the game presents mostly bland, dull and lifeless environments for you to fight in. 
 There's a real lack of detail and the level design tends to look boxy. Characters look alright, 
 but like I mentioned, the animations can ruin things, and they're not particularly expressive apart 
 from the cutscenes. But still, it manages to look pretty pretty at times. Thanks to the splendid 
 use of HDR lighting I'm sure. Some outdoor environments can look a fair bit striking due to it.
 
  
  While the level design overall is fairly boring, there are parts that work well. There's a swamp 
 level which is pretty artistic and different, and there's some good use of verticality and scope 
 here and there. I disagree with Kevin VanOrd that the on-rails sections are so great though. I 
 mean, they're on-rail sections. Those have been part of shooters for as long as 1783, and I always 
 find them to play the same. While they are moderately entertaining, the land carrier one is just 
 weird. The screen would fade to black and suddenly I'd appear on the other side of the humongous 
 vehicle. I don't know what happened there. It was just... weird. And that would be the last level. 
 The game is rather short, took me an estimated 7-8 hours, and I've heard about people completing 
 it in much less than that.
  
  So the replay value is supposed to come from the multiplayer. I haven't touched upon that much 
 yet as I'm typically more of a singleplayer person. But I have tried it and it feels rather good. 
 There are some annoyances, like the inability to set a default weapon layout instead of being forced 
 to swap weapons every time you spawn, but judging by the 30 minutes or so I've played, it plays 
 fine. The objective-based Team Assault deserves to be mentioned too. It's something more than your 
 typical CTF.
  
  While the gameplay leaves you feeling confused, I reckon the narrative is the stand-out of the 
 game, what makes it something more than just another generic FPS. While it may not be some sort 
 of masterpiece, I find it interesting and well interwoven into the game. I reckon Free Radical 
 did something there and I commend them for it.
  
  In the end the keyword is inconsistent. There's basically something good and something bad to be 
 said about any particular part of the game. I don't know what to think or what score to give it 
 really. Ultimately it's not a bad game, nor a particularly good one, but it does enough things 
 well to be worth a look, and perhaps at least a rent.
  
  I'm not sure what score to put here, but consider it a 6-7. It varies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: Decent visuals, Nector is an interesting gimmic, cool consept, guns are pretty basic, 
 but pretty cool at the same time, interesting Sixaxis uses, customizable controls.
  
  The Bad: Extremely cheesy voice acting, poor storyline, weak vehicle controls, AI is fairly dumb.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When first announced as a PS3 exclusive, Ubisoft and Free Radical Design's Haze was toted as the 
 PS3's answer to Halo 3. After a series of delays, Haze has finally launched and isn't nearly as 
 good as it should have been or was hyped to be. It's still a fully functional shooter that is pretty 
 fun to play, but it could have been so much more...
  
  You play as Shane Carpenter, a Mantel soldier who believes he is fighting the good fight against 
 rebel forces. Mantel uses this homebrew enhancement drug called Nector to give their troopers an 
 extra boost in combat. Nector makes you more resistant to damage, faster, able to see enemies and 
 traps easily and makes you more accurate. It's a cool idea that could have been a big thing in 
 shooters if the rest of the game was a bit better.
  
  Unfortunately, Haze has a lot of problems that should have been fixed before the game was released. 
 First, the voice acting is extremely cheesy. Now if this was another TimeSplitters game, that would 
 be fine, but because Free Radical was trying to make a serious game, the voice acting just didn't 
 fit. It's very hard to take the game seriously when listening to your squadmates. Second, the storyline 
 itself is very confusing and not very immersive. After the first cutscene, you are simply going 
 around hunting down rebel forces, and you really aren't sure why. Third, the vehicle controls aren't 
 very good. It's kinda a stiff version of the Warthog controls from Halo. This makes the vehicle 
 missions hard to stand because you'd much rather be on foot than in a vehicle.
  
  There are other problems that aren't as bad as other reviews have stated, but should be noted none 
 the less. First, the AI isn't very intellegent. Now, it's not nearly as bad as other games, but 
 the AI doesn't put up that much of a challenge. Second, the graphics lack the polish that was expected 
 of a truely next gen game. It doesn't look too bad, but it still could have used a bit of polish 
 on the visual side. Third, although the guns are fully functional and work fine, they lack the 
 cool factor that the rest of the game has. They are a pretty standard set of weapons, although 
 the flamethrower is pretty cool. 
  
  Ok, so yes, Haze does have it's fair share of problems, but it's still a fully playable, and enjoyable, 
 PS3 exclusive shooter. I haven't gotten too far in the storyline, or checked out the online, but 
 just from what I've played so far, I've still had a good time playing Haze. Free Radical did a 
 few things right, but more things wrong or less than expected that really hurt the game in the 
 long run. I'm hoping they will use their experience with Haze and really put their all into making 
 TimeSplitters 4 the best shooter it can be. For now, if you are looking for an enjoyable, fully 
 functional and fairly unique shooter for the PS3, you could do a lot worse than Haze. It's at least 
 worth a rental.
  
  Gameplay: It has it's problems, but Haze is a fully functional shooter that can be fun, especially 
 online.
  
  Graphics: Decent, but they lack the polish expected from a PS3 exclusive.
  
  Sound: Extremely cheesy voice acting hurts the seriousness of the rest of the game, but the music 
 is pretty good.
  
  Value: I'd say unless you really like the online, Haze is worth a rental or a purchase after a 
 price drop.
  
  Final Thoughts: Now it's time to make things right! Oh, wait, they should have done that already.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  
  Ok before I start I want to be clear that I have no bias or side to take in the pointless console/games 
 war, check my other reviews for proof. However I do want to say that there has been some rather 
 needless negative bias in the GS review of this game. The negative points highlighted in the GS 
 review are pretty trivial and in some cases incorrect. No its not perfect but Halo 9.5? and GTA 
 10? Please!
  
  I'm really enjoying playing Haze and have no issue with it not being the super amazing eye candy 
 flawles game fest that GS EXPECTED it to be! The voice acting is hammed up and tongue in cheek, 
 who cares?! The AI is on par with similar FPS' like MoH and CoD3 and No its not perfect but they're 
 not THAT BAD either! They do dodge shots and grenades, take cover and on several occasions tried 
 to flank me. I have the game on Hard setting as I would any other and found that just trying to 
 sit back and snipe on certain levels just doesn't work as some of the bad guys get back up when 
 just injured. Graphically too its as good as you would want/need it to be! Nice quick smooth running 
 frame rate etc. Another factor that got badly ignored is the total lack of ANY loading times while 
 in game! Its seemless, unless you die of course. The Nectar theme is a gimmick but works well and 
 on later levels as a Mantel trooper you bloody need it! The contrast when you switch side is also 
 a really nice touch. Haze also has a unique look and atmosphere when playing too. Its just a good 
 game and very playable. Multiplayer be it on or off line are both pretty good if limited. Don't 
 get me wrong its not a masterpiece and I've marked it down for the limted replay value and shortness 
 of game length on normal difficultly setting, 10 to 12 hours on hard. However there's still plenty 
 of variety on action type, level design and objectives. 
  
  No its not CoD 4 but not many games are. I was reminded a lot of Resistance: Fall of Man in the 
 way the game played, looked and the querky sense of story/styling. The poor score came as no surpise 
 to me as its a well know fact that GS is a M$ owned site. Creditabilty over corporate interests 
 please GS. Enough ranting. IMO Haze is as good as any FPS and have compiled a list of game I believe 
 its better than or as good as. Play it open mindly and make you own unbiased opinion. Never beleive 
 hype as hype will kill the video star! ouch!...
  
  As good as:
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man
  Call of Duty 2
  Halo 3
  The Darkness
  
  Better than:
  
  Call 
 of Duty 3
  Turning Point
  Far Cry
  Frontlines 
  MoH: Airbourne
  Perfect Dark Zero
  Hour of Victory
  Rainbow six Vegas 2
  Turok
  
  Not as good as:
  
  Call of Duty 4
 
  The Orange Box
  Rainbow Six Vegas
  Bioshock
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tefdesign
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Hype is two way street. Hype can force unreachable expectations on a game, and on the other side 
 of the street, it can kill an IP.
  
  Is Haze a perfect game, or worthy of a perfect 10? Not by a long shot. But is it worthy of a 4.5? 
 Not even close. That type score shows just how poor video game sites have become, and how biased 
 certain people are due to a name brand. It seems America is scoring the game lower then the Rest 
 of the world as whole. Why is that??
  
  For references, I run a PS3 with HDMI hooked up to a Mitsubishi 57" DLP. Here is my review, on 
 a 1-10 scale in what I feel are the key areas.
  
  Graphics
  This is truly a mixed bag, and the weak spot of the game. Some areas look good, while other spots 
 look unpolished. The game has a "ported" look to it, as if it was not originally developed on the 
 PS3. The actual levels remind me of Battlefield Modern Combat on the 360. Bland surroundings, with 
 the vehicle models looking pretty good. The character models are nicely done, but lack the detail 
 I was expecting, but seeing the legs is a nice, familiar touch. I do think the weapons look nice 
 as well. Lighting is also an area that is inconsistent. Animations are nicely done as well, with 
 no complaints there.
  Score: 6.5
  
  Sound
  Another area of mixed feelings. The game's title track is belongs on a Hollywood blockbuster, while 
 the rest of the music is movie score worthy. The guns sound good, but not great, and are believable 
 when firing them. The explosions sound believable as well. The weak spot?? The voice acting is 
 very laughable, and is voiced over by "B" movie actors. It seems as if teenagers wrote the dialogue.
 
  Score: 7.5
  
  Control
  Games such as Call of Duty 4 features flawless controls, and are a true benchmark for FPS. With 
 Haze, this is a strong point for the game as well. The controls are smooth, aiming is easy, and 
 feature 100% customizable buttons. I set my control to COD4, and it made things 2nd nature. The 
 vehicles are nothing spectacular, and should not pose any problems for FPS vets.
  Score - 8.5
  
  Multiplayer
  If 4 player campaign co-op is your thing, you will enjoy Haze. 
 You can even split screen the campaign at home, and invite 2 friends online to join you. The adversarial 
 MP features AI bots, for unranked split screen or online action. You can invite up to 15 friends 
 for MP action. Sounds great, right? Problem is, there is only 3 game modes (deathmatch team death 
 match, and assualt) , and 6 maps. Seems like the MP modes and maps were cut in half. The ability 
 to take 4 people online at once is a plus as well. Give this game more maps and modes, you have 
 something special.
  Score - 7.5
  
  Singleplayer.
  The game features a campaign mode, and although I have yet to beat it, I have read that the game 
 can be finished in 4 to 12 hours (possibly depending on the difficulty) , and has 15 missions. This 
 seems very typical of today's games. The story is intriguing and very believable, but is somewhat 
 ruined by some horrible voice acting. From what I have played, the game is a corridor shooter at 
 heart, and seems linear at times. I will say that the ability to play as both sides is a nice touch. 
 I would also like to go on record that "Nectar" is not a gimic, and adds a cool element to the 
 gameplay. The "overdose of Nectar" has a tacked on feeling though. You have to do it on purpose.
 
  Score - 7.0
  
  Intangibles 
  The game seems like it needed about another 6 months of fine tuning to remove the AI bugs, and 
 some extra gallons of paint to polish the finish. Considering the delay's involved, this is inexcusable. 
 Free Radical should know better then to release a game unfinished. If more delay's meant a better 
 end product, I would have waited, albeit a tad ticked off. It's a text book case of potential not 
 realised. Abit disappointing for PS3 owners because we know what should have been.
  Score - 6
  
  Closing
  Slightly above average, and an enjoyable FPS with some good legs on 
 it. Will it beat COD4 in a marathon? Nope. It can't even touch COD4 in a 100 yard dash, but that 
 doesn't mean it's a poor game. It's actually a fun experience should you give it a chance.
  Overall - 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMX-BOY
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 23, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  the game haze has just been released and had a lot of hype about it and how good it was but it 
 is not all its cracked up to be but trust me its still a good game but short and your AI's are 
 stupid hahaha. the game is fun set in the year 2048 were mantel are "helping people" but there are 
 the rebels who are fighting to be free and stop mantel. in the game you play a mantel trooper whos 
 name is shane carpenter and has joined mantel to help people well that is what he thought. the mantel 
 troopers take a drug called necter which is like a super drug which gives you and the mantel troopers 
 and you super strength, eyesight and speed but the rebels who fight the mantel troopers and use 
 necter agianst the troopers which causes the troopers to overdose and go crazy and kill there own 
 men. in haze you are a mantel trooper but through the game you change sides because you relise that 
 the troopers are slightly corrupted which you will see in the game i think being a rebel is better 
 without necter you fight worse but can do really kool stuff like get troopers to overdose and kill 
 each other insted of you or you can plant grenades in the ground which the troopers step on and 
 BOOM!!!!! theres necter grenades necter knifes and shooting them in the back then they overdose. this 
 game is really good but short so its a bit riged but i would still recomend buying it its a good 
 FPS sooooo BUY IT!!!! LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vander28
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  So when I read the gamespot review the night before it came out they gave it a 6.0 which I was 
 bummed about. I had reserved the game and already paid for it so to hear that it had only received 
 a 6.0 was not good news. Granted I don't agree with everything gamespot says but still they are 
 right sometimes so I was worried. They said it looked terrible had bad voice acting and a crappy 
 story. After playing it I have decided that the voice acting isn't great but if you pair it with 
 the story line it makes sense, the graphics remind me of the quake a little bit kind of older unreal 
 engine stuff and they don't look bad and the frame rate always holds steady and the game pace is 
 fast and intense.... the story wa cool I thought, definitely a new way to look at the world and 
 very provocative so I definitely have to give it better than a 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BILLNYE6983
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, Haze is being strictly rated, and I don't see why.
  
  Halo 3 has a lot of problems that were ignored, but Haze isn't fairing as well.
  
  Since when 
 are the dialogue of games that big of a deal? And what I don't get is the dialouge that Gamespot 
 is referring to happens entirely with two characters in the VERY beginning of the game... that 
 aren't in the rest of the game. I watched the video review and almost all of the clips shown occur 
 RIGHT after the demo. 
  
  I DO agree that it was a little over the top, but no reason to give a game a six. As for the AI... 
 I have never saw any of the things that Gamespot is talking about, and I played on easy.
  
  This is a decent game, not a terrible one, the visual presentation and gameplay alone make it decent, 
 I don't get the 'lackluster visuals' deal that gamespot was talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightshade869
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I have played the game for about 5 hours and I must say that I am very pleased with this game overall. 
 It is no COD 4, but it is still a fun FPS with a lot of multiplayer value. There are complaints 
 about the story and the characters, but if you truly understand Haze and get into the right mindset 
 of what Nectar does to a person then the story is rather interesting. Nectar makes one overconfident 
 and feel invincible. The game does a nice job of showing the difference between Mantel troops who 
 have been on Nectar for a long time and are "over confident aplha males" and you, Shane Carpenter 
 (spelling) . The game is better than the critics state.
  
  In terms of graphics it isn't the most impressive game, but the smooth gameplay and gun mechanics 
 makes up for this flaw. Free Radical is very good at making the shooting mechanics of a game work 
 flawlessly and they did this in Haze.
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic. There is no lag and it works flawlessly. Online co-op is genius for the 
 campaign and the actual mutliplayer is even better.
  
  Overall, if you bought into all the hype about the game and find the concept of Nectar and the 
 Promise Hand interesting I say go for it and get the game. You never know if you will like a game 
 until you play it yourself. The multiplayer is very fun and I think the game is very entertaining 
 and re-playable overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Everything about Haze is very average. Gameplay, controls, graphics, menus, online multiplayer, 
 story and even the the overall production of the game. Nothing really stands out at great.
  
  A few years ago, well 8 years actually, this game would have been amazing. There are so many 
 times when i play this that my mind starts thinking of when i first played Red Faction on the PS2. 
 The game runs well and has the sci-fi vibe i enjoy in shooters. It takes place in a future revolution 
 (though all of the standard tv's and computer monitors make me feel like its in the mid-to-late 
 90's and not 15 years in the future) 
  
  Graphics: Haze looks good in motion. However, once you stop moving you realize how much things 
 just dont look like a PS3 game or a 360 game for that matter. The Mantel suits look decent enough 
 (though they are a pretty simple design) the characters faces would have been alright last generation 
 but are by no means on par with the likes of HL2. Sadly they remind me of those weird faces the 
 players in Madden make every year. Characters rolling their eyes, looking all around, most look 
 as though they have far more than a few screws loose. Hands moving through objects, people standing 
 around with their mouths open. Tons of jagged edges and boring environments.
  
  Though as i said before. When in motion Haze looks alright and if i was not searching for these 
 graphical oddities i would have overlooked several of them.
  
  Sound: I felt there was a lot of white noise in this game. Constant background noise in some areas 
 though the guns sounded good enough to be passable. Dialog reminded me a lot of Starship Troopers 
 2 haha, I like cheesy movies and can find humor in that sort of thing so it doesnt drive me too 
 crazy to hear a bunch of guys saying "Boosh", "I want to shoot all my loads into you!" (or something 
 like that. I couldnt help but burst into laughter) 
  
  Controls: You can customize them in many ways which is great. Aiming seems dead on. Almost too 
 dead on at times. You have no controls over your squad and there was no run button (as far as i 
 could tell) . There seems to be just the right amount of screen sway when running (walking) and recoil 
 seems just fine. There is not too much vibration in this game so owning a DS3 will not make or 
 break the experience.
  
  Difficulty/Puzzles: The game seems easy. When you do happen to die it is usually because you have 
 gotten bored with wandering around an empty level and when you finally come up upon enemies you 
 run at them anxious for action. The "puzzles" are pretty typical of a game like Red Faction where 
 they do all but tell you what to do as soon as you approach a puzzle. Sometimes you dont even realise 
 you have to problem solve and they have already given you hints on how to get around whatever obstacle 
 they are throwing at you.
  
  Vehicles: I felt the vehicles controlled better than the reviews have said. They stick to the road 
 for the most part and seem to always land on their wheels. They are not as floaty as the ones in 
 Halo 1 and 2. But dont feel as natural as the ones in Halo 3. They have a very robotic/fabricated 
 feel to them almost like HL2 or TimeShift. I felt it was always best to be the driver because the 
 AI is pretty spotty.
  
  AI: If you watch closely at your squad and at the enemies you face you will notice they do some 
 pretty silly things. Shoot at walls, at you, run in front of you, run in front of vehicles, run 
 around in circles, not come to you at all. A bit of everything. You will never look into battle 
 and forget you are playing a videogame. (though very few games really make you feel this)
  
  Fun Factor: This is where Haze starts to make a name for itself. If you are a fan of Red Faction, 
 TimeShift, Pariah or even Halo i feel there is plenty of fun to be had in Haze. It is very simple 
 in design and in gameplay. If you are someone that can breeze through COD4 on veteran and love 
 that challenge then i do not feel it is for you. I beat COD4 on veteran though it was not easy 
 for me there were 3 or 4 sections i found myself repeating over and over to get through. Haze does 
 not really reward you for headshots because it seems pretty easy to kill soldiers no matter where 
 you shoot them. It is a game. Its fun, not stressful or realistic in anyway. Which i feel there 
 is a place for games like that in this day and age. I felt that way about Soldier of Fortune: Payback. 
 That it was simple and fun and there was nothing epic or amazing about it.
  
  Multiplayer: Its hard to say right now. There were not too many people on when i was trying to 
 play the vs modes. It seems very basic and if you had enough people it could really be fun. Some 
 matches only had 4 people total. Others had around 10 but i was never in a match with a full 16. 
 
  
  Co-op runs well. I didnt notice any lag or performance issues.
  
  Conclusion: Haze is a fun game that falls someplace lower than TimeShift and Higher than Soldier 
 of Fortune: Payback. If you enjoy Turok, Pariah, Mace Griffin: Bounty Hunter, or any of the other 
 "average" or "stream lined" shooters of the past few years, chances are that you will enjoy Haze 
 for what it is. Though it really doesnt take advantage of the PS3's power in any noticeable way. 
 The game runs smoothly and doesnt bore you with long loading screens.
  
  If anyone wants to ask me any questions or wants to hook up for some vs or co-op play, just send 
 a message! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I won't bother with an indept review of the game because there's plenty of those across the web 
 by people with far superior writing skills to mine..
  
  I will just say this:
  
  Haze is a very solid buy for any shooterfan and I will tell you why:
  
  Games can roughly be 
 divide into 3 categories:
  
  1) utter crap
  2) games / solid midrange titles
  3) Genre definers
  
  1) luckily the 1st category is becoming more and more rare these days. 
 It simply costs too much to make a game for "amateurs" to release crap.
  The only time you see crap these days is when devs are pressed for time and can't pollish their 
 products. Think "Lair" , "Blacksite" and "Two Worlds" here.. 
  
  3) The 3rd is rare also because only a handful of games reach this status. Think CoD4 , Halo 3 
 GTA IV, Oblivion, Half Life 2 etc etc.. These games are the absolute best the industry has to offer 
 and basically they set the bar for what a good game must be like.
  
  2) Ah... here we go this section consists of the largest number of games out there. These are the 
 games that are technically sound, as in they have enough pollish and quality and they perform well.
 
  Sure there's differences in quality in this section but no game here is a definate failure...
 
  Think games like: Army of Two, Turok, Timeshift and..... you guessed it Haze.
  
  Haze fits comfortably in the midsection of games out there today... It performs well, smooth framerate, 
 solid shooter mechanics etc. It's just not that awesomely fantastically special it was first hyped 
 up to be.
  Sure the story is lame, sure there's prettier games out, but make no mistake, it does what a shooter 
 is supposed to do and that is provide a good nice 10 hours of blasting baddies with all the weapons 
 you've come to know and love in shooters since the early 90's
  
  THE BIG QUESTION:
  
  Should YOU buy Haze?
  
  Well that depends: If you're on a budget where you can only afford 
 to buy a select few titles a year don't get this game.
  If you're like me however and you enjoy shooters and don't demand that each game you buy has to 
 be the best you've played up untill then..... then get it. 
  Haze is a nice game to play in this otherwise calm (shooter) releasewindow and you will have a 
 nice time playing it.. trust me, it's not the utter crap IGN has made it out to be with that 4.5 
 rating. It's just not. Those numbers should be reserved for game that are technically incompetent 
 like "Blacksite"
  
  Listen, if you don't buy it, don't worry, you're not missing the next best thing. If you like shooters 
 and DO buy it. I'm confident you'll have a fun time playing it because the core mechanics of a 
 decent shooter are all in place!
  
  Grz DsK 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spotlifetv
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Haze I was excited that it was coming to the Xbox & then I learned it 
 was only going to be a PS3 Exclusive. I was even more excited to because I thought that meant a 
 sure fire hit and well spent cash. Boy was I in for a surprise of epic proportions. Here I am again 
 spending $64 plus dollars on a game that would have been better off as rental. Whats to love??? 
 Sure that action is fast & furious & even the futuristic theme of a super soldier is appealing. 
 Your left with not much of a hit because we have been down this road before, sure there was Timeshift, 
 The Darkness, Far Cry & other games that upgraded you basesd on completed task & acheivements. 
 The let down is the bad acting, poor Ai that screams of stupidity. Plus its uninspired. I think 
 this game might have been better received had it just went multi platform. All this exclusive BS 
 gets you all worked up for an A+ title only to receive a C type of game. Stay away if you value 
 your money. Buy only if you just want another PS3 title to your collection that won't appear on 
 the Xbox. I'm selling mine to whomever has $50.00 catch me on Craigslist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giguerefan87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  On Monday, I walked in the door and saw a shining gem. It was a box, from the UBI. com store and 
 inside was HAZE. I was a bit worried about this one, especially after the delays, playing the demo, 
 and the all around expectations for this one to be a good game. I marked up the stairs with that 
 new game grin on my face and started what has become my favorite game of 2008.
  
  I really should start with my impressions of the Demo. The demo had graphical flickering, low ammo, 
 the guns didn't seem all that different, the level design was extremely simplified, and all in 
 all it was something that I wouldn't recommend to others. The most annoying thing though was that 
 nectar seemed to run out too fast and auto aim didn't work at all despite the fact that i had it 
 on. It was a very hard game to look forward to, but i had a feeling that the demo was an earlier 
 build. It turns out i was right, and i am pleasantly surprised that i kept this preorder in.
  
  So the game starts on the MANTEL side. It started with a little bit of story and conversation 
 that doesn't happen in the demo and then I was deployed to the jungle in the demo. The first things 
 I noticed that the textures were a little bit better, they didn't flicker as much, and that it 
 was a little bit easier to see what I was shooting at. I compared the effects of nectar, actually 
 trying to play without it for a bit and then with it. You immediately have a quicker reaction time 
 and in an FPS this is a key element. Once I started to get into the combat of the game the poor 
 AI stuck out like a soar thumb. My squad mates just followed me, were extremely annoying, and kept 
 saying the same things over and over. Two of them kept shoulder tapping each other and basically 
 just got on my nerves for a few hours.
  
  I continued on until I got the helicopter back to base, some dialogue, deployed out again. The 
 next level is quite literally a contrast to the jungle. It's in a desert and is the driving mission 
 that you can see in some of the gameplay videos from last year. Right away I had a complete sense 
 of chaos because the controls are different then normal driving games. The gas is R1 and the brake 
 is L1 (since nectar is L2) . The car is very loose. I crashed a lot throughout the game. The level 
 is extremely long, taking around an hour and a half, and by the end it is clear that nectar is 
 having an effect and with a few more story elements that make it clear what is about to happen.
 
  
  Next up is a transition level where I "switched" sides. I met the rebels, experienced another completely 
 different environment and it is another completely different experience because this level is very 
 open. When you become a part of the rebels there is a 10 minute cut scene. This scene is by far 
 some of the greatest writing in any FPS that i have played. It challenged me to contemplate things, 
 philosophically analyze what just happened, and then put it on me to make a choice (mentally) . 
 The instances in the demo and throughout earlier elements in the game become very clearly all as 
 a result of nectar. Later, when nectar is explained, the game flips upside down and engulfed me 
 into the world of HAZE. You are no longer just a random soldier, but now you are emotionally attached 
 to the main character and want to help him achieve his goal.
  
  The following level is a level that I have referred to as "one of the best levels I have ever played 
 in an FPS game." There are some levels that just stick out, and this is one of them. There were 
 several instances where I had to pause, breathe, and just think to myself "this is awesome!" It 
 takes place on a ship, and halfway through is where nectar is explained. There is a continuation 
 of the philosophical analysis take place and the story gets that much deeper. The emotion in the 
 game rises, and it really becomes a surreal experience. Somehow the game takes on a meaning more 
 then just good and evil. It becomes a matter of right and wrong.
  
  The game ends up with spots of driving, protecting the rebels, and helping take down MANTEL, but 
 what keeps this game interesting is the variety of environments. There was another driving mission, 
 a few where you had to stop a wave of enemies, among other things, but the reason this is interesting 
 and keeps being fun is because you do it each time in a completely different setting. Some reviews 
 have referred to this as average, but when I played the game there were few moment where I got 
 bored. If the game is played strait through I can see how doing the same thing over and over can 
 get boring, but I was trying to explore and discover more about this new world that it didn't bother 
 me at all.
  
  The weapons feel very fast, very responsive, and it feels like I am using a mouse instead of a 
 pair of joysticks. When I was a few hours into the rebel side of the campaign things start to break 
 down a bit. On the one escort mission (that is very fun in the long run) , I experienced a pretty 
 annoying change in the voice acting. Coincidently, I continued to notice that the rebel soldiers 
 repeated the same few bits of dialog over and over as the MANTEL troops did. It got incredibly 
 annoying on the level because the leader of the rebels kept getting stuck on objects, I would walk 
 forward, and he would yell at me for getting too far away.
  
  The game unfolds from this point much slower then earlier. It is still filled with action, but 
 it because a battle of strategy instead of intense indoor firefights because you are playing on 
 the side without nectar. You are basically trying to get to a place and the game becomes about 
 trying to get to that place instead of trying to find out what is going on.
  
  As the action wines down, the flaws of the game start to stick out. The driving gets a bit complicated, 
 the shooting takes more skill, but what I started to notice is how annoying the troops were, how 
 things start to load when I was a set distance close to them, and how the textures will lazy load 
 on the screen once the object have loaded. The difficulty starts to ramp up as a result of the 
 more complicated fighting. You have to shoot at longer distances, at tougher enemies, and while 
 it doesn't take an FPS guru to be able to beat the game, I realized to myself that the game was 
 slowly and intelligently increasing the difficulty on me. The toughest level is easily the last 
 level. The droves of SPEC OPS enemies are tougher to take down, faster to react, and have a few 
 tricks up their sleeves.
  
  All in all this I thoroughly enjoyed the game. There are a few loading issues, but if you focus 
 on the feel of the game, the story, and the all around experience the loading becomes a non issue. 
 There are also a few instances on a later driving mission where things will load, causing the frame 
 rate to dip for a second.
  
  Haze was a very intelligent shooter that was presented extremely literally. I think the reviewers 
 either failed to see this, or underestimated how well HAZE does things and the subtlety in what 
 it does well. Let's get down to the score:
  
  The Good:
  
  *Story, level design, and the feel of the weapons are all fantastic!
  *The game does things in 
 a very literal sense, something that i appreciated
  *The game actually challenged me, and had things in there specifically meant to make me either 
 cringe, agree, or ponder what was right and wrong.
  *The way that the game increases in difficulty is just around perfect.
  *4 player Co-op and multiplayer!!!!
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  *Textures, Sounds, and other things have loading problems despite the hard drive installation.
 
  *For some, it can seem very dull. (See Comment)
  *Ammo seems a bit sparse at times, forcing you to go in for the kill and out of the comfort of 
 distance.
  *Driving just doesn't feel right, sound right, and is all around awkward.
  *Some dialog hard to hear while other dialog is repeated when it shouldn't be.
  *Reviews have 
 turned this into the 2nd LAIR.
  
  Comment: If you as the gamer disconnect from the story that HAZE is unfolding, then you really 
 will miss out on a great game.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  
  Haze is a game that challenges the player, does things very simply, and for an FPS game does the 
 important things very, very well. It is an experience that few FPS games give you, and it is one 
 that few will experience thanks to the press' reviews.
  
  Score: 4/5
  
  Rating Note: HAZE has some very dark imagery in the game, and I would not recommend that you play 
 this in front of children, or let children play this game. It has adult themes, ask the gamer about 
 adult decisions, and all around can be boring for a younger crowd. I am sure multiplayer would 
 be fun, but leave the single player to the mature audience as the box suggests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Everytime the PS3 gets a new exclusive I get excited, and when I put the game in and begin to play 
 I can tell within the first five minutes if it's gonna be a good one. This is a good one. A really 
 good one. By now you may have heard about "the nectar." It's a substance you can take that will 
 enhance your abilities such as make you move faster, makes you stronger, more accurate with your 
 shots, and let's you see camoflauged enemies and even sense danger. But if you take too much you 
 overdose and your reality becomes distorted and your perception becomes blurred. YOu start out 
 as part of some type of paramilitary group who uses this nectar to help you track your enemies. 
 It's a pretty intriguing story as you're hunting down some scientist or something but there comes 
 a turning point in the game when you're people turn on you and you start fighting with the other 
 side. You think you are a trader but really you had no choice. So as you align yourself with the 
 other side you withdraw from the nectar and now you have a differnt set of controls and manuevers. 
 At certain times you will control vehicles and ATVs and that's about as far as I"ve got so far. 
 It looks great. Graphics and colors are amazing. It has those scenes where you just want to stop 
 and look at the scenery. It's very addicting and that's only the single player. Haven't even touched 
 the multiplayer but if it's half as fun as the single player I will be very impressed. I haven't 
 had this much fun playing a shooter on the PS3 since Resistance Fall of Man. Awesome Awesome Game 
 and the story really adds alot. Very high fun factor. This is NOT just another shooter, it really 
 has that special "it" factor that makes a game great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Haze was the game I had been waiting for and seemed like it would be kick ass online but when we 
 come to reality the game falters. Only 16 online and its just classic TDM, TA (team assault) , and 
 Death match. The story is what you can figure out your self and is boring until you actually become 
 a rebel. Your special abilities are what really makes the game. Nectar knife & grenade are nice 
 and the grab weapons out of hands is nice but Haze needs a decent online and doesn't do that. Haze 
 online is pretty much running around shooting at the opposing team and trying not to die. The mantel 
 troopers are just plain boring while the rebel makes the whole game worth while.
  Graphics-10/10 not HD but pretty damn good
  Gameplay-7/10
  Story- 6/10 story is predictable 
 and the voices of Haze tend to be a little lame but do well syncing with the mouth movement of 
 the characters
  Grand Total-23/30... Haze did well with the rebel but if they'd up the anty of the trooper and the 
 story they'd have a perfect game. AI are redicously dumb and are like blind mentall ill rats in 
 cages ready to be shot and will stand still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Haze worried me. Free Radical Design, makers of the Timesplitter series, were changing their typical 
 humorous approach to FPS when the proposed Haze. I was worried they would completely abandon their 
 multiplayer roots to focus on a meaningful story. My hopes were further dampened with the wide 
 range of reviews for the game (IGN 4.5 to Italy PSM, 9) . I decided to give FRD the benefit of the 
 doubt and I picked up Haze, trusting the developers would not let me down. After reading the reviews 
 I was pleasantly surprised with the game. To be sure, this is no graphical powerhouse to rival 
 COD4, but the game looks decent. As a longtime fan of FRD this was what I was expecting -- their 
 games are never at the cutting edge of graphical capabilities, and they don't have to be. Their 
 games are however, always a multiplayer blast, both online and offline, and Haze is no exception 
 to that rule. 
  
  First, I will go over the bad bits of Haze. To begin, there is a 5 minute installation on your 
 hard drive. Second, there are some things, like fire, that look like they were made for the PS2. 
 These are rare but they strengthen the feeling that Haze is not pushing the PS3 to its graphical 
 limits. Third, and this can be grating, the dialogue of the Mantel troops. The developers very 
 clearly get across the idea that nectar has afforded these men the opportunity to truly embrace 
 their basest nature. The problem is that we have to listen to it. Granted the audience is to feel 
 as uncomfortable around the troopers (and wary) as your character is supposed to, but still you 
 have to feel uneasy. (I guess this could be seen as a good thing) The vulgarity does diminish it 
 seems when you switch to the Rebel side. Unfortunately the dialogue is also sometimes overacted. 
 The overall feeling is awkward, like your stuck sitting beside a Beavis with a gun. Also it is 
 not always glaringly obvious where you need to go, but the information is always there to figure 
 it out. Sometimes it just means you have to look at signs on the wall, but the information is always 
 there. There is also the occasional hiccup as you play like poor collision detection. It does effect 
 gameplay but it is bothersome to see it happen, especially after so many bloodly delays. 
  
  Now for the good, and there is a lot of good to be had here, especially if you like multiplayer 
 gaming. The controls are dead-on and the weapons feel really good too. Playing through the game 
 with others, on or offline, is a blast, and makes the decent singleplayer game a real delight. 
 You can play the story with up to four players and you can divide that up in several different 
 ways. You can have up to two on one system playing with two other people over the internet or you 
 can two over a Lan connect with others on the internet. FRD is very accommodating in its multiplayer 
 offerings. The same options are available in the vs. modes. In addition to this, the game offers 
 the use of bots in on and offline games, and this is an option only found in Haze. The multiplayer 
 is made even better by the rock solid framerate and the awesome controls. The two sides (rebels 
 and mantel) are very well balanced which also adds to the fun. The AI is not the best ever but 
 it can be challenging, especially on higher levels. Your teammates will act according to the side 
 you are on, meaning that rebels will take cover and stay out of your fire, and mantel troopers 
 rush into the action fighting to be the first to kill the rebels. As you might imagine, if you 
 hang back your fellow mantel troops will be all in your sights. These little touches really help 
 to give the game a well-developed feel. Although, the game is, for the most part, average in terms 
 of graphics, there is the occasion when the game world shines. In particular the times when there 
 is a nectar disruption or the when you follow the fireflies in the swamp. There are some really 
 cool effects to be had in Haze. Also the music and background noises are well suited to the various 
 scenarios you will find yourself in. Additionally the spanish actors playing the rebel troops do 
 a really good job, especially in comparison to the grating Mantel forces. Finally, Haze, unlike 
 FRD previous games, has a story. And though it may not be to everybody's liking, it is well-thought 
 out and far better than the typical FPS story. Some might complain that the story is at times too 
 obvious with its lessons, but I think the developer's made the game with average gamers in mind 
 and not professional reviewers. 
  
  In the end, I am really impressed with Haze. The multiplayer, as always, is the best part of this 
 FRD game, but it is nice too see that they are trying to work a real story into their games. You 
 may think the tale is too obvious for your liking, but it can't be denied that it is more provoking 
 than most shooters on the market. As usual, FRD has given gamers a decent looking, and fantastically 
 (multiplayer) fun shooter. Where it is strong, there is not a FPS game on the PS3 that can match 
 it. Haze deserves to be experienced. 
  
  
  Single player
  -Controls are fully customizable
  -Split screen coop offline
  -Take splitscreen online coop
 
  -Gung-ho dialogue of Mantel because of Nectar (kind of cheesy at times juvenile sort of, crazy 
 vulgar)
  -Nice Graphics. Some movement in surrounding trees, and grass. Little to no movement due to personal 
 interaction with surroundings. 
  -No lag or framerate drops
  -Nice background music, great orchestra pieces that ramp up with the action to a more urban/synthesized 
 feel. Great jungle noises. Immersive.
  -Can't skip cutscenes because everything is streamed. This also means that there are no load times.
 
  -Decent lighting, not fantastic.
  -Some overacting.
  -nice particle effects with dust and smoke.
  -fire could look a lot better very PS2.
  -One 
 guy sounds like Beavis.
  -Driving controls are pretty responsive.
  -Mantel AI not bad, useful in a fire fight. However, not always concerned about where you are aimed. 
 This appears to be intentional. Mantel trooper rush into a fight and if you hang back then they 
 will be in your way. They fight to be the first to the action.
  -On the Other Hand, the Rebels will take cover and are not as likely to jump in front of you to 
 get to the action. 
  -Initial lighting may be too dark, but it is easily adjusted in options.
  -a sprint button would 
 be nice.
  -driving past mortar fire take getting used to.
  -Textures up close sometimes look like Resistance. Not as pretty as COD4.
  -Nectar flow disruptions 
 look really nice. Cool black and white perspective. Kills feel really gritty in this mode. 
  -Backtracking and directions can seem confusing at times if you don't pay attention to your surroundings 
 such as signs that point you in the right direction.
  -can shoot through tin and wood to hit enemies.
  -saves seem well-spaced.
  -Spanish actors 
 are dead on.
  -poor collision detection sometimes. (rare)
  -Swamp looks really nice.
  -Story is decent. Believable that Carpenter switches sides, brutality coupled with uneasiness with 
 Mantel troops.
  
  Multiplayer:
  -Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Team Assault (different objectives for each side and each map) . 
 
  -No team assault locally, just Lan and online.
  -Playing with bots is pretty fun and online is really smooth. Teams are balanced pretty well.
 
  -Use bots, online and offline, helps to fill out matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supra2jzgte
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  once again, a hyped up PS3 game that flopped. It is fun for about a few minutes, but that was it. 
 I was expecting full 1080p gameplay with ZERO post processing required to reach that resolution. 
 I was expecting superb audio. The thing is, it was hyped up by the Developer as PS3 had such immense 
 Raw power, that the game had to be only created on that console. So I began to think that the game 
 was going to crush anything the 360 had to offer, including upcoming Gears of War 2. I was sadly 
 dissapointed but not suprised at all.
  
  I have both consoles (360 and PS3) and I dont just play every game publishers throw at gamers, 
 so I dont have many PS3 games because I am just not blown away by the current library. I know there 
 will be good games, I am getting MGS4 and I know that will not dissapoint, but still, 1 GAME and 
 I have had the PS3 since launch. I will be waiting for the next anticipated title for the PS3 which 
 will be MGS4.
  
  
  
  NEXT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theshredmaestro
Rating: 3
Date: May 21, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  There are some interesting ideas for example the usage of nectar the controls are fairly smooth 
 the sensitive triggers feel nice and the sound effects are decent this is where the goodness ends 
 and the bad stuff begins as gamespots review says "dumb a. i." its true I plowed through on the 
 Highest possible difficulty and don't get me started on the graphics when they canceled this game 
 on the other platforms I was hoping the graphics would be better but I was dead wrong the graphics 
 are so pitifully bad its unbelievable even on a hd tv! and on top of this horrible dung sandwich 
 there is almost no originality its too slow too boring and the graphics are the worst on the next 
 gen console world. the biggest shocker is the game is from the makers of timesplitters and I loved 
 those games but this... perhaps not even worth your five bucks for a rental! . I am going to sell 
 this on Ebay if anyone wants it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenbox
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Well Haze brings nothing new to the table , ok we are spoiled with shooters these days and that 
 is why this one disappoints... badly.
  
  -Graphics are ok but not so great , most shooters today look better .
  -Level design/lay out 
 isn't that fun , they force you more or less to go to this place ,flip the switch... door opens 
 and proceed blasting bad guys.
  -The sound is very forgettable , nothing spectacular.
  The guns sounded great though but what annoyed me the most was the acting , your mates sounded 
 like very stupid idiots.
  -the story .. i don't know i didn't finished the game because i was bored so fast with this one. I 
 didn't even give it a try online so i cannot tell you about that.
  
  -Vehicle parts where cool though, and i think that this game will be ok if you play with a friend 
 co-op, but then again it's nothing that hasn't done before and probably better.
  
  -My advice ... rent it first , play the demo than you've got the idea.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyhn
Rating: 4
Date: May 21, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  this game is the worse game on ps3. the shooting is not fun. AI is so bad. when i say bad i mean 
 it. graphics are so  is no map and gameplay is not fun and 
 boooooring!!!!!! why ubi soft waste its time make a silly game like this???????????????? so dont 
 buy it i repeat it DO NOT BUY THIS GAME BECAUSE IT  ONLY THING 
 THAT IS NICE IS THE GUNS ONLY. THE story mode sucks and online is not nice. if you buy it you will 
 just waste your time and money so do not buy this game. if i was in your shoes i will try it demo 
 then iif you like it buy it. but im sure you will not like this game. it looks nice on the cover 
 but the game will make you real angry and you will just want your money back. so if you want a game 
 so good it is like grand theft auto 4 or metal gear solid 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about this game was that they weren't afraid to try something new and 
 I applaud them for that it just doesn't pack the punch that I thought it would. When I first played 
 the demo it seemed perfect. Tough enemies, good story, and I definitely wasn't afraid to use my 
 nectar meter. I know it's waay to early to tell but with the whole nectar meter and everything 
 I'm willing to bet that this game is going to have a sequel. 
  
  Listen bottom line I was pissed when Haze kept getting delayed, but I'm saying that it was definitely 
 worth the wait. This is an action packed FPS with a great story. Plus it has online multiplayer! 
 What more could you ask for.
  
  One more tip. Don't eeevvveeerrr overdose on the nectar!! If you do his mask turns all red and 
 the screen says ''Blood Abnormality'' and you start poppin of bullets everywhere when your finger 
 isn't even on the button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  In todays world of Next gen gaming, there are so many titles that have raised the bar on the quality 
 of games we have come to expect. in some cases this can be a good thing... but in some cases this 
 can spell doom for titles that are over hyped. With that said, haze is a game that has so much 
 potential but yet turns out to be so disappointing. The game is not terrible, but it does nothing 
 to push it past the level or even stay on par with similar titles of its genre. 
  
  Visually, the environments lack detail and you will quite often see things such as characters running 
 through bushes, branches, and vehicles. The weapon effects and vehicles look pretty nice but are 
 over shadowed by that lack of detail everywhere else. A perfect example of this is when one of 
 the main characters in the game (Gabriel "skin coat" Merino) has his finger chopped off by a rebel 
 troop. If you look when this happens you will notice the finger is removed from his right hand. 
 however in the very next scene and for the rest of the game, the finger is missing from his left 
 hand instead!! Classic.
  
  As far as the sound goes, the weapons are put together pretty nice. the shot guns, assault rifles, 
 and pistol all sound fairly different and give a feel that they actually have a different impact 
 then the others. however it is again damaged by the repetative and annoying voices and catch phrases 
 used throughout the game by each faction.
  
  The game runs pretty smooth as far as performance goes, but the campaign is both short and easy 
 allowing you to finish it within about 9 to 10 hours. Now the game does allow you to open additional 
 difficulty levels after completion, however the lack of secrets and unlockables in the game will 
 prevent you from wanting to go back through a second time.
  
  Now As I stated before, Haze does have some good points to it. The game supports 2 player split 
 screen on and offline. A friend can jump in or leave a game at any time during the campaign without 
 affecting the gameplay, and also the controls are fully customizable so if you have problems with 
 the vehicles you can adjust to your needs. also you can play the multiplayer on and offline so 
 that means you and a friend can hop in a match and add up to 14 bots and fight with each other. 
 This may not be much, but can be pretty fun if you try it. The game also has consistent action 
 all the way through and never seemed to get to boring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing the ads for this game and it looked pretty good, but this game is an example 
 of something that didn't live up to the hype (or my expectations) . I thought the Gamespot review 
 was a bit harsh, but the above-average vocabulary of VanOrd made it a good read... as much as I 
 want to make this review that way, I'm going to pretend to be a normal, on with the review!
  
  Haze lets you play as either a merc that can get a performance boost with an enhancement drug 
 called 'nectar' or a rebel that can perform feats such as playing possum. The nectar does come 
 into play when you get into heated firefights, and playing online, you have the ability to revive 
 fallen comrades within a certain time limit before they hit the dust. The weapons are your usual 
 fare, the pistol acts like a real-world Desert Eagle (sometimes it seems all the games, they make 
 the pistol the strongest weapon isn't it?) and the soundtrack isn't something you're likely to 
 remember.
  
  So here's where the Gamespot review is on target. Your teammates will run into your line of fire 
 when you're shooting, bah, this has happened in other games so no big deal. Your teammates do act 
 like fratboys and say things that are out of a Bill & Ted's Exxxcellent Adventure movie. The graphics 
 are not up-to-date, and there's really not that much innovation in the game. So in terms of what 
 this game has to contribute to the FPS scene, you can forget about it. Some of the cutscenes are 
 drawn out and have emotionless dialogue, it appears that the writers were stoned when they wrote 
 the script, some scenes will leave you scratching your head as to 'really, was that necessary' 
 or 'that made no sense at all'. It's like you reading this review, and I'm telling you that I like 
 to bake cookies - yep, it can be that random in the game.
  
  In conclusion, this is a good game if you don't mind the story and just want to shoot things. If 
 you want anything more than that, check out this game when it hits the bargain bin years later 
 or avoid it all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  First of all why T. V. why. And second Haze is to blame. Haze is a first-person shooter video game 
 incorporating themes of oppression and drug abuse. It has been developed exclusively for the PS3, 
 as development of the Xbox 360 and PC versions was canceled. Sometimes, making a name for yourself 
 with a particular genre or subject can come back and kik you in the nads. It's more than likely 
 that not every single title you make will live up to this particular reputation. whose many employees 
 have worked on GoldenEye 007 and Perfect Dark, not to mention establishing its acclaimed TimeSplitters 
 franchise. While Free Radical's previous work was quite excellent, Haze is anything but, coming 
 across as a middling, generic first-person shooter with bland visuals, a weak plot and laughable 
 characters.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkkkknaruto
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has a bad story, bad AI and mediocore graphics. Well, AI who cares about that when your 
 playing online which most of us will do anyway, bad story? we don't like saying stories online, 
 we just like to kill and be #1, graphics, i'm pretty sure any game that comes out on the ps3 looks 
 better than any game on the ps2, xbox, gamecube or wii. So, instead of comparing it to games as 
 cod 4, why not enjoy the game as it is built. So, if warhawk is doing fine being just an online 
 game, why can't haze. We should look at the single player as an added value rather than base it 
 and review it as the whole game. This is why games have online these days, to take a break from 
 single player and enjoy the competition with friends and the people online. If you don't enjoy 
 the story don't bash the game, enjoy the online, after all its gameplay first rite...... it is a 
 game after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  So much has been made of the many PS3-exclusive failures (Lair, in particular) that many of the 
 good to excellent ones (namely Uncharted and Warhawk) have been overlooked. Unfortunately, for 
 those that want to target the console for its poor crop of games, Haze won't do anything to dispel 
 the notion that Sony's pretty black box is hell on developers.
  
  Haze is, in fact, a great example of how a fine concept got completely left at the gate. The drug-induced 
 nirvana concept isn't new to shooters, but at least there seemed to be an idea, at one point, of 
 how to flesh out a fine little shooter with a storyline that wasn't imminently laughable. Instead, 
 the plot is non-existent, the voice acting is campy at best and low-budget at worst, and the action 
 is generally tepid. The FPS genre has been overwhelmed with bilge like this lately, and it's pretty 
 maddening that developers keep churning them out with such little regard to things like innovation 
 and replay value.
  
  Haze does have its moments where all that promise seems to break through and be on display. There 
 are some good visuals that almost make you forget about the garish ones. Vehicle sequences are 
 pretty well done. The audio, except for the voice work, is commendable and does give some depth 
 to some otherwise generic environments. You can't fault the frame rate, either, which doesn't stutter 
 and seems to move briskly (though there's some noticeable clipping and aliasing that is distracting) .
 
  
  Haze is just another game. There's nothing here to get excited about, and given the fact that this 
 game had considerable publicity in advance of its oft-delayed release, you can't help but feel 
 disappointed by what you're playing, seeing, and hearing. It's far from a terrible game, but in 
 this era of heightened expectations for console exclusives, it's definitely a failure for Free 
 Radical and Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 3
Date: May 20, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  First, this is just an average FPS. The only difference is the "nectar", everything else is pretty 
 much what you'd expect from a corridor-based shooter (you roll on "rails" with little to no freedom 
 as to what you do and how you do it) .
  
  Graphically, the game looks last generation, with low resolution close to regular XBOX (1024x576 
 on a wide screen TV, whereas XBOX has had 640x480 on regular 4:3 TV) . The developers claim that 
 they prefer the framerate over the prettiness of the picture, but come on! You've all seen what 
 PS3 can do - you've all seen Uncharted, haven't you? Uncharted runs at great framerates, at full 
 720p resolution, and it looks gorgeous! So we all know PS3 is a very capable platform - how in 
 the world, then, do you make a game, that can only squeeze decent framerates out of it, running 
 at such a low resolution???
  
  Personally I would recommend you either rent this game, or wait until you can buy a used one. I 
 wouldn't pay more than $20 for this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natanku
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The game is neither good nor bad, it is simply mediocre nothing really stands out except the nector 
 and traps systems that add a little variety to a game where the AI is underwhelming considering 
 you have such an advantage over them. The truth is that it really isn't all that bad except for 
 the fact that within the PS3 community people have labeled it a halo killer which ultimately curses 
 it to a disappointing existence. Haze also has to compete with games that simply are either more 
 specialized or generally more entertaining (which should be a central role in any game) MGS4 is 
 coming out soon, there are blockbusters like Orange Box and COD4. So I find it hard to spend more 
 time Than I already have. Yes people will like this game as well they should, but so far I have 
 found little soul or substance to keep me playing this game. I would suggest renting this game 
 first or better yet playing the time crisis series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
