-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heavenly Sword
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/heavenlysword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb presentation and excellent acting make the game feel like a movie.
 Having three different attack stances works well and keeps the combat fresh.
 Sixaxis motion controls are implemented nicely.
 From the moment it starts until the moment the credits roll, the game never lets up.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 So short it can be finished in an afternoon.
 Not enough variety to the bad guys' design and attacks.
 Some bosses feel a little cheap.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 5,639 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Ninja Theory
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 12, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heavenly Sword feels like a summer action flick. It's full of nonstop action, and it looks terrific. 
 Unfortunately, it's over far too quickly. 

  Ever since it was first shown, Heavenly Sword has drawn comparisons to God of War. Like SCEA's 
 flagship franchise, Heavenly Sword has great production values, exciting combat, and an enjoyable 
 story with interesting characters. What it doesn't have is length, clocking in at just six-and-a-half 
 hours from start to finish. So while it's a great game, it's a great game you can beat in one sitting. 

  Like God of War, Heavenly Sword starts off with what appears to be the death of the game's main 
 character, so the story is told via flashbacks. In this case it's a young woman named Nariko, an 
 outcast who was thought before she was born to be the one to fulfill her peoples' prophecy surrounding 
 the Heavenly Sword. The titular sword is a dangerous weapon that grants tremendous power to whomever 
 wields it, but at the cost of that person's life. Nariko's clan has protected the ancient weapon, 
 but they've grown weak and find themselves under attack from King Bohan, an evil despot who wants 
 the sword for his own use. In this desperate hour Nariko's people and even her father are finally 
 forced to admit that she is their only hope. The game's story is well written (if a bit predictable) , 
 and the characters are brought to life by some fine performances by the actors who portray them. 

           That's kind of a lot of dudes to kill.      

  There are a few rudimentary door-opening puzzles and a handful of situations where you'll have 
 to quickly press a button that appears onscreen as you make your way through the linear levels. 
 But most of your time with Nariko will be spent killing thousands of enemies in her quest to keep 
 the Heavenly Sword from falling into Bohan's hands. Nariko has three different types of attacks 
 that she can perform by standing in a specific stance. Speed attacks are performed by pressing 
 the square or triangle buttons. Her ranged and power stances are done by pressing the L1 or R1 
 buttons respectively. Attack combos can be strung together by pressing square and triangle in specific 
 patterns or by switching from one stance to the next midattack.  

  Using combos and attacking with style are important not only because they're the quickest way to 
 defeat an enemy, but also because they're the key to unlocking more combinations and even bonus 
 content. Each consecutive attack you perform without getting hit fills a meter that's divided into 
 thirds. Perform enough combos and you'll earn a new combo; reach the second and third level and 
 you'll unlock making-of movies, artwork, and more. You'll also gain access to superstyle attacks 
 along the way. When you've earned enough style points you can hit the circle button and trigger 
 a short cutscene where Nariko finishes off a foe with creative flair. It's certainly beneficial 
 to learn a few combos, but you can get through the game just fine doing the same few over and over 
 again.  

  However, you'll need to vary the position you attack from. Some enemies are only vulnerable to 
 certain attack styles and some can be attacked only with a successful block or counter, both of 
 which are tied to the three different stances. As bad guys attack, they'll flash a color that indicates 
 what kind of attack is coming. If it's a speed attack you don't have to do a thing; Nariko will 
 block it on her own. If it's a power attack though, you'll have to quickly press the R1 button 
 to block. If it's red, it's an unblockable attack and you'll need to roll out of the way by moving 
 the right analog stick. Counters are performed by quickly pressing the triangle as an attack is 
 imminent. They're a great way to quickly dispatch an enemy, though they're tough to time when you're 
 surrounded by a few dozen people, all attacking at different moments.  

  Heavenly Sword keeps things fresh by mixing in a second playable character and a few different 
 play styles. For some of the game you're placed in the role of the lovably quirky Kai, a bizarre 
 catlike girl whose favorite "game" is to shoot bad guys with her crossbow. She can't fight at close 
 range, and can only create separation between herself and the enemy by pushing them off of her. 
 The awkward switch from one camera angle to another that occurs when you go from running to aiming 
 makes it tough to get a shot off, so the levels where Kai's on foot and fighting aren't her best 
 moments. It's good, then, that most of your time spent as Kai has you simply shooting bad guys 
 with the game's enjoyable motion controls. By continuing to hold the fire button you can control 
 Kai's arrow midflight in slow motion by tilting the Sixaxis left, right, up, and down. Nariko has 
 a few levels like this where she mans a cannon and wields a rocket launcher as well. Kai's sections 
 are sometimes a tad too long, but it's quite satisfying to guide an arrow across a level and then 
 land it in a soldier's groin or head.  

  Overall the game's combat is a good mix of being easy to learn but deep enough that you don't feel 
 like you're just hitting the same two buttons and seeing the same attacks over and over. This is 
 an impressive feat considering how shallow the game's enemy artificial intelligence is. Rather 
 than challenging you with smart bad guys with a wide range of moves, the game simply tries to overwhelm 
 you with numbers. Sure, some are fast, some are strong, and some shoot arrows at you, but none 
 of them exhibit any sort of creativity in their attacks. Even the bosses, who at least attack in 
 new ways, aren't particularly clever and are challenging only because their life bars are seemingly 
 endless. Slightly repetitive or not, it's hard not to have a blast when you're controlling a lone 
 heroine against more than a thousand enemies, all of which are onscreen at once.  

  Heavenly Sword is elevated by its top-notch presentation. Nariko's attacks are beautifully animated 
 and flow seamlessly from one to the next with only a little slowdown here and there. It's a little 
 disappointing that there's not more visual variety to the soldiers, but the few types featured 
 are all well designed and easy to tell apart. This is important when you're trying to use a certain 
 fighting style to take out a specific enemy in a crowd. The levels are gorgeous and have an almost 
 hand-painted look to them -- especially when viewed from afar.  

           Great production values and interesting characters make Heavenly Sword feel like a summer 
 blockbuster.      

  Many games come to a screeching halt when telling their story via cutscenes, but this is where 
 Heavenly Sword excels thanks to is its main characters, which are all wonderfully designed and 
 animated: beautiful, compassionate Nariko; oafish, sympathetic Roach; evil-yet-funny King Bohan 
 (portrayed by Andy Serkis, who played Gollum in  Lord of the Rings ) ; and the curious, catlike 
 Kai. The cutscenes are gorgeous, marred only by some lip-synching issues and a frame rate that 
 sometimes stutters at the start. You really get a sense of the characters' personalities just by 
 looking at them and watching them move. A well-written and often surprisingly funny script is brought 
 to life by Hollywood-quality performance from the actors, who fit their respective characters perfectly. 
 The inclusion of English, Spanish, German, French, and Italian voice options ensures that just 
 about everyone can enjoy the performances, too. The music is a mix between orchestral movie-style 
 tracks and more modern-sounding instrumental pieces with an ethnic flair to them.  

  Add it all up and Heavenly Sword is a fantastic game from start to finish. It's just a shame that 
 it's not longer. The developer made the wise decision to keep the action tight by not including 
 any fetch quests or backtracking, but skilled players will probably finish the game in a little 
 more than six hours, and it probably won't take longer than eight hours for anyone else. There 
 are some DVD-style extras to unlock and you can play it again on "hell mode" once you've beaten 
 it; just don't expect to get much more than a great weekend for your $60. If you're OK with that, 
 you won't be disappointed in Heavenly Sword.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (482 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Eyad-93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a good game overall with stunning graphics and great gameplay and a unique idea 
 being the hero a girl but there are some things that could have been made better.
  
  Story 9/10:
  the story is pretty good and it is really entertaining although the ending wasn't 
 as I expected it and it was a total letdown for me.
  
  Graphics 10/10:
  the graphics are without a doubt amazing and it is one of the things that made this game shine. 
 everything just look awesome, the characters the environment everything.
  
  Gameplay 8/10:
  the controls in this game are frustrating and sometimes they get really annoying. 
 there is a very good use of the motion sensitivity controller for example: in this game you guide 
 an arrow and sometimes a cannonball.
  
  as a conclusion this game is a great game overall but there are somethings that really pissed me 
 off like it's too short and it has no replay value at all. at the end i don't recommend that you 
 buy it, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psi-tan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:47 am PT
Review:  When I first played the game, I was a bit put off by the wobbly gameplay, since I was playing DMC4 
 earlier, (that's a tough game to rival in gameplay I'll admit) The main character had only two 
 moving speeds, slow-ass walk and full speed run, and doesn't turn around as fast as you would expect 
 a character of this type of game to do, which really wasn't much of an impression on me since the 
 analog stick is there for a reason!
  
  Anyhow, when you later are introduced to the star of the game: the Heavenly Sword the game takes 
 a sharp turn towards awesomeness!
  
  You are introduced to three different fighting styles with just a press of a button, and not only 
 that, but you get to mix combos from all three styles instantaniously. Ranged style is weak and 
 long range, Speed style is fast moderate damage with auto-block for speed attacks, and Heavy style 
 is slow and powerful with auto-block for heavy attacks only.
  
  But thats not all, game fans! The six-axis is finally used properly in a game rather than shaking 
 it silly to drop off items from enimies or shake off little bugs off you! You actually get to control 
 projectiles of all types and set their course of flight with the controler, with surprising accuracy 
 and response, like arrows, cannon balls and even boxes and blades! (You can occationally throw 
 dead bodies at enemies if you feel like it too, which is always funny!)
  
  And I promise you that you will not see better voice acting, scripts and physical acting on any 
 other game out therem including Metal Gear! Seriously!! I'm serious man, that good!!
  
  The characters look so real and alive (oh my god!) it just stuns you sometimes! And when you get 
 the game and finally play it, take a look at the king and how hillarious he is you'll remember 
 what you read here!
  
  Oh, and the game is short, with some bugs, like the dodgy response when performing the -God of 
 War type- button pressing sequences, they kinda finish too fast, or maybe I'm getting old!
  
  Good game with minor annoyance, but something's gotta give right!;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naedeslus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, it is a fairly short linear action game, not exactly a bad thing, but it does suffer 
 from a few issues. It's length is about six hours long, if you really wanted to, you could probably 
 beat it in one sitting. While this is not exactly a bad thing, because if a game is good enough 
 you could replay it over and over, yet it just doesn't have that charm to it.
  
  The game's plot is actually very good. I was pleasantly surprised. The villains in the game, besides 
 the main villains are pretty much jokes. Yet the main villain ends up being a bad ass, who just 
 doesn't want to go down. He is truly an awful human being and easy to hate. Yet he has his own 
 charm. It's something rarely seen, while he has little back story, you know you want to take him 
 out.
  
  Nariko is also a pretty cool main character. She has plenty of emotion, and is a girl who isn't 
 just a generic hero, in fact she goes through many things, and has quite a bit of development. 
 The story is as I said, very good. Yet even though a short game isn't entirely bad in some cases, 
 it feels if the game was longer the plot would of been expanded on, a lot. Though for the most 
 part, the story will keep your interest and keep you guessing. It's very good.
  
  The gameplay is a standard action game, yet with some noticeable issues. First of all, there is 
 no upgrading of the weapons. While sure this technically may not be a flaw to some, it seems to 
 lack any kind of character progress , with the exception being the end game. While you only have 
 three weapons, it would of been nice to have the ability to make your weapons more powerful. Unlike 
 Devil May Cry or God of War you don't collect anything either. It feels like a step back to any 
 other action game out of there. 
  
  The enemies are pretty much the same, and the games enemies are fairly easy. The difficulty though 
 has balance in it's boss fights, considering bosses are almost invincible with their health. Also 
 the main style of attacks, make it so you have to consider blocking, which is fairly interesting. 
 
  
  Though Heavenly Sword is the only action game I've played where you use mostly all the buttons. 
 Which is a good thing in my opinion.
  
  Another issue of the game is the tacked on third person shooting mechanics. It has Resident Evil 
 4 style shooting. While it works, it wasn't really built for it. Six-axis controls are in this, 
 but thankfully they implemented the ability to turn it off.
  
  
  The graphics are stunning, and look great in HD. Everything has great textures, the enemies look 
 great, and so does Nariko. The environments are lush, yet linear. No real complaints with the graphics, 
 and the cut scenes are amazing.
  
  The sound is also very good. The voice acting is spot on, and really delivers the story in a good 
 way. The music fits the setting, and everything just sounds good. The music while not exactly anything 
 i'd go out and buy, it does have some catchy music. Even though the villains I felt are mostly 
 jokes, they were also given spectacular voice work.
  
  So all and all. Heavenly Sword is a fairly generic action game, with a good story. It could of 
 been better and longer, but it's not entirely bad. In fact it's not bad at all. If you have the 
 time I'd give it a rent. It's not worth full price though. Though if you find it for 20$ or less, 
 I say it's a good buy. It has another difficulty mode, so you may desire to play it again.
  
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Story: 8/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Final Score: 7.5/10
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkeplinger
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  From the opening of the game to watching the entire story unfold there's never a moment that the 
 story doesn't suck you in. The voice acting is incredible. 
  
  The game does well to freshen up the combat with a three stance setup for light, normal and hard 
 hitting. Each with pros and each with cons.
  
  The only real problem I found in the game was playing as Kai at times was hard to do. When you 
 could "Aftertouch" the enemies dead she was loads of fun to play as. Though, when you had to act 
 as a shooter and not only shooting but standing still while shooting I found the game tedious and 
 harder than it need to be. 
  
  All in all I loved the game. I loved the graphics, combat, the sound track, the sound effects, 
 and the voice acting. If it were only done different for Kai I would have loved the game so much 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:09 am PT
Review:  As a PS3 owner, you are probably looking for something to showcase the power of your new machine. 
 As one of the most visually impressive console games ever made, Heavenly Sword fits that bill. 
 It is beautiful both technically and artistically, and the stunning visuals are backed by non-stop 
 action and solid hack-and-slash gameplay. This is an easy game to recommend, but more as a rental 
 than a purchase, because it is over so fast that you can finish the thing in one or two sittings. 
 
  
  In Heavenly Sword, you play as Nariko, an angry, late teens brat with a skimpy outfit and long 
 red locks of anti-gravity hair. Your aim is to protect your tribe from the evil King Bohan, a tyrant 
 who wants to rule the land. He also wants the powerful Heavenly Sword, which you use against him 
 for most of the game. The story is pretty simple, but very enjoyable, in large part because of 
 the campy, melodramatic dialog and some terrific voice acting. The villains do their monologue-ing, 
 the beautiful protagonist retorts and scowls, and then they fight. Not much seems to be meant to 
 be taken seriously, but the bittersweet ending still manages to push some emotional buttons. The 
 collection of misfits that make up Cohan's henchmen are a wacky group of characters that also provide 
 a lot of entertainment value. The main villain himself is a little weird, as is your fried Kai, 
 a slow-witted girl who likes to shoot stuff. 
  
  The characters are great, and so is the music. From start to finish, inside and out, the presentation 
 in the game is amazing. All of the characters are stunningly crafted and look life-like in a manner 
 that is only paralleled by games like Mass Effect and Gears of War. Heavenly Sword isn't just beautiful 
 in terms of polygon counts, pixel shaders, and lighting. A lot of inspiration clearly went into 
 the artwork for the game. The scenery changes up quite often, so that you are never looking at 
 one type of area for too long. It is beautiful in every way, from the intricate detail on the main 
 characters' faces, to the big expansive environments, to the wide color palette. Heavenly Sword 
 gets big bonus points for departing from the gritty gray or brown look that dominates so many games 
 nowadays.
  
  Heavenly Sword's non-stop action is broken up into two major categories. For most of the game, 
 you play as Nariko, slicing up enemies with your gigantic sword. About a quarter of the game, you 
 get to play as Kai in some brief shooting sequences. The game switches up the scenery and tasks 
 with a dizzying pace. Most sequences don't last more than about ten minutes once through. Although 
 there aren't a huge variety of enemies in the game, you will face them in a lot of different situations, 
 on top of a handful of big boss battles. There are a few sequences late in the game where you have 
 to fight literally hundreds of enemies, all of which are rendered on screen at once. The technology 
 here is, indeed, impressive.
  
  The swordplay isn't revolutionary, but it works very well. You have three different types of attacks: 
 ranged, fast, and strong. As you might expect, the ranged style attack from a distance, the fast 
 style deals out small amounts of damage at a faster pace, and the strong style deals larger amounts 
 of damage with a slow attack. Once enemies are on the ground, you can finish them off with a single 
 button press. The ranged style doesn't have much use, but the fast and strong styles are well balanced 
 enough that you will use both of them extensively during the game.
  
  The key to surviving battle is to unleash combos on enemies with timed sequences of button presses. 
 Almost any combination of triangle or square will trigger a fancy and visually impressive move 
 that will knock an enemy on the ground. Unfortunately, a lot of these combos go to waste since 
 once you are halfway through the game, most enemies will block a combo that doesn't break blocks. 
 Some groups of enemies later in the game cheaply attack you in the middle of a long combo, and 
 that makes a few parts pretty tough. It also would have been nice if the game gave you a bit more 
 of a tutorial to get you acquainted with the combat mechanics. It gives you some hints on the screen, 
 but you can get away with not following the hints early in the game when most enemies can be dispatched 
 with simple button mashing. Despite these little complaints though, the combat is a lot of fun. 
 Heavenly Sword's boss battles are generally of very high quality. Like most bosses, you learn their 
 patterns and figure out the appropriate methods of countering them. Some of these counters are 
 hard to figure out, so you might want to keep a walkthrough handy so that you can get some hints 
 if you get killed a few times. You will want these hints for the game's final boss, who is really 
 tough.
  
  The shooting sequences as Kai are usually pretty good too. Beating these sequences requires you 
 to hold down the square button to slow down time when you fire a shot. The game then goes into 
 a projectile guide mode where you use the Sixaxis control to steer an arrow or a bullet into an 
 enemy. The control is a little bit sluggish and it takes some getting used to. You will barely 
 miss lots of enemies by over or under steering your arrows. Simple analog stick control would have 
 probably been better, but the motion control still works. The ability to guide your arrows into 
 enemies' faces separates these sequences from the typical bullet time found in lots of games nowadays. 
 
  
  Heavenly Sword has the pacing and density of action that you might find in a game like Call of 
 Duty 4. There is not an ounce of padding in the game, and that is why it is such an easy game to 
 recommend. Unfortunately, the downside of this approach to design means that it is over very fast. 
 The game is over in six hours or less  making it extremely brief, even by today's standards for 
 action games. It would have been nice to have more of some of the fun parts. The late scenes that 
 have a thousand enemies on screen, in particular, are criminally underused. The game has the typical 
 unlockable artwork and extreme difficulty mode that is standard for most games nowadays, but it 
 doesn't offer a lot of replayability beyond that.
  
  Before it came out, "Heavenly Sword" was touted as a potentially killer app PS3 exclusive. It doesn't 
 quite reach that level, but it is, indeed, a great way to see the potential of your console and 
 enjoy some intense action in the meantime. This game is definitely worth playing, or at least renting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajsingh12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:53 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is chaotic, intense, and mind blowing. Although, on the surface it may seem like another 
 Hack and Slash game, let me assure you that it is not. There is more to the battles than what meets 
 the eye. The combat is based on a countering system, and it can't be ignored. Nariko can take different 
 stances with her sword. In her normal stance, the HS is split into two distinct swords, and can 
 be used to slash enemies in a fast attack mode. In power stance, the sword is used as a single 
 weapon, combining both the swords into one. The last is range stance, where the sword is again 
 split, and is used with chains bound to it. The stances are used as per the situation. If there 
 are a lot of enemies surrounding Nariko, then using the range stance helps in placing some distance 
 between them. In a normal stance, she uses her weapon to quickly finish off a few enemies. And 
 in heavy stance, she can eliminate a single tough opponent with a powerful attack. Each stance attack 
 is defined by a color; so if you are in normal or speed stance, your weapon's trajectory will be 
 highlighted with a blue color, for power it's golden. There are different enemy types as well - 
 some use fast attack, and some heavy or power attacks. The enemies attack type can also be seen 
 with the color of the weapon's trajectory; so basically, to counter a heavy attack you have to 
 use the power stance. It may seem complicated, but it isn't that hard, you will get a hang of it 
 while you play. Another major factor in the gameplay is SixAxis. The game uses it pretty often, 
 you use it to solve puzzles, and while playing with Kai for killing enemies. Let's talk more about 
 Kai, for she is the second playable character in the game. Her levels are all archery-based, and 
 are very well designed. While playing with Kai, you will rely a lot on SixAxis, as you can steer 
 her arrows using the same. Her levels include killing enemies from a relatively long distance using 
 your arrows, blowing up barrels to kill groups of enemies, and so on. Basically, you will be using 
 the SixAxis to control the arrow trajectory, and improvise. She has some really great levels which 
 are at times a welcome change from the hectic Hack and Slash gameplay. The boss levels play very 
 much like GoW, with a sequence in the ending that one must correctly follow to end the boss. The 
 AI is pretty good as they defend themselves very well, and also make sure that they make life hell 
 for you. The plot is simple, yet diverse. It revolves around Nariko - a red-headed warrior. She 
 is part of a clan that is guarding a weapon which is a part of a prophecy. The clan believes that 
 one day the rightful owner will arrive to claim this divine weapon. King Bohan, the very powerful 
 king of the land, wants to acquire the weapon at all costs. He will stop at nothing and wants to 
 lay his hands on the divine weapon - the mighty The game looks better than any other on the PS3, 
 it is visually stunning. The level design is excellent featuring huge palaces, large open spaces, 
 forests, waterfalls, etc. The game's graphics complement the level design and look amazing. The 
 game is almost perfect. A major hindrance is the playtime - In the hands of a capable player, the 
 game can be finished in less than 7-8 hours, which isn't bad, but you still expect more playtime. 
 But whatever gameplay time you have is amazing, and we all prefer quality over quantity, don't 
 we? If you have a PS3 and are convinced that you must own this, ask one of your US buddies to ship 
 it to you (else, wait till mid-September for it to arrive in India) ; and if you don't have a PS3, 
 go buy a PS3 for this game, or loan it from a friend. Trust me, this is one game you don't want 
 to miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  First, let me address the complaints you'll see in a couple of the other reviews.
  
  "It's just a hack and slash game!"
  Yes, it is possible to hack and slash your way through most 
 of the game. Not until the later bosses do you actually have to master blocks, reversals, counter-attacks, 
 etc. BUT, all of these elements ARE part of the game. If you CHOOSE to simply hack and slash through 
 it... well, it's just that. Your choice. It actually has a very in-depth combat system and combo 
 system. You definitely won't unlock all of the items by simply hacking and slashing, and you won't 
 have as much fun. You'll miss all the great reversal animation and special moves. Hacking and slashing 
 through this game would be like going to a fine restaurant, ordering the steak, then eating it 
 with your bare hands and wiping your hands on your shirt. Yes, you COULD do it, but would you?
 
  
  "The aftertouch is flawed. The sixaxis is forced on you."
  Yes, the missions where you use the sixaxis motion sensing take some getting used to. But, they 
 are by no means impossible. Once you get the hang of it, it's quite fun. It took me a while, but 
 by midway through the game, I was playing a crossbow mission and got 5 headshots in a row. And 
 for those of you that can't quite get the hang of it, you can turn it off, and just use the analog 
 stick.
  
  "It's too hard to switch styles back and forth while so many people are attacking you at once!"
 
  Okay, at this point, you're just whining. You use one button to switch between speed and power 
 stances, you either hold it or you don't. You're actually complaining because the game has some 
 degree of difficulty?
  
  "Sometimes the enemies just constantly block."
  True. It happens. That's why certain combos are block-breakers. They will land even if the enemy 
 is always blocking. This is one of the rewards of not simply hacking and slashing your way through 
 the game.
  
  "The game is too short!"
  Yes, if you're a hardcore gamer, you can probably finish this game in 6-8 hours. Most people aren't 
 hardcore gamers. Most people sit down and play for an hour here and an hour there. Honestly, I'd 
 rather have a fantastic game (which this IS) that gives me 6 hours of game play over a mediocre 
 game that gives me 20. And it's not like you'll play this game for 6 hours and toss it. You can 
 quickly hack and slash through in 6 hours. Or you can play it, enjoy it, revel in it. Learn the 
 combo system. Learn the counter-attacks. Learn the special moves. Have some FUN with it. And the 
 game still has replay value. I finished it a few days ago, but I enjoyed it so much, I'm playing 
 through again on normal mode to try to collect all the items (which is much harder than I thought) . 
 And after that, there's still the HELL mode that was unlocked when I beat it.
  
  And I didn't even get started on how great this game is. Incredible graphics. A story that completely 
 grabs you. Fantastic voice acting and character development. It really is like an interactive movie. 
 You'd be doing yourself a disservice to miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdk6
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  I love this game.
  
  I really love this game. It's simple, short, sweet, entertaining and has everything I want in a 
 game. I played this straight through after playing some KZ2 (which I didn't like) and for all the 
 hate I had originally given it because I was at one point a lost lemming, I felt moderately retarded 
 for doing so. This game, simply put, is amazing.
  
  Presentation:
  Sexy. I'm guessing this is Japan, but bottom line is that it doesn't matter. It simply didn't matter, 
 I didn't care where I was, because it was so sleek, and colorful and ALIVE, something most games 
 today lack. The scenery is beautiful, the videos are gorgeous. The game was just a jaw dropper 
 in and out. The part where you are Kai and had to save Master Shen was just... amazing, and probably 
 one of the best scenes I had ever played in a video game. There are a few minor nitpicks with the 
 presentation, some of the cutscenes were pointless, and there was generally not enough gameplay 
 between cutscenes, but that's not enough to take it down.
  
  9/10.
  
  Graphics:
  This is where I feel bad, because as a reviewer I have to be honest. In lighting, this game looks 
 wonderful props to art direction. Not in light... Ninja Gaiden Black looks better on the original 
 Xbox. It hurts me to say this, it really does. It's a game that only looks good half the time.
 
  
  7/10 = (
  
  Gameplay:
  Meat and potatoes. Think God of War, but better. As GOW is just button mashing, Heavenly Sword 
 isn't. It's fun, it's nice. It's short and to the point, so I don't feel like I'm wasting my life 
 if I want to play through it again. The only issues is that the stances never really come into 
 their own, they are just 'there'. But whilst ingenuity of the stances is lost, the ability to chain 
 them together and just beat people around with your Heavenly Sword is gained. I do not know of 
 a game that lets you just switch stances mid-combo and continue the assault, not one. It's also 
 just a tad bit too easy, even on Hell mode.
  
  9/10
  
  Controls:
  Issue only with pressing the directional buttons on the analog sticks during scripted gameplay. 
 annoying, but none of said events are so long or hard that it would ever become a hazard and a 
 negative experience.
  
  9.5/10
  
  Sound:
  Music, up there with Halo OST. Voice acting, up there by itself. Gameplay sounds, top notch. I 
 noticed that I haven't really run across a PS3 exclusive with bad sound outside of LBP (don't get 
 me started on that trash) .
  
  10/10
  
  Story:
  Yay Nariko! No issues. The story makes sense, everthing is resolved. There are no ands, ifs or 
 buts. There are only a few plotholes, like what is SNP's mother doing in the armory to begin with? 
 These played important parts of the story but... their explanation is missing. But it's no matter 
 anyways - there are only maybe a few nuisances in the story, or maybe just that one?
  
  9.5/10
  
  Presentation (15%) 13.5
  Graphics (25%) 17.5
  Gameplay (25%) 22.5
  Controls 
 (15%) 14.5~
  Sound (10%) 10
  Story (10%) 9.5
  
  87% rounded up = 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kleeyook
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Finally! After spent my precious time for almost 10 hours into this game (actually it's more but 
 that was my cousin's play) , I beat this game. it's the second game in GOW-like games which I beat. 
 The first one is surely God of War: Chains of Olympus on PSP (Damn, I forgot to write its review.) . 
 This game gave a feeling of GOW in term of annoying buttons matching mini-games, but it's a little 
 bit different like that u won't get any money/point/orb/soul from beating enemies or destroying 
 things. Instead u need to do some certain tasks in missions to achieve .... medal-like things (: ( 
 Sorry! I forgot its name.) . And when u collect enough those, u will unlock new combos (Although 
 I only press triangle and square buttons all time without matching it to do combo. :P) , as well 
 as animation movies and art gallery. Well, it isn't unique at all because all hack 'n' slash games 
 have this features. : (
  
  The game play can be annoying at time because of we have to use motion sensitive control to do 
 aftertouch. Aftertouch is a unique (Well, it's the first time I played game like that.) function 
 to do job like shooting arrow or cannon, and even throwing things. It can get annoying because 
 it's not as good as WiiMote so it sometimes ruined my mood to play this game. I got stuck in the 
 protecting Chen mission because I'm no good at this. Luckily, my cousin came and save me there! 
 :D (It's a shame that he could beat it within the 4th time while I lost 10 times in row. : (
  
  Something that is not right about this game is that we can't jump. That's the difference between 
 GOW and this game. Can't jump is kinda suck, but it's more like reality which human can't jump 
 that friggin high like Dante or Kratos anyway. :P
  
  Puzzles in this game always make use of motion sensitive control. I have to throw things like shield 
 a lot to hit the drum in order to open the gate. The puzzles are very easy to figure out but a 
 little hard (nope it's not that hard if u r good at motion sensitive control) to do the jobs. I 
 always have problem facing the wrong direction when I tried to throw the object to hit the drum.
 
  
  The boss fight is OK. Not very great like DMC because of mini-games always interrupt your finishing 
 blow though. The last boss is the hardest as u could expect, because of crowds (I'll let u know 
 more detail about this crowd below in the battlefield zone. 
  
  The graphics is just great, it's very good but nowhere near MGS4. And it's not very realistic either. 
 Not to mention that all characters (even Nariko the heroine) are creepy. One of playable character, 
 Kai eats a living worm. That's insane for a little girl like her to do that! The villain is such 
 a bastard, and his underlings (bosses) are all creepy like monsters!
  
  The story is SO SO. : ( It's kinda short and not very deep, I don't mind if I forget all about them 
 because they r not memorable at all. : ( At least, its story is more interesting than GOW: COO. 
 :P
  
  I thought that the game was very plain and I still wondered why people keep saying this game is 
 underated (It got 8.0 score from GS as u can see.) . But after I played the last chapter. i understood 
 it completely. The battlefield with thousand enemies are epic. That part is awesome! That was I 
 changed my point of view about this game (sad, it was also the last parts) . It feels good to do 
 things like slay an entire army and make them fly in to the air. :D
  
  I got this game from used PS3 games section for 249SEK (brand-new platinum cost 349SEK while new 
 released PS3 game cost 699SEK) . I first regretted I bought this game when I stuck at Protecting 
 Chen mission. But now I'm relieved. This game is awesome! :) Go buy it if u don't already own or 
 play! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  "Heavenly Sword" is a hack 'n slash for the PS3 reminescent of the "God of War" games. However, 
 it lacks the epic feel of Sony's other mystical actionier. Players take control of the female Kratos, 
 Nariko, who uses chain swords that can morph into different forms mid-combo. She can also pick 
 up weapons or bodies of enemies and toss them into oncoming bad guys. Thankfully, the "Dynasty 
 Warriors" like action scenes are interupted by other challenges such as boss battles and sniper 
 segments. Spectacular cutscenes tell a pretty good story and the stylish menus are cool. In addition, 
 there are a few unlockables and the game supports rumble (via online update) ! This isn't a game 
 that will make you put away your copy of "God of War", but it's decent and action fans will probably 
 keep in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewareOfTrees88
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:36 am PT
Review:  Finally, a game that I don't have to feel unskilled at when I resort to smashing buttons. This 
 I will say was the original draw to the game and I did not expect much more from it, however, this 
 allowed it to far surpass my expectations.
  
  Though the story is far from original at its basic level, it supports the gameplay really well 
 and becomes far more colorful with the ridiculous, and hilarious, characters filling it out. But 
 back to the gameplay; after the initial fun of the button mashing thins out other elements quickly 
 take its place. One of the best things about this game that adds more variety to the experience 
 is any time the player controls Kai, the crossbow toting adopted sister of Nariko. For me, there 
 was just something more satisfying in controlling the path of an arrow flying through the air until 
 it finally reaches its target, as compared to the closer kills with the waves of enemies. With 
 that said, the only part that may overshadow Kai's moments of glory is the final battle itself. 
 It was the first time that I felt as powerful as I should with the Heavenly Sword. For one thing, 
 the power is now radiating from her body, causing people to go careening off into the sky! It was 
 a spectacular thing to see. Plus, this was not a battle about just cutting someone down, but using 
 the sword in many different ways, combining all the elements of the game that have been used up 
 to this point. 
  
  As a final note, because of the genuine fun these mentioned moments offer, the brief parts of the 
 game that are more difficult and may take numerous attempts to beat never became overwhelming.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a short journey, but it feels a lot longer, and deeper than that game's actual 
 length.
  
  The story is about a weapon called the 'heavenly sword' that can give the person who holds it God-like 
 powers, and Nariko is the person who is chosen to possess it. The Kingdom Nariko comes from is under 
 attack by an evil King named Bohan and his giant army, and the only chance of stopping Bohan and 
 his army is unlocking the secret of the sword's power. The story is also emotional at times as you'll 
 become attached to Kai (Nariko's little adopted sister) and there is other things to witness but 
 I don't want to spoil it for you.
  
  The gameplay mixes God of War style action, with long range cannonball and archery segments. Just 
 like in GOW you can use a variety of special moves/combos and there's segments you have to press 
 the correct button/D-Pad direction to kill off a boss or when you're climbing or leaping to places. A 
 great feature of the game is there is times you'll encounter a HUGE number of enemies and you can 
 slaughter them as you please.
  
  There is times you'll need to fire cannonballs over a long distance to destroy catapaults and you'll 
 need to guide the cannonball using the six axis. To be honest I had mixed reactions about this, as 
 it's a great idea and is quite fun to do, but you have strict time limits to take out catapaults 
 and the six axis is very sensitive and it can become very frustrating when you fail and have to 
 redo alot of work again. The same goes for the archery, there's a segment you have to take out enemies 
 who are trying to kill Nariko's father using arrows guided by the six axis and it can become frustrating 
 when just 1 enemy makes it past your arrows (after you've killed many enemies) and kills Nariko's 
 father and you have to redo a long section of gameplay.
  
  But on the bright side, it's fun to pick off enemies from far away and guide the arrow with the 
 six axis, it's just something I've never done before in a video game. You can use the crossbow in 
 FPS mode and the crossbow even has a light beam targeting system and you can pick off enemies up 
 close if needed.
  
  The boss battles can be quite tactical as for some boss battles you'll need to use a strategy, plus 
 the fast reflexes and fast button mashing. Another thing I like about this game is there is no levelling 
 up or weapon upgrading, your combos automatically get upgraded but you don't have to mess around 
 with upgrading like you had to on GOW, and it's prevents you from overpowering your character to 
 keep the gameplay challenging.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, you see things like beautiful waterfalls, palm trees, detailed surroundings. I 
 love the views you're given when your high up on the mountains and there's some beautiful yellowish 
 sky effects and it looks cool when enemies are swiped aside from Nariko's powerful attacks to show 
 how powerful she is. However I've noticed some slowdown during the battle sections of gameplay. The 
 cutscenes are very detailed and colorful. You see lots of detail in skin texture, facial expressions 
 and everything looks very smooth and you see Nariko's long, flowing red hair. The FMV sequences are 
 great and make the presentation more enjoyable.
  
  The architecture combines beautiful Asian style and Mediterranean style buildings and I love the 
 FMV with the lilly pads in the pond and Asian style boat.
  
  The music is beautiful and also combines a Mediterranean/Arabian/Asian theme.
  
  Overall the 
 game is great and very challenging and should be a part of every PS3 owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a great game one that I was very excited to get and play, I wasn't disappointed 
 with it at all. Although there are some things I didn't like and though could have been made better, 
 but for the most part the game is simply fun just fun.
  
  Good Things:
  To start off the game has a pretty good story to it and one that really entertained me and will 
 do the same for you. Which I figured the story would be good which I wasn't wrong either although 
 the story doesn't end like I wished it would of.
  
  The graphics are great it's one of the if not the thing that makes the game just shine, everything 
 just looks great. The characters all of the environments and everything, you'll appreciate all 
 of it.
  
  The game also features a women protagonist which is really cool and different also. She's not really 
 crazy like Krato's either it isn't bad to have a big tough nice looking women to play as.
  
  Bad things:
  The controls got a little bit frustrating sometimes, when you had to guide something 
 like a arrow or cannonball. It's just something that I thought wasn't necessary to the game.
  
  Also one thing that just get's on my nerves is it's simply to short really short. It levees 
 me wanting a lot more and therefore I have to play all over and then I get to the end and still 
 have the same feeling like I did before. 
  
  Overall Heavenly sword is a great game most likely if you like God of War then you should also 
 like this game as well. Don't get me wrong it isn't as good as GoW but it's still a must play.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: birthofastar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword was the first game I played on my Ps3. It was a beautiful game, and off the top 
 you will notice the detail of the game as soon as you begin to play it. You play Nariko a sword 
 welding vixen who's a mix between Xena and that bald guy from god of war. 
  
  The game plays more like a movie, which is what makes it so interesting. The script and the acting 
 are spectacular and really stand out more so than anything. Actually at times it feels more like 
 a movie than a game. The controls are easy and the use of the Six axis makes it that much more 
 enjoyable. The game only falls apart time to time because it is a bit too easy at times and you 
 feel like your just breezing through the stages (which you will) . The story progresses very quickly 
 on this thrill ride, and before you know it the game is already over. The game is very short, and 
 it can easily be beaten in one sit down on your day off. 
  
  Overall the game is fun, but better picked up as a discounted greatest hits, not worth the full 
 price for a game that last you about as long as the drive home from the store. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: This review contains a spoiler about the game's ending. I don't like giving things away, 
 but the ending had a big part of my final opinion of the game. If you don't want to have the ending 
 spoiled, skip the second to last paragraph of the review.
  
  This game is another example of PS3 trying to have a stand out exclusive title, but still coming 
 up short. It has a lot of great content and has some original ideas, but the bulk of the game play 
 is stale and somewhat boring. It is fun, but with other amazing games like God of War II and Conan 
 available, it just doesn't stand up.
  
  The basic action has a few cool ideas and there are a good number of combos to unlock, but most 
 fights never really escalate above button mashing. There are three different fighting stances and 
 each has it's uses. The heavy stance allows the the most powerful but slower moves. The light stance 
 allows the quicker but weaker moves. The ranged stance is similar to God of War where your weapons 
 are attached to chains and can hit enemies from a distance. Simply holding down the appropriate 
 button enables each stance and is easy enough that many combos can actually contain moves from 
 different stances. The problem arises when the realization sets in that many battles can be won 
 simply by pounding the square button. Even when you get to enemies that block, you only need to 
 know one block breaking combo to win those fights. I didn't use 90% of the combos in the game simply 
 because there was never any reason to change it up. Near the end of the game, there is a level 
 that is very reminiscent of Dynasty Warriors where you are basically attacked by an entire army. 
 You must defeat over 500 enemies but each kill feels like you earned it, which is an awesome feeling.
 
  
  There is one reason that the game definitely should be played, even if only as a rental. There 
 are several shooting segments that have you firing many different weapons such as arrows, cannonballs, 
 rockets, and more. The action in these segment is rather generic, but what makes them stand out 
 is you ability to control the path of your projectile by tilting the controller. It is incredibly 
 satisfying to guide an arrow over a wall, around a box, and into an enemies heart. Each enemy reacts 
 fairly realistically and their deaths vary depending on where they are struck. I failed one of 
 the segments at the very end and was actually happy because I wanted to play the section again.
 
  
  The story is moderately entertaining. There are enough twists and turns that aren't expected and 
 will keep your interest. The good guys are rather boring and generic. There were many times when 
 I saw flashes of Lara Croft in the main character, who isn't a very interesting character to begin 
 with. There was one humorous good guy. One of your character's good friends is completely insane 
 and thinks every battle is a game. Unfortunately, she doesn't have nearly as many scenes as I would 
 have liked. The bad guys, on the other hand, are the funniest cast of enemies to come along in 
 a while. Some may not like (or even get) their off beat humor, but I truly enjoyed every one of 
 their scenes. I actually felt bad every time I defeated one of them because each brought their 
 own brand of laughs to the game.
  
  The graphics look good at some parts, but the game has many of the same pitfalls of most other 
 PS3 exclusives. The near complete lack of particle effects and shadows makes the game look very 
 unrealistic at points. Some of the scenery in the background is a little too blurry to enjoy. The 
 character models look good, but could use some more detail. The main enemy's facial expressions 
 are some the best around and add a lot to his character. The player character's hair is modeled 
 horribly. It jerks around in random directions (including straight up) and when it falls on her 
 shoulders, it hovers a few inches above and bounces around until it works it's way behind her.
 
  
  SPOILER ALERT: I really hate when a game decides to kill the main character at the end. It sucks 
 spending hours on end becoming a character, only to have them killed. It is even worse when the 
 game tells you they will die at the very beginning but then builds hope that they might not. The 
 sword you get at the beginning is supposed to have heavenly powers that will kill you the more 
 you use it. As the game progresses, you learn that the sword isn't heavenly and the powers aren't 
 anything like what everyone thought it was, but it still kills you in the end. Your character even 
 has a conversation with the sword late in the game where she says that she is taking control and 
 the sword won't kill her. The ending put a very unexpectedly sour note on an otherwise good story 
 arc.
  
  The game does just enough right to get by, but doesn't keep the action fresh enough to contend 
 with the other games available. The game is fun and fans of the genre will enjoy it. It is fairly 
 short, though, which plants this one firmly in the rental category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InspiringTouch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  As a new IP and the one of the Playstation 3's launch titles alot of expected of Heavenly sword, 
 perhaps too much. But the final outcome is actually quite a success, the fairly inexpierenced devolpers, 
 Ninja Theory have done well with what Heavenly sword was set out to be, but failed on other certain 
 areas of the game, mainly its lengh.
  
  You play the part of Nariko, a strong willed female who rivals that of Lara Croft when it comes 
 to share female ass kicking. She is perhaps the strongest part of Heavenly Sword and is presented 
 in a very fine way. Shes realistic and well designed but also shows a mix of emotions you'll relate 
 to within the game. Other characters are very strong too such as the main bad guy, Bohan. You'll 
 instantly reconnize his voice and apparence from that of the actor Andy Serkis who plays Golum 
 in the Lord of the Rings films, other characters include Kai, a cute adorable but deadly girl who 
 you'll instantly warm too. Overall the characters presentation, looks and voice work is fantastic 
 and its hard to think of a better game which does this so well. This is deffinatly Heavenly Swords 
 strongest aspect.
  
  The gameplay however is a mixed bag, the run of the mill hack and slash fighting with the combo 
 list in the option menu is all there. There are a few new things like throwing and using any weapons 
 you see around and an option to change which stance you use the Heavenly Sword in. This is kind 
 of like how you could use the lightsaber in Jedi Outcast. You can use a speed stance which splits 
 the sword into two fling around everywhere, litterally getting everyone around you, a power stance 
 which is the complete whole sword or a normal stance in which Nariko holds the two parts of the 
 sword, its a very similar design to Clouds swords in Final Fantasy 7: Advent Children if you've 
 ever seen it. The one pleasing and rewarding aspect of the gameplay is the well designed use of 
 the motion controls on offer for the ps3.
  No game of yet has been able to fully use this device in a satisfing way, but Heavenly Sword does. 
 You'll fire an arrow for example and holding square you'll go into slow motion following the arrow 
 being able to guide it with the motion sencers into enemy troops, this is very rewarding and thankfully, 
 theres alot of these parts in the game.
  
  The story is quite strong and is filled with alittle emotion and alittle intrest, not enough to 
 make it anything special yet but its not too shabby. The only problem is its over very fast. Theres 
 five chapters on the game and you'll be able to breeze through these in about 4 hours. Shaming 
 because the game world is beautiful, the characters and look are beautiful and the combat isn't 
 too bad.
  
  Theres a nice amount of special features and the animation series is worth taking alook at but 
 the shortness really does decrease the value of the game, other than that its a fantastic starting 
 point if they should ever want to make a series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Usually when the action in a game was interrupted by a cut-scene, I was watching it rather reluctantly 
 and waited patiently until it ended, so I can quickly resume the action. But this time, in "Heavenly 
 Sword" not only I did enjoyed the cut-scenes, but I got back to the "specials" section of the game 
 and watched them over again and again.
  
  There were times that I forgot all about playing the game, and I was lost into Nariko's beauty 
 (the heroine of the game) , and the dramatic elements of the story. The characters of the game are 
 wonderfully built, and all of them have unique and equally interesting personalities. Their animations 
 look so naturalistic, that you actually feel that the persons portrayed are real life beings. (For 
 those who have already played the game: I don't know if it's a perversion, but I must confess that 
 I did liked "Whiptail"... a lot)
  It's a game that I wished it was consisted of even more cut-scenes. As a matter of fact, it had 
 better been an entire CGI movie! I know this doesn't sound good for the title, as a game, but I 
 think never the less, it deserves your attention even for this feature stand alone.
  
  Besides its cinematic orientation, in terms of game-play, "Heavenly Sword" is based on a relatively 
 mild, "God of War" style fighting system, enhanced with spectacular visuals (naturally!) . The game 
 includes also some shooting sequences, in which the player controls Nariko's friend Kai, who uses 
 her bow to take out the enemies. The most innovative aspect of Kai's part, is that you can actually 
 manipulate the trajectory of the arrow towards the target, which came to be very fun in some stages.
 
  
  A couple of issues about this game that need to be mentioned, is that the pure duration of playing 
 is relatively short, and the in-game action unbalanced. Sometimes the battles are so easy, that 
 you are given the impression that the action is restrained for some reason, while in other instances 
 the difficulty is so high-almost unfair- that leads you to frustration. Also one can argue that 
 the cut-scenes, technically perfect maybe, involve some over-dramatised facial expressions, that 
 don't really add much to the overall graphics quality, but rather render the whole outcome over-expressive. 
 I would say that I detected some kind of a visual exhibitionism as a dominant feature of this game, 
 but then again this a matter of personal taste. (Personally, I don't mind it at all)
  
  As a conclusion, "Heavenly Sword", not flawless, yet offers an overall satisfying experience, and 
 I recommend it to all of you. Maybe it's not a "10", but it's the best "8", that you can see in 
 the neighbourhood. To put it differently, even if you are not enthusiastic about this game, it's 
 a title that deserves to be a piece of your video-games collection.
  
  PS: Gamespot, for some reason that I don't understand, categorized Heavenly Sword as a "beat-em 
 up" title. It's not Tekken, or Dead or Alive... It's purely a "God of War" style game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  So I pick this game up for $20 on black friday and boy am I glad I didn't pay a cent more. This 
 game definately had potential, but didn't live up to my standards for a good game.
  
  The gameplay is your basic hack and slash, button masher game, but it does have instances where 
 you do other things such as fire massive cannons and shoot arrows, both of which you guide to your 
 target using the sixaxis motion control. In addition, this game reminded me alot of the dynasty 
 warriors series. This game took me about 7 hours to complete, which is utterly rediculous. Also, 
 they are supposed to give you replay value by unocking footage of how they made the game, but I 
 could really care less. Also you can watch some of these trailers in the PS store anyways.
  
  The graphics had its moments, but really were not anything to write home about. The thing I 
 really liked about this game was the sheer volume of some of the battles. You could be fighting 
 hundreds of guys at once and it all looked pretty good.
  
  The story was kind of bland and did not really give you a good connection to the characters. The 
 main character, which I cannot even remember her name right now because of what little impact she 
 had on me, was not very likable for some reason. She had an annoying personality that did not connect 
 with me. Also, the rest of the characters were kind of bland as well.
  
  Overall, this game is DEFINATELY a rental at best. There are so many games like this and most of 
 them do a better job anyways so this game is definately a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehouser
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a new PS3 owner. I just brought one this past Christmas. The main reason for buying the console 
 was because of Heavenly Sword. I waited a year to get the PS3 hoping the price would come down... but 
 I knew the first game I purchased would be Heavenly Sword. I've been an Xbox360 owner, but nothing 
 on the 360 looks like this. This is the greatest, best looking game ever created. I'm almost to 
 the end of the game, and I don't want it to end. Its unbelievable! Its sad that the game hasn't 
 gotten more recognition and awards. The people who put this game together should be congratulated 
 on what they did. The sheer technical artistry and attention to so much detail is staggering. The 
 story, soundtrack, drama, and action coupled with impressive cinematography and camera angles is 
 incredible! I was hoping to see "Heavenly Sword 2" in the near future. Sony could make this the 
 greatest gaming experience ever. And bring plenty more Xboxer's over to the PS3 world. Just make 
 the 2nd one even better than the first, and market it just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyKoeffler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  In Heavenly Sword you take the role of Nariko, a woman born from her mothers dying body, and a 
 woman seen as a curse to the tribe. She controls very much like Kratos. Square, Triangle, and Circle 
 to attack, no controllable camera, and of course context-sensitive kills. The only difference is 
 it's not as bloody or violent.
  
  You also take the role of Kai. She looks maybe 12-13, but she's definitely a kid at heart. Twing-Twang 
 is the game you'll play when she needs to take out enemy soldiers with her cross-bow type weapon.
 
  
  The SIXAXIS controls in this game are really cool. Hold down the X, Circle, or Triangle button 
 when shooting an arrow or canon, or throwing an item such as a shield or sword. When you hold the 
 button it zooms in and slows down time slightly, giving you complete control of the item by tilting 
 the controler. You will have to get used to the control though, it took me a while to hit an enemy 
 with a bow.
  
  The bosses you fight are plain wierd. One guy is General Flying Fox, whom you fight twice. He has 
 the most horrible, annoying voice I've ever heard, and he's really easy to kill. General Whiptail 
 is a woman-snake hybrid, much like Medusa, except that she can't turn you to stone (although she 
 could with how ugly she is) and she uses a whip for most of her attacks. Shes moderately easy to 
 defeat. The last boss is King Bohan himself. You are given the power of Heaven while he is given 
 the power of Hell to "send her back to that pit that spat her out" as put by King Bohan. King Bohan 
 is hard to defeat, especially with 500 of his soldiers running slow motion around you. It took 
 me a long time to defeat him, but it was satisfying when I finally did.
  
  The ending is what put down my rating another .5. The ending is basically Nariko dying after the 
 Heavenly Sword took over her body. She is then given a ceremony in which she is placed in a coffin-type 
 container with flowers all around her. She is then sent floating down the river, and that's where 
 the game ends.
  
  Other than a few flaws and a very crappy ending, I give Heavenly Sword for the PS3 an 8.5 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was definately like God of War but with a girl. It was very good and kept you occupied 
 throughout the whole game. The one problem was that the story mode was fairly short and it felt 
 like you could beat this game in about three or four hours if you played it nonstop. So I would 
 think that this game is more of a game to rent because it's so short unless you can get the game 
 for a cheap price like me. I did not like how on most of the cut scenes, you couldn't skip them 
 and they made you watch them. I thought that was annoying mostly because I don't care about any 
 of the scenes. I did like how the game let you take full advantage of the Sixaxis controller to 
 guide items such as arrows, cannonballs, and thrown objects. That was really cool to me. This game 
 was just really fun from start to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubblepaul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I must say Heavenly Sword was a high priority purchase when it released, however due to certain 
 circumstances it had to be put on the back burner, due to further circumstances i was still unable 
 to purchase it during 2008. Thankfully it was given to me as a Christmas present, and its received 
 plenty of playtime since getting it. 
  
  When it comes to assessing a video game i look at a game and how it rates in three categories:
 
  Story,
  Gameplay, and
  Presentation
  
  Heavenly Sword delivers in these categories in spades (or shovels, whatever) . The Gameplay is smooth, 
 and camera generally (99% of the time) effective, as with any game, it does have its occasional 
 hiccups. Controlling Nariko is simple, and laying waste to your enemy extremely enjoyable.
  
  In regards to Presentation, Heavenly Sword is a marvel of 2007 technology, sure it will be 
 surpassed, but that is to be expected. This 2007 game, brings 2008/09 quality graphics, and the 
 voice work to match it.
  
  And of course, whats the point of this type of game, if it doesn't have a decent story to go with 
 it? Heavenly Sword has a brilliant and engrossing story, with some extremely tense moments, and 
 great characters to go along with it. Tense moments are also broken up by some very well placed 
 moments of humour. I wont divulge any of the story, but needless to say you will be hooked.
  
  If i was to have the one gripe about the game, it is it's length, it is a very short game, 
 and unless you are a hoarder and want to collect everything in the game, you will have no reason 
 to return to the game, besides another playthrough.
  
  All in all, Heavenly Sword is a brilliant game, and one which will take pride of place in my collection 
 and hopefully yours as well. Here's hoping Ninja Theory, or Sony commit their resources toward 
 a sequel.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Gocatters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormbringa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  When I started the game, I was expecting a "God of War" replica. While I was partially correct, 
 I must admit that this game does a few new things and will certainly not disappoint.
  You either play as the female lead - Nariko, who essentially is a melee fighter or Kai - the cute, 
 cat-faced archer.
  The story is of an invasion by the evil ruler Bohan into Nariko's village to claim the Heavenly 
 Sword. The sword grants its users some special powers and has been guarded by Nariko's people so 
 that it doesn't fall into the wrong hands.
  While the story does not offer anything new, the treatment is fairly original and the game still 
 manages to be addictive.
  Visually, the game is a treat. Simply outstanding work. Great characterizations, especially Bohan 
 (played by Andy Serkis - Gollum from LOTR) .
  Sound is great too. The voice acting is marvelous.
  Controls are good but can be a handful at 
 times.
  Difficulty is moderate for most of the game. Towards the end, it just gets crazy. I was unable 
 to finish off the final challenges due to high difficulty, which is my only grouse.
  Overall, its a fantastic rental or even a buy (considering the rates have been slashed for this 
 one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigrut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Just a forewarning, there may be some game spoilers in here for those of you who have not finished 
 the game yet. So read at your own risk :) .
  
  This was the first PS3 game I owned. I happened to pick it up over at a Circuit City going out 
 of business sale for like 18 bucks or something close to that. I had seen the commercials months 
 ago when it had first been coming out and it looked like a heck of a lot of fun. At this price, 
 I couldn't pass it up.
  
  I got home, threw it in the system and started right out slashing and hacking at the enemies which 
 was a blast. I must admit though, the first level playing Kai threw me a curve ball. I had no idea 
 how to use the Six Axis controller and to be honest it was one of the most frustrating things in 
 the world for me. 
  
  Most experienced gamers probably will tell you (and have here) , this is a very short game. In my 
 experience I spent well over 20 hours on it. Again, it was my first PS3 game, and as mentioned 
 I had never leveraged the Six Axis controller (or anything like it before) . I think I spent about 
 10-12 hours alone on Kai levels which are by far the fewer. In particular, I think I spent 5-6 
 hours alone on the level where Kai is defending Master Shen on the bridge. I also spent a significant 
 amount of time on the first cannon firing level as I couldn't get the hang of steering those cannon 
 balls : (.
  
  Even with the frustration of steering arrows and cannon balls, I really thoroughly enjoyed the 
 game. The story line is solid, albeit predictable. I had some extreme fun getting the password 
 out of the guard in the west tower, especially when Kai wants to shoot his least protected area 
 with a crossbow :P.
  
  Some other folks mentioned the frustration of bosses and their never ending life bars. I do have 
 to second this notion, killing the same boss 3 or 4 times in the same 'fight' was annoying. Just 
 give them one life bar and I'd be content. I was also rather annoyed at the fact that if you didn't 
 finish the boss properly, they gained like 1/10th of their life back. Doesn't seem like a lot, 
 but if it's a close fight it can be the difference of spending 20 minutes killing the boss again.
 
  
  The only other thing I would say is relatively frustrating is sometimes after you fail a mission 
 and have to restart it you'll end up having to repeat a pointless activity before you can restart 
 it. For example, if you fail the first cannon level you have to run back up the top of the fort 
 each time. Or if you fail to get the password from the guard on the first try, you'll have to repeat 
 the 2 minute conversation with the armory captain before the mission starts. For the most part 
 this isn't a problem, but a few random missions suffer from this.
  
  I would say the graphics during normal play are not what I expected from the PS3. It seemed a little 
 more like good old PS2 graphics. Granted, this was released relatively early in the life of the 
 system, so I wasn't really expecting much. Also, I played the game for playability/fun not for 
 graphics. The Cut Scenes still looked spectacular, though I think it has taught me I should pick 
 up a set of composite cables for the PS3. VGA just isn't doing it.
  
  Anyhow, on the overall I must say this was a great first PS3 game to pick up. I thought the save 
 points were perfectly spaced. You never spent too long on one mission (unless you kept failing 
 it like me hah!) , so if you only have short amounts of time to play this is a real winner. On top 
 of this, you can continually unlock new combos to use throughout the game (even if I couldn't get 
 many of them to work) . I'm sure if you're an experienced button masher you'd do just fine!
  
  I would imagine if I played this a second time through that it would only take a couple of 
 hours (maybe 10) given my newfound ability to steer with the Six Axis controller. However, I think 
 there's plenty to be earned giving it a second play through.
  
  All in all, well worth a play. However, if you're experienced I wouldn't pay full price. Just wait 
 until you can find it for 20 bucks somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  First off this game has amazing gtaphics. Everything just looks good from the enviroments, char, 
 and the moves. The animations are so clean and fun to watch as you do special moves. There are 
 many moves to pull off. It is dun to have three stances for certain moves. The game is well balanced 
 making you choose your stances to fight certain char. The games story is decent where you need 
 to finish to see what happens. The gameplay switches up a little bit for a change of pace. Instead 
 of destroying many enemeys with your swords you get to use another char during the middle of the 
 game with a bow. It is a nice change in pace where it takes a different kind a stradegy to kill 
 of your enemeys. The ps3 motion controller is my fav. It is really cool to be able to guide your 
 projectile through the air and seeing your projectile hit them right where it hurts. The only downside 
 to this game is how short it is. But you will enjoy this game and has a good replay value since 
 you have so many ways to defeat your enemeys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, Heavenly Sword is an awesome game, and (so far) one of the handful of PS3 exclusives 
 that is a reason to buy the system.
  
  PROS
  
  The strongest point of Heavenly Sword is how it looks. Quite simply, it's breathtakingly gorgeous. 
 From the background visuals to the motion-captured actors (yes, they hired real actors for the 
 game and used motion capture suits - like Weta did with Gollum in Lord of the Rings - to film them) , 
 everything about the game's look is beautiful. It probably has the best-looking facial models I've 
 ever seen in a game, rivalling the animation of something like Shrek. The acting, likewise, is 
 top notch (which one would expect, it being directed by Andy Serkis - Gollum in LOTR, again) .
 
  
  The story is very good as a whole, though the ending leaves a lot to be desired (the ending is 
 probably the largest reason I'm giving this a 9 and not higher) . A large part of the story's appeal 
 is due to its extremely likeable protagonist, Nariko. The player empathizes for her and her situation 
 - unlike, say, Kratos in God of War, who is one of the most despicable characters ever created. 
 God of War succeeds in large part despite its protagonist; here, the reversal is true. Heavenly 
 Sword's charisma is deeply tied to its heroine - and her charisma doesn't merely stem from the 
 fact she's easy on the eyes. She is beautiful where it counts, not just on the outside.
  
  An action game is always dependant on its combat for its overall success or failure. Heavenly Sword's 
 combat shines. While it's simple and easy to get into, it's also complex. And most of all, it's 
 a lot of fun.
  
  CONS
  
  The most obvious, and most stated, con to the game is that it's simply too short. You can easily 
 beat it in six or seven hours. Likewise, without giving anything away, the ending precludes the 
 possibility of ever getting a true sequel. That definitely sucks.
  
  However, the biggest flaw in the game is the forced usage of the tilting aspect of the sixaxis 
 controller during certain segments. Basically, there are certain parts of the game where you will 
 be firing arrows/cannonballs/etc., and you have to guide them as they fly through the air by tilting 
 the sixaxis controller - not by using the control stick or d-pad. It's incredibly frustrating and 
 counter-intuitive (not to mention gimmicky) , and even once you get the hang of it, annoying. It's 
 very much a momentum killer. There were several times where I was enjoying the combat of the game 
 immensely, only to have the game come to a crashing halt as I had to spend ten minutes or more 
 doing something like trying to shoot a switch so I could go through a door. It's the type of segment 
 that makes you want to quit playing, which is a shame, since the mainstay of the game (the combat 
 and acting) is so great.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Anyone with a PS3 should pick up Heavenly Sword, and anyone who doesn't have one and has the money 
 to afford one should consider buying the system for the game. It's simply that good. It's a shame 
 that there won't be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DJHaha-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  The reason why I have taken so long for me to review this game is being that, I didn't quite finish 
 it until a little over a month ago. And I had bought it a month after the game's release in the 
 US. Sadly I should've finished it all at once, being that the tale of the Heroines, both Nariko 
 and Kai are like a sad fairytale. When you first begin, after the download of the game. You select 
 your file and etc. You are immediately thrown into a cut scene where you see the bold Nariko take 
 her final stand before the sword (note the game's title) takes her life. Things get a bit more, 
 confusing as Nariko stares from the inside of the T. V. out at you, begging for a final chance in 
 a underworld type setting. Screaming with anger and anguish that you (the sword) had taken her 
 life when she had come so close to her goal. Now things become more clear as you learn of the sword's 
 interesting attributes. Then a large pillar rises up and this will be where you keep track of your 
 progress. Through a majority of the chapters you will place as Nariko fighting her way back to 
 the very moment she had died. You begin in an baron ice land setting, where your father's tribe 
 (including you) are under attack. As King Bohan wants the Heavenly Sword under his power. Nariko's 
 father the chief of the tribe, does the best he can for the tribe. But ultimately the fate of the 
 tribe falls into your hands. As you fight your way to survive with a plain old sword, Nariko comes 
 to the moment in the game where she must take a stand. Her father had warned her of the dangers 
 of wielding the sword. But for the sake of her tribe she does just that. With the sword in hand 
 you use brilliant combos, feeling oh so gruesome as you watch your blades penetrate the bodies 
 of countless men. Not only do these moves look rediculously good but the sounds of the cuts and 
 blades are marvelous, just enough to send shivers down your spine. There are three main types of 
 attacks. Speed being the main one that you always have, ranged where your swords tip detaches from 
 the rest of the sword and you sling them around the screen, and the power. Meaning you are a bit 
 slower in movement but you are able to attack with great strength. This kind of combat may take 
 a few players back to a God of War like combat system, minus all the gore and spewing blood. The 
 other thing that Heavenly Sword has borrowed from God of War is its button pressing actions where 
 you're in a cut scene and must hit random buttons to survive the scene and continue on your journey. 
 Must are fairly enjoyable as Nariko uses her acrobatic abilities to pull off amazing stunts, and 
 because they look so great, you always want to get it the first time around. While the story sounds 
 very vague from my point of view, being that I don't want to spoil many things, as many steps in 
 the story will shock you. The characters are all very likable. They all have their dreary pasts 
 but the flaws make them seem human. While the level designs are at some points great, and at other 
 points pretty bad due to their linear designs and obvious one way paths. The action sequences will 
 keep you entertained. Now as many of you know the Sixaxis controller utalizes the censor, and Heavenly 
 Sword being one of the first launch titles for the Playstation has given it ago. With the use of 
 motion sensitive projectiles. While at first they are very difficult and frusturating, you will 
 grow to like it a bit more and it will become easier. For one of the first attempts I applaud Ninja 
 Theory. And from many of the screenshots you may have seen this game is just brilliant. With great 
 lighting that make the enviorments feel rich and deep, along with almost an aura like precense 
 around Nariko. 
  
  So here's a re-cap. Heavenly Sword has a great story, with characters who you will grow with. Even 
 with these great factors the game lasts under ten hours. Which isn't very good, in anyone's book. 
 But the game's graphics are gorgeous, the controls are almost flawless. Keeping inmind the sometimes 
 oversensitve motion censor. The firey Heroine Nariko's story is not one to miss out on. But your 
 money could be better used, with just a mere rental from a local video store. You'll have the game 
 done in one rental. 
  
  -DJHaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_prince
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, as shown in the game extra features menu (creating of Heavenly Sword) is a very 
 good piece of art. From the creation of the sounds to bringing the animation to life this game 
 goes further than any movie or other combat game ever went. Amazing cinematic scenes and cut-scenes, 
 the thing is that you later notice in the game that the cut-scenes/ movie scenes are only a little 
 bit darker and realistic. This game adds the bat in combat, very extraordinary. Take the whole 
 Prince of Persia Sand of Time Series and put it next to this hot title and bang Prince of Persia 
 is so blown it can't even afford to do a 2-chain combo with that stick in Prince of Persia Warrior 
 Within. Plus the game hero is a girl bringing a new look at the gaming world of feminine and heroins, 
 this game was the only game that had a girl starring as a playable and main character at the game 
 demo show at E3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  I bought this game recently for a tenner expecting the usual rpg style button bash slice and dice 
 your enemy. I was greeted with a lush (hd 720 pixel) cinematic firefight. Action, like in the a 
 team, i spose you could be refered to the mr t of this realm. The animation and jaw dropping visuals 
 are second to none, and for a release game for the console it did it justice. The gameplay is varied, 
 fast and very satisfying, chopping up a samuri style thug with the "ting" of your sword can be 
 immersive itself!! With hundreds of sprites on screen at once to fight and there are some awesome 
 six axsis controlled levels where you have to control your own projectile and direct it (cannon 
 ball and arrows) . In these levels, again the different style of gameplay only adds to the fun and 
 pure "wow i did thatfactor, at one point you're upside down trying to fire arrows!! I felt this 
 was well worth its price and if a little short, leaving you urging for a sequel, its still fun 
 to play and you ll find yourself travelling with the "wii" style move the pad levels. For anything 
 more than 20 quid leave it alone, sadly its just not big enough, but a very worth while stocking 
 filler. Just fun to play with some really tasty acting, visuals and the presentation is incredible, 
 sometimes i found myself just staring at the backdrops!! A sequel PLEEEEAAASSSEEE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKungFool
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  If Forrest Gump were to review Heavenly Sword, he wouldn't even have to come up with a new cliche 
 line, the old one fits all too well; its like a box of chocolates, and from level to level, you 
 just never know what you're gonna get. Sure, there are some fantastic and tasty moments where you 
 luck out and get that deliscious butter peacan one, but eventually you're going to get stuck with 
 that dissapointing orange cream filled one (yuck!) and you're going to wish the package was more 
 consistant.
  
  Simply put, the game constantly goes from brilliant to dissapointing, and sometimes that transition 
 hits you like ninja on steroids; you don't see it coming, but you'll definitely feel it. The result 
 is such a mixed bag, that you almost aren't sure what kind of game the developers were going for.
 
  
  At its core, the game is a beat'em'up, and to its credit, it offers some absolutely stunning combat 
 sequences, a great list of moves and combos, and some very fluid gameplay. Unfortunately, this 
 still manges to get stale due to the limitations of the game's environments, and the typical trappings 
 of the genre. You simply go from area to area, end up in an open yet closed in space, and kill 
 enemies as they come at you. Its alot of fun at first, but grows old too quickly. The frustrating 
 thing is, the game looks absolutely beautiful, and the environments SEEM huge.... only to end being 
 rather basic. They could have added in a few climbing, jumping or platforming elements to add some 
 depth/height and variety to the various encounter sequences, but more often than not you're limitted 
 to just running around a flat and generic area, albeit one that has nice graphical detail and backgrounds. 
 At the very least you'd expect a ninja like this one to be able to flip off a wall, or perhaps 
 even perform a jumping attack or two, but aside from pulling off some of the spiffy combos, the 
 rest of the action seems stagnant after a while. Basically, you'll be treated to some of the best 
 combos and attacks you've ever seen, but you'll also still feel restricted, even moreso than you 
 have in older beat'em'ups.
  
  And now, back to the theory I mentioned earlier about the developers not knowing what type of game 
 they wanted to create. It feels like the dev team was aware of the limitations of the beat'em'up 
 genre, and decided to implement some other gameplay elements into Heavenly Sword in an attempt 
 
  to offer variety. Unfortunately, they decided to add a variety of gimmicky shooting sections instead 
 of offering more variety in the enviroments. Every so many levels, you're randomly thrown into 
 a situation where instead of using your button mashing and combo skills, you're forced to shoot 
 canonballs from a castle wall, aim items to hit a trigger point to open a door, or shoot arrows 
 via a playable side character. You can tell these sections were added to try and take advantage 
 of the Sixaxis motion control functionality, but they come across more as a gimmicky throw-in than 
 a relavant aspect to the game. The other gimmick the devs seemed to fall in love with is a feature 
 I'm quickly growing a distaste for; the "quick-time event". This is where you are randomly throw 
 into a playable cut-scene and have to tap a certain prompted button to survive or advance. You 
 know, you're walking along, a rock falls from a cliff and you get the "PRESS X NOW"!! message. 
 Yaaawwwwn. To my huge dissapointment, one of the first boss fights actually ENDS with a quick-time 
 event; you beat him up for a while, then the fight abruptly stops when you finish a brief and unsatisfying 
 quick-time sequence. Unforgivably lame.
  
  Generally speaking, Heavenly Sword is fun to play, and very nice to look at. That said, it couldn't 
 help but fall into some familiar trappings in the form of generic environments, repetative gameplay, 
 gimmicky add-on features, and lame quick-time events. That said, you won't have to put up with 
 the negatives for long, because the game is also very short, and you should have no problem running 
 through it in 6-7 hours at tops.
  
  Somewhere, there was a fantastic game in here, but unfotunately the end result was a beautiful 
 looking mixed box of half-eaten chocolates, and unfortunately the yummy ones may not be worth putting 
 up with the yucky ones.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  When Sony was getting cornered by Microsoft's absurd amount of exclusives and almost complete third 
 party support, they did what any company would've done: pump up the production costs of their first 
 party titles. One of said examples was "Heavenly Sword", Sony's attempt at getting "God of War 
 3" to arrive earlier than it would. The job was handed down to the "Ninja Theory" team, which clearly 
 had a huge amount of money to make the fans forget about "God of War". Regrettably, it seems they 
 had neither the time nor the skill to pull that off.
  
  As far as mimicry goes, "Heavenly Sword" is as shallow and mediocre as "God of War" was perfect. 
 Combat system is, for obvious reasons, one of the more important aspects of an action oriented 
 game and "God of War" featured a nicely balanced roster of combos with intuitive weaknesses and 
 strengths that made each one useful for a particular kind of enemy and/or situation. "Heavenly 
 Sword" tries to accomplish the same, but fails to provide any engaging battle mechanics due to 
 the low difficulty of the game, the small variety of enemy templates and the simple minded nature 
 of all combos, which makes them all seem like the same. They do look pretty though, as fast paced 
 and flashy as the ones in "God of War"
  
  The other element that made "God" a success was the level design that transpired a carefully laid 
 pacing, making the game a rapid succession of crescent climaxes. Its take on arcade action "motifs" 
 masked in a linear action adventure style progression only worked because of this rhythmic directing, 
 that continuously enhanced the player's sense of entertainment. This was made all the more apparent 
 by bosses that were epic in size and nature, delivering the final note in the player's epic roller 
 coaster of emotions. There is little, if any, of this care in "Heavenly Sword", as levels' structures 
 seem randomly placed, with no "crescendo" to speak of in terms of scale or difficulty, bosses are 
 linear and predictable, and lack any "awe factor". Besides that, there are some really awkward 
 levels that consistently break the pace, where all you have to do is shoot these crazy controllable 
 arrows in slow-mo, in a mini-game of sorts that is so boring and dull that it can make you wish 
 you'd be playing "Duck Hunt" on the NES. There are some supposedly epic set pieces, where the player 
 must kill hundreds and hundreds of enemies, but for obvious reasons, this hack and slash fare is 
 quick on the boring side one look at "Dynasty Warriors" would suffice to understand that "too 
 much" is, more often than not, equal to "too boring".
  
  So, it is fair to say that money can't buy everything, but there are some things money can buy. 
 On technical and production levels, "Heavenly Sword" shines, boasting incredibly detailed environments 
 that push the PS3 to its graphical boundaries, a completely orchestrated soundtrack (by Nitin Sawhney) 
 that is as grandiose as it is well composed, and even some of the best voice acting in the industry 
 (most notably, a part by Andy Serkis who played Smeagol) . The game's setting: a curious mix of 
 eastern mythology and comic book style dark fantasy, gives birth to beautiful and astonishing oriental 
 landscapes, populated by polychromatic, vibrant characters, as well as "wall of china big" monuments 
 in various architectonic styles. Sadly, this setting, along with the good voice work is wasted 
 due to an unbalanced script (penned by Terry Pratchett's daughter) that tends to privilege one-off 
 British comedy lines over dramatic scenes, more in tune with the themes at hand. Shame though, 
 since there was a lot of care in producing convincing and expressive character models and animations. 
 Eyes, cheeks and mouths move realistically and even the sets and costumes are used to convey certain 
 character's personalities. But all this falls flat, because of the dark comedy tone that lurks 
 in every scene. The end result is neither a witty, black comedy nor a grand, dramatic epic, but 
 a twisted hybrid that fails both fronts.
  
  There is nothing truly remarkable about "Heavenly Sword"; everything it does reasonably well has 
 already been done in better fashion by "God of War" or can just be seen as a byproduct of Sony's 
 megalomaniac production policies. The result is nothing short of uninspired, completely forgettable; 
 and you can be sure that this not the PS3 exclusive that Sony needed to gain momentum in the raging 
 console war. To assume that a balanced blockbuster formula, like that of "God of War's" can be 
 copied in such a straightforward manner was a mistake, and Ninja Theory learned that the hard way. 
 If anything, "Heavenly Sword's" greatest achievement is reminding people why "God of War" is an 
 entertainment masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eibenss
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is a great game. The story line is very interesting and keeps you playing for hours 
 on end. The video scenes were very realistic and fun to watch. The guiding of the different projectiles 
 was alot of fun once you get the hang of it and the use of 3 different fighting stances was refreshing. 
 This game is more than just a hack and slash fest. If you are going to survive you need to master 
 blocking and counter attacking. There are many instances where you have to actually think about 
 which stance and combo are best for the situation. You can't just use the same powerful combo all 
 the time. My biggest complaint is the length of the campaign. I finished it in 2 days. Granted 
 I didn't have all the glyphs required to unlock everything in the game but I have 100 of them (out 
 of 128) . IMHO, the only reason to keep replaying the game is to continue to unlock art and movies 
 by getting 3 glyphs on every stage. That can take a long time. I would say this is a game you need 
 to buy or at the very least rent for a long weekend. Truly a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword would be better suited off as a movie than as a game, you may be wondering why i 
 chose to open a review with that sentece, but in summary, although looking great, Heavenly sword's 
 gameplay leaves a lot to be desired.
  
  One of the features that may attract you is the fact that the acting and voice acting in Heavenly 
 sword is primarily done by Andy Serkis (actor of Gollum in lord of the rings and the titular role 
 in the 2005 film King Kong) , admittedly Serkis does play a good villian, (two in fact) but it does 
 get a bit boring as both faces on the villains are serkis but slightly altered, giving you a feeling 
 of De Ja Vu During cutscenes.
  
  The graphics in Heavenly sword are probably one of the few games that are exclusive to ps3 to really 
 showcase the ps3's processing power, the frame rate is fairly consistent except in the final battle 
 where it sometimes drops, but this is due to the excessive number of enemies that appear on screen 
 so can be forgiven,
  The lighting in the game is phenomenal and honestly, so are the character models, although some 
 of them act a little odd in cutscenes.
  
  The characters in Heavenly sword are quite hard to like if i'm truthful, i didn't really enjoy 
 playing as the heroine (Nariko) because i genuinely didn't like her, i didn't mind playing as kai 
 though, the occasional sidekick to Nariko, as she was a bowman and extremely fun to play with. 
 Which leads me onto my next topic, the cool parts of heavenly sword.
  
  The best part of heavenly sword and the most fun part of it is the aftertouch, this is where you 
 turn into the arrow, and you can control it using either the motion sensor or the right anologue 
 stick, either works well. However it is extmrely satisfying as you guide an arrow in slow motion 
 into the back of an enemies head.
  
  The fighting is also quite cool intially, with three different stances, you have a whole host of 
 moves to fight with, however you quickly realise that blocking becomes unimportant and button mashing 
 is simply the best way to link combos up and destroy your enemies. Of course your incentive for 
 not button mashing is a style meter, which fills up anoter bar which when full unlocks you new 
 moves, however there isn't much difference between your first set of moves and your last.
  
  However sadly the fighting does get repetitive quickly and you end up praying for the next 
 level where you play as Kai. The enemies hardly differ as well, but one thing i can compliment 
 the design team on is the good boss fights, which break up the gameplay and i enjoyed a lot.
  
  Overall, Heavenly sword is a beatiful game, but a lack of substance and short game leaves you 
 feeling cheated and wishing there were more modes, the repetitive combat, although fun for a while, 
 makes you wish for more levels like kai and the boss fight levels. Sadly, the worst thing about 
 this game is that it had so much potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an amazing addition to the ever growing library of the PS3. Heavenly Sword has 
 astounding graphics, even for a next-gen game. It's so fluent and it flows perfectly through the 
 game with no glitches. The game play is very similar to Ninja Gaiden which isn't necessarily a 
 bad thing. I can tell you this, it doesn't get old. Also, it's great that after you have killed 
 an enemy, you can pick them up and throw them at other enemies. So, all those Ninja Gaiden fans 
 reading this, I highly recommend this game for the action. The music is pretty good, nothing too 
 stupendous about it. The cut scenes are some of the best I've ever seen. The voice acting is excellent 
 as well. Combine those two together and you get a clip of action that looks almost like a movie. 
 The only downside to the game is the length. Heaven Sword is unbelievably short. It's so short 
 that it feels like you have been watching a long movie rather than playing a game. Also, the puzzles 
 were a little too easy for me. It may be just right for you, but it wasn't for me. Over all, this 
 is a very well put together game. You can tell that the creators tried their best at giving an 
 awesome game that fans of the genre could enjoy. I recommend this game to any fan of hardcore hack 
 and slasher games. It's worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Listen yes this game is over rather quickly yes if you've played god of war your basically experiencing 
 the same thing but the reason you want this game is because it's the best like warhawk (which i 
 regreted playing) i downloaded a demo and it is amazing and now every penny i get im saving it 
 for this game. This game is amazing espicially all those combos all i do is just press random buttons 
 but i still beat them and just because you have god of war doesnt mean that you cant buy this game 
 because its just as fun with better graphics and watch out cause this girl is amazing and kicks 
 @ss shes so cool if you want my honest opinion if you dont buy this game and your a fan of these 
 types of games you are stupid heres my review
  
  
  gameplay-10/10
  sound 10/10
  storyline 10/10
  graphics 10/10
  time it takes this is just random but 9/10
  overall 10/10 
 
  get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the game of the summer. Finally a female lead doing damage. Help her wield that 
 big sword of heaven. Definitely a must get for gamers that like fighting with swords. A pretty 
 face with a hot body and long red hair. What more could you want her to do besides kick some butt. 
 This is the total package. Start by defending the fort where your father's people are. In inherit 
 this strange sword that will kill you at the end but you are willing to take that chance. You have 
 a childhood friend that helps you along the way. Learn the different combos to all your weapons 
 cause it will save you life. Literally, it will affect the outcome of the game. This game has some 
 beautiful landscapes and great villians. The fights aren't really hard but they intense. I like 
 to work for the defeat of my enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montana1983
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I loved this game it's so much fun. Me and my girlfriend sat down and played it together. They 
 could have added a little more play with the second character that would have been an awesome bonus, 
 because I loved playing her. It's definitely a button mashing game which I don't normally like 
 but this was different. It reminded me of god of war, without being the same game. The story was 
 great and the combos were great and the big cannons were awesome, my girlfriend had a hard time 
 with that. We kicked it's a#%. We got into the game really quickly it just pulled us in and we 
 couldn't put it down. The down side to all this was it only took me and my girlfriend a day to 
 play it. We started in the morning and we were finished by supper time. It was definitely a great 
 game but way to short. I've heard of 'leave them wanting more' but come on guys. All I can say 
 is there better be a Heavenly sword 2. Plus the outfits in the game are awesome, ever little boy's 
 fantasy, lol. So if you are thinking of getting this game and are the only person who doesn't have 
 it yet then go get it. I paid full price and other then the fact it was too short I did get my 
 money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Heavenly Sword it seemed almost like a God-dess of War game. You have a weapon 
 wielding protagonist that takes on dozens upon dozens of enemies. Well I was very wrong. Heavenly 
 Sword is very little like God of War. The foremost major difference is the combo system. 
  
  Where GOW's system is proactive Heavenly Sword is very reactive. Your character is always blocking. 
 You have control over her blocking "stance" Each enemy give you a sign as to what type of attack 
 they are about to use a second before performing the move. It is up to you to block properly and 
 then counter the attack. This is a great idea and is useful on most enemies but several of the 
 combos you will be blocking are 1. unblockable or 2. so long that you won't know when your counter 
 opening is. The combos and countering were the most frustrating part of this game and will really 
 begin to grate on the nerves of anyone who is used to GOW.
  
  Now on to the great parts of Heavenly Sword. The story is solid and the cut scenes are brilliantly 
 stunning. Nariko is a strong female character that is easy to believe in. The clever use of the 
 Sixaxis controls were a welcomed addition to the archery and projectiles in the game. Having the 
 ability to throw everything including the dead enemies was fun but largely useless. Whenever your 
 character would shoot or throw something, by holding the trigger, you could guide the object through 
 the air with the Sixaxis motion controls. This was blast on the Kai levels (Nariko's adopted archer 
 daughter) . The animations and graphics are fluid and beautiful throughout the game, but the game's 
 length is way too short. 
  
  Had the developers added a plot twist or 2-3 extra sets of challenges Heavenly Sword would have 
 felt like a more complete package. As it stands, HS feels like a teaser prequel to a much longer 
 game. However, with the recent announcement that HS2 will probably not happen, HS1 stands as a 
 "boy, what could it have been" project that over promised and under delivered. 
  
  Now that HS has dropped in price its pretty easy to suggest its purchase, due to it impressive 
 use of the PS3 hardware. The final battle grounds and the sheer number of enemies that you have 
 to take out is epic and processor heavy, but as a newly released $60 game Heavenly Sword falls 
 flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the most amazing games I've played to date; instant fun, fast learning 
 curve, and not over the top difficult. Let's start off with the BEST asset of this game; the acting 
 of the characters during cut scenes; they're simply AMAZING! The overall voice acting and actual 
 mannerisms of the characters during cut scenes is enough to rival to Metal Gear at some points; 
 though they're nowhere near as long. Character's show their emotions so fluidly they're almost 
 human!
  
  Gameplay wise, people would compare this game to God of War, I made the comparison to Dynasty Warriors 
 personally; especially the opening fight, and one of the ending fights; where you simply cleave 
 through hordes of enemies without much effort. There are three basic attack types; ranged, quick, 
 and strong. Honestly, I think you can beat the game with ranged if you wanted to; without using 
 the others; but they give you advantages against some of the enemies. The countering and blocking 
 system was too annoying for me honestly, having to guess your enemies attack and quickly hitting 
 that button to block it; not my cup of tea. The boss fights, at times were unfair, and very annoying; 
 but once you find the niche, you can take them down fairly easily. They have a weird habit of ignoring 
 your attacks, or simply knocking you back and appearing behind you before you can react, to injure 
 you.
  
  The final boss fight, in my opinion was very cheap, as he had a MEGA advantage on you; all you 
 really got in comparison was a white glow, and that was about; nothing changed, he could fly, shoot 
 fire, shoot ice; launch ravens, move at super speed.. and you got a white glow.
  
  The button sequencing at the end of the boss fights was unique and added a twist to the fights; 
 but if you didn't figure it out, you would never kill the boss and might end up fighting them for 
 ages (ala Forced Unleashed) .
  
  Overall this game NEEDS to be in everyone's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzb82
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a must play for anyone who enjoys video games. The story is so immersive and strikes 
 such a deep emotional chord. The best thing about this game is that it ends. Meaning there is little 
 or no room for it to be ruined by a sequel. I believe a game is only worth playing if it gives 
 you goosebumps or that chill down your spine. There has to be emotion to a well developed story 
 line that has you actually caring for what happens next. But for those people who only play games 
 for blood and gore it is completely provided as well with a great God of War style combat that 
 pits you against masses of enemies that can do nothing but be chopped to bits as you swing your 
 blades. There is only one possible complaint for this game and that is the length. For something 
 so storyline driven it leaves you wanting more, but sadly I guess the writers ran out of ideas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game of this style I have beaten. So I have to say that I liked it very much.
 
  
  This game is not long enough but it is ok, longer would be tiring. A lot of combos.
  
  I finished the game on normal difficulty, so that some fight made me feel frustrating. SPOILER: 
 Specially the last boss. It took me the same time get to the end of the game that kill the last 
 boss.
  
  Graphic: is Ok.
  Sound: is great. Some tracks of the soundtrack like me very much.
  Cutscene: very good. Real 
 actors made them.
  Storyline: great.
  
  I never get bored using this game. This game surpassed my expectation.
  
  Rent it... I don't 
 know if I would like to play the game again... even though a "hell" mode has been unlocked I do 
 not if I would beat it again. There a lot of game to deserve to be finished as a beat this game 
 again.
  
  I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  This is very well done game, plot like LOTR. People of the land finding for the sword. Beautiful 
 hot main character, too bad no romance of any kind. What a wasted... Is soft like a female barbarian 
 but attack like a ninja holding a buff heavy sword. Some scene like Ninja gaiden especially the 
 close attack, but what make this so good, is the slow mortion and axis controller on arrow and 
 other weapon, very nice and creative gameplay, many finisher are similar as the Assasin Creed, 
 It does mind me of Dynatry Warrior in the final battle, 1000+ units without lag, and wonderful 
 game time, All and all look like a perfect game? no so, why because the AI isn't that great, all 
 they do is block and block and you do auto block, for most enemy only can attack u in behind or 
 when you attack them. Evada is useful but isn't as good as block only thing u can do to manaul 
 dodge attack or run.
  
  
  There's pretty of use in her sister role as sharpshooter, most mission require skill and timing, 
 can be very frustated because require use of axis controller.
  
  But really the main cons of the game is too short, you can beat it under 10 hours, much less if 
 you can pass those puzzle or shooting mission fast. The boss could be done better but fact is they 
 spend too much on fighitng same boss 3 times (3 life bar) final battle with the boss is good but 
 could had done, anyway this no brainer for rental, i won't suggest to buy cause it stil pretty 
 pricey.
  
  Worth to pick up once it hit greatest hit, this or ninja gaiden sigma, tought be. This one has 
 mission more fun than gaiden, gaiden mission isn't that fun just you get to fight some very badass 
 boss and finigher is better in gaiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  So after playing Devil May Cry 4 to death, I decided I should get this after seeing it numerous 
 times online, and despite that I thought it was a average Hack N Slash from Sony, I was dead wrong.
 
  
  So the story for Heavenly Sword is about a female called Nariko, who must protect the Heavenly 
 Sword from the hands of King Bohan. Nariko's father, clansmen and Kai aid her in battle, and more 
 is revealed about the Sword, Nariko and Kai as the story progresses. You find out eventually that 
 Nariko's father originally wanted to kill her, as the next wielder of the Heavenly Sword was supposed 
 to be a boy, Kai's mother was murdered by General Flying Fox, and more. The Animated Series, which 
 comes with the 1.10 patch update, explains where the Sword came from, and the guardians of it, 
 as well as explaining how it would make the wielder more blood thirsty and vengeful. The story 
 is told so well you feel like your watching a film, the characters show their emotions well, and 
 makes you feel sad for them when a sad event takes place.
  
  The gameplay is a bit like God of War, it'll rack up how many hits you've done to the enemies, 
 and there are quick time events where you'd have to hit the corresponding button to chain a series 
 of attacks on the boss. You can preform Superstle attacks, where it might kill one enemy, kill 
 one and stun surrounding ones, or kill the enemy you used it on and kill the enemies around you. 
 You start with the first one, and you get the other 2 later when you chain enough Glyph points, 
 which also unlocks Artwork, and Behind The Scenes. Behind The Scenes shows you how they made Heavenly 
 Sword, like how they made the sounds used, the motion capture (used in games like Devil May Cry 
 3: Dantes Awakening) and the actors and actresses. The puzzles are very well laid out, you might 
 have to open a door, or throw a shield and control it using the SIXAXIS. It's quite good, and very 
 fun, especially using the SIXAXIS to snipe out guards with Kai. Kai's missions are different to 
 Nariko's, you have a crossbow which you use to snipe out guards, like in any FPS. You use what 
 is called a "Aftertouch" which whilst holding square, allows you to control the arrow (or in Nariko's 
 case, a Shield or weapon) in a particular direction. This allows you to hit an enemy in many places, 
 like the arm, head, or even crotch if you really wanted to. The bosses maybe hard, but just to 
 fight them will make you come back for more, like King Bohan or Roach would be so much fun! The 
 game maybe short, spanning from about 6-8 hours depending on how good you are at Hack N Slash games, 
 but it's worth playing again on Hell mode.
  
  The graphics show of PLAYSTATION 3's power, the character models look very realistic, like Nariko 
 and Kai, the environments are stunning and will blow your mind away. I have never seen a game look 
 so stunning, but this is just showing what Sony can do now, imagine the PS3 at it's peak in say 
 2012 or 2013!
  
  There is no leaderboards at all, nor any trophies (as of yet, don't know if they'll be any for 
 certain but Sony had stated it "should" have them sometime in 2008) but the Glyph's unlocking the 
 extra Artwork and Behind The Scenes will keep you coming back for more, as well as wanting to battle 
 King Bohan in the last level, Redemption.
  
  If you like games in the same genre, like Ninja Gaiden, Devil May Cry or God of War then I recommend 
 you try this, ignore the 6-8 hour gameplay, you'll be wanting to play this for ages! A pure masterpiece 
 and is greatly underappreciated by critics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  If Heavenly Sword was a car, it would be a Ferrari. The sum of Heavenly Swords parts make it a 
 beautiful and outstanding cinematic accomplishment. Heavenly Sword definetly deserves awards for 
 excellence in art direction, sound, and story. Why do I say this? Heres why:
  
  The main character is flawlessly beautiful in level of detail and the animation is so solid that 
 she moves like a killer ballerina as she wields the Heavenly Sword her father has entrusted her 
 to protect. Through every level of the game, I was immersed. The more I played, the more I wanted 
 to keep playing. Just like when I played Uncharted : Drakes Fortune. Let me just add this: If you 
 have a PS3 and love a good action game with a solid story and grade A production values, you owe 
 it to your PS3 to buy if not outright own this game. It belongs in each and every library. Its 
 a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  It's hard not to accuse Heavenly Sword as being a bit of a rip off from the amazing God of War 
 series. However, the game still holds it own with a decent story and a slew of brilliant CG scenes. 
 Only 5 chapters await the gamer on this one. Each chapter being composed of varying number of ultra-short 
 levels or tasks. Personally, I could have used more puzzle solving throughout the game. Throwing 
 a shield to hit a gong to open a gate over and over was a bit dry. Only four bosses are featured 
 in the game, including the fairly difficult final boss (Lord Bohan) which lasts for three rounds. 
 Having a second character to play (Kai the archer) was an excellent addition and adds depth to 
 the game.
  Yes, Heavenly sword is very short (just as Demon Stone on the PS2 was) , but all in all the game 
 is very well done. The voice acting, music, sound effects, and graphics are all amazing and very 
 fluid. The game play is very good also.
  Maybe it was tough to shell out the money for this game at its original retail price due to its 
 length, but now that it has gone PLATINUM what are you waiting for?
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I love games such as Devil May Cry series so I played Heavenly Sword. What are my feelings about 
 this title? Well overall the whole game is good but as I said before nothing more.
  
  The main character is beautiful amazon Nariko. She's really deadly and fast. Nariko has got the 
 Heavenly Sword, this is a weapon which is very powerful but it drains the life from who he wields 
 it. The second playable character is Nariko's sister Kai. She's not a real Nariko's sister. Kai 
 is 16 years old probably and she's funny. Kai is opposition to Nariko cuz Nariko is a serious person. 
 Kai's weapon is special crossbow which is a very good weapon. After we shoot the arrow we can control 
 it by sixaxis which is fun especially when arrow will hit the bad guy to the head, after that we 
 get a special bonus hehe. I will back to Nariko was more. As I said she uses a Heavenly Sword and 
 this weapon has his combos and attacks. We have a speed attack and powerful attack. There are also 
 counter attacks which are pretty cool and brutal. A sword right to the enemy's eggs? No problem! 
 (OUCH!) .
  
  The story is very good and melodramatic because of the sword which drains Nariko's life and cuz 
 we have a battle where evil king Bohan wants to take over the whole land. I would say that Heavenly 
 Sword takes place in the land which is very similar to China, I don't mind it but I like Japan 
 way more better. There are some momentum times in the game where we have to press the right button 
 on our controller. These momentum times are really great and they appear when we are fighting with 
 the bosses and when we have to jump to the right place for example. The enemys I mean Bohan's army 
 are tough and we will have to choose a tactic to fight with them, I mean choose the right style 
 for the battle, powerful or speed. The bosses are interesting and really well created. What is 
 awesome is the mimic of the characters face. The characters animation is great. What I don't like 
 is this that lots of battles are boring for me and I don't feel the same gorgeous feelings as I 
 feel with Devil May Cry series for example. Also Nariko is way too serious person for me. To be 
 honest I like Kai better than Nariko cuz Kai is funny. I love funny characters with sense of humour 
 like Dante from Devil May Cry 3, 1 and 4 for example.
  
  The graphics are amazing that's no doubt. Each character is looking absolutely brilliant. The environment 
 is really stunning. The light and shadows are awesome. The graphics in Heavenly Sword is as outstanding 
 as it is in Gears of War or even a little bit better. Of course it's not all what Ps3 offers but 
 it's a lot.
  
  The sound is very good, I really like the music and the voice over is absolutely superb. The sounds 
 of the battles are fantastic and realistic.
  
  Overall Heavenly Sword for Ps3 is a good game with really interesting melodramatic story and with 
 epic characters. It's not a must buy for me. Good game but as I said nothing more unfortunately 
 in my opinion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  We won't go too deeply into the details of Heavenly Sword's story, as half the fun is in letting 
 the narrative develop over the course of the game but if there is one thing Heavenly Sword does 
 well, it's the narrative story: the main character Nariko belongs to a tribe whose fate is tied 
 to a prophecy which proclaimed that a man would be born into their midst to save them. Unfortunately 
 Nariko, who was born at the prophesized time, was born a woman, a fact that her fellow clansmen 
 see as an omen of doom. Tied into the prophecy is the titular Heavenly Sword, a magical blade that 
 is under the protection of the clan's protection. The evil King Bohan seeks the blade to consolidate 
 his power and a war breaks out. 
  
  It's during this ensuing conflict that Nariko falls into possession of the Heavenly Sword and arms 
 herself with it, setting into motion the events of the game. Suffice it to say, the production 
 values in the game are top notch and it definitely has the cinematic flair that truly memorable 
 games like Half-Life 2, Halo and yes, God of War, possess. 
  
  This is supplemented by a ton of unlockable Hollywood-style extras like behind-the-scenes clips 
 and animated vignettes that flesh out the game's narrative. The game's graphics also take full 
 advantage of the PS3's horsepower, with stunning backdrops and fantastic character animations. 
 The in-game cinematics have a Hollywood quality to them, thanks to superb motion-capping and fine 
 acting, including a great performance by Andy Serkis, he of Gollum and King Kong fame. The character 
 animations are also smooth and adeptly choreographed. Nariko, especially, moves with a sense of 
 fluidity and grace and at points, the game brings to mind fight sequences from popular wushu movies 
 like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Hero.
  
  I should note, however, that the brand of action in Heavenly Sword is a little on the "soft" side. 
 Nariko uses three stances during combat: speed, ranged and power. The speed stance is the default, 
 the ranged stance -- Nariko separates the Heavenly Sword into two and whips the ends around like 
 a certain Spartan's chains -- is activated by holding the L1 button, and the power stance, where 
 Nariko swings just the Heavenly Sword, is activated by holding R1. 
  
  It doesn't take long for you get used to the controls and you'll be mixing and matching attacks 
 from each style to form an impressive array of moves. However, the combat in Heavenly Sword never 
 delivers the same sort of visceral punch that God of War did. Unlike Kratos, who was capable of 
 plowing through enemies with a maniac's fury, Nariko must often rely on finesse and timing to take 
 out her foes. Yes, she does crunch a few bones and mangles a few crotches but because most enemies 
 can block your attacks, simple button mashing proves ineffective. I found myself mainly sitting 
 back in a defensive shell and waiting for an opening; as a result, I never got the feeling that 
 I was truly "manhandling" my enemies. No pun intended, of course.
  
  The game also relies heavily on a paper-rock-scissors model that is difficult to master. All enemies 
 attack using one of the three aforementioned stances: If an enemy exhibits a blue aura before attacking, 
 they're coming at you with a speed attack, so you need to be in the speed stance to block it. If 
 they glow orange, it's a power attack and thus, the power stance is required. Ranged attacks can 
 be deflected with the ranged style until you get close enough to fight.
  
  The problem is that you need lightning fast reflexes to switch up your stances correctly each and 
 every time, especially when you're surrounded by multiple foes. This is compounded by the fact 
 that in order to block, you have to just stand there and let the game automatically block for you, 
 which ran counter to my natural instinct to mash buttons.
  
  And yet, even though the combat has its quirks, it is still satisfying and there are moments when 
 you can't help but smile at the carnage that you are creating. The game mixes things up nicely, 
 giving you the opportunity to man a cannon and rain death down upon an immense battlefield, fire 
 off a cool rocket launcher like device to take out oncoming enemies and even take on the role of 
 a side character, Nariko's childlike companion Kai, for some stealthy cross-bow action. 
  
  The action is also woven nicely into the game's deep narrative, making for an overall experience 
 that is rich and satisfying. Yes, the plot is a little shaky -- there are a lot of questions that 
 are left unanswered -- and the combat takes some getting use to but the overall experience is compelling 
 enough that I wanted to return to it time and time again.
  
  It's obvious that I, along with every other gamer, have become spoiled by the God of War series. 
 When held up against that franchise's strengths, even a game like Heavenly Sword can pale in comparison. 
 It's mildly unfair but because the game so obviously draws upon Jaffe and company's formula, it's 
 also fitting. 
  
  So, while it doesn't eclipse the greatness of the original title that inspired it, Heavenly Sword 
 is still a fun, engaging, and most importantly, exclusive PS3 title that Sony fanboys can brag 
 to 360 fanboys about. Oh, there's also one unintended side-benefit: It offers a tantalizing glimpse 
 at the possibilities inherent in the PS3 platform, which only raises my expectations for God of 
 War 3. 
  
  Until Kratos' next adventure comes along, gamers can and should busy themselves by taking in the 
 compelling saga of Nariko and her heavenly blade. It is without a doubt a journey worth taking, 
 even if the road to the end is somewhat bumpy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windows3000000
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 25, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  heavenly sword is sooooooooooo sohort but the gmeplay is awsooooooooooommmmm.
  
  If heavenly sword was longer it would be one of the best ps3 games out there unfortunatly I would 
 only buy it if it was twenty bucks or less.
  
  but if you can spare fifty bucks on some thing you'll finish in an afternoon get heavenly sword, but 
 if you want a game to last with simmilar game play get god of war. Or resistance fall of man or 
 final fantasy ten now because heavenly sword is to short so is my review so i'm going to punch 
 random letters in but over all i give hevenly sword a five. seven now to the a's a a a a a a a a 
 a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a thank you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivaz66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  heavenly sword its a great game, a great start for the ps3 in this new era of next gen consoles, 
 its like god of wars meets shadow of the colousus meets devil may cry meets resident evil 4 and 
 thats one of the thing i didnt like, its the fact that evey thing ion that game seems rip off from 
 another game that my personal opinion, if we talk about gameplay graphics, camara, bosses men this 
 game its da **** boomb just amazing the camara its posted just in the right spot, the combat system 
 its superp and works really good you have the heavenly sword right its sopose to be some kind of 
 divene weapon so you have 3 modes one the gives lighter atack a normal matacks and heacy atacks 
 just by presing square and triangle its just amaizing the boss fhts are the bomb just doing some 
 crazy move to deafe them its just bad ass but well this game coul have a better great but the lack 
 of original ideas in the plot and in the gameplay just dont make it happen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The story of Nariko and the prophecy she is supposed to fulfill is an experience that will grow 
 on you. At first the game feels like just another action title inspired by the likes of God of 
 War and Devil May Cry, and for all intents and purposes Heavenly Sword never really shakes off 
 that feeling of familiarity, but it's a highly polished and entertaining experience despite with 
 a few quirks to set it apart from other series in the genre.
  
  Nariko, the compelling, ass-kicking and strikingly gorgeous red dame, is the heroine of this thrilling 
 adventure. She belongs to a clan whose sole responsibility is to protect the Heavenly Sword, an 
 ancient relic that is to be guarded for the return of some divine deity that you never really learn 
 more about. The sword has aroused the ambitions of men over its history and so has been the object 
 of several bloody wars. Nariko's father, Shen, is the head of this clan and begrudges his daughter 
 for taking her mother's life in child birth. Unlike in other action games where the story is merely 
 a pretense to pit you against insurmountable foes, the actual story and characters are very compelling 
 in Heavenly Sword.
  
  This is due in part to the game's fantastic presentation. The cut scenes are incredibly detailed, 
 and the animations are fluid. In particular, the facial animations are stunning. Disbelief, anger, 
 delight; these emotions are seamlessly depicted by the characters that bring the story of Heavenly 
 Sword to life. Supplementing this advantage is an incredible cast of voice actors, particularly 
 your arch-villain Bohan, who truly becomes larger than life from the tone of his voice and the 
 sheer malevolence of his actions. The other villains are given similar treatment. Their sadistic 
 nature is portrayed perfectly through excellent voice acting and animation. Given the sheer scope 
 of their expressiveness, it's a shame that none of the characters aren't developed more. Heavenly 
 Sword is a very short experience, lasting only 6 chapters at about an hour or two per chapter.
 
  
  The fluidity and superb animation present in the cut scenes sadly doesn't translate very into the 
 actual gameplay. Heavenly Sword does feel a bit choppy. The effect is subtle but noticeable. For 
 all her grace, Nariko can move rather mechanically when hurling out of harm's way. This really 
 comes to the fore when you face literally dozens of on-screen foes. The frame rate dips considerably, 
 though this is not surprising considering some portions of the game will require you to kill literally 
 hundreds of enemies. The villains you face aren't particularly varied, but they're all incredibly 
 fun to fight and will always come in droves. The real heart of the action lies in the confrontations 
 with Bohan and his generals. The sheer tenacity and speed with which you have to play against these 
 greater villains makes the combat incredibly satisfying.
  
  The combat won't come off as particularly complex for those of you familiar with God of War. There 
 are only 2 attack buttons, representing weaker and more powerful attacks. Holding down either of 
 your shoulder buttons will change Nariko's stance, allowing her to use ranged attacks (a quick 
 and deadly flurry of chains and blades) or heavy attacks (where Nariko will arduously swing the 
 giant Heavenly Sword from side to side to cleave her adversaries in twain) . Additionally, Nariko 
 can initiate a counter-attack if you hit one of the attack buttons at a perfectly timed interval. 
 This will come in handy when you find yourself surrounded by hostiles aching to tear you apart. 
 These counter-attacks range from throwing your foes, to breaking their necks, to unsavory kicks 
 to... err, very exposed and vulnerable male genetalia.
  
  The gameplay will intermittently switch up, offering you a much different experience. There are 
 certain portions of the game you will play as Kai, a very innocent looking girl who betrays her 
 appearance by being a very deadly shot. Though the idea of running around with a bow and shooting 
 your foes sounds like it would break the action for a game like this, it feels incredibly satisfying 
 thanks to the masterful use of the Sixaxis. Though it may be frustrating at first to use, you can 
 essentially guide your arrows from a first person perspective by moving your controller. Time will 
 slow considerably when this happens, allowing you to make controlled and precise shots. Other sequences 
 will have you manning a cannon, obliterating Bohan's armies in scenes which almost look like they 
 could belong in a real-time strategy game. The cannons can be guided much the same way as the arrows, 
 and you will need to guide them to hit the weak points of the artillery that will be pitted against 
 you.
  
  The final confrontation is, appropriately, the highlight of this experience. It's difficult to 
 say exactly what about it makes it feel so significant and breath-taking, as you really don't get 
 the time to get to know or explore the villains. Yet, somehow, the game does an incredible job 
 of making the final fight everything it possibly could be and exceeding your expectations. Through 
 some artful combination of setting, music, and the magnitude of the fight, your last brush with 
 death will be a memorable experience. Although some might be put off by the game's blatant black-and-white 
 depiction of good and evil, it suits the game brilliantly and sets up a truly spectacular conclusion 
 to the story that will leave you wanting to replay the game.
  
  A surprisingly good story, a simple but satisfying approach to combat, and creative use of the 
 Sixaxis lends Heavenly Sword a decent amount of originality in a genre crowded with already-established 
 franchises. Through its incredibly cinematic presentation and excellent characters, Heavenly Sword 
 grows on you and makes for a very compelling action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is the story of a sword which was crafted for a god. Any mortal who wields it will 
 eventually lose their life to the sword. Well one woman did just that. Nariko is the daughter of 
 a chieftain whose clan is being destroyed by an evil king who covets the heavenly sword. When her 
 father is taken prisoner by this king, Nariko uses the sword to go and save him.
  Now for the game features... The graphics are some of the most amazing I have ever seen in a game 
 - better than MGS4 in fact. The characters looked almost like real people. Every detail on every 
 person and every surface was as perfect as your own vision. 
  Then there's combat visuals. Though the blood was a bit cartoon-like, the way the camera angles 
 changed throughout certain moves and combos was fantastic. It made it seem like a FFVII AC fight 
 - and they were brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achaean728
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  To put it briefly, Heavenly Sword is a fantastic, beautifully designed game that should be in every 
 PS3 owners collection. The game is beautiful to look at, beautiful to listen to, and plays beautifully. 
 Nevertheless, despite this almost flawless production, Heavenly Sword is not without a few minor, 
 but noticeable problems.
  
  STORY: The story, overall, is rather engaging. At first play, you'll probably feel like you've 
 been thrown right into the mix, not knowing the background to who Nariko (the main character) is 
 or what the Heavenly Sword is. The designers of the game chose to focus on the games current events 
 (instead of delving into back story) so as a result of this, they were nice enough to include two 
 animated shorts that describe the myth and legend behind the Heavenly Sword. This seems to be more 
 than enough back story and I'd recommend watching them both. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is very similar to that of other similar games, such as God of War. Basically, 
 you'll just be hammering away on your controller all the combos for the various moves you'll learn 
 as you progress through the game, all while quickly dodging the enemy's attacks. Similarly, just 
 like God of War, Heavenly Sword also implements action sequences that have you pressing any number 
 of buttons to do a number of things such as scaling walls or dispatching bad guys in really stylized 
 ways. 
  Basically, attacks are categorized into three stances: speed, power and range. Each stance utilizes 
 a different aspect of the Heavenly Sword. You'll be using all three stances as you progress through 
 the game's story and each enemy is going to require the use of a different stance or some combination 
 of them. 
  This hack and slash action style gameplay is broken up with some very creative gameplay sequences. 
 As you play through the game, you'll take control of cannons and crossbows. As you fire away at 
 the enemy, you can hold the square button down and this allows you to entire "bullet time" and 
 you can actually control the cannonball or arrow by using the motion controls of the six axis PS3 
 controller. The controls feel natural and are actually pretty entertaining.
  The hack and slash combat and even the "bullet-time" gameplay can be frustrating at times. Some 
 of the later boss fights are also quite difficult and you'll probably find yourself spending a 
 few hours playing the same boss fight over and over in order to beat it. 
  
  GRAPHICS: The put it in one word: beautiful. The graphics are simply amazing. Heavenly Sword is 
 definitely one of the "showcase" games for the PS3 and you'll be able to see the full potential 
 of the PS3's power with this game. The backgrounds and settings of the game a simply breath-taking. 
 Hands down, however, the animations for facial emotions and the lip-syncing done on the character 
 models are near flawless, literally. I've played many games and I have to say the facial expressions 
 and lip-syncing is SPOT ON and really add to the beauty of the game. Another noteworthy item is 
 the physics engine in the game. Things such as chairs and tables are completely destructible, on 
 top of this, you can often pick up the chairs and even the swords and shields of dead enemies and 
 throw them to unlock doors or knock down more bad guys. 
  
  SOUND: The music soundtrack is wonderfully composed and gives the game the feel of an epic blockbuster 
 movie. Probably one of the best aspects of the story is the voice acting. The voice acting is, 
 without a doubt, the best voice acting I've ever encountered in any video game. To add to this, 
 you'll probably even notice a few of the voices, like Andy Serkis (played and voiced Golum in Lord 
 of the Rings) who lends his voice to the evil Bohan. 
  
  TECHNICAL: As I stated earlier, Heavenly Sword should be a showcase came for the power and potential 
 of the PS3. In fact, at one point, you'll fight a battle that will have up 2,000 units on screen 
 at once. This intensive and demanding battle didnt even make the PS3 hic-up. The framerate remained 
 constant and playable throughout the entirety of the game. The only glitch I could really find 
 was that the audio seemed to be off in a few places. Every now and then (very rarely) the voice 
 audio was not in sync with the lip-sync animation and sometimes the voice audio seemed to be drowned 
 out by the background sound and music, but these glitches rarely happened and didnt detract from 
 the game at all. 
  
  All in all, Heavenly Sword is a must own. The main complaint most people seem to have with the 
 game is its length, about 7-10 hours, depending on your skill level. However, beating the game 
 unlocks "Hell Mode" a more difficult play through option. Add Hell Mode and all the unlockable 
 content such as production videos and concept art work along with the great gameplay and story-telling 
 and you'll find that a second play through of Heavenly Sword is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tengen23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I should have gotten around to playing Heavenly Sword long ago, but I just recently picked it up. 
 From other reviews I was expecting a short, but satisfying action game. This is somewhat true, 
 but it fails to capture the essence of Heavenly Sword.
  
  If you are reading this review then you probably already know the basics: you play the heroine 
 Nariko who is trying to protect the Heavenly Sword from the evil King Bohan. The characters are 
 amazing and as brief as the story may be, it is deep and immersive due to excellent cut scenes 
 and voice acting. From the minute you set foot on the battle field the game roars along at a breakneck 
 pace that drives you right up to the climactic end battle in a matter of hours. But fear not, the 
 game is not over.
  
  The thing about Heavenly Sword is that, in all its simplicity, it plays like an old-school action 
 game. Yes, it is possible to run through the main story in normal mode in a few hours, but you'd 
 be mistaken to think that's all there is to the game. This is a game all about technique. Play 
 it again on hell mode and you'll quickly find out whether you really mastered the control scheme, 
 or just fumbled your way through the first time. Now go back and try to complete the glyphs for 
 each stage (in each stage of the game you can earn up to 3 glyphs for stringing together really 
 long combos or having really stylish attacks) . Getting all the glyphs is really tough, believe 
 me. This is where you start to learn what the game is really about. Like so many old-school action 
 games, mastering the Heavenly Sword comes down to dedication, skill, and memorization of sequences 
 of events. Your first pass through the game may have only taken a few hours, but you won't put 
 this game down for at least a few dozen more.
  
  I really enjoyed Heavenly Sword. I can't for the life of me see why anyone would give this game 
 a lower-than-9 score. At base, this game combines an amazing character-driven story with some of 
 the best action gameplay I've seen in a while. Do yourself a favor and pick it up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjcritch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is really what the 6axis controller is all about. It has everything. Best hack-n-slash 
 game ever made... by far! Thats right you heard the man. If you are into Devil may Cry and the like. 
 This game will blow you away. Big fan.
  
  The combos get better and better as the game progresses. They feed it to you in perfect bite sized 
 bits as you go. The diversity of the combo system has never been seen before this. On one hand 
 you have ranged attacks with these long chain things and you have power attacks with the sword 
 (a little slower but they deal more damage) and you have speed attacks that are truly impressive. 
 Special finishing moves are beautifully done as well as aereol attacks that are performed when 
 you knock an opponent in the air and shake the controller. Then once in the air with your opponent 
 you can perform a combo. Just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  To start off ~ I'm a girl gamer. Give me a game with 2 incredibly awesome women to control ~ heck 
 yes! Being a fan of the GoW series and adding a female aspect was a big draw for me.
  
  Story ~ a diminishing clan of people fleeing for their lives from a trecherous, murderous fanatic 
 hunting them down like dogs for a sword he things will make him take over everything. A simple 
 and good plot for a game this length. Conversations are compelling, and the voice acting is relatively 
 right on. Facial expressions from all the main characters are well developed for a next gen sony 
 system. Some pretty humorous events with Nariko/Gohon, and Kai as well that set a side tone from 
 the seriousness of the plot. Think my favorite part was where Kai saves her "father" and runs off 
 to find Nariko as he's calling after her. He then complains that after leading hundreds of men 
 in battle and he still can't keep 2 girls in line. LoL.
  
  Battle controls ~ Hack and slash away my friends! Nothing is better then swinging blades furiously 
 into a crowd of mindless idiots waiting to rip you up. Complex button sequences give you numerous 
 ways to slice those sneaky members of Gohan's army. The blocking system was something to get used 
 too b/c most games that are on a playstation game are either the L/R buttons or one of the more 
 active buttons on the game pad. Nope, Nariko is an auto blocker, verbally and control wise. I found 
 it hard for the first hour to get used to not trying to actively block attacks. That got especially 
 frustrating when it felt like she wasn't blocking where she needed to be. I am well aware there 
 are attacks unblockable, before anyone else goes into it lol.
  
  And for a nice bit of time you get to play Nariko's "sister" counterpart of sorts Kai. A lot of 
 reviews I've read previously (not speaking of gamespot) , complained avidly that Kai's missions 
 seemed pointless and wasn't fun at all. Sigh, lol. I found it to be completely opposite. Refreshing 
 seems a better term for it. Given the use of the six axis controlling system gave this game something 
 fresh from just swinging swords like a madwoman. I appreciated the detail given when during the 
 slow motion arrow shooting that there was a second screen at times, showing the slow down of time 
 and the precision of where my arrows would go whether it be thigh, chest or face!
  
  Overall gameplay ~ Easy for the most part. Hack and slash type games usually are, giving more challange 
 to the villian bosses. In my opinion the second version of Flying Fox and then the final battle 
 with Gohan himself were the hardest. I heavily lean on the fact it's b/c of the auto blocking system 
 lol. *shrugs* But the fights are satisfying length, rewarded with excellent story.
  
  Overall look/graphics ~ Beautiful in my opinion. But then I'm constantly facinated with what is 
 appearing on these next gen systems lol. The detail shown in the expressions of Nariko's face when 
 choosing what mission lvl you want to go back is neat. The life like look in Kai's eyes is amazing. 
 The background is tantilizing and bright. I enjoyed it.
  
  My only real problems with this game where probably most everyone else's concerns: The time. The 
 game was incredibly short seeing as this game can be beaten with skilled gamers in around 9 hours 
 time. And the auto blocking lol.
  
  Heavenly Sword's over all replay value is minimal. You can go back through the lvls you liked the 
 most and play again. And there are "coins" and breakable items in each lvl to unlock special artwork 
 specifically for Heavenly Sword. Nothing to spectacular.
  
  But overall a very compelling game. If you're not into just wailing on people and giggling at their 
 demise like am, at least rent it. ^_^y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Disappointing would be a good word to describe heavenly sword.
  Since the game has so much potential...
  
  the fighiting is great, the graphics are great, 
 the sound, almost everything.
  so imagine all that potential but now throw it in a very short game with frustranting moments.
 
  thats why its so disappointing.
  a major problem is the game are the missions where you have to play with kay, a girl that instead 
 of having melee weapons, is an archer.
  those missions are boring and repetitive and considering the short campaign heavenly sword ends 
 really disappointing.
  there are some really great moments no doubt about that, but the game is so short (you can beat 
 it in 4 hours) that it simply wont worth it.
  other problem is the lack of any type of multiplayer mode.
  
  for fans of the genre is an interesting 
 game to rent, but dont pass that, dont even think about buying! since the reaply value is very 
 very low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abelav78
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  First of let me say. I never played God of War since I never had a ps2 but I can see why everybody 
 liked that type of gameplay. 
  
  Heavenly Sword is an immersive story of a woman chosen by fate or actually that makes her own fate. 
 Its a mixture of beautiful enviroments, story, great combat the classic minigame of God of War.
 
  
  Even if the game its short it has some epic and i mean EPIC moments. Some of the fights are incredible 
 vs the bosses or vs tons and tons of soldiers. It has one of the greatest fights in video games 
 that i seen so far. 
  
  The animation and motion capture of the actors is superb, even the issing whinny tone of Andy Serkis 
 falls in right.
  
  The combat its good but hard if you are not used to God of War games. You use 1 weapon but in different 
 variations which deliver a great deal of options for finishes and attack.
  
  The music and sound are also great. Graphics are amazing and the use of the sixaxxis even if its 
 just a small part of its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  All together I thought that Heavenly Sword was a good game, almost a great game but just almost. 
 There were a few things that held it back but also many things that made it great.
  
  I liked the Heavenly sword for its ability to transform into one of three weapons all with the 
 press of a button. To make the game more of a challenge they made the swords different forms not 
 only an addition but a necessity. Some enemies are heavier, thus, they need the bigger blade.
 
  
  The big thing that dragged it down was the way you got metals in the game. While some missions 
 were all too easy to get the required points others required you to use just the right moves in 
 just the right order, which stole from the game in my opinion.
  
  Besides this its a good game that PS3 owners should play but think before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endakol
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a game that that takes place in a fairly original world which is not named. This 
 world is some kind of cross between imperal China and the middle ages of Europe. The protagonist 
 Narriko, is a cutie in her own way. Narriko in the beginning of the game accuires the Heavenly 
 sword and from that point on, embarks on a quest to kill an evil greedy king known as Bohan, who 
 attacked and killed many of her people and captured her father.
  
  The gameplay is fair. The attacks are fun to use however blocking enemy attacks is a "special" 
 task. Unlock in most games similar to Heavenly Sword where you simply block to protect yourself, 
 in this game you have to make sure you are in the correct one of the three stances that corresponds 
 to the incoming attack. This way of blocking my not sound so bad, but in the heat of battle against 
 many foes, this can prove anoying. Aside from the fighting, the fact that you cannot jump in Heavenly 
 sword is rather strange. The environments feel rather restricted and are linear so perhaps jumping 
 would of made the player feel free.
  
  There are some unique aspects of gameplay that are quite memorable. The cannon sequences are epic 
 and are really satifying as you destroy literally hundreds of enemies charging at you which is 
 impressive. The sheild throwing to open doors should never appear in a game again it was ridicoulus. 
 Sony and developers will hopefully realize soon that no one likes the SIXAXIS. The final boss also 
 proves to be epic and really lifts the game up to the title "Heavenly Sword". 
  
  The audio in this game was very good. The Voice acting was pretty than many other games out right 
 now and that is a good thing. The facial expressions and emotion made the cutscenes memorable. 
 The music was not bad, some of the music didnt really capture the scene but the final boss music 
 was excellent. 
  
  Overall Heavenly Sword is a great game that can be improved. If you have a PS3, you should have 
 this game, it is enjoyable but not perfect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razlken
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword surprised me a lot; I must be honestly firstly I thought the game was a total rip-off 
 from god of war, and well they are slightly similar in game play but nothing else.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics is Great, the PS3 is great system and the scenery are wonderful. 
 animations are well made and CGI Movies are spectacular. The Characters' Facial Details are extremely 
 realistic.
  
  Enemies are well made even if they actually look too much like each other.
  
  Audio:
  
  The Audio is Perfect, great soundtrack that blends perfectly with the environment 
 and with the moment's feeling. The milestone of game: the Voice Acting is perfect, some will complain 
 for the British accent not being realistic with nomad semi-oriental characters, but it actually 
 fits pretty well and when you get used to it you'll love it.
  
  Story:
  
  The Story is Completely original and perfectly presented by the Characters acting, the game will 
 let you feel as if you are actually inside the game with them. The story is simple but good enough 
 to extend your playing hours.
  
  The Story is simple, a Clan protects the Heavenly sword from mortals, as it is believed the the 
 sword drains the life of its wielder, waiting for their heavenly warrior to come and reclaim it. 
 Nariko the Clan leader's daughter is believed to be cursed and to be the cause of misfortune for 
 the clan. when an Evil king in search of the sword attacks the clan and take Nariko's Father as 
 a hostage, Nariko Uses the sword and so a story of revenge begins for Nariko. 
  
  GamePlay:
  
  As i already stated Gameplay is Similar to god of war, but with some good modifications. 
 To Parry you simply stand still and Nariko automatically defends herself. As for attack The Heavenly 
 sword has 3 modes; Speed, Power & Range mode. Speed is fast but has medium strength, Power is strong 
 but really slow, Range is really fast but weak & has the ability to deflect projectiles.
  
  What makes the game play special is the fact that enemies too have these modes (apart from the 
 range) and to counter attack them u need to select that mode yourself and pressing the attack button 
 after Nariko automatically defends herself. This makes the gameplay addictive and not too easy, 
 so there is always challenge.
  
  Some sections require you to use the sixaxis to curve the trajectory of arrows or cannon balls. 
 They are pretty annoying parts but after a while you'll get used to it and like it.
  
  Boss fights are easy enough to be repeated max 2 times, but the last one gives a slightly more 
 challenging time.
  
  Combos range from normal to Super-moves, the fact you cannot just actually annoys a lot, but it's 
 compensated with a lot of aerial combos if you can actually master the sixaxis. You can perform 
 super moves on bosses (god of war style) or simpler ones, but still devastating, on normal enemies.
 
  
  Other:
  
  The Game is too short for most gamers, the story and gameplay help to mask this fact, but not too 
 much. Play time ranges from 10 to 7 hours and that is extremely short (but worth it) .
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game is a Classic Just get it and play it, it's worth it a 100%!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the first previews for this game I not only heard, but also noticed the similarities 
 to God of War, but I had no idea until I got it that it is nothing but God of War with boobs. All 
 kidding aside I really enjoyed this game, the cutscenes and acting are of movie quality, and it 
 had some really likable characters; Kai, Roach, and King Bohan being my favorites.
  
  The gameplay is very fun at first, but then you notice that Nariko occasionally goes into a cinematic, 
 violent take down on an enemy, then after this happends a few times you realize that these are 
 completely independent of your commands. Twards the end you run into these "Ninja" women who can 
 only be effectively hit by the ranged stance, however this is a very weak attack and takes about 
 five minutes for each enemy. The Kai segments are my favorite, mainly becuase you have a crossbow 
 and Kai's childish behavior.
  
  The boss fights are deeply cinematic and pull you into the experience better than just about any 
 other game. The only problem with the boss fights is that they range from piss easy (Roach) , to 
 teeth-grinding difficulty (second Flying Fox fight and Bohan) . The bosses also have a seemingly 
 neverending life bar, which is very frustrating.
  
  This game was overall very enjoyable and my biggest complaint was that it can be finished in a 
 weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  In it's early life the PlayStation 3 has been bashed to no end for it's lack of quality exclusives. 
 For the most part these complaints are justified, but at the same time games like Heavenly Sword 
 should not be ignored or discredited.
  
  Heavenly Sword is one of the best gaming experiences you will find on any console right now. Upon 
 completing it, I was reminded why I love playing video games so much. It's just a shame the game 
 was so short, and replay value isn't too high.
  
  The game plays like an epic movie, with some of the best cutscenes ever seen in a video game. You 
 won't find a game with better facial expression and delivery in cut scenes.
  
  The game play is hit and miss, but fortunately for the most part succeeds. Yes, this game rips 
 off God of War. Fortunately the God of War games are some of the best games ever made, so the source 
 material is top notch. Unfortunately Heavenly Sword plays out a lot more like a button masher than 
 the skilled and deep combat found in God of War.
  
  The game's biggest letdown, and what prevents it from being a truly great game recommended to everyone 
 to buy is it's length. I beat it on medium difficulty in my first play through in about 6 hours. 
 Yes, the 6 hours was great for the most part, but for the $60 retail price it's a pretty hard pill 
 to swallow for a game with such short length and little replay value.
  
  At $20-30 this game is probably just worth a purchase, but if you haven't played it already, go 
 rent this game. It really should not be missed, and for the price of a rental you can't really 
 beat the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's start out by saying this is a good game, even though it is a female version of "God of War". 
 The graphics are very good, but not great. The game play was also good. At times the game can get 
 real cheesy. Your sword passes through your intended target, but theirs always hit its mark.
  The after-touch takes a while to get, but once you have it, it a great resource. May be in HS 2 
 they'll give them eagle eye vision and you can zoom in on distant target. The story line is great 
 and I really got into it, but the game is short, really short. May be the developers did it on 
 purpose so we might yearn for more, hopefully HS2 will be longer and not so cheesy. Over all I 
 did enjoy the game, I recommend it as an excellent rental. I bought it for $10.00, and I am happy 
 with my purchase. $39.99, may be a little to high of a price considering the games length.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword follows Nariko and Kai whose village protects the heavenly sword from an attacking 
 king. Nariko has to use the sword though to save her village. But by using the sword it ensures 
 that she will die because the sword will slowly suck away her life. The action is mostly just go 
 around smashing people up but with Kai you get to shoot arrows using the sixaxis which is fun. 
 Animation of special attacks are fun to watch. The story is not bad. The game however is very short 
 at around 7 hours. The game ends much too quickly to be a great game. It is also a very easy game 
 with not much skill involved; you just have to run up to someone and press buttons. Atleast there 
 are different attacks you can do with the heavenly sword including strength, range, and quick attacks 
 that add diversity to the gameplay. The game is average and I do not recommend buying it as it 
 is much too short of a game to spend sixty dollars on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is one of my favorite ps3 games in my collection. The story is original and interesting. 
 The characters are deep. The action is beautifully rendered in 720p. The controls are tight. The 
 game is 7 hours long. Wait thats not a good thing..
  
  You star as Nariko a fiery red head thats part of a clan that is protecting a powerful sword from 
 an evil emperor that is slowly taking over the land. Heres the twist nariko decides to use the 
 sword against The emperor "Bohan". To fight back revenge for killing her clan but the sword will 
 kill her in a matter of days. 
  
  The fun twist to using the sword is that there are three stances you can use to dice your enemies: 
 regular, speed: which basically turns them into kratos like blades, and power which makes your 
 attacks slow but powerful. there is also a finishing move circle on the top of your screen basically 
 there are three dots. when one of the dots turns orange you can press circle to do a finishing 
 move. The more dots you have the more awesome and satisfying the finishing move is. The finishing 
 move also varies on your stance adding more variety.
  
  Now for graphics the game looks spectacular. You now that Gears of War 2 demo they showed with 
 the locust horde mindlessly running through the gridlock map? Yeah, heavenly sword did that first. 
 Sorry cliff. Anyway the game looks great and the are tons of enemies on screen to add to the depth.
 
  
  Overall i recommend this to any one with a ps3. But they should know they will only get about 7 
 hours out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  I brought this game a few months after it came out. I new it was short but my mates said it was 
 great so I thought I'll give it ago. I manged to get through it in six hours across two days of 
 gaming. When the credits roled up I thought to myself "Why didn't I rent this?" This game is the 
 perfect rental. There's nothing terrible about it. It seems as if everything is just small. For 
 example, you get no new moves across the game, only 3-4 types of enemys and the length of the game 
 is 6-8 hours long. I can over look that but the thing that really miffed me of was the bosses life 
 bars are the biggest ever!! The game dosen't really do platforming instead it uses the contact 
 sensative moments... All the time!! It really does over uses it. But once again I can overlook 
 that ( But other people can not.) I mean I love God of War and that does it too. The story is okay 
 nothing special though. Graphics are cool and the motion capture really brings the characters to 
 life. All together 7 out of 10. The perfect rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inditra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a great action packed game that brings to mind games like God of War. A entertaining 
 beat-em-up, it's too short for it's own good, but it's terrific voice acting, engaging characters 
 and great storyline will keep you hooked for the few short hours it runs. I thought the sequences 
 with Kai ran a little long. They were great for the first fifteen minutes or so, but after shooting 
 people for about an hour I was anxious to get back to Nariko.
  
  The controls are responsive and quick and the Aftertouch feature uses the motion controls to the 
 best of their ability.
  
  The only content I can really dog on is the puzzles. This game has the easiest puzzles I have ever 
 encountered. Gong + shields = durrrr. It's like the developers forgot they needed to include any 
 puzzles at all and had to slap something together at the last minute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a game that is all about style. Full of high flying acrobatics and great looking 
 graphics it had certainly made an impression on me when first announced, and while a good game 
 I can't help but feel disappointed on a lot of levels by the substance left in the final result.
 
  
  The story to Heavenly Sword revolves around a cursed sword that is desired by a megalomaniac known 
 as King Bohan. The sword however is guarded by a clan of warriors pledged to defend it. Their prophecy 
 spoke of a boy, born to wield the sword and save the world from tyranny. The truth, a girl was 
 born, Nariko; now she is the only thing that stands between the clan and extinction...
  
  ... This largely involves killing hundreds upon hundreds of soldiers attacking you by the command 
 of king Bohan. Sure there are puzzles here and there and the occasional quick time event but they 
 are merely stepping stones for more killing.
  
  Nariko herself wields the Heavenly sword, cursed as it is, yet it should be the "Heavenly SwordS" 
 as there seems to be two more often then not. You see, as Nariko is fighting the sword can take 
 on a different shape depending on what stance she takes, from speed, range and power. These stances 
 all have different strengths in attack and defense, for example the range attack does less damage 
 but has a longer reach and can block arrows... yet can't block melee attacks while speed and power 
 can block melee attacks of their respected type but attack power varies. These stances are easily 
 jumped between even in mid attack by pressing either L1 or R1 while using square or triangle to 
 throw together a huge amount of combo or counter attacks.
  
  Counters are really the pinnacle of what Heavenly Sword is about... looking good. Nariko blocks 
 automatically when not attacking and in the right stance, but if triangle is pressed just after 
 the attack is blocked she will counter in a rather over the top way. This could be anything to 
 a huge mid air summersault combo to a rather simple through and leg break, but whichever move is 
 done, they all look fantastic and just ooze style, I never got bored of the counters.
  
  At certain parts in the game the character you control is swapped to a young, and completely insane 
 looking cat girl called Kai. She plays "twing twang" which is in laments terms, she has a bow, 
 and she shoots people. These sections seem to have been thrown in for more variety in the gameplay 
 and are a success up to a point. Once the arrows are launched, should you choose you can continue 
 to control the path of where it goes with the six axis controller (though you can change this to 
 the analogue stick in the options) which while you are up high and stationary is great fun, but 
 when on the ground and guards are running at you in small clustered environments is kind of frustrating 
 as Kai has no melee attacks so you end up dodging round trying to kill them with the bow. Fortunately 
 these sections are small and rare so don't detract from the experience all that much.
  
  Nariko also has sections like this, but she uses a cannon. As you can imagine the impact areas 
 of where you hit are a bit more forgiving with her. XD
  
  As Nariko progresses in her quest she will come across Bohans generals, which are essentially bosses. 
 The first boss is a ninja called Flying Fox, I am singling him out for a reason here. His voice 
 is infuriating. Especially if he kills you (even more infuriating because to kill him you have 
 to pass an annoying quick time event) because the first in game cutscene while you kill his men 
 and have to here him sayI love style" with his ear spitting voice almost made me stop playing 
 the game. The checkpoints for that section were really broken.
  
  The rest of the boss fights are hit and miss but the final boss fight more then made up for the 
 others in scale and counter battling. It is just a shame that the others lacked that sort of depth.
 
  
  The sound for this game is mainly very good, especially some great popping sounds when arrows puncture 
 skulls and some top notch voice acting by Andy Serkin (golum LOTR) as King Bohan (any line that 
 is said using "sacred genitals" as the centre piece is pure gold imo) and a solid performance for 
 Nariko as well, yet as afore mentioned, Flying Fox is just awful and annoying, I mean really grating.
 
  
  Visually Heavenly Sword is a winner though. The scale of the areas, the oriental fusion design 
 for the buildings and characters with an amazing amount of troops on screen at once make for some 
 impressive visuals, all at a completely steady frame rate.
  
  While there are plenty of extras to unlock from making of movies to galleries depending on how 
 many style points you acquire in each section Nariko moves through, the game is just far too short. 
 It can be completed in less then 10 hours and outside of trying to unlock extras you may have missed 
 there is very little incentive to play through it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellyg619
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Sitting down to write this review, I find it really difficult to find a flaw with this game. This 
 game alone makes you fall in love with your PS3 over and over again each time you play it, as this 
 game feels so fresh and unique. Why so? Well where to start?
  Well the story and the game's universe for one is exceptional in creating an immersive experience 
 for the player. The story alone will keep you hooked until the very end as you desperately try 
 to find out what happens. Whats also great are the cutscenes, which are all motion captured, providing 
 a great viewing experience aswell as really bringing out the characters which their different personalities 
 and their truly amazing facial expressions, which really do help tell the story and fall in love/hate 
 the characters as necessary.
  Of course the sound is exceptional too, whether it be the great dialouges from the various characters 
 or even just the background music, which sounds so familiar to films like Gladiator and 300 in 
 my opinion. 
  The gameplay aswell is so diverse that it never gets boring and provides constant entertainment. 
 Whether it'll be the hack and slash moments, which has a deep enough combat system so it doesnt 
 get old quick, or whether it be the puzzles. Not only this but the real innovation comes in the 
 form of a playable character who can shoot arrows, yet u can control the arrows by tilting the 
 Sixaxis controller. At first it seems difficult but eventually becomes so much fun. Finally there's 
 a game that uses the Sixaxis controller to good effect and doesnt feel like a tacky add-on to the 
 game. The boss battles aswell are gr8, with a familiar God of War type system when the boss has 
 low health.
  Yet the problem is the shortness of the game, if I was being picking. Yes it's short yet you probably 
 will go back and play this game over and over to collect all the unlockables and to beat the games 
 on the hardest difficulty mode. A game that truly deserves to be in everyone PS3 owners collection 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: con_matrix
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Similar to God Of War. Some of the Best fighting scenes and Boss battles I've ever seen in a beat' 
 em up. My highlights of the game were the levels riding high and The Goddess. Heavenly Sword also 
 has brilliant characters like Flying Fox, King Bohan, Kai and Roach. One of the best games available 
 for using the six axis feature. Hugely enjoyable but a bit short. It has some really difficult levels 
 like Eye of the Storm, To kill a fox and Heaven and Hell which took up most of my playing time 
 trying to do them over and over again. Through the game you'll see text come up on the left side 
 of the screen with messages saying you've unlocked something, I recommend to look at the artwork 
 and more because some of the drawings and animations are amazing. I also have a tip for using the 
 cannon, imagine a dot in the middle of the screen, try and imagine that dot and then move it over 
 your target so you don't have to use the six axis as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Is Heavenly Sword really all that heavenly? An extremely short game, that at times looked like 
 a PS3 game, and at others looked like a PS2 game, that is clearly a knock off of the highly successful 
 God of War series. I wouldn't say this game is "heavenly" but it is very good. If you like hack 
 n' slash games, this is a must have. If you enjoyed God of War 1/2, you will enjoy this. The game 
 isn't all that repetitive, as you unlock new combos through the whole game. The only reason I say 
 it becomes a "been there, done that" experience is because it goes from a different kind of game, 
 but with similar gameplay to God of War, to pretty much the same thing. Battling though legions 
 of enemies to kill the big important guy, and fighting weird bosses along the way.
  
  The story itself is very interesting, and the characters are very interesting. Kai is probably 
 the oddest characters I've ever played as. Also, the coolest feature in the game has to be the 
 ability to steer projectiles that you've thrown with the Sixaxis controller. Overall, it's a great 
 game, but unless you love hack n' slash games, or are a big God of War, rent this game first, because 
 you will probably beat it before the it's due back to the video store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This is an under-appreciated game. Yes, it is short... very short, but the last quarter or so of 
 it is absolutely epic. It really makes the whole game worth playing through. The "Final Battle" 
 is one of the most incredible war scenes I've ever seen in either games or movies. Literally thousands 
 of people on screen at the same time, plus an immense environment, and siege weaponry... It is 
 amazing. The game overall is a very attractive game. The gameplay, however, is a little bland. 
 There are 2 attack buttons and 3 stances, and combos that evolve from them. It is a lot of just 
 button mashing. There is a second character that you get to play and controlling her arrows into 
 your targets really breaks up the mashing nicely. It really is a fun game, but it might be worthwhile 
 to wait until it hits $30 as a greatest hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  First off, this games graphics are very good, and the game's Voice Acting is done pretty well as 
 well.
  
  The game also has alot of awesome and useful combo's that you can learn throughout the while as 
 you play. The begenning of the game starts out with you at the final battle, and show's Nariko 
 getting overwhelmed by the Heavenly Sword. Then it takes you into what happened in the days leading 
 up to the final battle.
  
  The game's animation is done very well and is one of the great things about this game. The game 
 also has a couple of "i cant believe that just happened" moments in which you either feel bad for 
 what happened to a certain character or you feel as if the character is a complete arrogant jerk.
 
  
  The game also has some pretty good boss battles, and will keep you wanting to play more and more 
 as you play the game.
  
  The only bad things about the game is if your using the sixaxis to try to direct the arrow's cannon's 
 missles, etc then it is very, very annoying.
  
  Luckily, you can go into the options menu to turn after touch off which allow's you to use the 
 analog sticks to steer the object you threw or shot which is 10 times better then trying to use 
 the sixaxis controller. With the sixaxis controller you'll find yourself getting very frustrated 
 with the game, espically in timed parted of the game when you have a couple of minutes to do a 
 couple of things using the aftertouch feature.
  
  And, to top it off, you cant jump in the game. Luckily you can sideroll, but personally I think 
 it would have been alot better if you were able to jump and sideroll. I found myself many times 
 trying to jump until I realized that I couldnt.
  
  The only other complaint that I have is that the game is way too short, the game is only 6 chapters 
 long, which is disapointing, but luckily most of the chapters are pretty long, and all the unlockable 
 stuff as well as all the fighting sequences in the game well make up for it.
  
  Overall this is a very well made hack and slash game and honestly, if your a Playstation 3 owner, 
 then this should be in your collection, you may find yourself wanting to come back to this game 
 many times.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, you unlock quite a good amount of stuff while playing the game. You unlock 
 quite a good amount of stuff for the Art Gallery, as well as Video's (all the cutscene's in the 
 game, which is something I like because really like because alot of the cutscenes are worth watching 
 again and again, and if you watch them all back to back it could seem like a very well made CGI 
 movie.) as well as making of movies for Heavenly Sword (all of which you can find in the Special 
 Features section of the main menu) as well as upon completion of the game you unlock a new difficulty 
 called Hell Mode.
  
  So in a nutshell, the game was made very well, good animation's as well as good voice acting, tons 
 of unlockables as well as fighting sequences, and if your a fan of hack and slash games then tons 
 of replay ability. Game is definately worth buying if your a hack and slash game, or just a fan 
 of great well made games with tons of unlockables. If your still unsure about buying this game, 
 then please do yourself a favor and rent the game. You wont be sorry at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword looks like a good action game, but does it deliver. Many people might look at this 
 game and think that is a very good looking game, but they are halfway right.
  First of all, heavenly sword is a type of God of War rip off, it has some same moves a fighting 
 styles. It kind of makes the God of War games look bad (even though they are amazing) , but they 
 arent as good.
  The story is too short for a start, and you can get it done within, as the main gamespot review 
 would say, about an afternoon, which, if you read my reviews, are a thing I hate in most games.
 
  Secondly the graphics are outstanding, they make the enviroment look real in many ways. The voice 
 quality and sound are pretty good for an HD game, but the controls dont feel right most of the 
 time, the only thing that feels right is the Sixaxis, which in the time needed is pretty cool, 
 but when you are facing a boss, you may find yourself getting frustrated, and end up pressing buttons 
 alot just to kill one boss.
  If you are a fan of god of war, then you wont like this game, but if you have no other game to 
 play for your ps3, then you might find yourself liking this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok I did enjoy it but as you all know its very short. Only took a few sittings to complete the 
 game. I think everyone knows this by now but that is its major failing point.
  
  Now even though the game is short its definitely packed full of goodies, there isn't a dull moment 
 in this game. We have some excellent graphics and a setting I was actually surprised by with the 
 majority of the game taking place in a very vibrant city with giant cliffs and gorgeous waterfalls. 
 I was expecting a dark setting but this is very mythological in a way. Definitely a refreshing 
 look for a game. Great art direction, which in my opinion is the most important aspect of graphics 
 in a game now.
  
  The characters are essentially well done though two of the main bad guys they were just stereotypical 
 psychopaths. Now the King is so well done, could be one of the best portrayed villains in a game. 
 Note i say portrayed, this does not mean he was my favorite villain in general. What i mean by 
 this is he is well acted by Andy Serkis from Lord of the Rings fame. 
  
  The story is generally interesting with you the heroine taking up the heavenly sword to protect 
 your people and crush the evil king but in doing so the sword will eventually kill you. It starts 
 at this point with you dying with the sword then it backtracks 5 days and you play up until that 
 point. Its nothing in depth but its more then adequate to carry the game. There are some good funny 
 moments in the game showing a much lighter side of things which at first seems out of sync but 
 eventually sink in and you look forward to seeing more.
  
  The gameplay is simple and easy to get right into the mix. The fighting is definitely very fun 
 especially when you use super combos which instantly kill an opponent in a very cinematic way going 
 into slow motion so you can see the damage your inflicting on your victim and the many more that 
 are surrounding you. 
  
  There is another character you get to play who is a worm eating freak of a girl but she is surprisingly 
 likable. I always hate kids in movies so this is strange for me. Her missions are basically her 
 shooting from a perched position at incoming enemies. You use the six axis controls to guide arrows 
 at your enemies, this can hard at times but you get use to it. It does get a bit tedious when you 
 have to run around with her because your just basically shooting like mad and enemies up close 
 to take them down and your not able to go into the slow motion six axis control mode. This was 
 a problem but not overly so.
  
  Now a beef i did have with the gameplay was that it was far to forgiving. Once you complete one 
 fight you often get all your health back, i think this should have been balanced a bit more since 
 this made the game on the easy side. I also think this helps cause it to be so short since you 
 just blast your way through knowing you will not be punished for much.
  
  The boss fights were another issue. They were fun but on a whole felt a little uninspired. Mostly 
 relying on types of cycles that they go through. Its a standard that has been in games for a while 
 now. Not entirely bad but if the bosses were more based on your skill during the rest of the game 
 rather then knowing that if the boss starts doing X you have to do Y and you will win.
  
  Now i cant tell anyone to lay out the full price for this unless you really do have the money to 
 put down on it but if your not rich like most of us I would just wait for a rainy weekend, do yourself 
 a favor and rent this. You will be done by Sunday and would have fully enjoyed it. Though if you 
 can pick it up used that may be an option as well. 
  
  Very fun, beautiful game that is only truly marred by its length and some standard boss battles. 
 Rent it if you haven't you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  .......... One thig  yet. This is 
 how it makes me feel. Annoyed. Yes it is a good game with great bosses and good cut scenes + an good 
 plot in the sense taht its not to complicated which isnt a bad thing but if done wrong can f** 
 the game up. The game play is a button masher so if you dont want to get your prescious controller 
 destroyed dont bother ,as well as this the combat is not complex and doesnt do great when a boss 
 is one minuscule bar away and you die because the damn game doesnt respond quick enough (Its the 
 game............... i think)
  There isnt a lot of replayabilty which doent help the game and after one goon after another you 
 wouldnt really want to play it again. A good game but suffering from to many repitative enemies 
 doesnt make it anything special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a pretty descent game. It reminds me so much of God of War though. The gameplay 
 is akmost exactly the same. From the little minigames you do at certain times, to way the game 
 is layed out. It's like Kratos got a sex change and moved to a new game. Also, on the bright side, 
 the graphics are very good. The game itself is also fun at times. 
  
  The only really bad thing about this game is that it is wayyyyyy too short. its like a movie. Its 
 fun while you play it, but it eventually, early on , ends. It sucks, but thats what happens. Anyway, 
 its cool how you can use two differnt weapons and do cool combos with them. So, overall, its just 
 an okay game. I dont recomend, but if you want to, you can go out and get it, bu t idont think 
 it is worth sixty bucks, mor e like forty or thirty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is about a village of people who are getting attacked by an evil king who wants 
 a special sword that the village people have. Cliche I know but this game is told in such a great 
 fashion you will want to see the ending. Nariko the main character is the one that will be in charge 
 of guarding the sword. At first she doesn't equip the sword because anyone who does use the sword 
 will eventually die from its powers. When she does finally equip it that's when things really get 
 interesting. The sword has three different attacks. Aerial, regular and strong. Each are easy to 
 identify by the color you get when you swing the sword. The combat in this game is very similar 
 to god of war which is a good thing. Nariko's father was kidnapped by the evil king. She has to 
 rescue her father from the king to get him back. Along her journey she encounters three different 
 bosses which she has to fight; two of which are the kings sons. The games presentation is just 
 jaw dropping in the cut scenes and the boss fights. Nariko counters many evils in her way while 
 she gets to each boss. At times you will play as Nariko's little side kick where you do some shooting 
 missions which are not terribly fun but they do mix things up a bit. Nariko doesn't have that long 
 of a journey but to me the way the story is told it is perfect for this game. The final Boss fight 
 is epic in this game and throughout this game you will be amazed with the games graphics. This 
 is one of the best games I have ever played and I think everyone should experience this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meluvulongtime8
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a story about Nariko, a curse as seen by some people of her warrior clan that 
 began at her birth. Nariko's clan is under attack from King Bohan an evil ruler who is after the 
 clan to capture the Heavenly Sword as a trophy possession. Nariko's clan has always protected the 
 ancient sword which is said to have great power at an even greater cost to the wielder. The clan 
 has been running from King Bohan and his cohorts for some time, but when a moment of desperation 
 occurs Nariko is forced to wield the heavenly sword to attempt save her clan, her father, and stop 
 Bohan.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a beat em up action style game. I think of it as being a mix between the GOW 
 and Ninja Gaiden series amongst others. Although like other games Heavenly Sword creates another 
 experience of its own. It is an exciting and cinematic game that may make you beg for more due 
 to it's fast action and blockbuster feel. This truly is a game that makes you feel like you're 
 in a movie and fighting alongside the heroes because of the high production values. The cinematic 
 scenes are beautifully done and the combos look gorgeous. Thousands of enemies encircle on screen 
 at times and your attacks become a rhythmic dance moving from one enemy to another while taking 
 them out. 
  
  Throughout the game you will be playing as Nariko and her friend Kai. When playing as Nariko you 
 wield the heavenly sword creating combos to annihilate your numerous foes. While button smashing 
 is an element of the game it is more complex with the integration of various stances. Each stance 
 creates new attacks that include speed, range, and power. The enemies are also in different stances 
 that in order to block their attacks you must be using the required stance and at times counters. 
 In addition to the stances are combos that can be unlocked. Besides just using general attacks, 
 weapons/barrels/shields can be picked up and throw at enemies.
  
  Kai's strength is not in close combat, but in using her crossbow and introduces a different gameplay 
 concept called aftertouch. Aftertouch is a function that allows you to aim and direct projectile 
 weapons with Sixaxis controls. Not many games have integrated Sixaxis controls with success, but 
 this is a great example of excellent integration. Guiding projectiles to meet their mark brings 
 you even closer to the feeling of being in a blockbuster movie. Both Nariko and Kai utilize aftertouch 
 throughout the game.
  
  Replay value may be a question to some. Some people feel this game is far too short clocking in 
 at around 6-8 hours. While there is no online multiplayer there is unlockable content in the form 
 of  attack combos. Whether you choose to purchase or rent Heavenly 
 Sword may be a question, but it's a game that all PS3 owners should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xriceballx
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword presents us with Nariko, a young woman who holds the burden of the sword that is 
 believed to have been sent down from heaven. Wielding the heavenly sword enhances her strength 
 at the cost of her life. Many people desire the power of this sword, thus it is up to Nariko's 
 clan to protect it from corruption. King Bohan invades her village to steal the weapon. Is Nariko 
 the successor of the Heavenly Sword? Will she be able to defend her village and protect the ancient 
 sword? It is up to her to defend her hopeless village from the tyranny of King Bohan.
  
  Utilizing combos and attack styles, Nariko can perform devastating counter moves and take out an 
 entire army on her own. Depending on the color, Nariko can perform a speed, ranged, and power attacks 
 to dismantle her foes. There's also the quick-time events that'll test your ability to map buttons 
 as they appear on screen. 
  
  Sounds easy? Not quite as easy as you think. When surrounded by more than 20 soldiers, it can be 
 difficult to spot an oncoming attack. The enemy AI is really inconsistent. The heavily armored 
 ones love to block all day. The lighter enemies enjoys standing around doing nothing. You'll find 
 yourself constantly rolling around and mashing the attack button. Naturally, this is a good technique 
 and it works well. However by the end of the chapter you'll begin to realize that circle-strafing 
 is all you need to complete this game.
  
  Puzzles are far and in-between chapters. They primarily involve the use of the six-axis controller. 
 Almost all the puzzles are alike in which it requires you to fire an object into a bell to open 
 up a door. Utilizing the Six-axis, you'll need to guide the direction of your projectile and try 
 to hit the mark. It's difficult at first, but fast to pick up. You can also pick up dead bodies 
 and Frisbee them into an enemy or off a cliff. There's a lot of environmental interactions in Heavenly 
 Sword and its fun and sure way to win the charm of any gamer.
  
  The main highlight of the game is in the sound and art department. Don't be surprised if you ever 
 find yourself not blinking, Heavenly Sword has superb presentation and a colorful cast of characters. 
 There are some minor slowdowns and inconsistent frame-rates but it's a small price to pay for truly 
 popcorn moments. The voice acting fit's the character's personality perfectly. I've played this 
 on the default English language and you can expect Hollywood productions in the voice work. A game 
 like this has been done thousands of time before by Koei, Ninja theory adds a 2nd playable character 
 to break the repetitive nature of the game and it works well enough to last 6 hours through this 
 short adventure.
  
  There's a few language tracks in the game (mostly European) and a slew of unlockable bonuses. For 
 those who cant get enough of Nariko, there's an unlockable Hell mode for you. It would've been 
 better if Ninja Theory focused more on adding more varied game play, more complex story, and more 
 varied environments. There's absolutely no customization or growth system. The majority of the 
 time you'll be following linear passages from point A to C and slaying 1oo's of soldiers.
  
  The whole game adds up to one short journey that's "pretty" to look at and a bit shallow. Aside 
 from watching the high budget cut scenes, you won't be coming back for a 2nd run. The loading times 
 takes 30-45 seconds to boot up a stage. Its okay for starters but to restart a stage after a rare 
 case of dying, it gets tedious watching the same loading screen for 45 seconds to boot up. After 
 completing the game, you'll unlock a slew of bonuses like the art gallery and treated to an uninspired 
 ending. 
  
  Sometimes graphics do make a game, and that was the mentality of Ninja theory. A high budget game 
 plagued with shallow game play and stuttering frame-rates. Yes its short but "beat-em up" should 
 never be too long. Heavenly Sword is easily recommended for fan of hack and slash, however the 
 lack of any customization and replay value won't leave a lasting impression. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  You can't beat the graphics of Heavenly Sword no you can't. They are too detailed and sharp and 
 is like candy for your eyes. The gameplay is so brilliant and jumping from wires feels so real 
 that you would play all day and finish the game in 8 hours as it is also short. Enemy A. I works 
 perfect and your enemies can sometimes outsmart you. The blood and effects are very clear and sharp. 
 The game feels like God Of War just more Next Gen and cooler. Otherwise the gameplay is much the 
 same as GOW. If you a big fan of GOW or just brutal games then Heavenly Sword is just for you. 
 
  
  The story and characters are very interesting and each category is unique and undefied. The weapons 
 of Heavelny Sword are so vicious and the mechanics are just amazing. I highly recommend this game 
 to absolutely anyone who is a fan of action/advenure games and is looking for some fun. Heavenly 
 Sword is like the most exciting 8 hous of your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Why is is that every time an excellent game comes out, that adds something new to the gaming world 
 it has to be cloned and brought out again by different people?
  
  That's exactly what this game is. Not only is this a blatant god of war clone (and a bad, short, 
 expensive one at that) it's a boring, repetitive, obnoxious game.
  
  The combat is almost the exact same as god of war, with less cool cinematic reversals and kills, 
 less cool bosses, about a quarter play time (which is sad for a 60$ next-gen game) and graphics 
 that really aren't that much better.
  
  Not to mention it follows suit with an annoying phase that a lot of games have, where the initial 
 game is almost easy enough to play while sleeping, and then has a ridiculous, cheap boss at the 
 end to annoy you, until you don't want to play it anymore.
  
  Let's also talk about the characters. Besides Bohan, and Shen, the characters are annoying, and 
 almost all of them possess a terribly obnoxious, whiny voice. Nariko looks like ashanti with synthetic 
 dreadlocks, Kai is by far the most annoying character in a game since navi in ocarina of time, 
 flying fox is too screwed up for words, same with the half snake half woman, and roach.
  
  Besides fighting the same characters throughout the game there's really nothing else to do, at 
 least god of war had more than 5 different kinds of enemies.
  
  I give this game a 6.0 only because it was short enough that it didn't give me too much of a headache, 
 because it was over about 4 hours after I started playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword reminded me a lot of God of War in more ways than one. The action is very similar, 
 but each is unique. In this game there's basically 3 types of attacks, and an enemy will flash 
 a certain color, and you have to counter them using what color is coordinated to that attack. It's 
 a pretty simple idea, and it works ok. And it can get very hard through the course of it! 
  
  What I liked about this game is that you can throw weapons or whatever, and then control them 
 using the six-axis. Plus there's a ton of visual action that can lead to insane combos. That was 
 a lot of fun, especially in perspective. The characters are quirky yet likeable. I can't believe 
 they got Andy Serkis to play the main bad guy! Whoa! He's probably the most likeable character 
 in the who game.
  
  What I didn't like... the enemies keep appearing and appearing and take forever to kill in large 
 groups. Biggest issue here though: This game is too short! It took me about 6 hours to finish it! 
 I want to see more from this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Theory's epic hack and slash adventure Heavenly Sword has a great deal of weight on its shoulders 
 at launch, thanks largely to its own grand ambitions. At well-over four years in the making, and 
 boasting Hollywood production values to a level previously unseen in a game, Heavenly Sword was 
 always going to court a huge amount of hype, and with that, carry a weighty burden of expectation.
 
  
  Add the PlayStation3's underwhelming catalogue of games to the equation, and Heavenly Sword's long 
 established reputation as a desperately needed system saviour, and you can already smell painful 
 disappointment looming in the hot air pumped out of your PS3.
  
  So it is a pleasure to discover that while it isn't quite the slice of infallible digital perfection 
 many had hoped it to be, Heavenly Sword is a wonderful release of breathtaking beauty that lets 
 us peek into the bright future of gaming.
  
  Both in cut-scenes and in-game the visuals are gorgeous to behold, and linger in your mind like 
 a sweet taste in your mouth. Each level is designed with incredible care and attention to detail, 
 and the sense of a complete and coherent world goes a long way to whisking you far away from the 
 controller in your hand and the bland reality of sitting gawping at a screen. The sound too is 
 immense in its conception, with a wide-ranging and reactive dramatic score that is the backdrop 
 to a colossal and rich range of sound effects.
  
  And yet it is not the incredible sweeping vistas that surround each level or the minute particulars 
 of a character's pores and wrinkles that is most striking. Instead, it is Heavenly Sword's almost 
 eerie ability to genuinely convey emotion. Using both production and acting talent from the teams 
 behind the Lord of the Rings and King Kong movies, and revolutionary motion-capture techniques, 
 each cut-scene is peppered with some amazing moments.
  
  Those moments are the ones when it hits you that games might finally be on the cusp of growing 
 up. When a character is implemented with incredibly well-synched voice acting of high quality movie 
 standard, and their facial expressions are convincing and enticing, you can't help but think gaming's 
 time to shine has come. If a game can convey emotion, it can tackle adult issues, or explore romance, 
 or do any other number of things that have previously been tinged with a cringe in virtual realms.
 
  
  Emotion also makes ample space for character, and Heavenly sword is brimming with personality, 
 from the hilarious henchmen of the king through to Andy Serkis's superb performance as the maniacal, 
 sarcastic tyrant. It is the game's main protagonist Nariko though, that steals the show. She is 
 both charismatic and stoic, and has enough sass and style to get away with how little she wears, 
 making her a real Lara-beater across the board.
  
  But lofty goals like Hollywood acting and human emotion are not the primary concern of games. Interaction 
 defines them, and it is the gameplay in Heavenly Sword that must really bare the brunt of any critique 
 of the title. Generally, the gameplay is of an impressive standard, but it's Ninja Theory's choice 
 of genre that causes problems for an otherwise near flawless game.
  
  The hack and slash, which has always managed to impress at the dawn of new consoles with showy 
 releases such as Onimusha and Devil May Cry, is not just a hardcore gamer's genre, but a purist 
 gamer's genre. The very things that define sword-swishing romps also stifle them, and limit their 
 appeal to the casual player.
  
  The hack and slash is by its nature punishing, repetitive and rather cruel as a genre, and in avoiding 
 these clichs and reaching out to the mainstream player Heavenly Sword may have assured some success 
 commercially, but dedicated gamers expecting the finely tuned intricacies of Ninja Gaiden Sigma 
 may be left wanting something more.
  
  The controls themselves are actually particularly nice. While the square and triangle buttons deal 
 with most of the actual blows, your attacks are divided into three different stances, selected 
 by holding a different shoulder button. Speed stance attacks are the standard and consist of blows 
 of middling power at close range. The incredibly quick, far reaching range stance lets the two 
 separable blades of the Heavenly Sword swing out on chains, and the power stance slows Nariko right 
 down, but allows for strikes of enormous strength.
  
  Defending yourself is based on spotting an enemy's stance, indicated by a glowing vapour in their 
 wake as they swing in with an attack, and matching the stance with the shoulder buttons, whilst 
 resisting a swing of your own until the perfect moment to counter. At first not pressing a set 
 'defend' button is hard to grasp, but quickly you find yourself settling in to the system.
  
  However, the mark of a great hack and slash is one that tempts you away from button mashing 
 with a control scheme that creates a more pleasurable game. While Heavenly Sword does reward style 
 with both new combos and some impressive 'making of'' content, it is a little easy to fall back 
 on the most basic combat to succeed, even when the game gets more challenging.
  
  There are other minor niggles too, like the monstrous loading times and the need to quit out to 
 restart at a check point. The Sixaxis control too, while very workable, is used in very similar 
 ways throughout the game, and is often at the root of some very uninspiring puzzles.
  
  If you are looking for a purist's hack and slash that will test you for months, go elsewhere, ideally 
 to Ninja Gaiden Sigma. But if you want a thrilling and cinematic adventure that will give you ample 
 opportunity to show off the muscle of your PlayStation 3 and provide a glimpse of the console's 
 possible future, you could do far worse than pick up this big-budget epic.
  
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Controls aren't 
 overly complex.
  - Stunning presentation.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Fairly short.
  - Some uninspiring puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WereAllCritics
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 has quite a few games with very good graphics. Heavenly Sword, however, stands alone at 
 this point in time as the best-looking game ever put out for the console. It doesn't look good, 
 it looks brilliant. Brilliant is pretty much the defining word of this game, aside from a story 
 that (in my opinion) is rather cliched. Story issues asside, the dialogue is beyond what any preceding 
 game has ever done; Andy Serkis (as arch-villain King Bohan) turns in what is easily the most convincing 
 voice acting job to date. At times the voice acting is almost too good, and you begin to statre 
 at the limp syching, searching for minor imperfeactions in an attempt to reassure yourself that 
 this is, in fact, a game and not real-life.
  
  Combat is loads of fun and the various style moves used in taking out hapless opponents never gets 
 old, partly because the game itself is rather short. What you've heard about the game is true, 
 it's only about 6 to 7 hours long. However, like the Call of Duty 4 campaign, each chapter is memorable, 
 more so than almost any game I have ever played. This isn't because of an amazing story, but rather 
 the vivid images and details that will come to mind whenever you think of your experience with 
 this game.
  
  Enemies are hardly varied, though, and you should be prepared to kill a lot of similar looking 
 warriors with hats and ponytails. Regardless, killing them never ceases to be a delight, execution 
 moves are like a God of War-style mini-cinematic, only more graceful. Nariko is the sort of hero 
 that you can brutalize people with while also being unafraid to let your mom watch. 
  
  The production values are sky high and the boss fights are all truly memorable. Something that 
 less extreme gamers may find annoying is the difficulty of the final boss fight. Without spoiling 
 anything, once you think it's over, it's not and this final battle will easily add another hour 
 to your play time. I really cannot imagine facing the final boss on hell mode, but you can try 
 if you'd like to squeeze a little more replay value out of the game with this unlocked difficulty 
 setting. The price to game ratio may seem large, but trust me, it's worth every last penny. Buy 
 it new, buy it used or just rent it; this game deserves to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulkiller225
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  OMG!! If I hear one more person complain about the length of this game I swear I am going to scream!! 
 First off let me address the fact. It is obvious to me that people complained about the length, 
 because the game is so FRIGGN SWEET and they wanted more. I simply adore the fact that this game 
 is so short, I have a job and family of four and only get to sit and play games for maybe an hour 
 or two here and there. Why do people put such of an emphasis on the length of a game? Saying things 
 like "for $60 this game should be longer". No game IMO is worth 60 bucks, but that is what they 
 charge. I don't feel justified when I spend 60 bucks on a game and it is 20+ hours long. I feel 
 justified by how the game impressed me or how I felt after I finished it. Did I have a memorable 
 experience and maybe how much replay value is there? Heavenly Sword addresses all these questions, 
 with an astounding YES. The only game I have ever played twice that was 20+ hours long was Final 
 Fantasy 7. Otherwise with most longer games I was so glad it was over, that I wouldn't dare go 
 through it again. With short games you can play them over and over be glad you like say Resident 
 Evil. If you want to complain about the price tag, just complain about the price tag!! But please 
 don't place a negative on a game just because it is a little shorter than others. Simply put I 
 would pay 60 bucks for this masterpiece faster than any 20+ hour game I can think of.
  
  Now that I am off my soapbox, let me just say that this game is probably the best entertainment 
 experience I have had in a long time. I say entertainment, because this game is like participating 
 in a karate movie with a great story. It immediately pulls you into its wonderful cinematic story. 
 This game is a crowning achievement from beginning to end. Please do not compare this game to God 
 of War or Prince of Persia, both are great in there own respect, but Heavenly sword destroys them. 
 Both God of War and Prince of Persia are platformers at the core and Heavenly sword is not. You 
 can not jump which some say is a negative, but in that same respect you don't have to worry about 
 falling off any cliffs either.
  
  Yes I will say it Heavenly Sword is the most beautiful game I have ever played, from the cinematic 
 cut-scenes, to the very intense battles. The developers definitely took their time doing this one 
 right! Every battle is like watching Uma Thurman in Kill Bill dispatch a room full of enemies. 
 While this might sound monotonous, the style in which Nariko dispatches of her enemies makes me 
 wish they just kept coming. Blocks, counter attacks, combos, ability to pick things up and hurl 
 them at enemies, and last but not least those GORGEOUS finishing moves are what makes the battles 
 such a joy. I think what I liked most about the game is that it never felt like a straight button 
 mashing affair, you'll actually need to time your blocks, attacks and counters.
  
  Don't think it is all fighting though; alternatively you'll get to play as Kai. Kai is the ultimate 
 fight from a distance companion. And with her comes one of the games BEST gimmicks. The "aftertouch" 
 system, which I ABSOLUTELY loved, allows you to slow down time and aim the arrows with the Sixaxis 
 controller. It does take some practice and you need a gentle touch to make sure the controller 
 is level before firing. Once you get the hang of it though, guiding an arrow's path directly into 
 the skull of an enemy never ever gets old.
  
  The game isn't perfect. I found the button-pressing sections of the game where you have to hit 
 a certain button when it pops up on screen very distracting. Heavenly sword engrosses you so much 
 into the story that I just wanted to watch the cinematic experiences not actually participate in 
 them, so I was constantly mistiming things. There weren't many sections like this, but I wouldn't 
 have missed them if they were gone.
  
  Bottom line: This is the game that will remind you why you wanted a PS3 in the first place. If 
 you own a PS3 or have a friend who has a PS3, you MUST play this game. If you don't have access 
 to a PS3 you are seriously missing out on one of the gaming industries masterpieces. Sure there 
 are other great games on other systems that are outstanding. Heavenly Sword though, will have you 
 thinking about it when you aren't playing it and that is what makes a gaming masterpiece. Whether 
 you rent or buy is really irrelevant JUST PLAY IT!! Yeah it may be only about 6 hours or so long, 
 but soon as I get the chance I am going to play through it again, yeah it is that good. With as 
 many games as I have played through my life, I can't remember the last game I actually wanted to 
 play through a second time. Oh yeah I can Final Fantasy 7 (September 1997) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Heavely sword is amazing in many ways.
  Graphical- 10/10
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Story 9/10
  Voice acting 10/10
  etc -7/10
  Its more of an interactive film than a game since its told in 
 the best voice acting and emotional way.
  The story is easy to get into and the player just wants to know what will happen next.
  The gameplay 
 is a bit hard at times but feels great when wielding the heavenly sword to do incredible attacks 
 against your enemies.
  Its a shame that the game is very short but still I would recommend it to anyone who likes action 
 adventure sword fighting games.
  Lets hope they will make a sequel so that we can enjoy it again but judging from the ending there 
 may not be but according to ninja theory a trilogy has been written.
  My overall rating is 8.5/10 because it is amazing and a must have for any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Heavenly Sword and I have to say, it took me longer than expected. From other reviews, 
 I heard that the game was worth around 10 hours of gameplay. I honestly think, that it took me 
 a good 20 hours to beat the game (I guess I'm inefficient) . Well, lets get to the review.
  
  Story: Heavenly Sword had a wonderful story. The story is easy to follow and straight forward. 
 Although a bit predictable, it was none-the-less a great storyline. Characters were developed, 
 but there was still room to go deeper. Since this is an action/hacknslash game, I suppose I should 
 expect less than I would be with an RPG. 
  10/10.
  
  Graphics: I'm somewhat of a graphics whore and I get nitpicky about frame rates (maybe because 
 I play PC games a lot) . Cinematics were of topnotch quality (as any game these days should be) . 
 Cutscenes were also of good quality. Actual gameplay graphics is good but could be better. I saw 
 some screenshots online that looked horrible... I'm not sure if it was a pre-release screenshot, 
 or what, because my game did not have Nariko looking so un-Nariko-like. Anyways, gameplay suffered 
 from some frame rate issues, but nothing that makes it unplayable. It probably does not help that 
 my room is quite hot and my PS3 is right next to my PC :P 
  8/10
  
  Gameplay/Controls: Before I mention anything here, I'd like to point out that I have the Japanese 
 version and did not expect the directions to be in Japanese (too much kanji) .... so if I say anything 
 stupid.... you know why. First off, I found the color scheme pretty cool, but even at the end of 
 the game, I couldn't block everything that was thrown at me. I found myself using roll quite a 
 bit. Not being able to jump was a bummer... Nariko is an agile female... and she cannot jump?!? I 
 must admit that not being able to jump wasn't that bad. The fights Kai had seemed dumb (I'm talking 
 about the non-bowman enemies) . Aftertouch was difficult at first, but makes it so much sweeter 
 when you hit the mark. The L2 and R2 seems retarded.... why would I want to sway the camera to the 
 sides rather than have a simple camera turning action? And the final fight made the camera spin 
 quite a bit... could cause motion sickness or something. The button pressing I would still mess 
 up sometimes (due to unpreparedness or retardation) . The puzzle part of the game worked, but seemed 
 a bit.... stupid... perhaps. Why would hitting a gong open a door? Overall, gameplay worked, as I 
 finished the game without much frustration, but it could have been better.
  7/10
  
  Sound: The voiceovers were pretty well done. I must admit that I didn't like Nariko's voice very 
 much, but it had emotion and such. Enemies sounded good, especially when they were getting thrashed. 
 Explosions were cool and made my subwoofer shake quite a bit (and it was accompanied by dualshock3) . 
 I would have played with the Japanese dialogue, but the game is lacking English subtitles so I 
 did not have that option. I find it reassuring that the game contains both languages (I dont think 
 the US version had both tho.... could be wrong) . The background music fit into the feel of the game.
 
  10/10
  
  Tilt: I really liked this game and would recommend it to any PS3 owner. Not a console seller tho. 
 And I wouldn't pay $60 for this game.
  10/10
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is quite possibly a gift from Sony to anyone who owns a PlayStation 3 console. It 
 is not what Heavenly Sword is that makes it spectacular, but what it dares to do in the video game 
 industry that makes it remarkable and unique. Never have there been such life-like characters in 
 any game -- characters which instill a sense of care from the player through the stories in each 
 of the character's eyes whether antagonist or protagonist. The presentation is completely remarkable, 
 with support from full motion capture performances and beautiful voice acting. Characters display 
 a very wide amount of emotion, unparalleled to any game. Being the first game to use full dynamic 
 motion capture, Heavenly Sword captivates the players in a cinematic experience that details the 
 best journey ever embarked on. 
  With more than 7,000 animations, the game becomes life-like through the first usage of Dynamic 
 Parallax mapping. All of these features, balanced perfectly, stray this game far from the apparently 
 believable grasps of heavenly and into something unbelievable and unexpected. 
  The environments, cast, characters, storyline, and virtually everything in Heavenly Sword is astonishing. 
 While there are some minor negatives, players should be prepared to experience a spiritual disclosure 
 with Ninja Theory's latest masterpiece
  Unforgettable atmosphere combined with ample replay value.
  + Beautifully detailed with everything 
 in harmony from animation all the way to the audio system. 
  + Great combat system complimented by impressive A. I
  Cons
  - Enemy models can sometimes get 
 repetitive
  - Poor Loading Times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pogan567
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was a cheap, boring rip off of God of War. To be perfectly honest I only got it as a 
 gift and only played it to keep my dad happy. What bugged me most was the feminist connotations 
 the game had which girls straddling guys faces and then breaking their necks. The story wasn't 
 great nor the character development. The fact that this game got an 8.0 overall makes me laugh. 
 The graphics were decent but not that amazing especially when you got a close up on the protagonists 
 hair. At some points the game was enjoyable though. I thoroughly enjoyed the arrow parts and steering 
 the arrow with Sixaxis was pretty cool and it worked well. Besides that the sword play was pretty 
 generic and after playing God of War it was pretty tame. Overall this game is a rental at best, 
 I wouldn't spend my money on it, my dads though I can stand to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Genre: Action/Adventure
  
  Heavenly Sword is another fine action game with a unique and sexy character, Nariko, a female warrior 
 who must protect her people and the Heavenly Sword from the dark King Bohan. I myself kind of like 
 the story, but feels a bit shallow and feels like the creators were trying to make it something 
 it's not. 
  
  This game is really just an afternoon or two of fast-paced fun. It cannot be stressed enough how 
 short the story mode it, but is made up for a bit by the somewhat smooth and entertaining gameplay. 
 Although you might get annoyed by the lack of stability in control during battles and may sometimes 
 feel vulnerable, it's pretty thrilling to slice and dice a bunch of soldiers. There are good combos 
 and a few weapons. However, the enemies could've been more varied and less repetitive. Dull puzzles 
 that are all pretty much the same don't help much either, but they utilize Sixaxis nicely, as with 
 the arrows. 
  
  The graphics are simply amazing, with great production values. The characters and environments 
 all look terrific. The music and voice acting is FANTASTIC, it really sells the story and tells 
 you about the characters, who are all mostly cool.
  
  Boss battles are a good-sized flaw in Heavenly Sword. They're cheap and unenjoyable, bad versions 
 of greats like God of War and DMC. Controls function decently though. Playing as Kai in some situations 
 is generally a good time due to the cool arrow-controlling attacks. The whole sixaxis control theme 
 is a big part of Heavenly Sword. 
  
  This is a thrilling and good looking action title that shouldn't be missed by any PS3 owner, but 
 only for a rent.
  
  Pros:
  -Fun and fast action with some good combos and weapons 
  -Great use of the Sixaxis arrow control is extremely entertaining
  -Fun levels 
  -Pretty good 
 story and presentation with a unique character
  -Fantastic visuals and artistic design, voice acting and middle eastern music
  
  Cons:
  -Story 
 mode is extremely short, lasting about 6-8 hours
  -Boss fights are usually cheap and unenjoyable
  -Puzzles are simple and repetitive, as well as 
 battles and enemy variety
  
  
  Gameplay: 8.2
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  Replay Value: 5.7
  Concept: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I purchased after I got my PS3 and it proved that a game in HD 
 can be truly wonderful. The graphics are splendid and so very realistic. I was drawn into the story 
 immediately and cared about what happened. Normally, when I play a button mashing game, i am not 
 expecting a beautiful woman to throw her enemies and kill them by the dozens!! I was not expecting 
 to be blowing away by the tremendous combos and sublime action that I was participating in.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a wonderful feast of the senses with some fun action to participate in. I 
 confess that there were times when I was so in awe of the main character that I started taking 
 damage from the enemy. She is beautifully rendered and can kick some major butt. I just happen 
 to be the monkey at the other end of the controller. 
  
  Just when I had my adrenaline pumping, I was challenged by aiming with cannons. The controls took 
 some time to get used to when it came to aiming and affecting the flight of the missile afterwards. 
 Other than that, the game is a wonderful butt kicking romp with a hot chick and her little sister. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutely amazing from start to finish. the graphics are beautiful and the movie 
 sequences make you feel like you are a huge part of the story yourself. the gameplay for this is 
 wonderful and the controls are relatively easy when you learn them. its definitely the start of 
 something beautiful as they need to keep this going with many more in the series. the only problem 
 with this game is that it is to short and can be beat in about 6 to 10 hours and leaves you wanting 
 it last as long as a final fantasy game.
  
  if your a fan of action adventure and rpg god of war style of mayhem. then this is a must have 
 for your collection. the replay value is moderate but the game is to beutiful to pass up. so here 
 you go, beautiful graphics followed by an even better story. if you dont buy it definitely rent 
 it and beat it. this one is a diamond amongst all the garbage thats been coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I really don't see much wrong with this game I don't really understand why it has been under rated. 
 I liked to be a heroine for a change. Especially a cool looking one. The cutscenes are great the 
 acting is fine. They have chosen the right actors to play the characters and you really start to 
 like the charcters but maybe the story ends to soon. I loved using the six-axis in this title. 
 It has got to be the best use of six-axis so far. You have to guide arrows shot by kai's crossbow 
 into the unsuspecting enemies. Its Great!
  The graphics arent brilliant and neither is the physics but this is still a different experience 
 to a shooter and is a good exclusive for PS3 many speculations have been made about the games heroine 
 Nariko being Playstations Hero icon.
  There is alot of jumping around quickly tapping buttons to perform combos.
  This is great for 
 gamers who are fans of Dynasty Warriors.
  I probably wouldnt reccomend you purchase a copy but you should definitely rent this one in the 
 near future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBcinema
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that stunns us with its production values and realism. Heavenly 
 Sword does this leaving us open eyed from beggining to end. 
  Heavenly sword has recieved alot of criticism for its short lifespan, however this is not necessarily 
 a shortcoming. 
  The game is like that of a blockbuster movie and so by being short (around 6-8 hours of gameplay 
 on Normal) it really does feel like youve just viewed a great epic like Lord Of The Rings or Hero.
 
  
  The gameplay is amazing. Basically you run into various scenarios with hundreds of enemies and 
 go crazy. there is a combo system for those who like to know what they are doing, but I hardly 
 ever used that. It is an unnecessary addition, as it is more fun to find out combos yourself.
 
  As the game goes on the hordes of enemies get harder and larger until the last level where you 
 are in a Dynasty Warriors situation. My only problem with this game is that some of the boss battles 
 can drag on a bit. However this also has a strength to it as you feel like you are in a really 
 heated battle
  and of course those take time to end. The last boss battle is something of an experience but I 
 will not spoil it for anyone.
  
  In some parts of the game you take control of a secondary character called kai who is more into 
 firing ranged projectiles. Usually in a game when an extra character takes over a few levels it 
 can be boring as they arent as deep as the main character in gameplay. However after playing as 
 Kai for a while, you realize that firing arrows in slow motion (great use of the sixaxis) is unlike 
 any other gaming experience youve had before and becomes addictivly fun.
  
  The story is interesting and the characters are imaginative. With this the player will be easily 
 immersed into the story. Nariko feels like a cross between Lara Croft and Kratos, and lets face 
 it, they both kick ass. Plus with Andy serkis controlling the movement and actions of the characters 
 the cutscenes become alsmost life like.
  For fighting and beat em up gamers, this game has great replay value. Those who play it just for 
 the story and cutscenes mayonly play it once. However it worth playing through the game again just 
 to see those cutscenes. Another notable feature that can blow you away is the music. It really 
 keeps in flow with the ancient era it is set in.
  
  For those who are looking at this game and wondering about getting it, I highly reccomend. Its 
 not as hardcore as God Of War but some may find this as a relief. It has been out for a while now, 
 and has probably dropped a little in price. If some people still arent swayed about it though they 
 should at least rent it and give it a go, which is perfect as they will have enough time to finish 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboy2k
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Well, What can I say? This game has it all. 
  The storytelling is superb. You're immersed into a world lost in time. A sword that drains your 
 life and a people that depend on you. This could be a hollywood film or a Japanese Anime series. (hoping 
 for the later) . The elements of the game remind me of a mix between Ninja Gaiden Black, God of 
 War and Devil May Cry. I've never had a problem with Camera Angles or moves thus far. The one thing 
 you must keep in mind is that you have multitudes of combos and moves. A good memory would serve 
 you well.
  
  The character design is really cool, too. Your moves and animation are top notch. Closeups of your 
 kills are great rewards for your hard earned button mashing. The visuals really shine in this game. 
 Dude!!!!! it shines. (hehe, calming down)
  
  Now, I have heard that this game is short, and I'm sure it is. However, should you let this ruin 
 your fun? Hell no. After I beat this game, I will go back and try to master all the combos. If 
 you ever have a party with a group of friends, SHOWCASE this game. You wont find a game like this 
 on the Xbox360 (I like my 360, by the way) 
  
  This game, along with Ratchet and Clank, Motorstorm and MSG4 (Not out as of this writing) should 
 be the cornerstone of games for your PS3. This game goes beyond a rental... it's a definite buy. 
 Stop reading and go buy this!!!!!! Get it used if you can. I think this game is really only worth 
 42 bucks (not the 59.00 I spent) . Great game, nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is good no doubt but the length is what killed it. The graphics are superb and really 
 show the power of a ps3. The game gives off a God of War type feel. The music and sound are well 
 done and nice to hear.
  
  However it seems they spent so much time into the graphics, game play, and sound effects, they 
 forgot to add substance, The game is too short. You can finish this game within 5 hours with determination 
 which isn't good since most games nowadays can be played for 5 hours and you'll only get out of 
 the tutorial. The story sound just like a movie so if the game is made to a movie, it's definatly 
 worth going to see. The thing is, because it fits so well as a movie game, it makes it feel like 
 a failed attempt at something that wasn't made.
  
  Still, there is no doubt about the fun of the game but you need to just rent it, not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 16, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, Heavenly Sword seems like a technically impressive display of hack and slash euphoria. 
 However, all is not what it seems with this title. The pretty visuals, brutal cut scenes, and strong 
 opening to the story only hide the gapping problems that are presented later on in the game.
  
  You play as Nariko, a troubled young woman who's father is the leader of their clan. Your homeland 
 is being invaded and conquered by the foreign king, Bohan, and your clan is nearing defeat. Many 
 of Nariko's clansmen blame her for the misfortunes of their people, because of a clan doom prophesy 
 that has some relation with her birth.
  
  Bohan seeks to claim the clan's sacred treasure, the Heavenly Sword. According to clan lore, the 
 Heavenly Sword was forged in the heavens and meant for a deity to someday wield its power. Bohan 
 wishes to take the sword and use its power to his advantage in his campaign for world domination.
 
  
  From a technical standpoint, Heavenly Sword is extremely impressive. The graphics are some of the 
 best in console games and are a pleasure to look at. All of the texture work is solid and very 
 detailed; you'll also see fluid animations, excellent water effects, massive draw distances, and 
 flawless facial expressions. What makes the visuals even better is that all of it runs at a solid 
 frame rate - even with hundreds of enemies on screen.
  
  Gameplay is where Heavenly Sword loses some of its divinity. While it's fun to hack and slash enemies 
 to death for the first few levels, the formula gets old. Sure, there are a variety of combos you 
 could perform, using a combination of speed, power, range, and superstyle attacks, but you quickly 
 figure out which move set will defeat a set of enemies the fastest - and there aren't that many 
 different enemies in the game. What's worse, is that the counter attack system doesn't always work.
 
  
  There are sequences in the game where you play as Kai, Nariko's companion. Kai's missions are much 
 slower paced shoot'em-ups. You shoot darts at enemies and use the Sixaxis tilt to steer the shot 
 toward an enemy. Kai cannot attack with blades, which puts you at a huge disadvantage when enemies 
 get in close. Her missions slow the pace of the game and are almost completely irrelevant.
  
  Level design is purely linear. You have a set path, X amount of enemies to kill, cut scene, 
 a boss, and then it's off to the next mission. Stages seem to drag on and on at times, and makes 
 each one feel like a chore to go through.
  
  If the level design and repetitive gameplay don't bother you, then the dialogue will. 98% of the 
 dialogue in the entire game is cheesy, unfit for the setting, and really doesn't make sense at 
 all. It's so bad that it gives most of the characters a stupid or annoying personality - annoying 
 to the point that you will likely mute your TV or want to skip the entire cut scene. 
  
  If you're looking for a good hack and slash game for your PS3, then Heavenly Sword probably isn't 
 your best bet. Although it shows off the technical power of the PS3, it doesn't do much else to 
 satisfy the player passed the first few levels. Another problem with this title is that it's short. 
 Most players can probably beat it in a rental's time. Thankfully, a rental is the most I can recommend 
 for Heavenly Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Soilder78
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Hits- The visuals are stunning, with fully detailed enviorments and just as good character models. 
 The game looks as good technically as it does artistically. The storyline is compelling, interesting 
 and backed with great cast. The gameplay seems like it will get repetitive at first but shooting 
 missions as well as sixaxis puzzles help to keep things interseting. Also the game being short 
 can be viewed as a bad thing but that makes every minute of the experience appreciated and keeps 
 anything from being boring.
  
  Misses- The game felt like it had a lack of explanation, well everything makes sence I felt like 
 I didn't fully understand the Heavenly Sword world, I feel like more time building on the world 
 around you could have made the experience stronger.
  
  Closing statement: Heavenly Sword is a cinematic experience that any gamer should play and you 
 will not soon forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  its a great game, i got it free with my ps3 and its very good, it has a interesting storyline and 
 i dont no about you but it wanted me to play on and on !
  i like the way it has interactive cinamatics, also it has great use of the ps3's SIXAXIS controller 
 using it to control arrows and all sorts,
  but i find the camera angle very bad its always in the wrong place at the wrong time, and it gets 
 a annoying just press the same bbuttons like O O O O O to do a attacks you find all you have to 
 do is kill people to rescue your father etc,
  but the boss fights are good then you have to beat them in the cinamatic where you have to press 
 the right buttons at the right time eg to jump out the way, in this game i really like the way you 
 through thing using SIXAXIS, on some levels you have to hit targets to open doors and things that 
 quite fun i mean how can throwing a dead body at something not be ;)
  so i give this 8/10 good for a day then it drags same old thing really, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is by far one of the greatest games ever made. It stands out with its amazing storyline, 
 gameplay and graphics. this game lived up to everything that i wanted it to be. This game shows 
 what the PS3 is really capable of. The story of Heavenly Sword follows the tale of a heroine named 
 Nariko. Her and her clan must protect a ancient sword that grants the user unbelievable power. 
 The cost of this power is the life of whoever wields it. Since this sword has tremendous power, 
 there are people who wants to use this sword for their own personal reasons. One such person is 
 King Bohan, the evil ruler of the lands who wants the sword no matter the cost. The story plays 
 out like this. The clan that has been the protector of the sword forces weaken and After Nariko 
 loses almost everything she makes a dangerous choice to wield the sword herself in an attempt to 
 get revenge for her clan, her loved ones, and herself. Now the odds are against her and she must 
 fight against King Bohan and his entire army a get her revenge before time runs out.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is amazing, its flawless. the controls are easy to use and 
 they are responsive. Heavenly Sword has one of the best counter systems ever made in a game by 
 far. It executes perfectly when you are attacked and to add on to that, if you time your counter 
 perfectly, you will get a quick action scene to enjoy while Nariko destroys her enemy. Whats even 
 better is that Nariko has a huge variety of moves, it feels great to try and connect combos and 
 perform new moves. its never a dull moment in battle.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing, its nothing short of miraculous. The game looks 
 beautiful, every scene and character is perfectly rendered. I have to say the people who worked 
 on this game did a spectacular job. i am impressed, the graphics blow you away in this game. Everything 
 just looks so gorgeous, this game pushes the PS3 to its limits. It shows us what the PS3 is really 
 made of.
  
  Sound: The Sound is also really good, The actors that played the roles in Heavenly Sword did such 
 a good job that they added a feel to the story that made it feel like you was watching a movie. 
 the soundtrack in the game is so good, i loved every moment of it, i couldnt get enough of it.
 
  
  Value: the value in this game is extremely high. The story is engaging that you would want to see 
 it over and over again. The combat system is so good that you would want to play levels over again 
 just for the fighting. The game has alot of special features so many people who own the game will 
 enjoy that.
  
  Overall, This game is a piece of Heaven on earth. It has everything you would want in an action 
 game plus more. The game has a engaging storyline, amazing graphics, and the The replay value in 
 this game is high. I say if you have a PS3 then this game is a must have for you. If you dont have 
 a PS3 then i recommend you get one just for this game. This game is too good to miss out on. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Ummm.. yeeeeah, so maybe because it was one of the first PS3 games to come out is the reason it 
 gets high ratings. Sooooo. what exactly separates this game from Dynasty Warriors or any other 
 hack and slash? The game isn't even that great to look at. The story is bare the same combos will 
 get you through the entire game, and the bosses are cheap. The boss battles aren't even spectacular. 
 At least the characters themselves are memorable, and thank God for that. This is a real disappointment. 
 Rent this game like I did and save your cash for Devil May Cry 4 (which is visually stunning) or 
 Drake's Fortune. I don't even have much more to say but I am trying to make sure I hit the required 
 review length. I have not been this disappointed since Mass Effect. Maybe I'll have better luck 
 with Assassin's Creed which will be my next rental. PLEASE DO NOT MAKE A SEQUEL TO THIS GAME, we 
 really do not need it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This is definitly a good game, and that all ps3 gamers should own, it looks amazing, maybe a bit 
 dated now as it was with a ps3 lanuch, but you should still get it, its fantastic, the acting in 
 this game is amazing, you will probly think you are watching some top hollywood film when watching 
 the CGI's.
  
  When you pick this up you probably think this is some average hack and slash, you will be wrong, 
 the fighting lasts for a while but ends before you get bored of pressing the same buttons, but 
 what changes the scene is when you be Kai, you range with her, which is fun but is hard as well.
 
  
  Also another good this is the boss battles, they are really good they arn't to hard but still put 
 up a good fight. Which keeps you entertained.
  
  BTW this game isn't short, it took my a very long time to keep chapter 1 and 2, so this game will 
 still ast about 10 hours, it will leave you wanting more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I think if you do just about any degree of research into Heavenly Sword, you're probably hard-pressed 
 to not read/hear of gripes concerning the game's length. Well you will get no such griping from 
 me. I don't have a problem judging a game for what it is, and Heavenly Sword is a beautiful, engaging 
 and outstanding dramatic action game.
  
  I think the most evident aspect of Heavenly Sword you witness when playing it, right from the very 
 start, is production values. The game just screams high production values. Heavenly Sword is the 
 essence of a high-budget, well-produced, well-directed compelling action movie that does an excellent 
 job of placing you in its heart and keeping you in the heat of the moment. The reason why it does 
 this so well is because it merges high-quality action and cinematic production values with superbly 
 implemented interactivity. Its truly a dramatic action movie that you live moreso than watch.
 
  
  Heavenly Sword's storyline is very well-written. In my opinion, its scripting is indeed well fit 
 for an actual box office production. It does an excellent job of framing the world and atmosphere 
 through its prequel anime miniseries before placing you at the base of the storyline apex. Its 
 storytelling is absolutely excellent, and its through this aspect that you easily gain a large 
 sense of it excellent production values. The cinematography, dialogue, atmosphere and music are 
 all superb. 
  
  The characters are some of the most lively and convincingly emotional characters i've ever witnessed 
 in a game. A large reason for this is because the facial animation and general motion capturing 
 are probably the best and most convincing i've ever seen in a game. They are also helped to life 
 by superb voice acting that matches the characters flawlessly. The main character, Nariko, herself 
 is truly a beautiful work of art. Her free-flowing hair, beautifully artistic and lively face, 
 excellent voice, and strong, honest personality results in a very bondable, enjoyable, and memorable 
 main character.
  
  The beauty of this game extends beyond the characters, though. You have many opportunities to gaze 
 upon the large, open, and beautiful environments of the game. The level design, while mostly linear, 
 is gorgeous to look at in the process. The action is so compelling, however, that linear level 
 design mattered not for me.
  
  Heavenly Sword, again, is truly the essence of a dramatic action movie and it does a great job 
 of blending the two elements together. You always feel there is a true objective at hand among 
 the action, often with a sense of emotion to accompany it. The action itself pretty much non-stop 
 fun. The game's combat system, while probably yieldable to button mashing, really has a solid amount 
 of potential depending on how much and how well you utilize the combo system. I highly recommend 
 you do. The more combos you learn and use the effectively, the more beauty of it you will see. 
 It really is quite beautiful and unique to watch Nariko fight the way she does. It looks and feels 
 unlike anything i've yet to play in an action game with the exception of Ninja Gaiden. But even 
 still, there are multiple unique characteristics of the system that give it distinction.
  
  Adding to the interactivity is quite an effective use of the SIXAXIS. Projectiles can be launched 
 and then guided in slow-motion by way of SIXAXIS control and its actually quite fun. The qame's 
 QTEs (on-screen button sequences) are very well-integrated into the gameplay/action and can really 
 add to the immersion when they are done in the heat of any kind of action.
  
  Finally, I said it at the beginning of this review, and i'll say it again. I have no problem judging 
 a game for what it is. And Heavenly Sword is a superb dramatic action game that is of the essence 
 of a truly interactive, high-budget, high-quality dramatic action movie. The game just gushes high 
 production values, so much so that I really can't see this game being much better than it is for 
 what it is. And it is a truly outstanding, beautiful, engaging, and memorable work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I do understand that Ninja Theory designed this game as a (pseudo) clone of God of War (hence the 
 common "Goddess of War" nickname) , but I'm not sure this was the true intent in pre-production. 
 Clearly the game is meant to be an epic storytelling adventure with very cinematic elements. It's 
 so engrossed in this, that the game actually plays like you're watching a grand scale movie and 
 the overall plot development could offer a few tips to the many pathetic story lines of action 
 films today. Unfortunately, inconsistencies and very few options make this a gorgeous, but short, 
 adventure.
  
  The graphics impress, even though they are only in 720p (is this really a problem for that many 
 people?) , and I found myself watching the bonus making-of videos I unlocked while playing the game. 
 The voices are spot-on and the acting is about the best you can expect out of voiceovers, even 
 though the game seems to loose sync with the sound from time to time (cinematics only) . I think 
 the biggest problem I had with this game was the fact that I couldn't pick a difficulty (I usually 
 like to lean to the harder side of games) and the fact that I never knew when I'd hit a checkpoint 
 (end of a level?) . The combat system was decent and the button-pressing events were relatively 
 accurate (you'll get frustrated with the fact that you are pushing the right button but it doesn't 
 register) . 
  
  The other problem I had with the game was the it was pretty short. I played it in small pieces 
 over the weekend and got to the last boss by early Sunday afternoon (5, maybe 6 hours of total 
 play) . Unfortunately the loading times were not nearly as fast, sometimes taking a few minutes 
 to reload a sequence when I died (I do now appreciate the option to install) . And I may be getting 
 really picky here, but for a game where most fights and bosses were pretty easy, the very difficult 
 final boss and the fact you had to beat him 3 times was not met as a challenge, but a "jumping 
 through hoops" tactic. I just got bored fighting him. It took me longer to beat him than all of 
 the levels (and the boss) of the first chapter! It just didn't make sense, but I guess they were 
 trying to get away from that all-too-common "the last boss was too easy, disappointing" problem 
 with todays games. At the same time, making him incredibly difficult was too extreme and less patient 
 gamers that don't like difficult challenges might get turned off by this final fight.
  
  Please note that I played this game having never picked up a "God of War" game in my life (just 
 bought them after playing this game) . I'm looking at it with perspective and criticism that doesn't 
 allow the liberties of someone who may be very familiar with a similar convention in "God of War". 
 At the end of the day it's a really fun game and the levels where you are shooting things offer 
 a change of pace that was much appreciated. By the time you reach the last boss, though, you're 
 pretty ready to stop mashing buttons and pretty annoyed by the fact that you are then asked to 
 do it again for 3 gruelingly long battles. Because of the short game, single difficulty, and repetition, 
 I have to stamp this as an all-around perfect rental. Can't imagine why you'd want to buy it, unless 
 you play it and know you wouldn't mind going through it again and again. As for me, I'm upgrading 
 to "God of War" to see what I've been missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-baller23
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This game totally rocks! Let me start off with the graphics. Whether you are playing 
 on an SD TV or an HD TV this game is beautiful. I can put my money down that Heavenly Sword is 
 one of the best executed games for the PS3 graphically. You can see miles and miles of scenery 
 which is very engaging and brings a lot to the setting of the game. The cut scenes and facial animations 
 are amazing because real actors were used and it was done very well. This is a very cinematic game 
 with an engaging story. The combat is well executed. People may think that this is just a hack 
 n' slash game but make it what you will, there are many combos to perfect and as you go along in 
 the game, you unlock different fighting styles and attacks such as aerial attacks and other moves. 
 That's when you play as Nariko, who is the main character. You also play as another character named 
 Kai and her missions revolve around using a crossbow and arrows to kill King Bohan's army. Not 
 only do you aim and shoot, there is a feature called 'after touch' and it displays the purpose 
 of the six-axis controller perfectly. You shoot the arrow but if you hold your finger down on the 
 'x' button, you zoom into the arrow and you guide it with the six-axis. You use the 'after touch' 
 feature many times in this game: when you are shooting arrows, cannonballs, torpedo bomb thingies, 
 and discs. The sound of this game is awesome. I like the sound of clanking swords and men screaming 
 as they are slashed up and thrown down a bridge. The musical score is very classical and appropriate 
 for the storyline. The story is very interesting and sometimes you feel emotionally attached to 
 the characters because they are acting so well. The bosses in the beginning are easy to beat but 
 the last battle against King Bohan is very beautiful and very challenging. There are so many more 
 great things I can say about this game but you should do yourself a favor and experience that yourself. 
 This game lasted me about 7 hours and when it ends, you are left wanting more only because this 
 game is awesome and you want to keep playing. Although the game is considered short, I don't think 
 the story would have allowed a longer game so therefore it is a perfect length. Therefore, if you 
 have $60 laying around, then this game warrants a purchase. You can beat this game in a few sittings 
 so I suggest you rent the game but all in all, every PS3 owner should play this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreedomBYgaming
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Ninja Theorys Heavenly Sword is a PS3-exclusive Action-Adventure game about a beautiful girl named 
 Nariko who's clan gets attacked by the evil king Bohan. Bohan is a man of power but when madmen 
 are given power they allways want more. The power that Bohan seeks lies within a mighty sword who 
 is said to be sent down to Earth by the Gods, Hence, Heavenly Sword. Narikos clan's duty is to 
 keep the sword safe from evil, power-thirsty, men like Bohan who seeks to use the sword for evil 
 causes.
  
  
  When narikos clan is attacked, she is forced to do something she never should have. By grasping 
 the Heavenly Sword, Nariko is granted an infinite power but the cost of this is no more than her 
 life.
  
  
  While playing the game you also get to play as Narikos deviant friend Kai who weilds a crossbow 
 with wich she likes to "play" Twing-Twang, wich is, obviously, translated into killing people with 
 arrows.
  
  
  The controller is easy to get a hang of and there is alot of different combos to memorize and use 
 in Narikos quest to protect the sword and slaughter tousands of soldiers on the way. Another cool 
 feature is that by picking up objects like axes, sheilds and even bodies ans using the sixaxis 
 controllers motion-sensing you can steer what you have picked up into enemies and objectives. This 
 can also be used when using Kais crossbow, and say what you want about the sixaxis but there's 
 just something beautiful in steering an arrow through the eye of your enemy.
  
  
  The domnside of the game is that the story is just too short. And even though you get alot out 
 of the 7-8 hours of playtime you cant help but sigh when you finished the game, although, without 
 spoiling the story i can say that the ending did open up for a sequel so it is possible that there 
 will be a second game in the series.
  
  
  Overall Heavenly Sword is a beautiful game who deliver alot in a little time and gets you really 
 involved in the story and will have your hopes up for a sequel.
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Story ----------------------------------------- 9/10
   
 8/10
   8/10
   7/10
  
   
 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  It took about five years but it's finally here, the game originally set to be released on the Xbox 
 360 has been shifted to the PlayStation3 and now after a full playthrough it is safe to say that 
 the future of PS3 is truly beginning to shine brightly. The game is called: Heavenly Sword and 
 it stars a red haired heroine called: Nariko.
  
  The story of Heavenly Sword is aboutwell, a heavenly sword meaning that a sacred sword is being 
 protected by Nariko's clan so it won't fall into the wrong hands, the wrong hands in this particular 
 story are those of king Bohan, an evil warlord whose ambition is to get it at all costs in order 
 to gain the great powers it grants it's bearer, the story gets intense as Nariko herself wields 
 it, for there is a terrible cost to all the powers the sword gives the one who carries it, it is 
 the life of the bearer which will start dying as soon as he/she starts using it. The game begins 
 as Nariko faces off against a vast army of king Bohan's men and eventually starts falling to the 
 grownd, all what happens next is a set of flash backs that will form the games chapters and levels 
 that you'll go through until you reach the inevitable end.
  
  The degree of graphical excellence is something that will make you realize that we have truly moved 
 on since the days of last generation, this game looks amazing and it really shows off what can 
 be done with the PS3's power, the facial expressions and even Nariko's hair alone look like as 
 if the artists who worked on them spent an unbelievable amount of time designing drawing and perfecting 
 them, and also the back grounds look amazing from snowy mountain sides to green fields and fortified 
 buildings all are well drawn and designed by great artists who worked hard in order to make this 
 game looks this incredible . 
  
  But the graphics are not where it all ends, no way, the audio is also fantastic, the musical score 
 has been chosen wisely to fit the games different situations from quiet tones fit for exploration 
 times and highly suspenseful orchestral marvels to suit the epic battles. The voice acting alone 
 is marvelous, king Bohan has been voice acted by Andy Serkis ( Gollum from The Lord Of The Rings 
 ) and he does an exquisite job by delivering the right amount of detail to his character, but that's 
 not all, all the other characters have a lot of detail to make you believe you're watching a high 
 standard summer action movie, with great performances from the actors who make every character 
 very believable and real. Add to all that a great story filled with drama and you've got yourself 
 a great piece of acting artistry.
  
  So how does it play? Well as we all have seen in previous trailers the game is an action adventure 
 with a lot of focus on action with little exploration and rare puzzles, Nariko is a highly skilled 
 warrior and if you combine that with the powers granted to her by the heavenly sword she will be 
 almost invincible if you can master her every move which can be a daunting task since there are 
 so many moves and abilities associated to that weapon, so just like God Of War this is a game were 
 you slash your enemies mercilessly with a lot of available moves but unlike God Of War Nariko uses 
 three different stances: speed, power and ranged stances which can be shifted at any time using 
 the shoulder buttons, each stance has its number of moves and combos that include ground attacks 
 and aerial attacks which can be performed after you launch an enemy into the air and follow that 
 with a jump performed by tilting the controller up and then entering a combo. There are also defensive 
 counter moves, after touch and super style moves which are very powerful and can only be accessed 
 after filling the super style meter and that itself has three different forms which differ depending 
 on which stance your in while performing the attack. See I told you the combat system is so deep, 
 but don't let that bother you, it's not as hard as it sounds, for you'll get used to it if you 
 give the game some time. 
  
  Another game play style will be introduced to you in the game, for in addition to Nariko you'll 
 be playing as Kai, a cat like worm eating girl who isn't much of a close ranged fighter but has 
 a lot of skill with her bow gun, which is very fun to use since you'll have the option of using 
 the six axis controller to move the arrows in any direction as you tilt the six axis controller 
 left, right, up or down. Even Nariko will shoot down a few catapults with a canon and you'll have 
 the option to the move the shot using the six axis controller also. You can decide not to use that 
 but it's nice to try out anyways.
  
  The enemies you'll face in this game aren't very varied and they don't really pose much of a threat, 
 but when you face off against an army made of hundreds of solders the last thing you'll want is 
 an increase in the level of enemy AI. But even the bosses aren't very challenging except for the 
 last boss fight which can be really hard.
  
  Playing this game once really isn't enough to make you truly enjoy it, the main reason for that 
 is the fact that the whole thing can be finished in about six hours, or even eight hours if you're 
 not a skilled player, in both cases the game is just too short , even when you finish it it doesn't 
 have much to unlock and there's not much point or reward for finishing it on the higher difficulty 
 level. The only cool unlockables are the game cut scenes which are the best among other games and 
 really enjoyable.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a great game, it has fantastic graphics, great and fluid animation, unbelievably 
 great performance from the actors, and a dramatic and compelling story shown by the great cinematics 
 that separate each level or chapter. It's a real shame that it's too short, it really is a great 
 proof to what the PS3 can do and a wonderful sign to what can we expect from the next generation 
 games, so if you can forgive the fact that it is a short adventure and focus on the fact that it 
 is a great one while it lasts, then you should definitely get it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  this is a hard game to review. im not a single player game kind of guy but sony has released some 
 solid single player games for the PS3. this game sits pretty alongside ratchet and uncharted. however 
 it doesnt reach those games level of greatness.
  its a hack n slasher along the lines of devil may cry, god of war, and ninja gaiden. like those 
 games, its the fighting system that seperates the differences between the games. you play as noriko 
 who is possesed by the heavenly sword. you are taking revenge out on a king who is destrying your 
 homeland. you also play as her friend kai (who is insane) in a very entertaining break from the 
 sword play that puts the six axis to good use.
  you have three stances in heavenly sword, depending on whatthe enemy is doing depends on what stance 
 you should use. its a chess match and its completely unique. you have your long range attack and 
 your power attack. you can counter your enemies attack with a punishing super move which looks 
 cool as hell and is usually directed toward your enemies privates. excellent stuff. the special 
 moves and uniqe system put it ahead of devil may cry and its a more forgivible game then ninja 
 gaiden.
  you also have plenty of shooting levels with kai. you control you bows with the six axis guiding 
 them into the enemy. it feels awesome! you can also use the analog sticks. this is a really a good 
 show peice for the motion control on the PS3 along side warhawk and ratchet. noriko also has a 
 few motion control stages as well.
  the boss fights are also well done although they can be a little to powerful. the bosses are cool 
 but doesnt reach the level of the other top games in the genre.
  the story maybe average but the presentation isnt. the cutscenes are beautiful! the voice acting 
 and facial expressions rival anything on the market including half-life 2. the graphics are right 
 beside uncharted, ratchet, gears, and bioshock for best looking console games. and heavenly sword 
 has a completely different look then the others.
  the game does have a few flaws and one of them is fatal. first of all is weopon selection. you 
 really only use the sword. there are tons of combos to use and the game stays fresh but still. 
 it would of been nice to change thigs up. still, the 3 stances and being able to switch at will 
 during battle gives the game plenty of depth.
  the camera also is a problem. you cant turn it as much as you would like and you get some cheap 
 deaths because of it.
  the boss fights may dissappoint some onlybecause there in no supersized giants that just come out 
 of nowhere like in GOW or ninja gaiden.
  the main gripe is the length. 7 to 10 hours with no reason to go back and play it other then hell 
 mode which is just a harder difficulty. lame. and as of now there is no downloadable content.
 
  this makes the game a perfect rental for most but a safe buy for hack n slash fans who will probably 
 play it again later on down the road. at least there is no pointless backtracking with another 
 fighter in devil may cry and you wont be breaking controllers like you do in ninja gaiden. in my 
 mind, only god of war is better but heavenly sword holds its on.
  if only it was longer, it could of been a masterpeice. as it stands now, i cant give it AA status 
 either because there is no talk of downloadable content. a single player game needs to give 10 
 hours of story/playtime with extra content to warrant another play thru or multiplayer. its a shame, 
 this is a much better game then DMC or ninja gaiden, because of these flaws, it wont show in sales. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahall1127
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  What can I say.... the first of my PS3 games. Graphics are great and the story is pretty good. 
 However I expected more. The game play is good, don't get me wrong, but there is still quite a 
 bit lacking. It didn't engage me as much as so many "lesser" games have. I didn't exactly like 
 the blocking mechanism in that quick enemies like Whiplash would constantly hit me when I was supposed 
 to be in the blocking stance (not doing anything) . Now, this I could forgive had it not been for 
 the constant load times. These take way too long for a game that should be running much faster 
 on a system like this. I mean it creates a 2GB file on the drive. You'd expect a lot more from 
 this. 
  
  All in all..... I'd wait until it's in the cheap bin then pick it up. The graphic, story, score 
 and even controls are fun... but the game still isn't what it should have been.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxArchSagexXx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Before i bought Heavenly Sword, I went here to check the score that it got and to see what other 
 players thought about it. When i finally bought this game, and started playing, it was amazing. 
 It almost reminds me of God Of War. The graphics were stunning, it's another one of those games 
 that shows some of the capabilities of the PS3. The story was awesome but sadly the game itself 
 was really short... I expected it to take at least 25 hours + or even 10 hours + but it was less 
 than 10 hours to my disappointment. The controls are easy to master as well. 
  Any person out there who liked God Of War will love this game. It's sorta similar to it as i said. 
 All in all though, this game's great... just great! If you've got the cash, get this game. Heavenly 
 Sword is one of those... short-lived instant fun games. I know i loved it! So why did I give it 
 a 9.0 and not a 9.5 or 10.0? Well as i said, it's really short! You can finish this game in 7 hours! 
 10 hours or so if you really take your time to take in the amazing landscapes. Also, the boss fights 
 were simplistic. They didn't have that many attack and 1 or so minutes into the boss fight you'd 
 clearly see through their strategy and boss fights then turn to simplistic fights. Other than that, 
 this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is Beautiful Game that would reach 9.0 if it wasnt so short. The game is really 
 good its fun and has some Drama in the end ( it was really sad at the end) The levels are short 
 but if you wanna earn all the gylth it will take alot of time.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, Ratchet and Clank and Heavenly Sword should get the medals for Amazing 
 visual disign,
  
  The game is also so popular because its similar to the God of War 2 and Conan. it has an amazing 
 story, that just wants you to keep playing and playing it. Combos rock (probably caud it was like 
 GOW)
  The level Disgin is a Beautiful Work too Bad its too short and end way to quickly.
  
  It does lack a bit of a challenge caus all you do is just kil and hasnt enough of adventure.
 
  
  The main story is Fantastic its really sad in the end but still its a Masterpiece. Its pretty sad 
 in the end , but overall its a really outstanding game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theamitgoyal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Here's a couple of things I immediately noticed about Heavenly Sword when I started it up:
  
  1. It has no jump button. 
  2. It's trying too hard to be God Of War
  3. Nariko is pretty
 
  
  Somehow a third person action game doesn't feel right to me without the jump button. I tend to 
 abandon them even if they are good (As was the case with Onimusha 3) . Heavenly Sword became the 
 first 3PS to not make me feel restricted without the jump button. 
  
  And how? The combat system is very deep and can be explored as much as the player is willing to 
 go. The reviews so far have always put this game in the button-masher category which is true to 
 a certain extent. You can get by the game by button mashing. However, if you actually try to mix 
 and match the options at hand (various combos among the three distinctive styles, throwing around 
 stuff in combat and blocking/reflecting) you are definitely in for a much more satisfying experience. 
 
  
  As far as being a God Of War clone goes... I think the production values of this game set it apart 
 from God of War. The whole premise is difference, and every character you come across in this game 
 has a personality (which is very rare in video games these days) . There isn't much to the story 
 (again, unlike God of War, who's story raises a few eyebrows from time to time) , but whatever there 
 is has been executed brilliantly. 
  
  Through its combat system and production values, the game sets itself apart and stands its own 
 ground. 
  
  Yet we will more or less forget about this game soon enough... for the simple reason that it does 
 not take any risks. It has a set formula of an established genre (namely, third person actioner) 
 and follows it without trying anything ground breaking or different) . It's fun while it lasts, 
 and at times, especially the Kai segments where you can use the aftertouch to plant an arrow in 
 someone's butt, it can be exhilerating. (The final chapter was awesome) . But God of War 3 is around 
 the corner, there are more games in the same overcrowded genre that are coming up and game developers 
 willing to take more risks, and Heavenly Sword will be lost. 
  
  The game makes different impact at different times. I played this game after Uncharted, Assassin's 
 Creed, and Ratchet and Clank, and while I can point out some or the other stand out feature from 
 all those games, nothing out of Heavenly Sword is worth hanging on to... except perhaps Nariko 
 :P
  
  Final Word: The game does what it sets out to do way better than most games these days. But it 
 doesn't break any rules. The sad part is... that it doesn't even try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dermentor
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is awesome game... Feels like I am in a movie... Next gen!!!! I love this game and ninja theory 
 did their work excellent! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I remember the day when I picked up this game. i was disappointed from hearing many reviewers claiming 
 the game being very short. This is quite a turn off for me, due to the fact that I'm paying 60 
 dollars for a game, I at least want to get my money's worth. Finally, I decided to buy it, and 
 even though I knew it was short, this is one game I'm glad to have played.
  
  Heavenly Sword is probably one the most finely crafted games ever made. From the graphics, to its 
 overall presentation, dialog, story, characters ,and animations. This is one beautiful game. The 
 Story kept you intrigued, and had many exciting and action-packed parts, as well as dramatic and 
 sad parts. Not to spoil the story at all, but you need to play this game to enjoy what HS offers. 
 You play as Nariko through most of the adventure, but the game shifts to let you play as her companion 
 Kai at times, which differs up the gameplay, allowing for a varied experience
  
  Combat, being the core gameplay mechanic In HS, is greatly done. Many have claimed HS of being 
 a button-masher. To those people I say, you did not understand how to play the game. The game is 
 the complete opposite offering up three distinct styles of fighting: Speed, Range, Heavy. The game 
 allows for many different button combinations per style as well as having combos that integrate 
 2 or more styles, allowing for some varied and wicked combinations. Let alone Counters, Air-Combos, 
 Instant-Kill throws, and some great use of six-axis controls, and you got a game that does not 
 fit the "button-masher" description. 
  
  Though the game has so many great things going for it. It would be a lie to say it has no shortcomings. 
 The main one being it length. The game can be completed in roughly 7-8 hours for non-speed freaks 
 who like to enjoy the game and take their time. Plus the game doesn't really have any replay value 
 beyond it's great single-player experience. You can replay stages to receive better ranks on them 
 as well as play through "Hell mode" difficulty. The game also offers up some cast interviews, gameplay 
 diaries, and concept art to unlock which is a big plus.
  
  I believe Ninja Theory did an incredible job with this game, and I hope they have a sequel in the 
 works. If i can ask for anything to put in the sequel it would be a longer quest, some gameplay 
 unlockables (such as costumes or weapons) and maybe even a co-op mode (who knows it could be done) . 
 I may be asking for too much, but if ninja theory makes it even a little longer I'll be satisfied. 
 I think every PS3 owner should at least give Heavenly Sword a rent, I paid 60 clams for it and 
 I thought it was worth it. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taoridib
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The characters act like they are in an underbudget production film. Kia is like taking Jessica 
 Simpson to war just that she is a little more bi-polar and how does Sony or whoever made that game 
 know that everyone is a fan of Saxiss control, I fell off my chair trying to get an arrow in the 
 right direction...
  
  The bosses are NOT funny, I wonder why they were trying to make me laugh with their ugly selves. 
 And I still want to know how that main character got caught after defeating that snake.
  
  If you think that the previews for this game is to hot for you not to believe that it is cheap, 
 I strongly suggest renting it before buying it. When I saw the commercials I thought it was going 
 to be like god of war but it is nothing like that, the movement, the story, the characters the 
 bad guys, you can not in any way or form compare this game to god of war. The DEMO was cool so 
 thats another throw off. You might as well play the DEMO over and again, there is no difference! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Most people who have played through Heavenly Sword have complained that it's far too short and 
 can be completed within one night, therefore putting people off for getting it. It's true. Heavenly 
 Sword is short. However, it's awesome! Who thinks that playing as a beautiful heroine, slaying 
 thousands of warriors that are simply in your way isn't fun? I sure don't! It's such an entertaining 
 game and is definitely worth trying out if you own a PlayStation 3.
  
  THE GOOD
  Another game with a female protagonist, a lot of fun, controls are wonderful, graphics are fantastic, 
 fighting is pretty good.
  
  THE BAD
  Can be beaten within an overnight rental, might have been slightly cooler if there was an EXP system.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are amazing. They're better than Assassin's Creed... from my eyes at least. The cutscenes 
 especially. They look like a movie!! The details for everything is fantastic, and it all looks 
 so real! Once you get to the second chapter or so, they look even better. Especially when you see 
 all the view. The characters are also very detailed. Apparently, King Bohan was motion captured 
 from Andy Serkis, who happens to be the guy who played Gollum/Smeagol from The Lord of the Rings. 
 Heavenly Sword has the best graphics i've seen on the PlayStation 3 so far!!
  
  Sound
  The voice acting in Heavenly Sword is pretty good, especially when you find out that Andy Serkis 
 voices King Bohan. The other voices are also very well done. The music in the game is decent. It 
 isn't the best i've heard, but some of the tracks are pretty good.
  
  Gameplay
  Heavenly Sword has some brilliant gameplay. The action in it is really good. You take control of 
 Nariko, and for a lot of the game you'll be slaughtering thousands with the Heavenly Sword in your 
 hands. There are a lot of combos you can use, which of course require certain buttons to press. 
 But if you want to get through the game with them, you'll be the checking the command list every 
 so often. So don't be surprised if you get through by simply mashing Square and Triangle. You can 
 also change from light attacks to heavy. When you go into heavy attacks, you'll pull the Heavenly 
 Sword out and then you can slay even more warriors. You can also use snazzy counter-attacks which 
 can sometimes be used when you're knocked into the air or the ground. There are so many cool tricks 
 you can learn about when battling in Heavenly Sword. The level design is awesome as well. All the 
 levels are highly detailed and they all look very good. I quite like the levels when you shoot 
 stuff. A good mention would be the level in the first chapter. You are at a cannon and you fire 
 cannon balls at the targets on the catapults. You can control these cannon balls by holding square 
 and then you can move the cannon balls with the SIXAXIS feature. You can never get sick of those 
 types of mini-games. They're just so fun. Speaking of firing stuff, you eventually get control 
 of Kai, who is Nariko's ally. She is armed with a crossbow, and you can even control the arrows 
 that she fires the same way as you can with the cannonballs. Playing as Kai may not be as cool 
 as playing as Nariko, but you do start to like it eventually. Some of Kai's missions are pretty 
 good too. Bosses are interesting. Usually they are encountered in key levels in chapters, which 
 are usually at the end of them. You have to come up with a good strategy to beat them. Then once 
 they're health is down, you go up to them and press circle and a cutscene comes up, certain buttons 
 need to be pressed at a certain time. Those sorts of features appear in other places too. An example 
 is when climbing something huge. The difficulty isn't too hard. It may not be too long of a game, 
 but there's definitely dying involved. There are a lot of extras to unlock in Heavenly Sword. They 
 are also quite random when finding them. You seem to unlock them at random. These secrets involve 
 artwork, animated stories, etc. It's really quite neat. Overall, Heavenly Sword has brilliant gameplay!!
 
  
  Character Design
  Nariko is the main character of Heavenly Sword. She is pretty much the Lara Croft of the middle 
 ages. Kai is an ally. Not so hot, but still a good character once you get into the game. King Bohan, 
 being the main antagonist who is played by Andy Serkis. Bohan's allies are quite freaky, and their 
 voices are quite good and suit the game very well.
  
  Storyline
  The game follows the story of Nariko, the fierce red-haired warrior whose clan has long protected 
 the "Heavenly Sword", a god's blade of immense power that drains its wielder of their life force. 
 A power hungry ruler known as King Bohan, seeks to obtain the sword to gain its devastating power. 
 Upon beginning the game, the player is immediately thrust into the final battle with Bohan's army. 
 After slaying many of Bohan's soldiers, Nariko can no longer resist the sword's deadly curse. She 
 falls to the ground as the characters of the sword deeply engrave themselves into her skin. After 
 dying, she wakes up and finds herself in an empty clearing. Nariko laments at the sword's decision 
 to take her at such a critical moment and begins to recall the last five days before her final 
 battle. Storyline is decent.
  
  Overall
  Heavenly Sword is a short, but sweet experience! It's really good. However, it's not worth full 
 price. Either give this a rent and play till your heart's delight, or buy it when it goes down 
 in price. You'll definitely enjoy Heavenly Sword though.
  8.5/10
  
  RENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverDragon_8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Heaven; y sword is one of the best PS3 games to date, it's alot of fun, and it's worth the pruchase. 
 Yeah the game is short, but it makes up for it's content and gameplay. It's a lighter version of 
 God of War, but it works out pretty well, the story's good, the gameplay is great, and the characters 
 are really unique. I had a lot of fun with this game and I think people who owns a PS3 should check 
 it out. The combat is fun, the combos are fun to experience and it's fun when you take the control 
 of a projectile and aim it towards your enemies. Heavenly Sword has one of the most beautifuliest 
 graphics shown on the PS3, it looks really good. The music of Heavenly Sword is pretty good as 
 well and the boss fights are really fun to play. It may not be God of War, but Heavenly Sword is 
 one of the greatest hits to come out for the PS3. This game is really good and I think PS3 owners 
 will enjoy Heavenly Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a action title about Nariko, a beautiful young woman with long red hair who wields 
 the heavenly sword. The game's story begins very similar to God of War with the game beginning 
 a little before the end of the game and then goes back 5 days before that moment to how it all 
 began.
  
  Gameplay:
  Sadly the gameplay is one of the 2 biggest problems, with the other being game length, more on 
 that in a bit. The game plays very similar to God of War, sometimes a little to similar. Like God 
 of War light attacks is square and heavy is triangle with circle being grab for finishers and the 
 left analog stick is for rolling. Unlike God of War the game focuses more on combat with very little 
 adventure and puzzle elements. The core gameplay as Nariko is pretty simple since you have a limited 
 amount of combos and some unlockable ones, don't expect Ninja Gaiden or Devil May Cry level combos 
 here, and is more or less your basic hack'n slash and beat'em up style gameplay you will find in 
 Dynasty Warriors, Ninety Nine Nights, Kingdom Under Fire, and the Lord of the Rings The Two Towers/Return 
 of the King games, so it starts getting repetitive after awhile. To break up these elements there 
 is some Kai levels and she uses a crossbow so you will find yourself shooting at guys to keep them 
 from entering the place your guarding or a escort mission, JOY, although later on she does have 
 regular levels which break up the Nariko action, but do get boring and tedious fast. Although the 
 game is so short the repetition won't be that big of a deal. I actually beat the game in 5 hours 
 in 2 sittings, so for a normal gamer it might take around 8. There is some unlockables so that 
 may make you want to go threw multiple times to try to unlock them all, but it's mostly art, so 
 unless your a completist, you most likely won't care about getting all the unlockables, which are 
 unlocked for doing good in combat, not exploring, since the game is extremely linear. There is 
 some motion sensing controls which you can use for precise aiming when shooting arrows as Kai or 
 throwing stuff as Nariko and some other motion sensing stuff, but I found it best to just turn 
 the motion sensing off, although it is fun to try it out a little bit in the beginning of the game. 
 Overall it's just your basic action game fair.
  
  Audio:
  Audio is truly very well done with a great cast, great sound effects, and a good soundtrack. Although 
 Kai's voice can be a bit annoying and some of the dialog can be a bit cheesy and lame. Overall 
 the audio is mostly movie quality and extremely well done.
  
  Graphics:
  The high point of the game. The game looks great and has arguably the best cutscenes in a game 
 to date. The facial work on characters is truly outstanding, very life like, and definitely the 
 best facial work in a game to date. The backdrops in the game are truly beautiful and you can see 
 miles in the distance. However some of the in game graphics and lighting can be a bit awkward looking. 
 Character models and environmental detail take a hit in game compared to cutscenes, and just don't 
 match there high quality. Also there is some very noticeable framerate and screen tearing issues 
 which sometimes cause framerate hitches, slowdown, and other minor issues. Overall it's a very 
 nice looking game with some of the best cutscenes in game to date, even if there is some minor 
 problems.
  
  Closing comments:
  It's a very solid action game with very high production values, but do to some repetitive and tedious 
 gameplay, and being very short, it just doesn't rise above rental status. It's a solid game and 
 one you might want to check out if you have a PS3, just don't expect a long ride.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  
  Pros:
  Fantastic and well done cutscenes
  Great facial work
  Great 
 audio
  All around great presentation 
  
  Cons:
  Repetitive, tedious, and been there, done that gameplay
  Too short
  Some small graphical glitches 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkSanghee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm playing this game a third time. 2 normal game and I'm now beating Hell mode (Mine's translated 
 version so I'm not sure about the terms) . Very few games made me play straight 3 times. This is 
 one of them.
  
  Besides being very funny, this game is absolutely the most beautiful game of the PS3 game. Even 
 "Uncharted" loses its luster compared to this one. Concept art is very original, obviously mixed 
 up some factors of far eastern Asian countries, and the stunning scenery is pushing limit of PS3.
 
  In-game cut-scenes are well directed and deliver each participant's character very well. 
  
  Although I am quite enjoying this game, I am compelled to say about its shortcomings. 
  First 
 of all, the loading time is too slow. This is especially painful in Hell mode. When Nariko dies, 
 I have to wait several minutes to resume again. I don't understand this. It seems the game tries 
 load all the stuff again when the map and other resources have been obviously already loaded. I'm 
 not sure this is due to the limit of PS3 or just the programmers' mistake.
  Second shortcoming is the game ends too early. Many reviewers already have pointed out this. It 
 would have been greatly welcomed if several more chapters were added to the game.
  Third and lastly, a little more diversity of the opponents would have made this game a lot more 
 colorful. Well, this game is colorful as it is, I may say.
  
  Anyway, I wrote this review and rated the game because I love it. I heartily recommend "Heavenly 
 Sword" anyone who has PS3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordsidious002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Let me 1st start off by saying this is my first review on gamspot so hopfully im not jumping around 
 to much and stick to standered format. 
  
  story- the story a very simply one not to much involved but it wasn't a bad story though. they 
 really could have added alot more to it at the same time.
  
  graphics- nothing short of amazing in this department. they look like something that you would 
 see in a movie. along with the voice acting and the music gave this game a great atmosphere, and 
 really put you into the game.
  
  controlls- 3 diffrent attack modes and a list of combos were just great for this game. the aftertouch 
 system did work well for the more involved aiming that comes latter on in the game but hey if you 
 can get the aftertouch that well more power to ya
  
  extra content- filled with art, and videos to unlock just aren't enuff in my book to want to come 
 back for more. but the diffrent styles of play had me wanting to comeback for more.
  
  overall this game was amazing but the not so involved plot really took away from this game. the 
 aftertouch was someting that's a cool concept but when it came down to it i rarely used it . if 
 you want a game that will just blow you away then pick up this one cuz it's worth the 59.99 that 
 youll spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  So I bought this game knowing it is short... so I won't complain about that. But what I will complain 
 about is lack of a compelling story. I just didn't feel in the game whereas other games with lackluster 
 stories can still win one over... example (even though its only for the 360) is Gears of War. Both 
 games have a sub par story, but at least Gears makes you feel like you are fighting for something.
 
  
  Another thing I had a problem with is the controls. Now I realize this is just a button mashing 
 game which is enjoyable. BUT my problem is a simple problem... no jumping. I just wish I was able 
 to jump (I realize one character can jump over objects but come on people I just wanna jump) I 
 don't care if it is just a little hop or a God of War double jump. The lack of jumping seemed to 
 really dull the game for me and gave me more stress than it should have.
  
  The bosses will make you happy when you beat them since they are entertaining and hard. Problem 
 is that I felt they were repetitive too much. Just dodge and reverse their projectiles back to 
 them.... over and over.
  
  The game is fun don't get me wrong. I love the fact that you steer projectiles. But wait for this 
 game to lower in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  Well, I picked up Heavenly Sword about a few days ago (No, I didn't beat it yet haha)
  
  I didn't want to buy it for full price seeing as I heard Story mode is short, so I picked up a 
 used copy from someone in my area for 35 dollars and I got home to pop this bad boy in.
  
  First off, Graphics are simply amazing. Very crisp, clean, and flawless. Faces look so real that 
 it shocked my wife.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun, almost reminded me of 99 nights, but this one takes the cake by far. Fast pace 
 at certain parts of the game and that's what I like, Sixaxis control was okay to play with mainly 
 with Kai's mission were fun. I didn't like part where you had to throw someone to make the "Gong" 
 sound in order to open the doors. 
  
  Graphics: Like I said, realistic all the way. Very good job to the team that made this awesome 
 game.
  
  Story: I really enjoy the story, I believe I'm almost done with it. Sadly, I wish it wouldn't end 
 so soon. Might be short, but it's worth the gameplay. 
  
  Controls: Pretty easy to use, nothing else to report on this subject.
  
  Overall: I'm having 
 a fun time playing this game, I wish it could last longer. I'm glad I picked up this game and making 
 it part of my collection.
  
  I really think you should pick up this game, but fair warning. Try to find a good deal, don't pay 
 for the full price tag seeing it will only last between 4-5 hrs (If you rush it) probably 8-10 
 tops if you play it and get everything. I'm almost done with the game, so if you've watched the 
 videos/trailers/and gameplay. Pick it up for decent price and you'll be happy that you did.
  
  END OF REVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milesflex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Only complaints are that is is short and for a game titled "Heavenly Sword", it seems 
 like you spend have the game playing with weapons other than the Heavenly Sword. I didn't buy "Crossbow" 
 or "Cannon" or "Regular Sword" - I bought "Heavenly Sword" to play with the Heavenly Sword. It's 
 a nice change of pace to include the 2nd playable character, Kai, and the cannon sequences are 
 fun, but they seem to take up half the game. Visuals are great, fun to play, cut scenes are impressive. 
 Would buy it again in a heartbeat. A trilogy would be super sweet. Voice acting and motion capture 
 performances were all great. Wish the other 3 portions of the 5 prequel animated clips were included 
 on the disk - they were very well animated and interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chenvandam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is definitely an excellent game.
  The gameplay is great and solid.
  The voice acting is terrific
  The environments are lush and detailed 
  The is a small but terrific 
 verity of foes and bosses
  The story really draws you in, and makes you want to keep playing the game.
  There is a second 
 playing caricature except for nariko witch is called kai, she is kind of weird but you will grow 
 to love her. Her controls are different from those of nariko, she uses a slingshot unlike nariko 
 witch uses the heavenly sword (duhhhh...) . Shooting arrows is very fun because you use a unique 
 gameplay mechanic in witch you control the arrow as it is shot to the enemy.
  The game is definitely one of a kind
  You will have a breath taking experience throw out the 
 whole game.
  i deeply recommend this game to anyone how is interested in having a huge action adventure gaming 
 experience.
  
  i guess the only fall back is really its length, but don't let that turn you off this game because 
 it is completely worth it!
  
  
  o yea, it has great value to. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnett
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is a tale of a young girl whom many believed (including herself) that she was cursed 
 and chosen to carry "the heavenly sword as her father and his clan are attack. You must help defend 
 the sword from getting into the wrong hands ( classic story line ) The controls are fit for anyone 
 who loves to button mash, as you go through the game more combos become available and more devastating 
 moves too. The graphic are awesome and the landscape at times breath-taking. The use of sony's 
 six-axis controllers are but to good use to in certain area were you have to steer your cannon 
 shoot or other projectile weapons. This is a game that is a game easily picked up and fun to play 
 with very little learning curve expect for the different combo types. Game for for all ages as 
 I enjoy as well as my 10 and 14 yr old daughters do too. Excellent graphics and great gameplay. 
 solid game all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thewbacca
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  What would you get if you took the love-child of Lara Croft and Kratos, paired them with the mutant 
 clone of Legolas and Gollum, and pitted them against an enemy king who seems to exude sleaze, and 
 yet seems so familiar? In most cases, you'd have a cheap knock-off that seems to thrill you for 
 maybe 2 minutes. Here, however, you have a beautifully crafted title that seems to be what Next 
 gen is all about. Well, in every way but one.
  
  First off, lets start with the good. The game is beautifully designed. I don't often say that (check 
 my previous reviews if you don't believe me) so understand how brilliant it looks. No character 
 ever gives the location they live in (you could think from their accents they live in Britain, 
 but, you'd obviously be wrong) , but it can be assumed that they live in Feudal Japan. But this 
 is a Japan in which each cherry blossom gently falls as you walk by. Where each catapult gets picture 
 sharp the closer you get. And where each character, even the nameless cannon fodder peons, have 
 a face, and not just that, but facial expressions. This all does nothing to affect gameplay, but 
 it looks damn cool.
  
  Next, the combat. A lot of people compare this game to God Of War, saying that the combat style 
 and quick-press button situations seem a lot like those titles. While in some situations the two 
 are similar, they differ on some key points. Nariko has three fighting styles, speed, power and 
 range, and with each comes a whole new set of moves, combo's, and blocks. So, in order to survive, 
 you must be constantly shifting between the three. Button mashers will find their arse being taken 
 by the enemy as a trophy in no time if they don't learn this. Also, as well as three styles of 
 combat, Nariko can also incapacitate enemies from a distance by throwing things at them. What things, 
 you ask? Well, the technical term for them is "pretty much anything". Pushcarts, jars, stools, 
 pieces of tables, food, utensils, tools, enemy weapons and even passed put enemies can be picked 
 up and thrown full force at an enemy. And seeing an enemy take his comrade to the gut is one of 
 the funny times in this rather serious game.
  
  However, the game also knows just how to keep you on your toes. Whenever you look like you're getting 
 bored with decimating whole armies with a single stroke, your control shifts to the Legolas/Gollum 
 clone mentioned before, Kai. A lot of people have been taking the phrase "We may need you to play 
 Twing Twang" from the demo out of context and asking what it is. Well, here it is. Twing Twang 
 is insane little girl talk for sniping. And this is sniping like you've never seen it before. Armed 
 with only a crossbow and a sight dot made of a tilting mirror, there's no way this girl could take 
 out a moving target from 100 feet away, right? Wrong. The game demonstrates why it couldn't work 
 on any other console, with one more masterstroke - Afterthought (the system is called afterthought) . 
 Using this, Kai can direct her arrows mid-flight, making therm dodge barriers, curve through fire 
 and windows, even turn right angles, and then embed them in the enemies skull. This is done by 
 tilting and turning the Sixaxis controller along the path you want. But, even with this power on 
 your side, the levels where you are sent by Nariko through rooms filled with guards with no qualms 
 about killing little girls can be pretty scary, but all the more rewarding when you beat it.
  
  And of course, the bosses. Each one offers you a chance to test your skills, from the speedy-as-&^%* 
 bat-creature to the long distance pummeler fish-mistress to the moving mountain, and finally the 
 king himself. Each one is challenging, taking a few goes to get right, and rewarding to kill (well, 
 except the moving mountain, but not for the reason you think) .
  
  And now, the bad. The game is short. Like, criminally short. Like, action movie short. if you'd 
 started this game while a friend was watching the Lord Of The Rings trilogy, you'd be done before 
 he'd got to the credits of Towers. Worse still, aside from a slightly harder mode and a ranking 
 system, there's not much replay value. If you're playing right you should be getting full marks 
 automatically, and the slightly harder version should be no problem if you managed to beat the 
 final boss. Worse still, there's no Multiplayer, and *SPOILER AHEAD* no chance of a sequel, due 
 to the Heavenly Sword sucking Nariko's life from her after the final battle. *Spoiler End*
  
  Despite all this, the game ranks a pretty solid A in my books. If nothing else, this is a game 
 that is made for rentals. Even so, it should definitely go down as one of the strong points of 
 the PS3, along with Resistance and Uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword feels like a summer blockbuster movie like Pirates of the Caribbean or Star Wars. 
 You feel like your in an action movie with alot combat, samurai and Kung Fu action set in Japan/China. 
 Main story was about The Heavenly Sword, a devine weapon of the gods, no mortal can wield t without 
 paying the ultimate price. The clan protected the sword from those who lust for it's power. Their 
 prophecy spoke of a boy, born to wield the sword and save the world from tyranny. The truth, a 
 girl was born, Nariko; now she is the only thing that stands between the clan and extinction. Can 
 she move beyond revenge and reach redemption before the sword destroys her. The brutal King Bohan 
 and his minions are after the power of The Heavenly Sword and use to destroy and control the lands.
 
  Only Nariko can stop them from preventing this all happening with some help from her friend Kai 
 she acts and walks like a cat and sounds abit like Gollum/Smegul from the Lord of the Rings.
  
  Gameplay sort f works the same way as God of War lots of button mashing and reaction commands 
 like on Kingdom Hearts 2 or Resident Evil 4, and you use the sixaxis controller to do alot of things 
 your moving the contoller up and down and other directions in the game. Best thing about the game 
 is your killing more then 1000 enimies in the game and some decent boss fights, but this game is 
 short and you'll proppley get this game done in a day or more then 6 hours at least. Nice graphics 
 for an action does make you feel like your part of the game doing all the action and slicing and 
 diceing.
  
  Sounding perfect lots of slahes, and sword effects, bangs and booms and enimeis getting killed. 
 Also brillient voices for the game you got Andy Serkis (Plays King Kong and Gollum) play as King 
 Bohan, and a few other voice actors in the game that you may reconise from TV or films you've seen.
 
  
  For those who have not played this game yet or planning on getting a PS3, some of you may want 
 to rent this game first becuase it is a short or you see it a cheap price from 15-$15 or less 
 in bargin buckets or on special offer sales. Can be a good game but if you want to kill 1000 and 
 1000 of enimes, if there's going to be a sequel they should make it abit longer at least.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_light91
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised when I decided to rent Heavenly Sword.
  
  The graphics were very good. While the environments were alright, the characters were what really 
 caught my attention. The people's skin looked amazing and the facial expressions were incredibly 
 lifelike. The game's facial animation is some of the best I've seen thus far.
  
  But really this game is all about the action. To me, the combat was like a mix between God of War 
 and Prince of Persia. I loved all of the combos, especially the aerial ones. With so many attacks 
 to choose from, it was hard not to have fun playing the game. I also really liked the destructible 
 environments - throwing random stuff at people is always fun. I was also surprised at how good 
 the sixaxis controls were and how much of it they incorporated into the game. And while it took 
 some getting used to, I had a blast guiding arrows, cannonballs, and rockets into people, just 
 to name a few. This game really took advantage of the sixaxis and is the first PS3 game to actually 
 realize its potential.
  
  I loved the game's Oriental-style music. It was a nice change of pace from the usual music we hear 
 in games. The bonus features were also great (I always love concept art and "making ofvideos) .
 
  
  A lot of people keep saying the game is too short, but considering what the game was about, I think 
 it's just the right length. Besides, a hack-and-slash gets old quickly if it gets too drawn out. 
 Both the length of the game and the unlockable bonus features help enhance replay value.
  
  Okay. Now for the negatives... While Bohan's 3 main bosses were interesting, I thought their performances 
 were WAY too strange and over-the-top. This was one of the biggest problems I had with the game. 
 If they has toned it down a bit, it would have been a lot better (all the other character performances 
 were outstanding though) .
  
  Also, there should have been more checkpoints. Many times on my first play through a certain point, 
 I would die at the very end of a really long boss fight or arrow-shooting part only to find out 
 that I had to start at the very beginning of it and replay the entire section! Even one checkpoint 
 halfway through these parts would have been nice.
  
  And finally, I thought that the final battle of the game was really frustrating, because all the 
 men and Bohan's wings were blocking your view, so you couldn't see what you or Bohan was doing. 
 And, seeing how this is the most important fight of the game, it is important that you CAN see 
 what you are doing.
  
  So, all in all, Heavenly Sword is a great game with some minor issues, but it is still one that 
 all PS3 owners should at least rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONbonSMITH
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  The first aspect of Heavenly Sword that caught my attention was the great use of the SIXAXIS controls. 
 It's a great thing to be able to shoot an arrow, or throw watermelons and bodies and be able to 
 direct the object in which ever way you please. After some of the past epic failures with the SIXAXIS 
 concept, I was skeptical on whether or not any game could bring it back to life. 
  One of the more problems I have with games is the attempt to express their story through annoying, 
 repetitive cut scenes that impede the underlying action of a seemingly great game. Heavenly Sword 
 is what it is, in part, because of the highly professional, funny and dramatic cut scenes presented 
 throughout the entire game.
  By far the most underappreciated aspect of Heavenly Sword is the music. While the entire hack - 
 and - slash action is flying by you hardly notice the great symphonic melodies. All the sound effects 
 from sword unsheathing, walking and gongs being struck are all very well done.
  Visual immersion is also very pleasing; the environments are incredible and never repetitious. 
 Character designs and their expressions they bring fourth are very amusing, you can almost feel 
 the emotions the characters are going through. Various explosions are happening and are quite realistic; 
 debris soaring and so on, some shock waves would have been nice.
  Combat is the main function of the game, everything combined, sound, visuals and so on, fuse to 
 create a deliciously violent experience. Unlockable combos keep this from getting boring and none 
 of the attacks are impossible to pull off. The diversity of the attacks are well done, the super 
 attacks are fun to watch.
  For a little depth the use of Glyphs are thrown in, filling the style bar and breaking special 
 pots will give you glyphs (3 per level) which in turn unlock special content such as concept art, 
 "making of" videos and short anime movies. It may sound useless but its fun.
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  A major annoyance was the sluggish frame rate that seems to follow the cut scenes 
 around everywhere. The bad guy designs didn't vary all that much and the boss battles are relentlessly 
 repetitive. Aside from that and some minor graphical glitches that's about it.
  
  Putting length and price out of the equation Heavenly Sword brings a lot to the PS3 table, it isn't 
 perfect but its well worth the time spent to play. I wont travel out and say its worth 60 big ones, 
 but it's defiantly worth the test drive for $8. 
  
  
  Happy Gaming 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpkfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is by far probably one of the best games for the ps3. The combat system is great 
 the graphics are CRazy! and best of all there are intresting levels that will keep you saying AWWWWW.
 
  
  The sixaxis control works well in this game too so you wont get fustrated at a certain part... unless 
 if you dont know how to aim.
  
  The olny problem id say thats wrong with this game is that there are buttons that you must press 
 at random times to gain the upper hand on your enemt or if you facing a difficult terrain.
  
  and it happens so quickly because you too busy looking at whats going on in the game that you 
 dont even relize that the signs are right in front of you and you end up screwing it up.
  
  also there are god boss battles which are very challenging to complete after you just went through 
 a long level and boy let me tell you it feels good!
  
  THATS ALL FOLKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfoster75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  For years now, video games have had to straddle the line between pure interactive engagement of 
 the olden days' platformers and the passive entertainment society craves at the movie theatres. 
 I would hazard a guess that the blame is mostly on the improvement of graphics in games, allowing 
 designers to consider the option of the so-called 'interactive movie'. For every Castlevania: SotN 
 there's a MGS - and detractors and avid fans abound for both. Heavenly Sword, in my opinion, is 
 squarely on the interactive movie side of things, but it holds its own as a splendid game that 
 will make you want to show off your shiny new PS3 to all your friends.
  
  As can be easily be discerned from the many trailers and interviews prior to the game's release, 
 Ninja Theory wanted to delve into bringing as movie-like a performance to the PS3 as possible. 
 They even went so far as to hire Andy Serkis - Gollum of 'Lord of the Rings' fame - and work with 
 the same studio as Peter Jackson chose for the same film. With arguably one of the most experienced 
 and talented motion-capture actors of this decade on their side, the designers are able to bring 
 the characters in this game to life in a way I have never seen before, and scarcely ever expected 
 to see in a video game. From tiny gestures and all-too-human twitches, to fully developed, emotional 
 expositions, Ninja Theory have made for us a movie that we could just as easily sit back and watch 
 as we can take the reins and kick butt for ourselves.
  
  And on that note, the butt-kicking, sword slashing tornado of a battle we get to control, from 
 start to finish, is completely accessible and incredibly fun. The controls are such that you can 
 focus on tactical use of the combos and maneuvers or just button-mash and whichever way pleases 
 you the most you will never feel like you're being cheaped-out. Kai's levels I found a little more 
 frustrating, but once I got the hang of the Aftertouch motion control system I actually looked 
 forward to her scenes. (A special comment on the Aftertouch: there were a couple scenes when Nariko 
 is in a desperate hurry to get from place to place and yet the sense of urgency is completely broken 
 down by a puzzle that requires you to precisely lob stuff a-la-Captain America to advance. I wonder 
 if they could have moved these puzzles into different parts of the game?)
  
  Unfortunately, given how fabulously fun the game is, I found it frustrating that I had completed 
 it in less than a week of casual play. I recognize that Ninja Theory wanted to hold their game 
 to such high standards that they didn't want to stretch out the story anymore, but some of the 
 fight sequences could easily have been lengthened by simply adding more enemies to battle. Heck, 
 even just adding an arena mode at the end of the game and allowing people to fight ad infinitum 
 could have been a simple addition. Coupled with even a basic online leaderboard for the arena, 
 many gamers would probably sink several more hours competing for high scores. To me, this minimal 
 enhancement would have easily pushed the game into the 9+ ratings. As it stands, while I'm not 
 sorry I bought Heavenly Sword by any stretch, I wouldn't hesitate to encourage people to rent over 
 buy this game - and unfortunately by virtue of the game's length alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yohanjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  HS, as I call it, is an innovative, breath taking game. the level design to the flying debris is 
 flawless and literally masterfull very few games i give a written review but this deserves one. 
 You start off as the wielder of the Heavenly Sword, Nariko. She takes up the sword to avege her 
 clan and free them from the clutches of King Bohan. She hacks and slashes her way through hordes 
 of enemies cutting, slashing and literally destroying the opponent, using the combos and counters, 
 super styles and after touch and of course we cant forget the God of War like hero sequences which 
 are alot of fun. This game will have you taken up in this game from the start to the end. This game 
 makes use of the SIXAXIS power and the motion capture acting by Andy *Sekris* (not to sure of spelling) 
 and the comicial dialog pf Bohan and foot soliders (i swore i heard one of them say "He was my best 
 friend") also Kai's and Roach's mental/sinister speech and action will have you wondering whats 
 comming next.
  Even though the game is kinda short its still Amazing, A true work of art and I'm hoping for a 
 sequal. It gets a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  heavenly sword excels in presentation, but as a game it's ultimately a repetitive rehashing of 
 the beat 'em up genre's greatest hits. the production values are perhaps the highest i've ever 
 seen in a video game... the voice and motion capture acting are phenomenal and graphically the game 
 is stunning. how unfortunate then that the gameplay, while not unpleasant, is actually quite shallow 
 and the story, which many people seem to think is somehow groundbreaking, is dull and cliched. 
 while it's gorgeous to behold, heavenly sword is ultimately a hollow gaming experience... it deserves 
 more heart. it could have been great.
  
  strangely, one aspect of the game which many people have found frustrating (the sixaxis aftertouch) 
 was one of my favourite parts of the game. guiding the projectiles using the sixaxis motion sensing 
 seemed intuitive to me and i felt like i had great control over what was happening on the screen 
 (for example, i destroyed the three capapults on my second try) . heavenly sword's implementation 
 of sixaxis motion sensing is an example of this type of technology done right... whereas lair might 
 be an example of it done poorly.
  
  definitely rent this game before buying it... in this respect, the shortness of the game isn't really 
 such a drawback because i don't know why you'd really want it to go on much longer. while i enjoyed 
 playing heavenly sword once, i doubt i'll ever feel the desire to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  It is rare to find quality acting in a game. Anna Torv does an outstanding job as Nariko (both 
 voice and movement - the animation is motion capture - well, most) , and the rest of the cast measures 
 up as well. So does the story, and the music. This is one game where you won't fall asleep in the 
 cutscenes.
  Yes, it's short, but at least it avoids overextending gameplay past it's ability to be novel, which 
 many games do in order to have more game time.
  
  Since the time spent in this game is "quality" time, it's value (esp. used) is just fine.
  
 
  One negative: unlocked combos (fight moves) are not needed, or helpful (mostly) - actually, all 
 of the unlocked rewards aren't that exciting. The reward for perfect gameplay should be better. 
 In truth, most of the combos are really only visual candy. The "basic" combos are more reliable 
 for actual gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I was taken from the beginning with the graphics and style. The 
 graphics were so clear that I could see the pores on Nariko's face. The thing that I loved most 
 about this game was the feeling you got when playing it. It was like you were there with her the 
 whole time trying to help her through her journeys. The fighting style was another plus for me 
 as well. It was easy enough for it to be playable, and challenging enough for it to be addictive. 
 The fight scenes are totally realistic and just plain awesome! I would say that the only thing 
 I didn't like about it was how fast it was over with. When I did beat the game, I was like, "What? 
 That's it?" I guess I got so caught up with it, I didn't even know how far along I was. I didn't 
 want to see it end! I can't wait until the sequel!
  
  Major props to Ninja Theory for developing such a truly amazing game. ~Scarlett 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer228
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The game stars a female character by the name of Nariko, A ninja fighter with a lot of killer moves. 
 Though the game is nothing like God of War, If you liked god of war, your going to love Heavenly 
 Sword. Nariko was reallya legend who was pose to be a man but insted it was a girl the legend said 
 tht the man will bring peace but Nariko does that . Her village hate's her because they think she 
 can't save them but there wrong she get's real mad when her father got hit she gave her up tp protecded 
 the village in the end she dies being a hero! The villian was about to die he learneded to never 
 mess with Nariko If she killed him she would die and ki would be still died but she goes to ki 
 and gave her life to her so that not a happy ending she died but her grave is very peaceful. They 
 left her in the ocean floting time passes by her body is still i her grave 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall_g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Story  The story is charismatic although some may think that's more like one of those melodramatic 
 epic martial arts stories. Still it has class and the way the game it starts makes you feel more 
 intrigued about it.
  
  The voice acting is amazing and intense, which makes you feel inside of the story concept and increases 
 the drama level making the gamer wanting for more.
  
  Gameplay - the bad part is the lack of weapons in other words only the Heavenly Sword itself controlled 
 only by Nariko and the bows controlled by Kai and there are no upgrades to make on them. The good 
 part are the fight choreography against the bosses, counter attacks, the innovating shooting bows 
 using the controller and resting us from using the analog control which I found amazing and very 
 addictive. The fight mode like speed, ranging and power are pretty good but however the combination 
 list is small and some of them aren't effective. The player can use two or three combos in particular 
 to get the job done.
  
  Graphics  really amazing and the physics are awesome and we can also interact with objects to 
 fight against our opponents and landscape is terrific. The character models look good and well 
 designed in my opinion.
  
  Conclusion  Heavenly Sword should be an excellent game if wasn't short; however it's one of the 
 top for the next gen. And I can tell that this game is a good start and I hope they can do more 
 similar to that. For me one of the best games for the PS3 and I believe that Nariko will always 
 stay in the player's hearts and being remembered as an intense and brave hero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I was definitely excited to play this game for a longtime, even prior to me owning a PS3. After 
 playing the demo after al least 2 dozen times and many attempts at renting the title (always rented 
 out) , i caved in and dropped $50 to play the full retail. I knew it was going to be short but figured 
 I would play mutliple times, so what the hell. The most impressive part of the game has got to 
 be the extremely well done cut-scenes and story. Sure, the story may seem somewhat cliche but it 
 works well and builds suspense til the end. They define the games characters very well, probably 
 the best i've ever seen for an action title. The voice overs and animations are top notch, leaving 
 little to the imagination and giving the full experience... in a positive way. The gameplay and 
 action is very entertaining, as i expected. The shooting sequences are also fun, giving the player 
 control of movement in mid-flight with use of the motion controls. The bosses are also entertaining 
 (although not many) and provide some variety from the typical fights. However... the game is about 
 5-6 hours long at most. Sure, you can go back and redo levels to get the best ranking (rating out 
 of 3 for each level) . But in the end, the game is way too short to recommend as a purchase. You 
 can unlock tons of artwork, but that will only satisfy the hardcore fan. You unlock combo's as 
 well, but there aren't many... No side-quests or alternate routes make i even harder to push what 
 is a medicore length. In the end, the game is solid and I am very excited about #2... I just hope 
 its longer and provides more combo's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  
  A beautiful game with great cut scenes, but the frame rate suffers a bit movement gets jerky on 
 certain occasion. Nariko's hair flutters like crazy when she isn't moving or no wind in the air 
 I don't know if that was intentional but it gets annoying and weird after seeing it happen for 
 a while. 
  While the game wants the player to notice and be amazed by the graphics, the camera position can 
 make things hard to see. The camera is fixed at a far distance from the player so when you're fighting 
 a hundred thugs you can barely see what Nariko or Kai is doing and you're left when pressing buttons 
 like a maniac to avoid getting gang banged. 
  Character design is terrific, but something seems familiar... the game play is a copy cat from 
 God of War. Nariko is like a female version of Kratos the developers had no shame imitating the 
 success of God of War they didn't do as well though. I think Kratos and Nariko would make a great 
 couple they both love to kill, kill, kill and kill some more a match made in Heavenly Sword. 
 
  
  Well it was fun while it lasted NO REPLAY ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This is a game that would be remembered forever by anyone who beats it all... which unfortunately 
 takes about 6hours only.... the two playable characters in this game Nariko and Kai attract you 
 with their personalities and sisterly love (sisterly and i have your back kinda love at the same 
 time) ..... the fighting style of Nariko is very cool and extreme... she makes anyone of King Bohan's 
 army look like a sick, wet cat scared of his shadow.... both physically by kicking their butt with 
 extremely acrobatic, strong and exagerated moves using the famouse heavenly sword which doesn't 
 only kill you but snds you flying in the air by doing so.... the thing that the battles need with 
 Nariko is a good defence like LOTR where they push away your sword with their's and leave you distracted 
 for some time... in HS you can only defend yourself against weak attacks and they would be allowed 
 to hit back less than a second afterwards... anyways Kai isn't the strong type but she shoots arrows 
 to about 150 meteres maximum which you control in mid air while the whole world moves in slow motion... head 
 shots are hard but very satisfying... when i beat this game i was very depressed and wanted to hear 
 more about the characters and spent days visiting the website and looked and all the unlocked art... this 
 game although short is worth it and ppl should buy it before the 2nd one comes out (it's quite probable) 
 and you would want to kill yourself for not beating the 1st one before trying the next 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword was an easy plane old fun game. the levels were fun and exiting just to kill people, 
 and to do the quests. this game in total took me about less than 15 hours to get to the boss... but 
 on the boss i spend probably about 10 hours itself!! i though this game was really fun and easy 
 but the boss made me frustrated and i just wanted to throw this game out my window. when i finally 
 beet the boss i sat back with relief and had a big smile on my face. in the end this game was good, 
 and every one says you should just rent it but the boss will take WAY to long to be beeten in one 
 rental period :) . After u beet this game there are still a couple more things u have to go back 
 and do in the level. now that i beet Heavenly Sword i probably wont go back and play it for a wile 
 because i have to many more games to beet in so little time :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword
  When you're looking at the gameplay of this game, you're thinking that its the same kind of gameplay 
 of God Of War, but that isn't true. In God Of War, it's a bit kinda button smashing thing were 
 you do only combos and other stuffs like pressing the same buttons. But in Heavenly Sword yes there 
 is a bit of it, but it's different because there is a kind of strategy that you have to put in 
 your own gameplay. And what is amazing, its that you can use the SIXAXIS controls for making combos 
 (Really Cool by the way) . Anyways its kinda difficult to describe so you'll see by your self. But 
 there the same basic controls of God of War, so for those you really enjoyed the franchise, will 
 absolutely enjoy this game.
  
  The story is really good. Its a bit like many action movies or games because there is a bad king 
 that wants to possess something or control the world and the hero must stop him. Actually thats 
 the story of this game, but there is so many things like the story of the Heavenly Sword that makes 
 the main story so unique. 
  The story takes place in the skin of Nariko and Kai, two girls and both friends giving her own 
 life for each other. When your playing with Nariko, the main character, its more like the big action 
 moments and when you're playing Kai, its more tactical. Actually Kai's weapon is a bow.
  The game is divided in 6 chapters with in the around of 10 missions. When you end a mission, there 
 is automatically a save game, so don't worry. Some missions can be long and other really not, for 
 example, one of the last missions goes in the around of 30 seconds. 
  The story, division of the missions, terrific sound effects and voice acting, beautiful cutscenes 
 and graphic textures makes you think that you are looking a 7 hours movie. The makers of this game 
 did a incredible job for this aspect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic_evil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is stunning, from the lead character to the level designs. Everything about this game 
 is enchanting. The world draws you in, the story is something we'd expect from a Final Fantasy 
 game, not something we'd expect from something that looks like this. Had it not received the hype 
 that it had. I would not have looked at it twice. 
  
  Brutally honest, my friend Kyle bought this right at release and It was probably at least a month 
 before I touched it. The first night I played it, I played it all the way through to where I stopped 
 playing it. That mission with Kai where long story short. There's a lot of close quarters battle 
 that is 1) uncomfortable. Why are you giving a character with only a gun such close quarters combat, 
 never the less a gun thats so awkward to use at close quarters. 2) Why don't you give her a knife 
 or something, it was so tedious to kill them without dying. And I couldn't beat that level.
  
  So long story short, I dont like this game, but let me go into this. I love Ninja Gaiden, and 
 that game is intense. That game has imbued me with skills. I just couldn't die in this game. Block, 
 Roll, always dodging, the whole cant be killed while dodging thing. That makes this game way too 
 easy. I don't know, Ninja Gaiden you need to block or dodge to live. In this, you dodged because 
 it was simple, and you just dont die. Combat was way too easy. 
  
  The challenge in this game lied in the Kai stages, which I really didn't like. They really killed 
 the momentum of the Mariko levels. In all honesty, if you just would have given Kai something melee 
 to do. Or more stages like the one where you need to save Mariko's father, which was the most challenging 
 stage I played, and the most enjoyable in the end for me. (Shooting people in the butt has particular 
 glee to it)
  
  Overall, this game was a step in the right direction of gaming, and I hope that more games are 
 encouraged to take a more cinematic approach after games like this, and Bio Shock, and Half-Life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Some might boringly label it as 'short game' or whatever - I'll thank the entire Heavenly Sword 
 team for putting so much effort in making the game an entirely entertaining experience. Heavenly 
 Sword manages to create its own unique experience. The story revolves around Nariko's battle to 
 keep the Heavenly Sword out of the hands of the evil King Botan. This is told over a regular procession 
 of in-engine cut-scenes, using the most sophisticated facial animation system seen. There has been 
 an incredible amount of effort that went into the cinematic appeal of Heavenly Sword. 
  
  As good as Heavenly Sword is though, it has one serious shortcoming - its length. It took me about 
 fifteen to twenty hours to beat it. Once you've completed the game, there is very little reason 
 to come back and play it more than once or twice. So, you get a fantastic game with a wonderful 
 story and some of the best graphics on the PS3, but it's over before you knew it and that's just 
 a shame. Still, Heavenly Sword is a highly recommended buy, for the fantastic graphics and gameplay 
 that it offers. We need to support the Heavenly Sword development team that has produced a fantastic 
 result for getting better and better games like this on the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wopenka_11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  True the game is alittle short. BUT. That does not mean its a bad game such as *cough cough halo 
 3*.
  
  This game is extremely fun and the story is incredible. This is SCE story telling at its finest. 
 The controls were mapped well and the use of the sixaxis is very good indeed, not over the top 
 and not too little. Fighting 2000 soldiers at a time is nuts! I was very impressed because thats 
 something not even dynasty warriors could accomplish. The replay value is pretty good aswell, i 
 can see myself playing this for the rest of the uni holidays.
  
  Gamespot must have something against Sony titles, because aswell as many other titles such as Resistance 
 fall of man, Lair, Folklore, Heavenly Sword didnt get wat it deserved. I give this game a 9.5. 
 If the game was longer it would be a 10.
  
  But remember, Reviews are opinions of individuals. Never make a decision on how fun a game maybe 
 by reading reviews. Especialy gamespot reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aotter
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  This game is quite fun but unfortunately not long enough. To the credit of the creators they did 
 not stretch any game play out into monotony. It is exciting and fresh, from start to finish. After 
 each stage is completed the player is enabled to go back and play parts again. Also when completed 
 it unlocks the ability to play game on a harder difficulty.
  
  Six axes control is used in a matrixesk mode when firing or throwing projectiles. I give this game 
 credit for being the first game to implement six axes in a good way. 
  
  Many people say that it is a game that is better to rent than purchase, I can't disagree because 
 that is the approach I took, yet I hope many people buy this game because I hope to see a sequel.
 
  
  The game takes about 8 hours, although it can be beaten quicker that is the approximate time if 
 you take the time to play around with the fun diversions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When it came to bringing video game characters to life through facial animations and voice work, 
 I didn't think anyone could top the 'Half-Life' series.
  
  Then along came 'Mass Effect'.
  
  After that, I thought that was now top-of-the-line. Well, 
 I was wrong again. It turned out that there was already a game out that was much better. I just 
 didn't have a PS3.
  
  When I got one, I rented 'Heavenly Sword' and was blown away.
  
  The cinematic quality of this game cannot be overstated. It was fantastic. The voice work was stellar 
 and the facial animations were incredible.
  
  As far as the rest of the game, however, I was not as impressed.
  
  Firstly, I was very thankful 
 that I only rented the game. It is really short. Even the rental price felt like a rip-off.
  
  The gameplay is mostly hack-and-slashing through waves of similar enemies, but also includes 
 some really cool sixaxis segments. Motion controlling a crossbow bolt into some guy's skull never 
 gets old.
  
  The story is kind of weak, but the characters are interesting.
  
  All things considered, 'Heavenly Sword' is heavy on the cinematics and has fun with the sixaxis, 
 but it's not worth more than a rental due to it's length or lack thereof. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KratosSpawn13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok, many people have already reviewed this game, so there's not really much I can add. Does it 
 look great? Absolutely. Is it worth playing if you like action games? Yes. Is it God of War? No. 
 But then again, it's not really meant to be. There are some elements of the game that are similar, 
 such as the ranged attacks and the minigames, but there is enough to differentiate it also. The 
 use of the sixaxis to control projectiles works well and provides a nice change of pace from regular 
 combat. Speaking of combat, I just mashed buttons to get through most of the game. You only need 
 to know one or two combos, and the aerial attacks are cool when you can pull them off, but sometimes 
 difficult to initiate. I hope they make a sequel to this game, it's fun and Nariko is certainly 
 one of the best looking CG chicks on any video game. Let's hope the next one is longer, and the 
 controls are simplified. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theKSMM
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I have never played any of the God of War games (though I have 
 seen them) . So even if this experience is recycled for some of you, it is pretty new to me.
  
  The GameSpot review and user reviews are pretty much on point. The most impressive aspect of 
 the game to me is its presentation. It is very cinematic with varied camera angles and highly detailed 
 environments that go from cramped areas to sweeping outdoor vistas. Sometimes the camera loses 
 track of the action, but the gameplay is so much fun that it's easy to forgive.
  
  This game seems to make good use of the powerful PlayStation 3 hardware. The detail in the environments, 
 the rag doll physics, and the sheer number of enemies are a sight to behold. The frame rate only 
 dips when there are dozens or hundreds of enemies in motion at once, which is also easy to forgive.
 
  
  Many have complained that the game is too short. I can't agree with that. I'm not the most hardcore 
 gamer, so many of today's games are too difficult or too long for me to complete. Even though I 
 haven't completed Heavenly Sword (or gotten close to completing it) I do like that the game is 
 presented in bite-sized chunks that are easy to complete. It makes me feel like I'm making progress, 
 and allows me to play in short bursts if necessary.
  
  All in all, you can't go wrong with this title. If you like action games and you own a PlayStation 
 3, this is undoubtedly one of the best games currently available for the system. I suspect that 
 the complaints over how short the game is are just a testament to how good the game truly is -- it 
 leaves most players wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meharu
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  King Bohan, the selfish tyrant king who wants to rule all the lands, seeking a sacred and powerful 
 weapon, the Heavenly Sword. The Heavenly Sword got special powers, king Bohan wants to use it to achieve 
 his dreams and to dominate the whole world. Only one human being who stood in the face of that king, the 
 heroine Nariko, a gorgeous girl with a very long red hair. Nariko and her clan are the guardians 
 of the sword, only her clan worshiped the sword for long time and it is said that any mortal who 
 uses the Heavenly Sword will will perish. The storyline is dramatic but beautiful at the same time, Nariko's 
 father and her tutor Shen: the leader of the clan thinks that she is a curse because she was born 
 from her mother's dead body. Nariko decided to use the sword instead of running from Bohan, at this 
 point you will have three unique fighting styles, speed stance, power stance, and the range stance. Each 
 stance have several combos that will increase by collecting glyphs through the game. Aerial combos 
 can be done by launching the enemy to the air then by tilting the six axis upwards and performing 
 the combo. There is also three levels of super style attacks that can be done simply by pressing 
 the circle button or L1+circle or R1+circle. Countering is important in Heavenly Sword, there is 
 a huge number of counters and moves that will differ depending on the enemy you are facing, you 
 will have some six axis fun by tilting the pad left and right like when using projectile weapons 
 and destroying catapults when controlling Nariko. Kai (Nariko's sister) controls differs from Nariko, her 
 only weapon is the bow, you will also have the six axis fun which will feel a little bit hard at 
 the beginning, but with some practice it will feel cool and comfy especially when driving the arrows 
 right to the enemy's ass. Heavenly sword feels like a next generation game not only because of the 
 beautiful graphics but you can finally see some good animation and speech. There is the hell mode 
 which will be available after beating the game in normal mode but it is not hard as it sounds. The 
 whole game only got six chapters but they are good enough to be played more than once, short but 
 worth the cash, let's just hope Nariko's Next adventure will be bigger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraconigenaDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is the first game I have played for my PS3 and it was the perfect introduction to 
 the system. It is a beautiful game that shows off what the PS3 is capable of. Those of you who 
 have played God of War will be familiar with the play style and the actual combat is maybe even 
 a little better than GoW. The only problem is that this game is really short, which made it feel 
 even more like an intro to the system to me.
  
  ***Extensive Review, skip to the Conclusion for an overview of the game***
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Play 8.7
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Controls (Excellent)
  
     The controls never held back my enjoyment of this game, the menus were easy to navigate, and 
 battle control scheme was laid out really well. The camera is fixed (You can move it slightly to 
 the left or right w/ R2 or L2, doesn't make much of a difference though) , but this never became 
 an issue. It moves w/ you really well and always seemed to be in the right place for convenience 
 and/or capturing aesthetic nuances.
  
  Battle System (Excellent)
  
     As I said before, this battle system is similar to GoW and other similar action games. You attack 
 w/ Square and Triangle, and holding L1 or R1 while pressing the attack buttons also triggers different 
 types of attacks. It is simple, but allows for a plethora of combos and ways to dispatch your enemies. 
 You can also counterattack enemy moves for instant kills and execute special finishing attacks 
 when the time is right. Brilliant battle system that makes you really think on your toes at all 
 times 
  
  You also have a few shooting scenes where the key to victory is using the PS3s six axis capability. 
 After you shoot you can guide your arrows straight into your enemy slow motion style (it's called 
 aftertouch in the game) . This is very fun and a great change of pace in the game. And if you have 
 never played a PS3 game before (like me) this is a great intro to the PS3s six axis capability.
 
  
  Puzzles & Mini Games (Poor)
  
     There aren't any mini games and there are only a few puzzles in the game and those are all the 
 same. They all pretty much consisted of throwing an object into a gong or something. They were 
 never hard to figure out and I just found them to be an annoying obstacle between me and the battle 
 scenes.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics 10.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Background & Environment (Excellent)
  
     The PS3s graphics are impressive, in many ways this is the most impressive game I have seen 
 to date. The backdrops are no exception. They are amazingly detailed and very aesthetically pleasing
 
  
  Characters (Exceptional)
  
     These are probably the best character graphics I have ever seen. Gears of War was good, but 
 there was just so much detail in this game. The main antagonist, King Bohan, is definitely the 
 best looking in game character I have ever seen. This sets the bar high for the PS3 in the future.
 
  
  Special Effects (Exellent)
  
     All the cutscenes and other SE looked terrific. I especially loved how the screen would split 
 up to show what was going on in two separately places simultaneously, another wonderful display 
 of the PS3s abilities. I think this game is worth playing just to witness its beauty.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound 10.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music (Excellent)
  
     Every song in every moment of this game was awesome. Most of the music has an Indian feel to 
 it and is just as beautiful and harmonious as the game itself.
  
  Sound Effects (Excellent)
  
     Once again awesome. The sound of weapons colliding with enemies 
 was extremely satisfying, as was there shrieks of fear your enemies let out as you tore through 
 their ranks. You can tell there is a lot of attention to detail here and in every other technical 
 aspect in this game. 
  
  Voice Acting (Excellent)
  
     The VA was seamless as if there was no VA and therefore perfect. The VA for King Bohan was the 
 best I have ever seen in a game. He was voiced by the same guy who voiced Gollum in LotR, thanks 
 to Ron (SavoyPrime) and Mike (15th_archangel) for informing me of this. King Bohan's facial expressions 
 fit perfectly with the dialogue as well, which goes back to the amazing character graphics.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Plot (Good)
  
     The plot in Heavenly Sword is pretty straight forward and there aren't any significant twists 
 that I can think of. I was able to tell what was going to happen from the very beginning, not that 
 it actually took any skill to predict that. That aside, the story is entertaining enough to hold 
 your interest throughout the short duration of the game.
  
  Characters (Great)
  
     Heavenly Sword has a pretty small cast of characters, good and bad. It was perfect for the length 
 of the game though and they were all developed pretty well. There were a few things I was wondering 
 about even after the game was over though, especially pertaining to a few of your enemies. King 
 Bohan was great though, I never got bored of watching his mannerisms.
  
  Writing (Excellent)
  
     The script and lines in this game were written well and very clever. 
 This seems to be the norm with most games these days as they are starting to become more mainstream 
 w/ Hollywood production values.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value 5.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Main Story (Bad)
  
     The main quest in Heavenly Sword will probably last you about 6-8 hours. This is really short 
 for any genre of video game and even worse there isn't much else to this game. If they stretched 
 the quality of this game to about twice as long this game would have been a classic.
  
  Sidequests & Secrets (Awful)
  
     During and after you beat the game there is nothing extra 
 to due besides the main quest itself. You can unluck the cutscenes and some artwork, but that's 
 about it.
  
  Replay Value (Ok)
  
     This is a story in this game is pretty easy to grasp w/ one play through so I didn't have any 
 motivation to play it again. You can unlock harder difficulties though which gives it pretty good 
 replay value. Especially since it isn't that hard on the standard difficulty level and the battle 
 system is extremely fun.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt 10.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Cool Factor (Excellent)
  
     Nariko is a beautiful woman and one of my favorite heroines ever. Also, the heavenly sword is 
 an awesome looking blade, the combos you can pull off with it are extremely exciting, and the finishing 
 moves you can pull off are satisfying. And despite the short duration of the game there are quite 
 a few awesome boss battles.
  
  Fun Factor (Excellent)
  
     Pulling off combos and countering your foes attacks was extremely fun and satisfying from beginning 
 to end. And the game was paced perfectly even if it was too short.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Pros
  
  -Well mapped control scheme results in an awesome combo based battle system
  -Top notch graphics, artistically and technically show off the PS3s capabilities
  -Top notch 
 musical score, sound effects, and voice acting
  -Well written script, especially w/ respect to the main antagonist, King Bohan
  -Fun and Easy 
 to play through
  
  Cons
  
  -Main quest is extremely short and that is the only value this game has
  -Puzzles (if you want 
 to call them that) are overly simplistic and all the same
  
  Gameplay (20%)  8.7
  Graphics (15%)  10.0
  Sound (15%)  10.0
  Story (20%) - 9.0
  Value (15%) - 5.0
  Tilt (15%) 
  10.0
  
  Final Score  8.8 
  
     Let's face it, money is a huge factor that goes into the purchase of any game. And w/ that in 
 mind you might want to wait until Heavenly Sword gets cheaper before purchasing it or maybe just 
 rent it. You can easily beat this game in a few couple hour gaming sessions. That aside, Heavenly 
 Sword is an amazing gaming experience that should be experienced by all. This is an amazing introduction 
 to and example of what the PS3 is capable of. The graphics, music, and battle system are amazing. 
 Therefore, the quality of the time that is spent playing this game is top notch. Whether you play 
 through this game in a rental, wait until it gets cheap, or even if you buy it at its current price 
 Heavenly Sword is definitely a worth while endeavor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is Beautiful Game that would reach 9.0 if it wasnt so short. The game is really 
 good its fun and has some Drama in the end ( it was really sad at the end) The levels are short 
 but if you wanna earn all the gylth it will take alot of time.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, Ratchet and Clank and Heavenly Sword should get the medals for Amazing 
 visual disign,
  
  The game is also so popular because its similar to the God of War 2 and Conan. it has an amazing 
 story, that just wants you to keep playing and playing it. Combos rock (probably caud it was like 
 GOW)
  The level Disgin is a Beautiful Work too Bad its too short and end way to quickly.
  
  It does lack a bit of a challenge caus all you do is just kil and hasnt enough of adventure.
 
  
  The main story is Fantastic its really sad in the end but still its a Masterpiece. Its pretty sad 
 in the end , but overall its a really outstanding game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Basically i though this game was Awesome.
  
  i thoroughly enjoyed the story and gameplay and really appreciated the graphics. There were only 
 minor occurances of hiccups in the frame rate.
  
  The mechanics of this game and the fighting stances/ styles are great. i hear that there are a 
 lot of comparisons to God Of War, Conan, and such, i don't know, I haven't played those. It is 
 very fun to complete a combo on an enemy and watch the carniage. the counter, breakers, superstyles, 
 and aerials are great add ons to the combat. I found that switching between styles is simple, very 
 free and smooth the transitions. thugs are easy to deal with and fighitng in crowds is awesome. 
 fighting bossess may take a couple times, but that is expected (this difficulty is just right) 
 however i did find it fairly easy after a couple hours, i didn't necessarrilly have all of the 
 combos memorized as much as i was just button mashing. you can get out of that slump to throwing 
 objects, and performing aerials to liven things up.
  
  The 'aftertouch' is a great addition to the mechanics of throwing. you can pick up just about any 
 object, and use your sixaxis to steer the object while in flight. this works for thrown, fired, 
 or shot projectiles. (swords, bodies, barrels, cannons, rockets, crossbows)
  
  as far as story, i enjoyed it and found it captivating. i was haging on the edge of my seat several 
 times waiting to see what would happen next. there are some weird characters that you get attached 
 to and enjoy, and there are some really enjoyable rebuttals. i believed the 'acting' in conversations 
 (well done) and there are a few twists as well. the only downside which affects the entire game, 
 it is TOO SHORT. the unlocked HELL MODE is nice for going through to unlock stuff, but the story 
 is completed in about 8 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyaj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is a great game, tons of action, great storyline, and good game-play. Although you 
 can probably beat it in under 15 hours or less, it is however a very interesting game that has 
 characters with a lot of, character. 
  
  If you were watching someone play the game, it would almost go smoothly as just watching a movie 
 because the cut-scenes and game-play go hand-in hand. There's a lot of fighting in this game because 
 there's a lot of dudes to kill, that's the reason you'll have the legendary Heavenly Sword. And 
 with that sword you'll be fighting a one man... er woman battle.
  
  The game is pretty hard at times, and you'll sometimes feel like you're just mashing buttons to 
 beat up enemies but soon you'll get the hang it of it... sort of. In particular you'll be using 
 a combination of combos with three types of sword techniques. Each type of technique ranges from 
 light, medium, to heavy and you'll have to use each of them well in the right situations. 
  
  Overall though, this game is fun to play with a great storyline and makes for as they say, 
 a blockbuster hit. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is one of those games that remind you why you bought the game console to begin with. 
 It is a beautifully-crafted world populated with interesting and engaging characters (I loved Kai) , 
 all presented in a colorful, artistic way. The voice-acting is superb (kudos to Andy Serkis for 
 his voice direction) , and the musical score by Nitin Sawhney is at times haunting and other times 
 energetic. WETA's motion-capture work of the actors, and especially of their facial features, is 
 startlingly realistic. 
  
  This game is truly an immersive cinematic experience, where you are able to take control of the 
 major character (and a minor character, as well) and experience their story right along with them. 
 I couldn't stop playing it because I was always so interested in what would happen next! The only 
 reason I didn't rate this game a 9.0 or 9.5 is because it is, unfortunately, a very short game, 
 and when it came to an end, I immediately went online to see if there were any plans for a sequel.
 
  
  All in all, I loved this game, and I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys an immersive story, 
 beautiful graphics, and superb acting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I had played for the PS3 and I was completely blown away by the graphics 
 engine and voice-acting. Absolutely phenomenal. It really does play like an interactive movie. 
 The control scheme was also fantastic -- incredible ease of use in switching between the three 
 attack stances, parrying, and pulling off deadly combo moves. Nariko is a character that you instantly 
 fall in love with. You want to see her succeed against King Bohan AND the sword that slowly drains 
 away her life. Will she survive both?
  
  The game is short, but incredibly satisfying. I enjoyed every minute of it. The Six-Axis controls 
 had a bit of a learning curve to them since it's a very delicate system, but once you get the hang 
 of it, you'll have a lot of fun playing "Twing Twang". The only downfall in the entire adventure 
 is that when you start-up/load a game or if you fail a mission, the load times are excrutiatingly 
 long. 
  
  Still, the game experience in Heavenly Sword is incredibly stunning. If you own a PS3, then you 
 must play this game. The creators have said in interviews that they have planned for this to be 
 a trilogy, which is exciting news. I can't wait to see a sequel.
  
  Also, check out the five animated episodes that delve a little bit more into the prophecy of the 
 Heavenly Sword and back-story. Two episodes are available on disc (the other three weren't finished 
 in time for the release) . All five are available to watch/download from HeavenlySword. com
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword
  When you're looking at the gameplay of this game, you're thinking that its the same kind of gameplay 
 of God Of War, but that isn't true. In God Of War, it's a bit kinda button smashing thing were 
 you do only combos and other stuffs like pressing the same buttons. But in Heavenly Sword yes there 
 is a bit of it, but it's different because there is a kind of strategy that you have to put in 
 your own gameplay. And what is amazing, its that you can use the SIXAXIS controls for making combos 
 (Really Cool by the way) . Anyways its kinda difficult to describe so you'll see by your self. But 
 there the same basic controls of God of War, so for those you really enjoyed the franchise, will 
 absolutely enjoy this game.
  
  The story is really good. Its a bit like many action movies or games because there is a bad king 
 that wants to possess something or control the world and the hero must stop him. Actually thats 
 the story of this game, but there is so many things like the story of the Heavenly Sword that makes 
 the main story so unique. 
  The story takes place in the skin of Nariko and Kai, two girls and both friends giving her own 
 life for each other. When your playing with Nariko, the main character, its more like the big action 
 moments and when you're playing Kai, its more tactical. Actually Kai's weapon is a bow.
  The game is divided in 6 chapters with in the around of 10 missions. When you end a mission, there 
 is automatically a save game, so don't worry. Some missions can be long and other really not, for 
 example, one of the last missions goes in the around of 30 seconds. 
  The story, division of the missions, terrific sound effects and voice acting, beautiful cutscenes 
 and graphic textures makes you think that you are looking a 7 hours movie. The makers of this game 
 did a incredible job for this aspect. 
  
  I know what you're going to say, the game is too short. Yes, I agree with you, the game is short. 
 I played maybe 7 hours or a bit more and I'm at the end boss. But all of the other aspects of the 
 game are saving it, so even if its short, play it once and do it again. There is a tons of things 
 that you can unlock by earning points that you get in each missions. So play the game after finishing 
 well in hard mode.
  This is a must have for those who likes to collect good games. If you are not one of those, rent 
 it for 3 days and finish it. Don't do like I did, renting it for one day, cause if you have other 
 things to do, like I had... you know what I mean. But one thing is sure, its that if you own a PS3, 
 you absolutely got to try this game, Heavenly Sword.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoStarter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  "Linear", "straightforward", and "short". Normally, these qualities aren't what gamers would look 
 for in a game to immerse oneself in. This game, however, would beg to differ (despite how subjective 
 the statement is) . 
  
  Heavenly Sword is more like an interactive movie rather than just another game that you play to 
 have fun (be it beating up, shooting, or jumping from platform to platform) . In addition to all 
 the awesome beat-em-up goodness, you also get to experience good acting (along with the above-par 
 animation) ; likable antagonists and protagonists; good character development; an immersive storyline; 
 and a subtle soundtrack that fits the mood. It joins the ranks of other theatrical games (from 
 different genres) such as Call of Duty 4, Final Fantasy X and XII, Half Life 2, Rise of Legends, 
 God of War, and many of the like, where they delicately intertwine the story and game-play. 
  
  I recommend this game to people who don't have much time to play too many games, and love action/beat-em-up 
 games, yet still want to experience something with a good deal of substance and challenge. If you 
 are used to beat-em-up games, then this game has a decent difficulty level. There's even a "Hell 
 Mode". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthedragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Was so pulled in by the game play I had to play it straight through. Six Axis usage was decent 
 and but takes a while to get used too but after its mastered its easy like cake. The button mashen 
 gets fun but last boss required a lot of combos so it was the first time i had to read a combo 
 list. Some bosses were easy as cake other took hours to beat. Finished in one sitting but would 
 take more hours to unlock everything. It would be intresting if there were more puzzles to solve. 
 Enemies were getting repetative after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaddaG
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  A game which truly has been given a lot of early hype but pretty much disappeared when it came 
 onto the shelves. H. S was a beauty in every sense of the word. Intriguing characters that develop 
 and grow with you into the storyline, a fun new and button mashing game play with three stances 
 and a separate non offensive character (Kai, except for her BowGun ) A new heroine who for the 
 first time in game play history, dies. I could go on about the wonderful aspects of the game but 
 the MOST captivating of all was the in game soundtrack. Composed by Musical Genius Nitin Sawhney. 
 The music was.... too beautiful for words. Even if none of the characters spoke a word, the songs 
 would have conveyed the message perfectly. The strings and flute give me a tingle down my spine 
 even now. There was some nonsense about not enough weapons. Hello! The game's name is Heavenly 
 Sword, what do you want to fight with? Guns? And yet, don't we get a fun Bazooka machine to play 
 with? Enemy A. I was pretty low but made up for it in sheer numbers. Imagine having to kill 700 
 men in less than 5 minutes, all who are on screen! Voice acting, superb! Facial impression, astoundingly 
 real and accurate thanks to Andy Serkis and the other talented actors on board with the animators. The 
 levels were indulgent to the point of where you actually have to stop and just take in the sights 
 and sounds. The game is not short. Don't believe that. With a Hell Mode and collectibles it keeps 
 you wanting more for a good long time. All in all its the best game i've played on the Playstation 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicomendes2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  first why does ps3 online suck so much compared to xbox live, and this game has moments of brilliance 
 and moments that you may aswell be playing any old hack and slash.
  The boss fights and cinematics from Andy are superb and give u some reason to be killing the same 
 old enemies, the final chapter is superb. Six Axis is one ps3 positive lets get some decent games 
 soon.
  This is a rental not a purchase unless you find it pre-owned cheap like i did. The scenary and cutseen 
 graphics are the best ive seen, only beaten by uncharted. The ps3 needs a reason to buy it, because 
 at the moment its just an expencive xbox with rubish online but atleast it doesnt break like the 
 xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marozet
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with: "If you want real next-gen console game that feels like a interactive movie, you've 
 got it."
  
  It starts with a blast. Beautiful epic beginning. Just imagine yourself fighting thousands of enemies 
 at one time with a "Heavenly Sword". It looks really awesome.
  
  This game really touches greatness in terms of graphics, music, and story.
  It's often stated 
 that the length of this game is it's drawback, but i think it is just right. Tho story stays coherent 
 and keeps you at the edge of your seat all the time.
  
  I've already played 2 times (normal and hell mode) and i intend to play it again because I just 
 loved the story and the gameplay.
  
  Controls are great, especially the use of sixasis controller when shooting arrows or throwing objects. 
 There are also plenty of counter moves, combos, aerial combos and superstyle attacks. Camera angle 
 often changes when the main heroine Narico performs a special move, and this is really something.
 
  
  The story is a very strong point of this title. The characters are lively and believable. Voice 
 acting is great. Nothing to add.
  
  The animation series that goes with the game explains the background of the story and it's a nice 
 addition. The unlockable "Making of" movies and concept art are quite cool stuff too.
  
  This is really worth buying.
  If you love good story, music, graphic and action you'll definitely 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  if there was ANYTHING more to this game then just the story mode it would be teh smexness.
  
  it is seriously 6 hours long though.
  
  
  that being said, the story is deep and compelling, 
 and at some points i almost cried a little, even though you know very well how it ends from the 
 beggining.... or do you? it has a very good theme. it makes you think.
  
  the gameplay is nonstop intense. some levels are boring and command you to do very simple things, 
 like zomg find a way to ring the gong all the way across the room by throwing this sheild at it! 
 but most of the levels are non stop awesome kill 100 dudes action. the only game that requires 
 you to kill more people than this game is lair, btu to be fair you ARE a dragon in lair...
  
  my personal favorite level was the almost last one where you have to kill at least 1000 men 
 in like 3 minutes or something. and your like no way... but as your fighting them you realize holey 
 moley i really am gonna kill that many dudes. its just fun, i dont have to explain it.
  
  the boss fights arent particularly hard, but they are fun and they make you do more than just hit 
 them like most games. the first one verses flying fox is the most fun one cuz you get to see them 
 both flipping and flying around trying to out maneuver each other and you have to hit certain buttons 
 or do certain things to be successful. again, its just fun.
  
  
  
  the sound adds the the effect with beautiful violin work and perfect voice acting thanks to andy 
 serkis. everything is so good about this game. the problem is, even though the ending is very satisfying 
 , it comes at you a little fast, you'll fell like you just finished an epic journey, but in reality 
 you had just killed a weekend. and after you finish, unless you want to go back and do it again, 
 there is nothing else to do. if it was longer or had other things to do (such as collectibles at 
 least) then it would be a 9 or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword. A good, but somewhat not there yet type of game. You probably heard the story a 
 thousand times already: a sword of great power passed down from generation to generation. you can 
 kill easy, but the catch is death!
  
  when it comes to graphics then this game sure does not joke around. everything looks so real as 
 if it were a cinema film. the cutscenes are really nice, and even the blood looks real.
  
  the voice acting is almost as fervent as Soul Nomad's voice acting, which, of course, is a good 
 thing. unfortuneatly, it s' missing something that Soul Nomad has when it comes to this.
  
  the sound is so nice that you'd think you really were in the world of Heavenly Sword. when the 
 swords clash, the sound is crisp and smooth. it sounds like the real deal!
  
  all in all, this game is great in the special effects but it lacks anything solid or truly fullfilling. 
 it is what it is: a beat em up. one that has special attacks in small originality and only three 
 attack styles. and an easy difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword looks great and actually has a story line but just came out at the wrong time. If 
 this game had come out on release it would have been successful.
  
  Gameplay  while still a hack and slash game, HS offers at some points different things to deal 
 with the sixaxis controller. Controller arrows, of cannon balls at times. It's a good break from 
 all the hack and slash. Not having control of the view makes it difficult. There are time where 
 you want to look at some place and you can't. though the game is direction and you don't need to 
 look is a a nice option. 
  
  Story  its enough to keep you entertain. While some are upset that it's a short game. Making it 
 short is a good thing especially when hack and slash games are usually long and the button mashing 
 gets boring. I think of it as sony doing you a favor IMO.
  
  Overall its not a must buy, but you should be able rent it or later buy it when its cheap and take 
 a look at it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAWeber
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a easy to pick up and fast paced action adventure, with enouph upgrades and combos 
 layed out for you to never get old. Indeed this game is short but does it really matter when your 
 cutscenes just leave you breathless and your action just gets more in your face? Well to me it 
 could not have been better , after you find out the sword is curserd and your in the middle of 
 life and death your survival to defeat hell could not be more real. If you were wondering once 
 you bought your playstation 3 and MotorStorm wasn't quite enough for you then Heavenly Sword is 
 your run for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scynt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the PS3's higher-profile exclusives that has really gotten some mixed reviews amongst various 
 gaming websites. While Ninja Gaiden Sigma is most likely the better action game on the PS3 in terms 
 of gameplay, Heavenly Sword has a great all-around package and presentation that makes up for it's 
 slightly lacking, yet still fun and satisfying combat and makes it a great, must-have title for 
 any PS3 owner that enjoys the action genre. With a great story, multiple playable characters, tight 
 controls, great graphics and good sound this game will keep you playing till the end and get you 
 to come back for seconds.
  
  The story in this particular game is somewhat reminiscent of an anime-type story or a few Western 
 fantasy movies. The heroine of the story, a young woman by the name of Nariko is the direct protector 
 of the sword in a small clan. The protectors are supposed to be men, but because she was not, she 
 is seen as a curse by the clan, but that does not stop her from fulfilling her duties, at the beginning 
 at least. The small clan that protects a sacred artifact, in this case the Heavenly Sword, is decimated 
 from attacks by a new, oppressive force coming into power that wishes for the power that the sword 
 can give to create a world they deem perfect. Nariko, along with some others of the clan, such 
 as the young girl Kai, set out to put an end to this new tyrannical force while trying to keep 
 the sword safe from them at the same time.
  
  While the story itself starts out rather generic, as it moves along it becomes quite engaging and 
 will really begin to grab your attention the deeper you go. A lot of this is because of the characters. 
 They are all quite well done and the voice acting is wonderful throughout the game. Nariko is the 
 first of note, a very strong-willed woman that is put through much hardship throughout the game, 
 but always faces it down with a rather calm, collected look and a brandished sword. The young girl 
 Kai is quite cute and could be describe as feral in that she runs around on her hands and feet, 
 or if just on her feet is always leaning forward. She likes to jump and leap a lot and has facepaint 
 and a headband that add animalistic-type features. She also refers to shooting her crossbow at 
 enemies as "playtime," a tad morbid, but it definitely adds to her character. The main villain, 
 Bohan, is also quite interesting. His character, while quite cruel and evil, is a great source 
 of dark comedy throughout the scenes in which he is present and is quite reminiscent of Zorg from 
 The Fifth Element in his mannerisms and speech. Beyond that are a group of warriors that Bohan 
 keeps, Flying Fox, Whiptail, and Roach whom are all very distinct in personality, looks, and abilities. 
 Somewhat like the bosses one would encounter in a Metal Gear Solid game. Flying Fox is a somewhat 
 flamboyant, older-looking thin man that has blades that spring from his suit and seem to move by 
 his will. Whiptail has carvings in her face that look like gills with an eel-looking head on top 
 of her own and the long, snake-like body trailing from it down against her back. It seems like 
 only a costume, however the tail twists and moves like it is a part of her. Finally, Roach is a 
 very very huge, morbidly obese man. The story, complete with plenty of twists and the characters 
 keep the game very fresh throughout the playthrough and is quite a pleasant surprise which this 
 title holds.
  
  Next up is the graphics. For the most part, they are quite amazing. The landscapes and buildings 
 are all rendered beautifully. Everything has a nice shine, but the graphics overall have a cloudiness 
 to them that seems to fit the game and it's movie-like presentation very well. Items within the 
 environment are very destructible such as tables, carts and such and break quite realistically. 
 You can even use the broken pieces as weapons to throw at enemies. The character models are very 
 well-done as well. You will notice this in the cutscenes where at times it is almost hard to tell 
 whether the people were filmed or rendered, they really look that good, and when it shifts back 
 to in-game, the graphical level is only slightly below that same level. The only problem with this 
 is the camera. It is a stationary camera to add to that movie-feel. While it certainly does it's 
 job in that respect, and does not hinder your ability to play the game in any regards, not having 
 a movable camera keeps you from enjoying the good graphical work and sometimes the camera pulls 
 so far back to give you a view of the surrounding area that Nariko literally looks only slightly 
 larger than a small dot. This does not occur during times when you have to fight, but again, it 
 takes away slightly from the graphical detail in favor of trying to give the game a more epic feel.
 
  
  The last thing that must be spoken of is Nariko's hair, which was one of the biggest points by 
 the developers. Yes, the fact that they were able to make it so free-flowing is very amazing and 
 probably took insane amounts of code, but really, Nariko's hair is the low point of the game's 
 graphics. The hair sometimes freezes in place and moves like a block for a second, it will very 
 frequently clip Nariko or anything nearby, it will sometimes move in rather unnatural ways, like 
 an end might move upwards a bit or it might move sideways, and all in all it is quite a glitch-fest. 
 Also, her hair simply looks unrealistic and out of place with the art style. The hair flows behind 
 her in only 10 or 15 strands of varying thickness, from as thick as a person's leg, to as thin 
 as a twig. It should have been far better rendered so that at least the hairs in each clump could 
 be seen moving a bit so that it didn't just look like a block of red, since obviously coding the 
 hair as they did for every single one of hundreds to thousands of strands would simply be asking 
 too much. However, as it is now, Nariko's hair is easily the worst part graphically about this 
 game. Everything else is quite beautiful.
  
  The sound in the game is well put together. Good background music that really captures the epic 
 feel of the title and the action when you are fighting opponents. The sword-fighting sound-effects 
 all sound quite spot-on and as said before the voice acting is simply superb and could even be 
 quite acceptable for an actual movie, let alone a video game.
  
  The gameplay is quite good, but parts are hit-or-miss. You'll encounter both sword fighting and 
 shooting as you play through the game. First to be covered will be the sword fighting as it is 
 the most prevalent. Let it be known, you can play through, and beat this game in terms of the sword 
 play sections with essentially nothing but button-mashing. And it is easier to do so than not button-mashing. 
 However, if you try to look for it, there is a deeper fighting system to the game that, while harder 
 to master and use correctly, will provide much more satisfying fighting to more hardcore or experienced 
 action game players. 
  As you play through the game you will encounter more and more combos for all your various weapons. 
 You start out with generic swords that you will gain more moves for and soon after move on to the 
 Heavenly Sword which has three forms, a large singular form that is slow to swing but very powerful, 
 a default, middle form that is split into two smaller swords that Nariko double-wields, and a third 
 form with two swords on either end of a long chain that is weak but quick and good for ranged fighting. 
 As you play, combos will be unlocked for all of these, giving you the ability to string a good 
 amount of moves together in many different ways and providing great depth if you choose to try 
 for it. By not attacking when an opponent strikes, Nariko will block and while blocking you can 
 initiate counter-attacks with your own weapons and you can also dodge attacks with the right analogue 
 stick, which is helpful as some enemy attacks cannot be blocked. All of these various elements 
 can make for deep battles against the rather large groups of enemies that the game frequently throws 
 at you as long as you consciously make the effort to not button-mash. If you don't, then you will 
 most likely slip into button-mashing and find the fighting to be rather shallow. While fighting, 
 you can switch between the three modes of the sword on the fly, so in the middle of an attack sequence 
 you can go right from the large heavy sword taking a couple swipes at an opponent straight into 
 the chains whipping into everyone around you. You also freely target opponents, so you can be attacking 
 one character and in the middle of a combo shoot straight over to someone else and finish it up 
 on them. So the battle system is what you make of it, if you just decide to pound the attack buttons 
 you will find a mindless mash-fest, but if you look deeper and concentrate on how you are fighting 
 and think about your strategy, the game becomes much, much deeper in its combat.
  
  Along with sword fighting, you will also do some shooting with both Nariko in a couple parts, and 
 Kai whenever you control her. Shooting is controlled by simply firing off a round at someone or 
 by using "aftertouch" using the six-axis motion control to guide the projectile to it's location 
 as you follow behind it. While simply shooting will work most of the time, it is hardly accurate 
 and you will use a lot more time and ammo (though ammo is infinite) and will get hurt more if you 
 do not use aftertouch for enemies that are farther away. Aftertouch will take practice. You will 
 be horrible at it at first but after doing it for a while you will get the hang of it, most likely 
 by the end of chapter 2 you will be somewhat mastered at it (though you'll have needed to spend 
 probably a good hour or so losing on an earlier level with Nariko firing on catapults before having 
 gotten the hang of it enough to pass that level) . Once you do master it, aftertouch becomes rather 
 easy and will be actually rather fun to use, though it WILL be frustrating in the first levels 
 you are introduced to it. 
  
  Finally in terms of gameplay is the enemy AI. While it is certainly not the most sophisticated 
 AI out there, it is very well implemented for this game. Unlike most action games last generation, 
 enemies won't just sit around you while you take out one of their buddies. They will come at you 
 and surround you from all sides attacking whenever they can. This also adds to the deepness of 
 the battle system as you need to try to time your attacks accordingly and switch targets to other 
 enemies in mid combo to keep from getting sliced up. Archer AI isn't quite as good, as it is slower 
 to react, but this is most likely due to the fact that you are normally fighting them with Kai 
 and it will take you a while to take them all out, so it is decently balanced. 
  
  All in all, the game is not perfect, but it is a very very fun game that will grow on you the more 
 you play it. It has an enthralling story with great voice acting and a battle system that can be 
 as deep as you are willing to make it. Don't go buying a PS3 just to play the game, but if you 
 like action games and have a PS3 this one is worth picking up right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that doesn't last very long while you play it, but you will remember 
 months or even years from now. I'm now a series-long fan of Heavenly Sword, so I can't wait for 
 the second. This game is a great exclusive to get the PS3 lineup started. Trust me, after a few 
 hours of playing with the Heavenly Sword, you aren't going to want to put it down.
  
  Story === 9/10
  Some people seem to really not like the story of this game, but I thought it 
 was rather well done. You begin the game as Nariko in the "final battle" wielding the legendary 
 Heavenly Sword, fabled to curse any that use it with eventual death. The game then scopes in on 
 the death of Nariko, and leaves the rest of the game as a big flash back of the events leading 
 up to this climactic battle. It seems rather simple at first - broken girl wields the sword and 
 eventually dies, and you are just killing people along the way. However, the story does develop 
 into a grander scheme, and has some parts that I thought were quite emotional - RPG material even. 
 Bottom line is, I enjoyed this story from beginning to end, and it truly tells a short, but tragic 
 and heroic story from start to finish. 
  
  Graphics === 9.5/10
  All I can say is WOW. This game takes a slightly different approach than other next-gen games. 
 It doesn't quite have graphics like Uncharted and Call of Duty 4, which approach photorealism as 
 much as possible. These graphics are artistic, but at the same time INCREDIBLY REALISTIC. The cinematics 
 are incredible, and the effort put into each and every one of these radiates with each cutscene. 
 That extra taste of artistic ability adds even more to the near flawless graphical presentation 
 in cinematics. The gameplay graphics are simply amazing as well. Every part of them shines with 
 the same beauty that is to be expected with any type of Asian artistic nature. The surroundings 
 are all well done, and there are times during gameplay when the screen will pan out over HUGE, 
 and I mean HUGE distances. You will be able to see an entire fortress on screen, along with surrounding 
 mountains and lush, green environments all during gameplay. The only reason I don't give the game 
 a perfect 10 in this category is the fact that there are a few scattered moments of lowered framerate 
 and I even caught one screen-tear throughout one of the major fight sequences. That is easily forgiven 
 though, because when these framerate decreases occur, the screen is panned out over miles of land, 
 with literally THOUSANDS of soldiers running around with AI simultaneously, and yes I mean THOUSANDS, 
 not hundreds.
  
  Gameplay === 9/10
  This game is, simply put, an awesome time in a short package. This game is extremely short, between 
 6 to 10 hours, but the excellent gameplay will keep you entertained throughout. At the beginning, 
 you start out with a simple sword that you can pull off simple attacks with, but quickly gain control 
 of the sacred Heavenly Sword. This is what makes the gameplay so AWESOME. The premise of this sword 
 is that it is more than just a sword. There is the "saber-like" primary mode of the sword, in which 
 it is a two-handed saber that does massive damage to enemies, but is quite slow. The second is 
 a split dual one-handed form, known as speed stance. When you have the sword in this mode, you 
 are much more agile and can pull off extremely fast combos and rack up big combos on enemies. The 
 third and final is the ranged stance, in which the sword transforms into almost a nunchuk type 
 weapon which can attack all the enemies around you simultaneously. Each of the forms has various 
 benefits, and you will have to use at least some element of strategical refinement with these forms 
 to beat the game. Switching between the forms is seamless. You are naturally always in speed stance, 
 and can switch to ranged stance by holding down L1 and using the same Square and Triangle buttons. 
 Power stance is the same way, but by holding down the R1 button while performing combos. There 
 is a list of combos that you can access under your menu also. You will have to at least glance 
 at these throughout the game, as some enemies will require block breaking combos to damage. This 
 aspect of the game is a complete blast, and is deserving of a 9.5 or 10. However, there are parts 
 of the game where you are forced to use the Sixaxis motion sensing to shoot arrows, canons, shields 
 or other projectiles over distances to achieve certain things. A lot of the time, it is to solve 
 simple puzzles which are entertaining. However, there are times when you have to hit specific targets 
 within time limits or hit soldiers in the head as they are running at you. This can get especially 
 frustrating, especially if you are not the best at handling the "motion-sensing capabilities" of 
 the PS3. I had to try several of these sections more than once, only to find myself more and more 
 frustrated each time. It doesn't take away from the gameplay a great deal though, as the game is 
 still tremendously fun.
  
  Sound === 8.8/10
  The music and sound found within the game is nothing extraordinarily memorable, but is enough to 
 make you feel as if you are in the game and holds together the other powerful aspects of the game.
 
  
  Replay Value === 8.5/10
  This isn't a Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 which you will find limitless multiplayer potential from. 
 There is no online mode, and the game is quite short, taking away from the games potential in some 
 ways. However, it is still a solid game, and throughout the game you earn glyphs for your performance 
 in each part. The ability to go back and replay certain parts to attain more glyphs and unlock 
 more optional material adds to the replay value, as well as a Hell Mode that is unlocked after 
 your first run through the game. So while it might not have an incredible online or multiplayer 
 solution, it still offers replay value as a single-player campaign.
  
  SCORE 8.96/10
  BOTTOM LINE === 9/10
  Overall, this game is a great PS3 exclusive and a great experience for 
 anyone who plays it. The graphics are beautiful and artistic and the gameplay is seamless and very 
 enjoyable. Though it is not absent of such flaws as sometimes aggravating motion-sensing gameplay 
 and a very short campaign with no online mode, it still has replay value and the same annoying 
 motion-sensing moments can also be a very enjoyable addition at other points in the game. This 
 game is a must-have for any PS3 owner, and is a game that will clench you from beginning to end, 
 and make you wish you could wield such a sword in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This was a gaming surprise. The game's graphics are incredible. But, moreso than that, the story 
 line is fantastic. To be able to actually play the 'cut scenes' seemlessly is unbelievable!! The 
 cg movie characters are rendered almost to perfection. This is the first game that the characters 
 look like they're ACTUALLY MOUTHING THE WORDS THEY'RE SPEAKING!!! The game flows very nice & smooth 
 (minus the stop times after each chapter to select which direction to go (forward, or to retry 
 the level) ) . The only real achilles heal that I found, was the lack of spread of button use. There's 
 no blocking button, 2 attack buttons, & some other random sparsely used buttons. However, the use 
 of the sixaxis when firing the cannons/throwing projectiles/etc., is major! It pulls you deeper 
 into the game. Overall, for 1nce, this was a game that lived up to the pre-release hype. This is 
 a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMG126
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Thought I would right something this time.
  
  Enjoyed this game u could say it's a bit short but for me it was just right. For this game. They 
 could of allowed you to wander more between battles making this a longer game and maybe some side 
 battles. I thought this was ok though. However the pro gamer will find this very short......
  
  I purchased this on Boxing Day and had a lot of fun with it last night It looks stunning.
 
  
  The fights are a bit of case of button mashing but I am sure there is some skill involved as I 
 was able to pull of some of the combinations quite regular as I played more and more.
  
  Would of scored it higher but the normal fights are all pretty much all the same, a case of large 
 numbers of bad guys running at you, they needed to add some variety to these parts. The puzzle 
 sections are quite well thought out as are the shooting parts and make for a nice break from the 
 hack and slashing at masses of bad guys.
  
  The after touch is a blast liked doing something new. Must say it is like GOW but eh it won't be 
 last game to borrow a bit of another game.
  
  The Story is cool kept myself interested for the time. I can't wait for Heavenly Sword 2-- :)
 
  
  I think an above average 8/10 for me, a gorgeous looking game that is a lot of fun, but can become 
 repetive in some parts.
  
  I would go out and get a copy, it's nice and cheap in the stores now. There will be better games 
 but there out at the moment so why wait.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anewperfectday
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  ----------------------------------------
  Good:
  
  Of course, the graphics, the controls, the snap judgment scenarios, and definitely the use of the 
 wireless six axis capabilities were the BEST! SO much potential to this game that I think is worth 
 buying! Oh, how I loved guiding the arrows and cannonballs to the heads of my enemies with my six 
 axis or the massive slaughtering while practicing acrobatics. Or seemingly endless combinations 
 between the weapons she dances in combat with.
  
  Ahhh... the good life..
  ----------------------------------------
  Bad:
  Yup... the good life. WHat.. it's done already?!?!?! 
 BUt I only played for 4 hours and I just got into the game!!! WTF. This beautiful storyline.. beautiful 
 girl.. interesting sidekick.. I want to fight sa'more! I want to use my Heavenly Sword to pass judgment 
 on my foes!
  
  .. damnit.. onto another game. T__T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword for the PS3 plays out like a Hollywood movie. The animation and voice acting are 
 spot on. Note to all video game makers out there, hire good actors, period. In the end, it pay 
 off and make the game that much more playable. Every person in the game feels very fleshed out, 
 and adds a very movie like feel to it.
  The gameplay itself is hack' n ' slash, but not the dumb one button kind that many turn out to 
 be. You cant just walk through this game. Its not Ninja Gaiden hard, but decent enough to keep 
 it interesting. The Sixaxis control is the most innovative and yet frustrating part of the game. 
 Some acts you will find playing a couple of times before you get the hang of guiding arrows. 
 
  The only knock on the game is that its pretty short. 5 to 6 hours is what it should take to beat 
 the game. Artwork and a hard mode are the only reasons to play it again, and thats not much of 
 a reason. 
  All in all, Heavenly Sword is a fun game, but rent it if you can. One rental should be enough to 
 beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword Review by Simon.
  
  I finally got my hands on Heavenly Sword and this is what I thought of the game.
  
  Good Points:
 
   Visuals
   Animation
   Story-Line
   Voice Acting
   Game-Play
  
  Beautiful visual effects  Outstanding animation  Very interesting story-line  Brilliant voice 
 acting  Good game-play -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Bad Points:
   Short
   Frustration
   Painful
  
  Too short  Game-play can be some what frustrating and can be some what painful on the fingers 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Heavenly Sword truly is a good game. A game sent from Heaven with a few small problems. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Plot: 8/10 Very Interesting
  The Heavenly Sword, a divine weapon of the gods, no mortal can wield it without paying the ultimate 
 price. The clan protect the sword from those who lust for its power. Their prophecy spoke of a 
 boy, born to wield the sword and save the world from tyranny. The truth, a girl was born, Nariko; 
 now she is the only thing that satnds between the clan and extinction Can she move beyond revenge 
 and reach redemption before the sword destroys her?
  
  As I said, the story is very interesting. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Visuals: 9/10 Great
  Beautiful visuals, great background sceneries, brilliant character development and performances 
 from Andy Serkis, great skin textures, the game is just beautiful to look at. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Game-Play: 8/10 Good
  The game-play is good. Very nice acrobatic stunts and animation. The controls are solid and sharp. 
 You have to be very fast on the fingers, which can sometimes be frustrating and can be a little 
 painful on the fingers after a long hard battle with about a hundred enemies on the screen at once. 
 It is cool at first doing lots of cool combos and watching Nariko doing all these cool acrobatic 
 stunts, but after awhile you'll probably find yourself just press one button as you get further 
 in the game because your fingers may hurt from doing all those combo moves. I think the purpose 
 of this game is to show off the PS3 capabilities. I don't just mean the visuals, but the new control 
 system. You'll be doing a lot of motion sensitive controls in the game. Which I have to say, is 
 rather cool. You can use the control to better help you aim by tilting the control in the direction 
 to want to go. If Nariko get knocked out in the air you can shake the controls and she will recover 
 quickly but you have to be fast to do this. Over-all the game-play is good and was worth the experience. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound-Effects: 8/10 Great
  The sound-effect is great. Amazing voice acting, nice soundtrack and a great feel on the battlefield. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Life-Span: 6/10 Ok
  Too short. I don't know about any of you, but I finished the game plus watched the making of and 
 all the special features in just under 8hrs. After finishing the game I didn't really feel any 
 reason in playing the game again. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Final-Say: 8/10 Very Good
  I thought the game was very good. Despite the fact that the game was short and some of the game-play 
 was a bit frustrating. I was happy with the game, I did enjoy playing it. I enjoyed the story very 
 much, and I don't regret having it in my collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MitsubishiGTO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The game has great graphics and incorporates the six-axis controller to manipulate thrown objects 
 in the direction you want the objects to go. The graphics are stunning and the characters have 
 great acting since they used real movie actors and technology where they pin point their movements. 
 This game will leave you hooked from the beginning to the end just like a great movie will. The 
 only flaw to this game is that the story is short and the game can be beat in less than 10 hours. 
 Replay of the game is somewhat good if you want to unlock the extras like art pictures and animation 
 clips. There is also a Hell Mode that really isn't that much harder. Only noticeable things were 
 that you get life taken away easier and shorten time lengths in scenes where the six-axis controller 
 is used to manipulate cannonballs and arrows to certain targets. Overall, a must play game that 
 you won't regret playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princezero
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all we have to admit the game is awesome and u are going to enjoy it to the last second 
 but this game have some advantages that i dont think i saw in a game before and some disadvantages 
 that in my opinion doesnt make much change.
  Advantages:
  1) Amazing graphics no in fact its STUNNING it shows u the turning point to the next generation 
 gaming in my opinion .
  2) Great voice acting well done lines great gameplay music that will keep u
  in the mode of the 
 game whether it was sad scene or happy scene.
  3) Great gameplay people that u fight in this game are not just people that u hit and dont expect 
 them to act in reverse in fact they counter ,make speed attack & unblockable attack that makes 
 things a bit challenging
  the boss fights are amazing and pretty satisfying.
  Disadvantages:
  1) the game play is short u can finish it in 6 hours which is the worst part
 
  But still its very very satisfying and u will enjoy it to the end.
  2) you will feel that its a rip off of god of war same gameplay .
  other than those 2 disadvantages 
 the game is great but its not the kind of a game u want to go back to it and beat it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasbihead
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game absolutely amazing! The graphics are so beautiful & lifelike, that it takes your breath 
 away. I found myself just staring at all the beauty of the landscapes. You feel like you are controling 
 a blockbuster movie! The gameplay is a in your face with wave after wave of enemies coming at you. 
 Kai is my favorite character to play, Chapter 3 is the best. And to have Andy Serkis behind the 
 King......... I bow to him! He is the coolest and one of the most talented character actors ever! 
 I could go on and on. This is one of my favorite games of all time, I just wish there was 20 chapters 
 rather than just 5. It is a bit short but here's hoping that this becomes a series and we see many 
 more like it in the future, like Resident Evil. I LOVE this game and so will you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword and all the hype that came with it came through one of my ears and went right out 
 the other. It crept by my thoughts and my wants and needs and I forgot about it...
  
  ... and yet when compiling my Christmas list this year, I thought I had to add it, and so I did. 
 Sure enough, 12/25, it's under my tree. I began playing it a few hours later on my 32inch HDTV (another 
 Christmas gift) .
  
  Boy, oh boy, this is one of the most beautiful games I've ever seen, and it definitely has to be 
 considered one of the better games, graphically, on a console right now.
  
  Gameplay wise, Ninja Theory seemingly has only played God of War and God of War II, because the 
 hack-and-slash nature, plus the use of the triangle and square buttons really made this feel like 
 a God of War rip-off... but there's nothing wrong with that, is there?
  
  My main problem with this game is that it is over way too quickly, it is a tad on the easy side, 
 and the ending ALMOST sort of eliminates the possibility for a sequel, which I thought would be 
 a great thing considering this game's fun storyline.
  
  PROS:
  Absolutely beautiful
  Interesting storyline
  Fun, hack-and-slash, button-mash gameplay
  Nariko is hot...
  
  CONS:
 
  Way too short
  No sequels?
  
  Overall I'd say Heavenly Sword is 'pretty sweet'. It's worth a play. The replayability is a nominal 
 with unlockables such as art, making-of movies, and animes inspired by the story. It might be worth 
 your $60... it was definitely worth Santa Claus's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Say helo to Nariko, a totally new type of hero.
  She has hair that moves like it has a life of it's own
  She enjoys long walks over dead corpses 
 she sliced up herself
  She even like long sharp swords.
  Oh, and shes under you're control, good enough for ya?
  
  You play as Nariko. She's this chick 
 who lives with her Father, Shen, her adopted sister, Kai. Did i mention shes part of this clan 
 of warriors? well now you know. Her Clan has a duty of protecting this Sword called the HEAVENLY 
 SWORD. They have a prophecy that a saviour will be born and save them from destruction, but instead.... She 
 was born. The clan looks upon this as an Omen and think that they are doomed for life. Now, King 
 Bohen, the bad guy of the game, hunts down her clan so that he can steal the Heavenly Sword and 
 use it for himself. He captures her Father and threatens to kill him, with no choice, she has to 
 weild the Heavenly Sword (oh btw, it holds a curse and trust me, this is definitly no spoiler) 
 and run for it.
  
  Gameplay-Wise: For those of you who played God Of War, you will find that you might be taking a 
 little trip down memory Lane. Its Hacking and Slashing with counter attacks, Combos, Button Mashing 
 and on screen button prompts. But IT'S OKAY!, THIS AINT A GOD OF WAR RIP OFF!!!!! you'll find that 
 the gameplay is easy to use and addicting. Combos use Six Axis control and timed combos. These 
 combos usually change depending on what form the sword is, You change the forms from speed to Power 
 (hold down R1) to Ranged (hold down L1) . And again, for those who played God of War, the Ranged 
 form will be a little easter egg for you.
  But Six Axis is not only used in Fighting but alos in After Touch sequences you activate by holding 
 down X after throwing something or someone. By tilting the controller, you make the objectr you 
 threw to change directions and to be able to hit you're targets with ease. 
  
  Graphics: Whoo boy, are they ever a treat, apart from the over use of bloom lighting (at least, 
 thats what im experiencing, i have a standard TV) they are just GREAT! when the game uses close 
 ups during combat or cut scenes, the graphics will then be able to show off they're true power. 
 Facial expressions come to life along with body language. I'm also loving the detail in the environments. 
 so far, this is one of the most prettiest games i have ever laid eyes on.
  
  Sound: This is awesome, Voice acting is spot on and not too over the top. You can feel the emotion 
 flowing out of the characters when the talk. It almost seems like in was watching a movie. Swords 
 slashing, objects breaking and incredible ambience makes this a treat to the ears.
  
  The storyline will keep you playing for quite a while, making you want to know what happens next, 
 but the game is far to short. at least 7 hours straight. But it has great replayability so it can 
 be forgiven.... for a bit. Andy Serkis's motion capture and acting makes his role as Bohen, Unforgettable. 
 You will probably find yourself laughing at a villain for the first time (ok maybe not the first 
 time, but you know what i mean) . 
  
  Heavenly Sword is a must have for the PS3, THough it may be short, you will have a blast while 
 the game lasts.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an excellent game with outstanding combat and a great presentation and story 
 and while it lasts if you like this sort of thing you will have a great time. There really isnt 
 anything wrong with the game unless you wanted something more than a linear action game with only 
 one weapon to attack with but the thing is that it is ridiculously short lived.
  
  You can finish this game in one day if you try enough and unlock everything there is to unlock 
 in 2 even. It just isnt good enough, games need to be deeper than this and thats why despite how 
 great it is it just isnt worth a purchase when you consider what else is out there.
  
  That said, every ps3 owner and fan of action games should try this one out, whether you rent it 
 or buy it is up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingqueen
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword features a fiery head female protagonist named Nariko. Our heroine prepares to fights 
 against Bohan; a tyrant king who lusts for the heavenly sword. Nariko tries to protect the sword 
 and her clan before king Bohan gets a hold of it with the help of his troops. 
  
  You take on soldiers and bosses in hack and slash style by using two weapons and performing a series 
 of attacks. The attacking methods vary from power stance to speed stance to range stance. By using 
 the heavenly sword, you are able to fight in power stance mode which allows you to inflict a massive 
 damage to enemies, but it slows Nariko's movement due it being heavy to carry. The heavenly sword 
 also uses range stance mode, where the sword splits into two long chains which can hit enemies 
 who are far yet inflict weaker damage. The speed stance mode is activated by simply using the standard 
 sword Nariko usually wields. Nariko also fights enemies using bazookas, cannons and objects she 
 picks up such as fallen enemies' bodies, knives and shields. 
  
  In HS, there's only one kind of puzzle which is repeated throughout game, and that is picking up 
 an object and throwing it somewhere to unlock a gate in first person view mode. Controlling flying 
 objects could be either done by after touch, which requires you to move the controller so that 
 the object moves towards the direction you want, or by using the left analog stick.
  
  Though eighty percent of the game-play is about killing masses of soldiers with the three sword 
 techniques or firing missiles and projectiles, don't think that all baddies will be gone just by 
 hammering one button. Some of the baddies including main baddies such as Bohan can only be killed 
 by following a certain strategy. Most enemies in the game are programmed according to a block, 
 counter-attack and attack system where they'll be surrounded by a colorful lighting which indicates 
 their next move, as each color shows whether they were about to attack or counter-attack or block 
 your attacks. I find it shameful that Nariko uses auto blocking system as a way to avoid enemies' 
 hits when baddies are given more options in battles, for she won't be able to block all the attacks 
 when she's killing that many of soldiers which makes killing thousands of enemies rather frustrating.
 
  
  HS also has QTE sequences which are used as a finishing move when killing main baddies and also 
 used for a quick transportation between locations. The environments aren't destructible but you 
 can always take advantage of the barrels, tables and wagons around to hit enemies, as well as jars 
 which are essential for healing.
  
  HS introduces another playable character named Kai, whose mission is to help Nariko protect the 
 sword all the way through fighting soldiers in archer's style. With a crossbow in hand, Kai can 
 knock down enemies with a single arrow shot from her bow to their bodies from a far range in FP 
 mode. Despite using a bow and an arrow, she can't hit enemies from a close range and all she can 
 do is jump over them to avoid being hit and stun them for a moment. 
  
  The game has astounding visuals. For the first time in a videogame, you'll be able to see the characters 
 acting on screen. I'm not talking about voice acting. What I mean is characters performing and 
 conveying their inner feelings and emotions via dramatic facial expressions, lip syncing and body 
 language. Nariko, Bohan, Kai and every character you meet are beautifully animated and detailed 
 with motion capturing technology. Aside from their appearance, the voice acting is also superb. 
 With Andy Serkis directing the scenes, watching HS cut-scenes truly feels as if you were watching 
 a high production value movie. Even though Ninja Theory did a magnificent job telling a simple 
 story in an epic presentation, Heavenly Sword still feels like a bad gift in a nice wrapping. The 
 story in the game isn't engaging. The characters are flat, shallow and introduced in jocular manner. 
 The game's supposedly strong points which are presentation and storyline are weak for there's not 
 much to tell, watch or listen to in the game. 
  
  Heavenly Sword didn't only fall short in the diversity and duration of game-play. The story itself 
 was rushed and instead of taking advantage of the huge technical and financial capabilities to 
 come up with a decent and a longer story-line, where each character isn't one dimensional as shown 
 in the game, Ninja Theory thought it was best to leave things as they were. The result to them 
 might have been satisfying but to me, it was disappointing. 
  
  The sound work is decent. Voice acting as I mentioned before is something the game is praised for 
 as well as the original score which borrows from many cultures such as Arabic, Chinese and many 
 other regions. While it's nice to hear but I personally think the music of a work should reflect 
 the atmosphere of that work and the main theme didn't. It seemed to me that the art director was 
 clueless about what fits the setting of Heavenly Sword and what doesn't.
  
  Overall, Heavenly Sword is a game which some might enjoy and others will detest but it'll mostly 
 be remembered for having so much potential to be one of the greatest games yet it didn't deliver. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaorikaori1992
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I was surprised of how well everything for the playstation 3 worked well with heavenly Sword from 
 the Six Axis controller, to the graphics, voice acting and cutscened. I think mostly everything 
 with this game was perfect, with unique combos, and extrodinary enviroments placed in this game. 
 The story line was like a story told by the narrirator which was very cool, and the events in the 
 game was just a masterpeice. Man its like she was the sister of God Of War. LOL. Anyways I think 
 many people will enjoy this even if your not a Playstation fan, and a super XBOX Fan boy. This 
 was a very cool game which my mom even enjoyed watching as i played and as the cutscenes played. 
 SO I Give this game a 10!!!!! And if you dont have this game yet...... you better cop this instant 
 classic.
  
  Reveiw by N. E. R. D. Y STYLEZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusmurph
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  I had my eye on this game for a while, though i was concerned to know how long such a hack and 
 slash game could be fun. It did not take long for this to be proven all too wrong.
  
  You play as two characters "Nariko" (The Heroine on the cover) running around in the most epic 
 sword battles seen in a game or movie. Along with the shoulder buttons, L1 & R1 you only use Triangle 
 & Square in your combos. Circle is reserved for "Do something really awesome" and when i saw "awesome" 
 I was not kidding on numourous occasions that had me completing the phrase "oh s_ _ _" many times.
 
  
  The other character you get to play is a very stange little Kai, who uses a cross bow. The thing 
 with the corssbow is after you fire, you can control the arrow with the Sixxaxis contollers angle 
 senseors which is quite starnge at the start. You spent the first 6 months of your console career 
 all those years ago working out that no matter how much will you put into shaking that controller, 
 it was not going to make anything go better for you, now with these next gen consoles, thats all 
 changing.
  
  The story is rather simple though beautifully told in a minimalistic way. The characters look amazing 
 and the acting is the best i have seen ina game. The skin on Nariko's face is so soft and beautiful 
 looking. The scenery, like the game is just plain "beauty made epic".
  
  There is nothing small or mundane about this game, its all go and its all now. Some have commented 
 that it is to short but it can't hold that against it, it had everything there, they just cut out 
 all the boring bits of the game.
  
  
  Simply put, if you think you will like this game, buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoF1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is a beautiful game, like a Hollywood movie but the player is involved and controls 
 the main character.
  In Heavenly Sword you are in most of time Nariko, a beautiful girl and his mission is maintain 
 Heavenly Sword safety, and protect it from king Bohan, who want to be a god. Nariko only fight enemies, 
 and for it you have to make combos, by button-smashing.
  Sometimes you are Kai a girl found by Nariko after his mother being assassinated. Kai only shot 
 arrows with a bow, leave enemies unconscious jumping over them and jump over objects.
  I prefer play as Nariko although his controls are essentially button-smashing.
  The game has 
 the best graphics Ive seen yet.
  The gameplay is good, good camera, good sixaxis motion control, theres only a problem with this, 
 as I said before, button-smashing.
  The sound is practically perfect with very good voices and good translation.
  Heavenly sword 
 has less than ten hours of game and this is a bad thing for who like long games.
  Heavenly sword is very close to perfect, but it isnt because has two problems, BUTTON-SMASHING 
 and is a SHORT GAME.
  A must buy for everyone less for those who dont like short games and games where you have to do 
 button-smashing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protector99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Well we will start with the Good: The action is like nothing you have ever seen! The combo list 
 is about as long as anything ever seen in gaming history! The close up brutal attacks!!!!!!! "The 
 best"!!!!!!!
  But the story is quite ineviteble since it shows you dying!!!!!! (witch was a nice twist for once) 
 But then "Oh man" The motion capture is the best ever seen, in video games that is. So thats the 
 good, ( there is more) so you know.
  
  The bad: the bosses get anoying somtimes, not much varity in the attacks.
  I wouldnt say its 
 waaaayyy to short but it qould have been nice to see another 8 to 10 hours put into the game.
 
  
  To sum the game up Sound:9.0
  Graphics:10.0
  Tilt:9.5
  Difficulty:9.0
  Fun:10.0
  
  And one last thing, i herd there is a second one coming out withing a year or two, So i would 
 deffinetly check out this game:
  For fans of GOD OF WAR esspecially!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  When I think of PS3, I will stright away think of Heavenly Sword mainly because it was the game 
 that left an impression on me. Sure enough it didn't disappoint me.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a very story driven game, making it feel like you are watching a movie. But like 
 all movies, this game doesn't last long. I actually completed it in about 10 hours plus. But during 
 that 10 hours it was sheer fun. So maybe I had some difficulty in the beginning with the SIXAXIS 
 motion control system, but it just takes practice. Fight scenes are awesome with lots of moves, especially 
 counters and superstyles. Superstyle allows you as ,Nariko the main prontaganist, to get rid of 
 a lot of enemiesand by a lot I am not saying about 9 or 10 but up to 50 enemies, expert can easily 
 get rid of 100 over if possible.
  That is Narikos gameplay, but as Kai, Narkios sister, you don't really fight enemies like how Narkio 
 fights, instead you attack from a distance using a crossbow and use aftertouch to manouver the arrows. It 
 can be quite irritating at first because the arrows might miss like an inch or so, that usually 
 happens to mine, but as I said with training you will not only be able to actually shoot them, you 
 can also aim at their head or groin, although there is no difference, it is just really fun to watch, I 
 always shoot their butt.
  What is good about playing the 2 characters for me personally is that I actually enjoy playing 
 both characters and not liking one and disliking the other like many other games I play.
  
  Voice acting and music is great, but the voice acting has a bit of problem, maybe its just my TV, but 
 the mouth doesn't match the speech, so it isn't as nice, but I really like the music, it really fits 
 the game.
  
  The most impressive thing about this game is actually the graphics, it is not about the games graphic 
 but I am speaking of the colour tone that they used, it feels very soft and is truely a work of 
 art. The graphics definitrly looks great since it is on a next gen console, but I have to say that 
 Narikos hair is very unnatural, it feels like her hair got glued together and it isn't strains of 
 hair but lumps of hair moving about, the hair also feels like it is alive, not in a good way, it looks 
 like snake, it doesn't move as natural as it should.
  
  Controls are well implemented, not complain there.
  
  Overall I would say this is a fun game, while 
 it lasted. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarxPhil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a great game and has wonderful animations. I also loved the story. But this game 
 is just TO SHORT!. If you are looking for a good action PS3 game then this is the one for you. 
 Just remember to keep it away from the little kids, There is alot of violence in this one. But 
 overall it was a very good game and i recommend it to anyone that has a Playstation 3. Sadly there 
 is no online but it wouldn't matter becuase this game wouldn't work with it that well. But i just 
 wish they put some more game in the game. Some prople should be able to finish this in one sitting. 
 For me it took a while becasue the end boss is pretty hard. I was suprised it was over so fast 
 but the games is a must have. Overall this game is really good and for anyone that has a PS3 should 
 already have or is going to get. I give it a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPD_WeBmAsTaH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  While this game is made top notch, it's still not worth buying. I have seen a lot of reviewing 
 companies say that this game uses ALL of the PS3's horses under the hood. WRONG!!! This game only 
 uses about 25% of the PS3's potential just like Uncharted (Uncharted uses just a bit more than Heavenly 
 Sword) . The action is amazing and the detail is always there, but it definitely has a God of War 
 feel to it, it's like they wanted to make a female God of War franchise or something. Now this 
 game would've been even greater if it had any LENGTH. I mean it was over so quickly that I didn't 
 even have to take any breaks to use the washroom, or get a drink, my 4 water bottles that I put 
 out on the table to drink while playing this game were STILL cold even after I beat the game. Now 
 what makes a great Action/Adventure game is great graphics and a really great storyline which indeed 
 this game had both, but due to whatever happened to shorten its' lifespan, this game ONLY gets 
 a 7.5 out of generosity. Maybe if we start seeing PS3 games go to Greatest Hits anytime soon, then 
 it'd be worth to pick this game up but otherwise, paying 60 bucks (with tax) is just not worth something 
 that can be finished in 5 or 6 hours alone. I loved the game and I want more so if there ever is 
 a sequel, which i highly doubt, I would praise SONY (I do it either way) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosbrigadier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  In truth the only part about this game I found even slightly bad was that it's a little short. 
 But truthfully GoW and GoW2 can be beaten in pretty much the same amount of time. The graphics 
 are amazing, the hair being the only flaw to it, going through the heavenly sword when it's on 
 your back and such. Though the story is somewhat simple it still keeps you interested the whole 
 way through. To help this are a set of antagonists that are all extremely well designed in terms 
 of graphics, fighting styles, attitude and voice actors. 
  
  The battle system is actually quite intriguing =. Yes the battle system can be repetitive, but 
 so can GoW, and Devil May Cry, that is of course, if you don't know how to do anything other than 
 button mash. Button mashing is actually something that will not work once you fight anything past 
 the basic enemies, seeing as just about everything else has to have a guard breaker or a very hard 
 hit thrown in somewhere. Something else to add is thatg the sixaxis controls implemented into this 
 game are actually quite amazing, for a while they will get annoying because it's quite different, 
 but trust me once you get a hang of of them, it's a blast. 
  
  @robmonga2: just a few comments.
  -I'm pretty sure me and a lot of ps3 owners actually don't 
 thinkXbox360 might have been a better choice". I'm actually quite happy with my ps3. 
  -" there are quite a bit of glitches, causing quite a bit of frustration"
  I didn't see very 
 many at all actually, other than the hair. And besides have you played just about any other game, 
 just about all have glitches.
  - "the last boss fight is harrdd.............." That could be because you do nothing but mash buttons, 
 or "stick twirling" as you called it. The final boss is quite challenging but if you knew how to 
 do a combo you might have had an easier time. By the way, funny you call this boss too hard and 
 yet you said go rent Ninja Gaiden Sigma.
  -Also I am a GoW fan, and yet I still enjoyed the game play in this a lot more. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the good aspects. Heavenly Sword has fantastic graphics; in fact, it probably rivals 
 the best any system has to offer thus far. The animations are superb and the lip syncing is perfect. 
 Nariko's blades, clothes, and hair whip around in a beautiful maelstrom of violent expression. 
 Chairs, crates, dishes, food, weapons, and sheilds can all be smashed or used as projectiles, and 
 the physics engine is quite solid. Nariko is also actually quite a joy to control, with a fighting 
 system that can be implemented by noobs preferring a button mashing approach or dedicated students 
 of the game who want to block and parry every enemy attack, striking at the right moments with 
 the right stance and unleashing devastating combo after devastating combo.
  
  But the joys end there. The level design is hopelessly linear; you'll see the same enemies stage 
 after stage; and the sixaxis controls, god, don't get me started. Yes, after several minutes of 
 pure frustration you will become adept at guiding projectile weapons at your targets with relative 
 ease. But, aren't video games supposed to be fun? I'm finding this to be an issue with a lot of 
 the Sony first party titles, leading me to believe sixaxis motion control is a primary directive 
 for the development teams. The way I see it, if it makes logical sense and is actually an enjoyable 
 mechanic to use, by all means, I'll use the tilt action! But don't force it on me in pointless 
 situations that actually rip the fun right of the proceedings. 
  
  
  
  *EDIT: It was recently brought to my attention that sixaxis tilt control can be switched off at 
 the menu screen. I have raised my score 0.5 points as a result (thanks to Foxhound71) . 
  
  
  
  All of the high production values left me thinking one thing: these guys really believe 
 they have an epic tale on their hands here... are they serious?? All of the histrionic voice acting 
 and motion capture performances piled beneath a reheated plotline we've all seen a hundred times 
 before didn't really do it for me. Sure, you can tell they threw a bunch of money behind this stuff, 
 but that doesn't mean we have to overlook how bad most of it is. To be honest, I got as far as 
 beating the stuffing out of Whiptail... for the third time... and decided I'd had enough. If you 
 want fun, epic, multitiered boss battles, play GOW, MGS, or SotC. If you want to look at something 
 pretty while not enjoying yourself, just watch a Scarlet Johansen flick. Otherwise, your hard-earned 
 green can be better spent on another title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the only objective-to-objective games I'll continue to own. Set out 
 in Chapters, this game has a pretty good feel to it, with the combat and reaction commands. The 
 story is just as you'd expect it to be; gripping, and progressive, however, it is a little short, 
 when you consider how much potential the game has.
  
  A real highlight for me, was the characters and voice acting; it was like a complete jigsaw puzzle, 
 to me. Bohan's VA was probably the best, while Kai and Nariko had the best character build. The 
 ending is another thing that puts it in a league of its own; the ending is something I don't think 
 anyone foresaw. To save for spoilers, though, I'll not mention what happens.
  
  Generally, its a great game, let down by the shortness of it all, but has a lot of redeeming characteristics, 
 and can be played through more than once. If you're looking for a game that puts sword fighting 
 with a great storyline, this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword for the Playstation 3
  
  Good- Insane graphics detail, Amazing gameplay, insane storyline, just bloody amazing!
  
  Bad- 
 Its to short
  
  Gameplay- 10/10 In heavenly sword you play a main female characters and literly beat the crap out 
 of your enemies with combo's you learn as you go through the game and with your heavenly sword 
 range from several attacks strong, speed and range alot with counters and air attacks and dear lord 
 its to much to count this game as a beatem up.
  
  Graphics- 10/10 Best looking game I have ever played in my life, so much detail it feels almost 
 like your watchin a movie in real life.
  
  Sound 10/10 Perfect sound! From bone smashing to screams its all top notch.
  
  Storyline 8/10- 
 Its a preety basic storyline, but its also a bit to thin for this generation I found, but its so 
 well done that it feels like its a movie.
  
  Extra and Reply- 7/10 The game offers a bit of extra's as you collect points in the game to makin 
 of the game to short animation and such but the games length is so short its a shame it couldn't 
 last longer.
  
  Overall 93/100 or 9.5/10 I would say get this game if you got the spare cash. Its super short but 
 all the other aspects make it a masterpiece to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robmonga2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  My personal experience with this game was one filled with enjoyment, but also plenty of frustration. 
 From the minute I saw a commercial for this game, I wanted to play it. And I wanted to love it, 
 but that just didn't happen. To clarify, I don't hate this game, I think everyone who has a PS3 
 should at least rent this game, it's worth playing. Most PS3 owners, I think, have that little 
 voice inside them saying Xbox360 might have been a better choice . Now this game won't make that 
 voice go away, but it will show you that light of hope you need to see.
  
  First off, this game is amazingly beautiful. The lighting in the game looks very natural, character 
 models are also great, but the high point graphically in the game has to come near the end. It's 
 pre-rendered, but it is beyond a shadow of a doubt, the best looking animation I have ever seen. 
 With that said there are a couple nasty points, such as the main character's hair, which clips 
 everything it goes near ( sometimes even just floating for no reason..) . The motion capturing used 
 for speech is another achievement to behold. Playing the game will really give you that glint of 
 hope, displaying the potential of this machine, that you put your hard earned cash towards. Audiolly (?) 
 Heavenly Sword is on par with it's graphics, the clamour of swords and all those good war sounds 
 are there, though again, I do remember some parts where it gets unusually quiet even though you're 
 engaging the enemy. Score is great as well, though I don't remember much of it now, but it helps 
 you get in the game. Voice acting is pretty good too, with the guy who played Gollum in LOTR supplying 
 the voice for the antagonist and another villain. All th character's have very unique voices and 
 it's a pleasure to hear them spew out witty bander, and totally offbeat comments (dialogue is something 
 special) . Gameplay and story is where the game seems to be hit and miss. Story is alright, there's 
 nothing really there, just enough to justify the violence. The characters are the most satisfying 
 factor, you just can't help liking them. The gameplay unlike the story, tries to do something new. 
 When I said button mashing earlier, I really meant, stick twirling. The whole time you'll use the 
 right analog stick to attack, and by holding down R1 or L1 the attack will change, to range or 
 strong attacks. It's a cool way to play, but it just doesn't have enough variation in it to keep 
 the most complex mind interesed. This is where the game falters, after a while, it just gets boring. 
 Thank god it's so short, cause otherise I probably wouldn't have been able to get through it. There 
 are intervals between these drab gameplay moments where you get to use the refreshing Sixaxis canons 
 and bow/arrows, but it just isn't enough to justify buying the game. P. s. there are quite a bit 
 of glitches, causing quite a bit of frustration. P. s. s the last boss fight is harrdd..............
 
  
  Anyways, Rent this game, I urge you. There's no point buying it, it's not god of war, the gameplay 
 isn't as interesting as it. If you're a gow fan you'll probably be dissapointed at what you get. 
 Other games to BUY instead: Gow1/gow2- you can buy both for the same price as this and you'll get 
 better value, even if it isn't next gen.
  
  Ninja Gaiden sigma- It's nice and long, you get a nice diversity in gameplay, though it doesn't 
 look nearly as good as HS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  The next-gen consoles have a lot more to offer gamers nowadays in the way of graphics and gameplay. 
 That being said, Heavenly sword is one of the most visually stunning games seen in a long time 
 of gaming. The great backdrops, water effects and the gameplay all add up to an instant hit for 
 the PS3.
  
  Only downfall is while you just get used to how beautiful it all is, you're done.
  
  The aftertouch 
 is a great addition to the gameplay, allowing the full functions of the PS3 to be used to its full 
 potential, and some pretty cool of ways to take down your enemies.
  
  The gameplay itself is immense, with different scenarios calling upon all different types of methods 
 in order to vanquish your enemies, such as cannons, arrows, rockets, and the occasional frisbee 
 shield 
  
  All in all, Heavenly Sword is a product near perfection, just a few hiccups here and there, including 
 game length. But don't let that put you off. You would be proud to have this game amongst your 
 favourites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulscraper86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  For the first three quarters of the year since the PS3 was launched, there has been a drought of 
 good games. As of then, only Motor Storm and Resistance: Fall of Man (both launch titles) were 
 the highly recommended games for the PS3. No doubt there have been many solid releases on the PS3 
 such as Ninja Gaiden Sigma, Ridge Racer 7 and Armored Core 4, none were system movers.
  
  Then came Lair which was supposed to be an AAA title, but was met with harsh criticism from the 
 west (I personally find it quite fun to play with) . The hopes and dreams of most pampered western 
 gamers who love easy games were crushed. Then came Heavenly Sword for the PS3, a highly anticipated 
 AAA title that has been in development for some time now by an unproven studio.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a game that is heavily inspired by the martial arts movies which includes Crouching 
 Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Ever since it was first shown to the public, Heavenly Sword has drawn strong 
 comparisons with God of War. This can hardly be blame as they share similar elements. Both Kratos 
 and Nariko has a chain like weapon with blades on the end in which they twirl around causing havoc. 
 Both games have scenes in which you have to push buttons as per the on screen prompts to perform 
 cinematic moves and finishers. Heck, both games starts almost the same with what appears to be 
 the death of the game's main character and the game is played out in flashback.
  
  Heavenly Sword's main character is a beautiful woman named Nariko. Long before she was born, it 
 was prophesized that the Heavenly Warrior who first brought the Heavenly Sword will be reborn and 
 reclaim his sword to be the savior to the clan and the world. However, instead of a boy, Nariko, 
 a girl was born. She was born an outcast and was blamed for every death suffered by her clan. The 
 heavenly sword is a titular weapon that grants great power to its wielder whilst draining the wielder's 
 life.
  
  The plot of the story can is very well written although it was predictable at some parts. Don't 
 get me wrong, it still have some twists to the story that should keep you entertained. The production 
 values that have been put forth in the game's overall style and presentation, both in gameplay 
 and in cinematic cut-scenes rival that of a Hollywood blockbuster. Although the cut-scenes are 
 the usual fantasy-esque type, the stellar voice performance and super facial expression breathe 
 life into this game.
  
  You may know Andy Serkis from such films as The Lord of the Rings (Gollum) . Well, he is here as 
 the diabolical, evil, raged-filled King Bohan. His performance as the mad king is simply fantastic. 
 You can literally feel the malevolent rage he portrays in his many interactions with his generals 
 and his especially distaste for his son seeping out of every pore of his digital face and oozing 
 out of the screen. I'm impressed.
  
  The graphics for this games is simply drop-dead gorgeous. Fighting on narrow bridges with a sweeping 
 beautiful vista and fighting amidst a field with thousands of troops (yes, there are battle fields 
 where there are at least five hundred meat bags to slaughter, and better yet, their rotting carcasses 
 doesn't disappear, they stay on screen! The satisfaction of having hundreds of bodies piling up 
 around you is priceless. Frankly, I'm surprised that with that many people on screen, there are 
 literally no drops in frame-rate! To further enhance the experience, the Asian inspired orchestral 
 score blends with the action.
  
  Now for the main draw of the game, the fighting. Nariko has three combat stances when she wields 
 the Heavenly Sword. Holding L1 would put her into a range stance where the Heavenly Sword splits 
 into two blades with chains at each end. Holding R1 would put her into a power stance in which 
 the two blades are combined into a huge two-handed sword which has heavy damage but slow speed. 
 Not holding either shoulder buttons puts her into the default speed stance.
  
  Each of the stances are different and are useful in a few situations. For example, the ranged attack 
 is great against a weaker enemies (stronger mobs will almost always block it) . This is quite a 
 good system as it makes you constantly change your stance and tactics during combat to survive.
 
  
  The combat is fluid and you're able to switch into a different stance mid-combo seamlessly. Nariko 
 has no special block button but she will automatically block when not attacking. Speed Stance blocks 
 light attacks and Power Stance blocks heavy attacks. Pressing the Triangle button after successfully 
 blocking will trigger a cool counterattack move.
  
  To break the monotony of the combat, you'll be able to control Kai, a creepy girl who is unable 
 to do any melee attacks but instead uses her crossbow to pick off her enemies at various sections 
 in the game. Her levels are actually quite fun. You'll be running around hopping over obstacles 
 and sniping your enemies while they struggle to get to you (they can't climb over obstacles you 
 see) .
  
  There are also a few sniping sections where you pick of enemies using the Aftertouch mechanic. 
 By holding the Square button, you'll enter Aftertouch mode where you steer her arrows via sixaxis 
 motion control.
  (note: you can enter Aftertouch mode anytime in the game as it is not limited to the sniping sections)
 
  
  Heavenly Sword contains a number of unlockables. The unlockables include new combos, the making 
 of videos, concept art and 2 episodes of the anime. However, there seems to be no point in unlocking 
 the anime and making of videos as they can be downloaded off the Playstation Network. To unlock 
 them, you need to collect glyphs. There is a limit of three glyphs per stage and each glyphs are 
 earned by reaching a threshold of points. The points are gained by successfully countering enemy's 
 attacks and by performing combos.
  
  Overall, Heavenly Sword comes very close to perfection. The length of the game is arguably its 
 weakest point. It can be finished in one afternoon. However, that would be one hell of a kickass 
 afternoon. It will be like watching a 6-8 hours of action packed summer blockbuster movie. When 
 I finished Heavenly Sword, I had the "damn that was good" feel. Although many people may complain 
 that a $99.90AUD (I got it for $89.90AUD) price tag may be a bit steep for such a short entertainment 
 value, I did not regret. For those price conscious gamers out there, you may want to pick this 
 gem up when the price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword begins as you Nariko are fighting to protect family, friends, and country. Your 
 dad is the leader and is forming a defense in a small fort from the enemy attack. You stay behind 
 as the fort is falling so that everyone can make his or her escape but it proves futile. Your father 
 and a few others are captured and you run across King Bohan the leader of the massive army invading 
 your small area. He demands you give up your peoples and country's greatest possession the Heavenly 
 Sword that your people have passed down and protected with your lives for generations.
  
  This sword is supposed to grant its wielder unbelievable power but with a cost, after a span of 
 time wielding the sword it will eventually take your life as a cost of using its power. It is forbidden 
 by the most sacred of laws to wield the sword but to save your father and get revenge against Bohan 
 for ravaging the lands and your people you take on the shame and break this sacred tradition. With 
 sword in hand and the enemy in your sights you begin your adventure to take on the largest most 
 destructive army ever assembled yourself to get the revenge you crave.
  
  The storyline of Heavenly Sword can be easily described as short but sweet, it is probably one 
 of the best if not the best storyline for a game from the action genre that I have ever played. 
 The characters and voice acting is purely fantastic and King Bohan played by an actor/comedian 
 with some talent is hilarious as well as a few other characters further breathing life into this 
 storyline. The game reminds me somewhat of a movie the more I played it due to the quality and 
 style it is executed in. The only problem I had was the fact that the game was fairly short but 
 making it longer would have messed up the story and due to achievements to do and a second "Hell" 
 difficulty to play though there is a lot to do.
  
  Now the second reason I was and am so fond of this title is the gameplay and fighting they have 
 created. First to get it out of the way they have you use the six-axis to control throw weapons, 
 projectiles, and cannons giving you a skillful way to aim. This is probably the greatest use for 
 the six-axis that I could ever think of it never gets boring throwing swords or firing arrows and 
 guiding them into your targets brain, ankle, or any other target you wish. Now to continue with 
 the battle system, it uses 3 distinct different stances with the Heavenly Sword the speed stance 
 (normal) , power stance (R1) , and ranged stance (L1) you use these stances to fight and defeat your 
 foes. To block you just must be in the stance of the attack you are being struck with for example 
 if it is a power strike you must be in power stance to block it. You can use these various stances 
 to combat different enemies in different ways allowing you to adapt to new enemies and situations 
 with ease.
  
  You get a large amount of combos for all 3 stances and also style moves which require a certain 
 amount of kills to perform but cause massive damage. There is also a second character that you 
 play as fairly often named Kai, she uses a large crossbow nearly the size of her body and she if 
 a lot younger than Nariko looking up to her as an older sister. This bow is only used in ranged 
 combat up close the only thing she is capable of is using some agile maneuvers to escape to regain 
 the ranged advantage. With all this at your disposal you have quite a lot to cut, mangle, and kill 
 your endless horde of enemies with which gives great entertainment and great gameplay to the game.
 
  
  To be honest the game looks terrific every animatons, background, and sequence just looks amazing. 
 This game truly shows the beginning of what the PS3 is capable of, and although Ninja Theory doesn't 
 have a large history of games under their belt I look forward to other title due to this success. 
 The soundtrack was also very good it fitted very well with the gameplay and action of the game, 
 not to mention the voice acting was the best I have ever seen in a game. I know lots of people 
 don't care much about voice acting I being one of them but this game needs a commendation for it 
 they have gave you a feeling unlike any other giving the game a much more realistic feel. Due to 
 the many great things this game accomplished I would rate Heavenly Sword a 9.3 out of 10 anyone 
 would enjoy this game if you are an action game fan or just a new PS3 owner. This is the first 
 great game in my opinion to arrive on the Playstation 3 and I am very impressed with it, anyone 
 interested I would suggest play it and try it out for yourselves.
  
  This review will show up as a 9.5 due to Gamespot unfortunately not allowing a 9.3 to be selected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  First thing to say: I apologize for my English, it may not be the best but I think you'll understand 
 what I'm about to say...
  
  Where should I start?... The good things or the bad things? I'll say it randomly: The game is really 
 good, starting by the history. The beginning is great! The death of Nariko sure makes you want 
 to play to know the ending. The combos are beautiful and original, and at the same time... sexy! 
 You have to earn the combos, in my opinion the games with lots of combos since the beginning aren't 
 that great because sometimes you just can't do them all... The stances are OK, i mean it's a bit 
 copy of God of War but it doesn't make the game bad, in the contrary it makes the game fast, powerful 
 beautiful and agile. It is original the cinematic counter-attacks, but in this game the sequences 
 could be more developed... Anyway I love the facial expressions of the characters in the movies 
 and even in the game. They're almost equal but not quite. The divine world where you choose the 
 chapters isn't that great, i mean, common! Nariko talking to the sword!? Some will think it is 
 artistic... well I don't but that's just my opinion... The coolest character is, with no doubt 
 Bohan, his expressions, his jokes, his sarcasm, everything! Good for laughing XD Did I talk about 
 the arrows and canon balls? It's a great and original type of mini game. Sometimes it is a little 
 frustrating. In this area I didn't like one thing, how do they do that? The thing of controlling 
 the arrows?... But the worst thing of the game is not the fact of being short because all good 
 stuff are short... the worst of the game are the loadings... I only noticed that on Hellmode :P 
 because in normal the game isn't that hard... The review is already big so I'm just going to say:
 
  Thank you NINJA THEORY for making such a cool, passioned and exciting game! All Characters are 
 great!
  
  This is Naughtydogmania in is first review :D
  XD
  (Edit:)
  
  I forgot to say... The game could have more types of enemy and more bosses. You just fight one 
 time with Whiptail, so you can't really know the character very well. Flying Fox: I didn't like 
 how he died, I mean, i was expecting for more... Kai kills him with one shot? WTF?... Anyway as 
 i said before the actors make an awesome job, well done! 
  
  PLZ comment my review at:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/naughtydogmania/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25258784
 
  
  (one of my blog posts...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renostarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, was a very decent game. The good people that put this game together did an fantastic 
 job of making Kratos into a long legged, magic-less, fiery redhead Filipino chick with an Australian 
 accent............. Ladies and Gentlemen I give you Nariko, the Goddess of war.
  The gameplay is so very similar to God of War that it's a bit ridiculous. The same button combinations, 
 even the weapons were comparable. The Heavenly Swords different stances can be directly matched 
 up with Kratos' different weapons. The Range Stance is when Nariko breaks the sword into two pieces 
 exposing an, as far as I can tell, endless chain that somehow connects the two pieces together 
 allowing her to flail them wildly about as Kratos does with the Blades of Chaos. Although she, 
 with respect, is much more fun to watch while she does it. Mixing in dodging and weaving motions 
 as the chains whirl around her. Excellent attention to detail here. The Power stance is almost 
 exactly like Kratos' Blade of Artemus. The Speed stance is similar to the way Kratos grabs one 
 blade in each hand and goes ballistic on his opponents. There are differences, such as the motion 
 controlled projectile weapons i. e the Bazooka, Kai's Crossbow, and the Anti-Catapult Cannons. Which 
 I highly enjoyed using. The motion control added a very interactive edge to the game. The Cut scenes 
 were way more polished (don't geek out though, these are next gen systems we're talking about, 
 it's supposed to be like that) the dialogue was better, hilarious at times, and enjoyable. The 
 A. I in the opponents were a bit repetitive though, a little more diversity in fighting and reactions 
 would have been great. All in all, I enjoyed and recommend this game. I will say rent it first 
 though. The length of the game combined with the very borrowed premises make it a personal toss 
 up of whether or not it should be owned, but in all seriousness it is worth playing at least once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  This game has proven to me that there is no other better console than sonys new ps3 console. Only 
 option for my xbox 360 now is, is to dump it in my swimming pool or take it for a Bungy jump without 
 ropes. anyway this game really has a feeling in the combat like I AM THERE. That is what makes this 
 game so awsome! the graphics is exellent and the sound is so awsome! The reason for a 9.0 is the 
 game can be completed in about a afternoon. It really is short. But the good parts are you would 
 just want to play it over and over again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  When the first Heavenly Sword trailer debuted, I thought that HS would rival God of War in greatness.
 
  
  Unfortunately, I was wrong. Heavenly Sword is a so-so experience with many flaws and a few inspirational 
 qualities.
  
  Heavenly Sword's biggest flaw is that its combat system simply isn't very fun to use. Ninja Theory 
 decided to employ a new sysetm whereby the character automatically blocks, but the user must be 
 in the correct stance in order to deter an attack successfully.
  
  This idea, while innovative in concept, just isn't much fun in practice because it doesn't make 
 much intuitive sense. Furthermore, Nariko neither controls with the agility of Ryu Hayabusa nor 
 the fluidity of Kratos. The game's battle system is a valiant effort, but ultimately fails to deliver 
 a fun experience. Add to that the fact that the game's level design resembles a series of arenas 
 linked together with painfully obvious puzzles, and the gameplay gets old very quickly.
  
  Heavenly Sword's cutscenes are also very cheesy, and the side characters' voice acting doesn't 
 help much either. The game is very short, taking about six hours to complete.
  
  However, there are a few high points. The ending, for example, is really well-done and the animation 
 for the digital actors is revolutionary in the videogame medium. Graphically, Heavenly Sword is 
 a sight to behold, and its music is top-quality as well. The main character -- Nariko -- is captivating 
 and well-developed; it's just too bad she was cast in a mediocre story with melodramatic supporting 
 actors.
  
  Overall, Heavenly Sword is a game heavy on flash and light on substance. Ninja Theory is a talented 
 team, but they need to focus more on polishing game design than filming pretty cutscenes for their 
 next endeavor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  At first I was doubtful of Heavenly Sword, I'm a HUGE God of War fan and I felt that this was an 
 amusing knock-off that could never live up to the legend of Kratos, but I was pleasently surprised 
 and pleased when I played this game.
  
  GOOD: unbelievable character portrayal, interesting story line, fun combat, variation in gameplay.
 
  
  BAD: much too similar to GOW, lip-sync issues, too short.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is great, as in it never gets boring. There are a lot of different things 
 you'll do in the game, such as weilding the Heavenly Sword itself, manning a cannon, solving small 
 puzzles and playing twing-twang with the adorable Kai. This is particularly unique and I think 
 one of the only fun and practical uses of the PS3's sixaxis control. After shooting an arrow you 
 are able to control it in slow motion by tilting the controller, and it's incredibly fun to land 
 one in some guy's head from cross court. You can use the same technique when shooting cannons, 
 shields or rockets as well, which is a nice touch to mix up the gameplay. The core of you time 
 however will be with Nariko who uses the Heavenly Sword to hack her way through countless enemies. 
 For different situations, she can use the sword in 3 modes: attached the end of long chains for 
 range attacks, split into 2 small swords for speed attacks, or combined into one massive sword 
 for power attacks. However you use the sword, you'll have a blast, the kills are brutal and satisfying, 
 but instead of smart enemies who react to your every move, or different types of enemies that have 
 different strengths and weaknesses, you are simply faced with multitudes of foes. Wave after wave 
 will attack until you can't even see Nariko, only the flying bodies of defeated troops. Don't get 
 me wrong, it's extremely satisfying, but only fun for the first few minutes, then you wish they 
 would mix it up a little.
  
  CHARACTERS: I was blown away by the voice acting in this game. It suits the speaker incredibly 
 well, and the tone displays emotion. My only complaint is that sometimes the timing is off a little, 
 making it look like an old Chinese movie with dubbing, but you can ignore it and it's all good. 
 The characters are also complimented by excellent movement and portrayal in the cut scenes. We 
 really get a feel for the personalities, despite the game being so short. They really immerse us 
 into the story, which is necessary, as I fear that if I wasn't drawn into the plot the game would 
 be much less enjoyable.
  
  GAME ENGINE: Aside from the terrific voice acting, all the other little parts of this game mesh 
 together nicely for a polished final product. The graphics are sharp, with vivid colors and elaborate 
 detail. The environments are well designed and destructible. There might be a rare occasion where 
 you have a bit of trouble with the camera, since you can only control it to a certain degree, but 
 for the most part it serves its purpose.
  
  GOD OF WAR: I just have to state the similarities to God of War, because it's really quite funny. 
 At the beginning of the game, we see the main character die, and the rest of the story is told 
 as a kind of flashback, like in God of War I. Krato's unique weapons, the Blades of Chaos/Athena 
 (swords on the ends of long chains) were completely ripped off, even though you don't always use 
 them, it's kind of sketchy how similar they are. Another similarity is when you'll pulling cranks 
 to open a door or solve a puzzle, you tap rapidly on X, and if you don't tap quick enough you won't 
 be able to pull it, and God of War is the only game I know of that does that. The fun little button 
 pressing mini games that trigger Kratos to perform miraculous finishing moves is completely copied 
 by Nariko. You press O to grab the foe and follow the buttons as they appear onscreen to dodge 
 a blow and deliver your own. Ridiculous.
  
  In the end I do give credit to Heavenly Sword, for being a fun game with some unique parts, a good 
 story and great characters. It was pretty short though, and I'd say still inferior to God of War. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is solid, but not as perfect as some may have you believe. My biggest issue with the game 
 was the inability to jump freely. Being able to have a jump button would of made some of the battles 
 a little less of a pain. I also didn't really care at all for any of the characters in the game 
 with the exception of Kai. Kai was the best part of the game hands down in my opinion, but she 
 also had some of the hardest parts in the game. The game as others have said was also too short, 
 but that unfortunately is Next-Gen for you. Less game for more green. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this game does have great graphics, but if you are me graphics in my department are kinda last. I 
 really look for gameplay! And this game does a hard time with that. The conrols feel like they dont 
 communicate and its clunky. The game has some glitches, but the voice acting wipes it up like a janitor 
 mops up vomit! Plus did I mention for a video game character she is a vixen;) The difficult is pretty 
 hard and is at times quite fustrating! At least rent this game for petes sake! If not stay away dont 
 buy! Unless you are in need of a game! Not like God of War at all!: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissKalunji
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  I've been playing heavenly sword and let me tell you that game is sick! Some part are really tough 
 personally for no reason but if it was easier i'de complain about it.
  
  Its a bit like God of war female version and a lot more technical. It wasn't exactly what i've 
 expected but it's good still. Not just mashing buttons. I did misjudge the Playstation 3 as well. 
 This game concentrate more on the technical on the combos and also to aim. They made this thing 
 as hard as in real life. I've only reach a little less then half of the game and i'm loving it. 
 I didn't know as well that playstation 3 was a bit like the WII. Some parts you have to throw an 
 object and then use the remote to guide it from right to left up and down. So far i'm loving it. 
 The story line is very strong and heavy and at times you have a hard time to understand what they 
 are saying. I didn't get the HDTV cable yet But when i'll see if there's a big different but on 
 the big screen the images are tight still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tychoSIX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  I added Heavenly Sword to my game queue on a whim and everything about it exceeded my rather low 
 expectations. There have been a number of complaints about this game: avoid it if you are looking 
 for something that will take several months to finish or can only be completed with a special mastery 
 of the controls.
  
  Despite being rather short, having 6-8 hours of gameplay, it never feels very repetitive. This 
 comes from switching between two characters every so often: decimating foes up close with Noriko 
 and playing twing-twang with Kai and her crossbow. In reality, it can be quite challenging: try 
 defeating all your enemies unscathed and without hesitation with Noriko or landing every shot without 
 missing your mark while Kai.
  
  In conclusion, this game has considerably improved my opinion about the PS3. Everything from the 
 story, to gameplay, to stunning visuals were better than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackps3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun when you, ve got it. set about a woman called Nariko on a quest to save 
 her village by maintaining the power of the heavenly sword. the story line is amazing along with 
 the stunning ps3 visuals. however this is the easiest game i have ever played in my entire life 
 it took me a maximum of 7 hours to complete and itt only has six yes six levels. infact the game 
 itself isnt that easy its just how long it takes to complete. The best thing about the game though 
 is the boss fights as you struggle to find a weakness . it took me 1 hour to kill the last boss. 
 overall this is not an amazing game and certainly not a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  This is a stunning action adventure title. You star as Nariko, the flame haired, last hope of her 
 clan. She brandishes the Heavenly Sword that legend says will restore peace to the land. A land 
 that the tyrant King Bohan has dominated with a cruel fist for years. The only people left standing 
 against him are Nariko's tribe who have protected the sword for generations. If Bohan was to get 
 the sword, no one would be able to rise against him.
  
  Most of the game is fast sword combat with three different attack styles (speed, range and power) 
 and dozens of vicious combos. Some of these trigger a gruesome finishing move usually involving 
 a few snapped limbs. The combat is more bone crunching than blood and guts with just the occasional 
 spurt with a well timed arrow shot or swipe of your blade. Superstyle moves, which have to be earned, 
 generally kill everything in your vicinity and add even more flare to the already awesome scraps. 
 Fans of the God of War Games will love this, but be warned, the combat is a bit tougher and requires 
 you to be on your guard with lots of well timed blocks, counters and evasive rolls. Air combos 
 require you to jerk the pad up to get Nariko to launch herself into the air, this doesn't really 
 work and becomes quite frustrating, with no option to do it without wrestling the pad around your 
 living room.
  
  Some levels have you firing arrows or cannonballs while controlling their trajectory in slow motion. 
 There is an option to do this by tilting the pad. This works surprisingly well, but it's much easier 
 using the analogue stick. While initially tough, you'll get a real sense of achievement when you 
 finish some of these sections, such as the crossbow section where the injured clan leader staggers 
 for hundreds of yards to safety and you must protect him from archers and swordsmen pursuing him. 
 A few of these sections will have you controlling Kai, a slightly demented lass with a child like 
 innocence. Well as innocent as a stealthy  kinda 
 girl can be anyway. 
  
  The scenery and the facial animation is jaw dropping. Andy Serkis, famous for doing the motion 
 capture for King Kong and of course Gollum in The Lord of the Rings trilogy provides the facial 
 motion capture and voice for the villain, King Bohan. The detail in everyone's faces during the 
 cut-scenes is amazing and really sucks you into the gripping story. It's even fair to say that 
 you'll be fighting through the game just to see the next well crafted cinematic. 
  
  Overall the game is brief at around 5 hours and quite easy up until the final boss, which is bastard 
 hard. There's not much to do after completion apart from a harder difficulty setting and a few 
 unlockables, the best of which are available for free off the PlayStation Store, mainly the amine 
 series that describes events in the story before the game starts (well worth checking out by the 
 way) . But with great gameplay and one of the best written, visualised and acted stories ever seen 
 in a game and the PS3's best excuse to empty the bank account for a HD TV, Heavenly Sword is essential 
 for any action adventure fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuul1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  This game is an incredible game. Filled with a great story, impressive action sequences and fun 
 fighting controls. Sometimes the fighting can get pretty boring. It's basically go to this area, 
 fight a few guys, move on and fight a few guys. Luckily the developers combated the repetitive 
 fighting. There is a mode where you are able to control the objects you shoot or throw. An impressive 
 sequence is when you have to control cannon balls to hit large moving siege machines. Of course 
 it's entirely impossible to do that, it still makes it all the more fun. 
  The game is fun, but it's over before you know it. And what makes things worse is that there is 
 virtually no replay value what so ever. Or at least not enough to warrant you to keep on bringing 
 you back to this game. While the game may look and play great you can't help but feel cheated when 
 the length feels like half a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  If anyone has played god of war and totally loved it, then this game is exactly for you. It has 
 the same style and feel of a god of war game. Except this game u play as a female wanna be Kratos, 
 Nariko. Like kratos, she too has an awesome weapon, the heavenly sword which can change into three 
 different modes: power, speed, and range stance. The range stance is kind of like the blades of 
 chaos that kratos wields. But anyway, i don't want to get that into the story because it is a really 
 good one. maybe it's one of my favorites. But for spoiler reasons, I'll just leave it as be for 
 now, just don't buy this game, it's definitely a must rent though. Hopefully they will make a better 
 and longer heavenly sword in the future!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parodygm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Most of the reviews of Heavenly Sword I've read have tended to focus on the relatively short length 
 of the game or the tendency of the combat to become repetitive in time.
  
  While I can't fault either charge, I think it's worth commenting on what Heavenly Sword does exceptionally 
 well that makes it a worthy rental if not a purchase.
  
  While neither the storyline nor the setting are unique, Heavenly Sword draws you into the fable 
 with some superb cinematics replete with excellent motion capture and some of the finer grade voice 
 acting you'll see in a video game title. The characters have exactly that - character - something 
 sorely lacking in the majority of titles, especially those in the action genre.
  
  The combat does tend to get cluttered at times making it somewhat difficult to evade and block 
 attacks at times, but in general the system of combos and special attacks works very well and segues 
 beautifully with some tasty coup-de-grace cut scenes.
  
  Certain sections of the game seem drawn out or tacked on, but by and large it remains interesting 
 throughout. You may find yourself looking forward to the next cutscene not so much because of poor 
 quality gameplay as the beautifully rendered story, superb animation and heartfelt acting.
  
  If you're after a beat 'em up with style and appreciate depth in storytelling, I would recommend 
 purchasing this title. For the less discriminating fight fan, the short nature and potentially 
 limited replay value of this game might make it a better rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  With all the extra storage space offered by Blu-Ray and all the claims made by fanboys that said 
 Blu-Ray would mean the end to crap little short games why is it that Heavenly Sword can be completed 
 in just 1 day?
  Surely the days when a game could be completed in just a couple of gameplay sessions should be 
 a thing of the past guess not.
  Or maybe Sony has chosen to give the fanboy masses something to keep them amused, whilst simultaneously 
 shafting the hardcore gamer.
  I want games I can play for weeks, months even, not something that I can load up at 10am on a Saturday 
 morning, and finish by 5pm that afternoon having taken a break for a drink and a bite to eat.
 
  Sure it looks pretty, well the stuff close to the camera does, the stuff in the background looks 
 a bit foggy, as if the PS3 can't cope with handling that amount of stuff on screen at once without 
 slowing the action down, and they've gone a bundle on the hair but they seem to have forgotten 
 the gameplay.
  To call this Goddess of War is an insult to God of War, this isn't even in the same league.
  
 Maybe its only 6 hours long to hide the fact that you only really have three basic attacks to use, 
 maybe they think that if you have to play longer than that before you finish it you'll notice that 
 despite all the promises, delays and pretty graphics that the game just doesn't deliver a true 
 Next-Gen experience.
  Doubtful, the fanboys will lap it up, six hours is probably more than most of them can take, if 
 it doesn't offer an immediate shot of action they dismiss it as dull and pointless, so this will 
 no doubt suit those with a short attention span at least until the next instalment of FIFA Street 
 hits the streets and they can wallow in what little game play that has to offer.
  For any serious hardcore gamer this is, at best, a rental and a cheap one at that, rent it in 
 the morning, take it back that afternoon, there is just no challenge, no lasting appeal and nothing 
 to make you want to play through it all again although a days rental will give you plenty of time 
 to do so.
  Sony have delivered something that will appeal to the small minded minority that value graphics 
 over gameplay and only just delivered on the graphics front if you want something that'll keep 
 you occupied for more than a weekend, then this is not the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienOverlord
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  It's been said before, many times, but I got this game on a Friday, played it a couple hours and 
 beat it Saturday morning. It was given to me as a present, so I am happy with it but if I had spent 
 my money on it I would be disappointed.
  
  The game is absolutely beautiful, i just love to watch the two main female characters, the other 
 characters to a lesser extent. The story isn't too amazing but the way it is told is. After watching 
 the cut scenes in this game, with the real emotions on the characters faces, everything else looks 
 like trash in comparison (though Uncharted has amazing graphics, it's cut scenes don't compare 
 ) .
  
  The game play is relatively enjoyable, the sword fighting works, and the super style moves are 
 interesting, but the most enjoyable part of the game is when you are firing a weapon and you use 
 the after touch to guide the shot. Whether it's an arrow or an exploding canon ball, these sections 
 of the game are worth replaying.
  
  Even when I've replayed those sections I don't think I'll get more than 15 hours out of this game, 
 including watching the unlock able videos and re watching some of the truly beautiful cut scenes. 
 A must rent, a good present, but not worth buying unless you can find it at a discount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Well recently I juat bought a PS3 last week and decided to pick up Heavenly sword as well. This 
 game is quite similar to the God Of War but it's own story about a sword and powers.
  The graphics are really amazing and it look quite realistic too. It shows emotions and the main 
 character hair seems it has it own way of speaking when her hair moves. I also like the music they 
 use in the game as well. The voice acting are really good and most of the characters are quite 
 gross when the speak. The game sometimes can be real difficult and the battle system is a bit hard 
 somethings when all the guys are coming out you. I like the idea when you use the controller to 
 move around like when you shot a weapon at someone you can able to direct it to kill someone. But 
 when you get to the last boss it's quite hard to beat. The story is quite short I mean real short 
 only like six chapters into the game. But this game has it own uniqueness too it. I really enjoy 
 this game alot even the game story is really short. If you like God Of War this game is just for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyrios
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is my first review and , although heavenly sword is the first game i played on ps3, i m not 
 going to put a score made by my enthusiasm of ps3's abilities. It's a good game with a very good 
 story and such realistic videos that some of them were playing in the half of the screen in order 
 to be able to move the characters. I think that gameplay was also good but im not very pleased with 
 the camera because you cant control it. Another minus was the very small quantity of enemies and 
 ofcouse its short duration.
  I hope you take something from my review
  thanks for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Its been mostly compared to God of War, yet with a female heroine, but that's only from a gameplay 
 perspective. Heavenly Sword is more comparable to an interactive martial arts movie, like Hero 
 or Fist of Legend or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Heavenly Sword features some incredible combat 
 sequences featuring the heroine versus countless enemies, as well as a great cast of characters, 
 good music and a good story.
  
  Heavenly Sword tells the story of Nariko and a 5 day period where she must defend her tribe against 
 an evil King by using a legendary sword that will eventually kill her. The game begins at the end 
 of the game, with Nariko wielding the Heavenly Sword taking on evil King Bohan's entire army. From 
 there, we rewind back 5 days to the events that led Nariko to begin using the Heavenly Sword in 
 an effort to protect her tribe against Bohan, who has been trying to acquire the Heavenly Sword 
 for some time. As the story progresses, you get to know Nariko's good friend, Kai, King Bohan and 
 his 3 generals, Flying Fox, Whiptail and Roach. Bohan and his generals serve as good antagonists 
 for our two protangonists, Nariko and Kai, both of whom are playable.
  
  Moving onto the gameplay side, HS does feel a little bit like God of War, but more in the vein 
 of God of War. Once Nariko begins wielding the HS, she has access to three stances: Range stance 
 by holding down L1, Power stance by holding down R1, and Speed stance which is her default stance. 
 Square and Triangle are your attack buttons, X functions as your interaction button, O performs 
 grab moves, and the RA stick dodges (just like in God of War) . Each stance has various combos you 
 can pull off, and you'll unlock more as you progress through the game. About the only downside 
 to the combat is there's no block button. You can block though, but you need to be in the right 
 stance, and you'll know that because as an enemy attacks, they'll flash blue, orange, or red: speed 
 stance blocks blue attacks, power stance blocks orange attacks, and just dodge red attacks as they 
 are unblockable. The combat can be alot of fun, particularly during the times where you are up 
 against alot of enemies. Also playable is Kai, Nariko's quirky friend. Kai's sequences are sniper 
 based, with some stealth elements. Kai's sniper sequences are alot of fun, as they are fairly simple 
 and straightforward, yet still fun. Kai uses a crossbow, and after firing an arrow, you can keep 
 the fire button held down so you can aim the arrow in slow motion using the aftertouch controls. 
 Kai's sequences are fun, like some where you direct an arrow through a torch to light the arrow 
 on fire and aim it to an explosive barrel that blows up and takes out a handful of enemies.
  
  Graphically, Heavenly Sword looks great. The environments all look very good, as do the main 
 characters. The various grunt enemies look okay but you'll see alot of them before you finish the 
 game. Especially nice is everyone's animations, not just Nariko's. Nariko's fighting animations 
 look great, and especially nasty during powerful counter attacks. The other characters (Kai, Flying 
 Fox, Whiptail) look fantastic in action.
  
  The music fits the game perfectly, and also helps martial arts theme. The voice acting fits the 
 characters very well, and worth mentioning is Andy Serkis' turn as the evil King Bohan. All the 
 sounds of the game are done very well.
  
  The only real big downside to Heavenly Sword is its length. Now I didn't mind how long it was, 
 but it was short. I finished the game in no longer than 7-8 hours, and it is a good thing that 
 the story wasn't padded too much as it was good as is, the game would've been better if it was 
 a little longer. Still for what's here, its fun and enjoyable.
  
  Overall, despite the shorter length, Heavenly Sword was just right. It features some incredible 
 action segments, a cast of great characters, and a very good martial arts like story. It may not 
 be worth the full $60, but it is worth playing at some point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome , great , fanstastic i dont even know what more good words to say, the graphics 
 an storyline are just great as i kept playin the game i wanted more an more out of it, sure it 
 is a short game but it holds a hell of a punch this has to be one of the best games ive played 
 in a long time this goes in the top 5 easy. what more do you want you have graphics, you have great 
 storyline you have great action you have good control an the ai is good what more can i say but 
 if you havent gotten your copy yet stop readin this little review an go buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_p
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  You know that feeling when you watch a great movie and you get totally immersed into its story 
 and world? That's what Heavenly sword is. Only you actually get to play it. This game pulls you 
 in as soon as you start. The story and fantastic acting from a very talented cast have you taking 
 it all in though every pore. Do I even need to mention Andy Serkis? The man is simply one of the 
 best actors out there and Ninja Theory are lucky they got him on the team. It's all beautifully 
 captured with mocap and rendered in a fantastic and colourful way. The body and facial animations 
 captured from Anna Torv (Nariko) , Andy Serkis (King Bohan) and the rest of the cast put most movies 
 to shame. I acually forgot to breathe at one time. Just an amazing game.
  
  People keep saying that it's too short, I say, rather 6-10 hours of non-stop, 100% immersive, interactive, 
 movie-quality fun than 60 hours of stuffing. I don't have time to waste on games that are just 
 that: time killers. Heavenly Sword keeps things fresh and interesting thoughout, you'll be on your 
 toes the entire ride. Easily worth playing several times, just like a great movie.
  
  Heavenly Sword is not flawless, but damn close to it.
  
  I got the PS3, a 42 inch HD LCD and 
 a surround system for this game. I'm not rich by any means, but if any game was worth it, it wold 
 be this one.
  
  A must have for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chicken_Helper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start of by saying this game is a hack and slash. It reminds me a little of Dynasty 
 Warriors but better. It has a blocking system which keeps you somewhat engaged. And of course the 
 typical special move that eventually builds up during battle that you can release on your unsuspecting 
 foes. So if this review was based solely on game play, I would consider this game average. However 
 the movie scenes are really cool in this game. Also the characters are well developed and interesting. 
 The voice acting is also superb. Playing as Kai you get to guide her arrows using the PS3 controller. 
 At first it was difficult. But after getting used to it, it was the most fun I've had playing a 
 video game in awhile. Unfortunately you play as Nariko more than you do Kai. As mentioned earlier 
 the game-play with Nariko is average, and guiding the projectiles that Nariko uses isn't nearly 
 as fun as guidng Kai's arrows. Add that to the fact that the game is so short, and you get a good 
 game, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tastic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Immersive and an enjoyable experience...
  
  Once a level is complete you can just replay that section and improve or just enjoy the level again 
 and again.
  
  Very good game which is different to many current titles on the PS3. It would have been good to 
 have the freedom to move and jump as you wish but the gameplay and sequence of button or stick 
 movement doesn't detract from what is still a very good game.
  
  It's not exactly a short game but isn't the longest but is a next gen title 
  
  The game deserves 
 a place in most players collection as it does show the potential of the console and this is a gameplaying 
 cinematic experience rather than just purist game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdonpritchard
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  What can you say about Heavenly sword? Surely there has never been a game that has split opinions 
 as much as this, so the only way possible to review this is to keep personal opinions aside. 
 
  Firstly the game play which is where the biggest split of opinions appears to lie, the first half 
 of the game can be played purely with a button bashing approach and very little skill, however 
 later in the game you need to rely more on timed counter attacks and combos. This is where you 
 will pay for button mashing the first half and not practising those fatal combos. The six-axis 
 element of the game work excelently, they have you guiding arrows, cannon balls and alike it only 
 takes a few goes before head shots become the norm.
  The visuals are stunning from huge battle scenes with hundreds of on screen enemies, to the beautifully 
 set FMV. The voice acting, and script is excellently put together.
  The game is very short about 6-8 hours in standard mode, but after completion you unlock hell mode. 
 Small objectives such as unlocking new art work, movies etc may keep you going back for more.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trey555555
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  Well to start off, this game looks awesome. The sound is amazing! but..... wow, the controls are 
 broken!!!! it felt like i was going to break my ps3 control with all that button smashing. it didnt 
 feel smooth like god of war... it felt clunky.... the gameplay is WAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY to repetative. 
 I got bored by the end of the first chapter. the whole thing is the same thing. its either a cannon, 
 fighting, or shooting arrows. and what what up with the boss fights!!!!!! that is so annoying taking 
 them out three time before they die!!!! and it was the same thing all over again!!!!!! just with 
 a different background scene or a different little move!!! man this game gave me a headache... i 
 liked the story, it was nice... but wow... way too repataive.. i seriously have to take a advil... 
 the game was way too short... but thats a good thing because i wouldnt like to be doing the same 
 thing for 10 hours straight... i sat down once, and i beat it after i got up... so i think it took 
 about 4-5 hours to beat. its a rental. this thing is going for a trade in tommorow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raoul22Duke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  To claim that an 8 hour game of this genre is too short is to claim that the movie the Godfather 
 is not long enough. It is exactly the right amount of minutes and seconds, and therein lays its 
 greatness. To tell a story you need to get from point A to point B by including all relevant parts 
 and leaving all irrelevant out. If you don't succeed with the first; it's a Steven Segal Movie, 
 all fists and no brain. If you fail with the second it's Halo 1; all repeat, no progress. 
  
  Why say it's too short? It took me 8 hours and that's far more than I have usually time for. 
 I was captured by the story and the acting. I loved the button smashing as well as the fingertip 
 archery. And I was blown away by the characters. All this added up to me actually, for ones, finishing 
 a game. There was no 'filler sequences' added just too add to game time and therefore no disruptions 
 or annoyances as are far too common in "modern" games. Most FPS games a filled with these repeats 
 of game play ideas. They are there supposedly to give you more value for money, for me they only 
 lower the standards of a game and make it less value in my book. 
  Why do I claim it to be next gen then? Well, more examples of story ridden games in classic 'user 
 action' games are the amazing "World In Conflict" that actually manages to make me feel for the 
 tiny graphical lives at stake, on the contrary to "Command And Conquer 3" that is all sterile and 
 hollow. The first has story driving sequences, the second has cut scenes. And there is a huge difference.
 
  Back in the day there was the idea to use the ideas behind movie making into games; such as "Full 
 Throttle" and one of my all time favorites "Dream Web". Later that changed to what we then called 
 next gen, and that was graphics and effects. We cared less about substance and more about how games 
 looked, and at the time rightly so. We knew how to tell stories to an audience but not how to make 
 the stage immersive enough. Now, we find ourselves expert stage builders but worthless actors. 
 The graphics are amazing but the story is horrid; with a few exceptions, and the greatest thus 
 far is Heavenly Sword.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: striderdaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is possibly among the best PS3 games released so far.
  
  The first thing you'd probably notice about the game is it's impressive designs. Not only do the 
 characters look great, but the environment as well, hence providing a great backdrop to the game.
 
  
  A lot of effort was put in to make the characters look great. A noteworthy aspect of this game 
 is the use of motion capture. Motion capture allows the characters to have movements and expressions 
 that simply cannot be generated by computers contributing to characters that look absolutely gorgeous. 
 
  
  The combat system is rather unique and interesting. It introduces a stance system that makes Heavenly 
 Sword play a little different than other beat-em-ups. Also the game makes excellent use of the 
 Sixaxis feature of the PS3 in the combat system.
  
  The music in the game sounds great. The music belongs to a western-classical genre but with kind 
 of a middle eastern spin to it.
  
  Although Heavenly Sword looks and sounds great, it does have its flaws however.
  
  The bosses 
 featured in the game are just too easy to defeat. You can probably do so with your eyes close.
 
  
  The one thing that let me down the most was the impossibly short length of the game. You can probably 
 complete it within a weekend or less. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarecrow_br
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  One of the best PS3 games I've played so far. Really nice visuals, sharp controls, good combats, 
 god use of the sixaxis, fair story.
  
  The real problem of this game is that it is extremely short!!!! This is a shame and jeopardizes 
 the whole experience, when you are sucked into the gameplay and story you find out it is over. 
 
  
  The length of the game puts in question whether it is worth buying it or not since you will finish 
 it in about 6 hours (I finished mine in less than 2 days after I bought) .
  
  I hope they came up with a sequence that fixes this only problem of a otherwise fantastic game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xionethic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Great game I have to admit. First i ever got for my ps3, it was totally incredible seeing the great 
 effects and game play. The six-axis control took a while to get used to but its always fun hitting 
 guys in the "sweet" spot. Good game, deserving and could have been longer.
  This game is one of those exclusive where you must try, it definitely shows what the ps3 is capable 
 of, no doubts about that, which a huge collections of games coming, this is one of the best in 
 exclusives (even though there are not that many) Recommend you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepy0610
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  well just like the title says awesome but very short. i think i got through the game within like 
 a day or two. not really worth the 60$ i dont think. more of a rental type.. the graphics look 
 great on it. the fighting is awesome too and the fact that they can put so many people on the screen 
 at once just really shows the improvements to the system. this game reminds me of a watered down 
 version of god of war. the bosses were easy and stupid looking.. the only challange was bohan himself. 
 but it was soooooooooooooooooooooooooooo SHORT ugh!! but i did like the whole motion sensor use 
 for arrows and cannons and whatnot. so yea not much more to it.. great but short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbj17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is quite an experience. The story itself is intriguing and that's something that many 
 games these days fail to do correctly. There isn't a multi-player part that comes with this game, 
 but including one would be unnecessary. Although this game does not have much replay value after 
 you finish the story; I would encourage you to try to play it once more on Hell mode. They do force 
 you to use the six-axis feature of the controller in this game, but they do so in such a way that 
 it is not very frustrating or difficult. In fact it is one of the highlights of this game. The 
 missions where you must guide the arrow with your controller are extremely fun. Another highlight 
 of this game are the animations and expressions. They are simply amazing and are pleasant to look 
 at. If you have not purchased this game yet; then it is definately one you should take a look at. 
 If you plan on getting it though you should wait until the price is reduced because of the short 
 amount of time it will take you to complete this game. If you are wondering how long it might take 
 you; the answer is somewhere between 6 and 8 hours, but some missions might take you a little bit 
 of time to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerSultan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Although it's an absolutely magnificent piece of art, Heavenly Sword falls slightly short of expectations. 
 To me, it seems like the game makers feared delaying the game, and put out an incomplete piece 
 too soon. The battle mechanics are great. The bosses are wonderfully challenging. The graphics 
 (except the hair of the characters) are spectacular. I just wish I could have seen more of it. 
 It took me maybe eighteen hours to finish the whole game. More environments and further storyline 
 development would really have made this game one for the books. Other than that, this game is really 
 the first showcase (aside from Resistance) of what the PS3 can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowfan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  heavenly sword is one of very few great games. heavenly sword is fast strong and the motion control 
 for the game great. Some parts in the the screen is full of enemies and some parts you fight as 
 Kai a wierd little girl with a bow and if the enemies get to close you have to run. In gameplay 
 you have to pay close attion to the screen or you'll miss putton pressing sighs. The game idea 
 is new and great. The story is good but the game ends after six to eight hours the first time and 
 can only get shorter when replaying it so the game is more a rent to play once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roku890
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  it was a very great game but it was toooooooooooooooooo short. They should make a sequel so Ninja 
 Theory can get more money. that's my opinon about heavenly sword. ima just say about of word. mbkjnkjgn 
 knfjdnjhbdhgcvgc hbedhbf vgfdh g bjhvdhjvf ndjkgfeej h jdgdnkjdfuckej knvkjnjvnfklbitch  
 jfkldjkfljdgm  
 dmkldnmkj jfngjng yrhue ueuf ujefu lgyamutherfjcuer v vkvofkgoifjgjfjifgjgijffjk jfkhjk hfh jkhgjk 
 hfj hjkgjk h hjfkh jf hjghjkgh jkhjk hjkfhjk hjkhjk hjk hfjkghjkfghjk  
 g rgmcnm mfn mnfgm, nm nf, mngjrnj fnjfknfjfnj fam i finshed yet? NO! NO! NO! NO! I HATE THIS PART 
 ABOUT FUCKING GAMESPOT. GO TO HELL U  
  : ( gmkofmklmfklm klfmkgmk mkmgkl mklgm klmflk 
 gmklmfgklm kfm kmgkmkfmgkl  
 gggggggggggggg gggkrrrrrrrrr gnjr4 -04u548 rhuhguidfhgfnjkfg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Amped --
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game has wonderful graphics and is not too hard to learn the fundamentals. I enjoyed it for 
 the whole 2 days i spent on it before i beat it. This game is a definate renter, and not a buyer. 
 If you have not spent the money for this game yet, you should rent it or borrow it from a friend. 
 I unfortunately never took the time to read the Gamespot review before I bought it. This game would 
 be a whole lot better if the developers added xtra content.
  
  This game has wonderful graphics and is not too hard to learn the fundamentals. I enjoyed it for 
 the whole 2 days i spent on it before i beat it. This game is a definate renter, and not a buyer. 
 If you have not spent the money for this game yet, you should rent it or borrow it from a friend. 
 I unfortunately never took the time to read the Gamespot review before I bought it. This game would 
 be a whole lot better if the developers added xtra content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybrook
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  this is a game with heaps of potenetial, the graphics are awesome and the cutscenes make it feel 
 like a movie but the gameplay can be really repetetive and a bit frustrating but some of the gameplay 
 is really good especially the aftershock whih is original and adds heaps to the gameplay but even 
 the after shock can be a bit repetitive but it still is a really fun game to play and if you were 
 into GoW you will probably like this one but i would recomend renting it first. i do think this 
 game has alot of potential which just wasn't let out but could be possible for some sort of a sequel 
 and it does look really nice i would just say to play it before you buy it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a good game, that can turn into good long running series. If the developers put 
 more work into the next game time. 
  
  SOUND: Amazing. Voice acting is excellent. The voice actress behind Nariko has a fierece and valiant 
 that makes its prescence the moment a word is spoken. The villains sound maniacal and are sadistic 
 like always. As for the music, it's great as well. Its catchy and helps immerse you into the game's 
 atmosphere. 
  
  GRAPHICS: The character designs are some of the best I've ever seen in video games. Nariko has 
 an atheletic physique that is a lot more appropiate than most female character models you see in 
 a lot of video games today. The nameless soldiers could've used a bit more work though. Due to 
 the countless number of soldiers that appear on the screen I guess there may have been a reason 
 for lack of variety and detail on the grunts. 
  
  The enviornments are well designed and highly detailed. Sometimes you're going to need to stop 
 just to take it all in. The camera zooms out a bit too often sometimes. There are a lot of bad 
 guys on the screen at times, so it's probably better for it to remain that way. The countering 
 moves are... nice to see. Lots of wrestling and leg grabbing moves. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: God of War clone, this is not. Borrowing God of War gameplay mechanics and making it 
 better, yes. This game isn't button mashy as God of War. It takes timing and practice. The game 
 can be quite challenging at times. Watching for color cues and listening for grunts is key to beating 
 your enemies, and sometimes it seems they come too quickly. It's cool watching your Heavely Sword 
 switch from great sword to a chain linked dagger. The game makes great use of the Sixaxis motion 
 control very well. It'll take a while to get use to, but it'll be well worth it once you see one 
 of Kai's arrows fly into one of the guard's skulls, crotch, arm, leg, or whatever body part your 
 prefer. 
  
  The boss fights are a lot of fun, and frustrating. Trying to memorize a pattern is usually the 
 best strategy for any video game boss. Good luck with this game. It's all about reflex and quick 
 moves. Going from the normal difficulty setting to Hell Mode, you'll notice the bosses are even 
 tougher. Making mistakes come with a greater price, and the soldiers are faster. The game isn't 
 hard once you get the hang of it. Just don't expect have button mashin good time with this game.
 
  
  Bottom-line: It's a great game, but why the "7.5" score? Well, the game is too short. There weren't 
 that many cutscenes, musical score although nice could've used more tracks, and the game just ends 
 too quickly. A game like Heavenly Sword should 15-20 hours long. Hopefully the developers put more 
 work into the next game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good star for this genre in the Ps3, is not that game you said,, "dude i have to 
 buy this console to play this game" (like people whit halo, or people will be whit Metal gear solid 
 4) but is a game you have to have if you have the Ps3,, if not, dont buy, renth,, because the problem 
 with the game is this is too short , some hours, the other problem is in the same genre like a 
 masterpiece like GOD OF WAR ,, best game of Beat em up?? ,, and if you really like GoW this game 
 is a copy (good copy, but a copy) , and you will not like this game if you always thinking in GoW, 
 but if you are just a fan of the genre with games like Devil may cry,, GoW, or my favourite arcade, 
 Street of rage,, you have to play this game,, if you dont have Ps3, wait half year so the price 
 down, dont go to buy it for this game,, ,,
  
  in another thinks,,, the graphics are assome, and play good, not like God, but is a good game
 
  
  
  Let the force be whit you padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horbgorbler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Playstation 3 owners and haters, wait no more for a great exclusive title that will keep you on 
 the edge of your seat. Heavenly sword is an action game that is made by SCEA (the makers of the 
 famous "God of War" series) , and it plays just as well, if not better.
  
  You play as Nariko, a woman who, in trying to save her clan from the evil King Bohan, finds, takes, 
 and escapes with the ancient Heavenly Sword. She uses its cursed power of corruption and death-bringing 
 to her lands to help save her father and his tribe. That's where you come in.
  
  This game offers much of the same gameplay as you would expect in the God of War series -- lots and 
 lots of combo moves and killing, and more of it. Heavenly Sword offers a few different attack styles 
 you can use to your advantage, and at any time. There is the Speed stance, which helps you quickly 
 pull off long chains of combos; the Power stance, for the brutal cut-them-in-half-hard-to-block 
 kills, and the Range stance, allowing you to create stunning area-of-effect attacks and aerial 
 combo moves.
  
  As you play through the game and create longer chains of combo points and pick up hidden items 
 called "glyphs", you unlock more content (although not playable content) and more jawdropping attacks. 
 Most of the environment you can either smash or pick up and throw at enemies. 
  
  Speaking of throwing objects at enemies, Heavenly Sword has a great use for the SIXAXIS motion 
 controls while doing so. Whether you are throwing things with Nariko, or shooting things with her 
 beloved, yet somewhat psychopathic friend, Kai, you can slow down the velocity of the object and 
 use the SIXAXIS controls to take a first-person perspective to hit enemies in crucial spots -- and 
 that certainly adds to the fun.
  
  Graphics-wise, this game is visually stunning. If you own a Playstation 3 and an HD television, 
 it would be very difficult to watch the video review of this game and not want to buy this. Cinematically, 
 the game is even better. With a great cast voice-acting on the scene, such as Andy Serkis (who 
 played Gollum from the "Lord of the Rings" series) , everything seems to be on-synch, and there 
 seems to be no broken speech. The dialogue can get quite funny at times, but that is because some 
 the characters in Heavenly Sword are so whacky.
  
  The replayability of the game is the tough part. First off, this game is incredibly short. You 
 can easily beat it in 6-8 hours if you're playing it just to beat it. You can unlock other content, 
 such as artwork, making-the-game videos, and short movies on the animation series of Heavenly Sword, 
 but that's about it. I found myself playing this game over again for a third time because of the 
 gameplay and the huge variety of combo moves you can show off.
  
  There aren't many parts in the game where you start getting bored of button mashing, or the hack-'n-slash 
 feel -- because Heavenly Sword offers such a wide variety of combo moves, and they never get old 
 to watch. Bosses in the game, while played by superb voice acting and played very well into the 
 storyline, make for somewhat repetitive and boring battles.
  
  The graphics are visually stunning, and there aren't many graphical glitches in the game. The cinematics 
 are great, and the storyline will keep you asking yourself the question "What will happen next?", 
 making it difficult to pull away from the game. It is highly addictive, but the game is extremely 
 short, and that puts a huge damper on it.
  
  Heavenly Sword is overall an excellent game, and a must-have for Playstation 3 owners who want 
 a good exclusive title (and a start of a series, most likely) . Whether you rent or buy this game, 
 it is definitely worth it if you are a fan of the action genre, and you will feel immersed in this 
 beautifully-designed game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an all-new game from Ninja Theory, and is the tale of a young woman called Nariko 
 who executes revenge on the invading King Bohan and his army. As Nariko, you will use the said 
 "Heavenly Sword" to kill anyone who is in your way, and to ultimately defeat King Bohan and his 
 minions.
  
  The story is surprisingly deep and original, if a little predictible, and is very intriguing. The 
 game starts off at "The Final Battle" where literally thousands of Bohan's troops are syurrounding. 
 You are using the Heavenly Sword to decimate all that are around you, but soon enough the Sword 
 consumes Nariko, ending her life on the very first level.
  
  Flashback! The next chapter takes you five days before the battle, where King Bohan is beginning 
 to invade the country. Let's start the review!
  
  The graphics in this game are magnificant. The early levels are beautiful, but the middle to the 
 end of the game is where the graphical power really begins to showcase itself. Nariko's deadly 
 combos are seamlessly executed, and the backgrounds and surroundings are a spectacle to behold. 
 The architecture and other characters are also very well done.
  
  The basic gameplay is where you are controlling Nariko, who hacks and slashes her way to freedom. 
 The combos are split up into three parts: Speed, Range and Power. Each "stance" is self-explanatory, 
 but the combos themselves are deliciously deadly, and the sheer number of enemies on screen means 
 that there will always be bodies flying everywhere like a ragdoll. 
  
  You also gain "Style Points" and when the style meter is filled you can unlock and unleash superstyle 
 attacks, which are instant kills and also deal damage to enemies around you. The amount of combos 
 which are unlockable is quite big, and just bashing buttons is actually elementary. Thinking and 
 using certain stances and their combos in various situations can often lead to a quick and easy 
 battle with you the ultimate survivor.
  
  You can also control Kai, and twisted, weird girl who is a friend of Nariko. She has a corssbow, 
 and Kai's sections will involve sniping or taking out special targets. Her combat situations can 
 become frustrating (she has no punch, kicks, or any other weapons) , but these sniping mission can 
 be real joy, especially with the intuitive SIXAXIS control. These motion-sensing missions also 
 come to Nariko, as she will be manning cannons and throwing objects and using the SIXAXIS. Many 
 of these "aftertouch" situations are puzzles, and require a steady head and good aim.
  
  The fantastic, albeit rare, boss levels are quite entertaining, and often need a solution to a 
 puzzle or a weakness of some sort. This brings me to the characters, and King Bohan himself is 
 one of the amazingly portrayed game character I have ever seen. With the help from the stunning 
 Andy Serkis and the rest of the cast, the performances during the cutscenes are witty, interesting 
 and imaginative. They really are that good.
  
  The only down point is the length. You can clock it in about half a day, and you feel a tad ripped 
 off by the short lifespan. BUT! You unlock Hell Mode, an art gallery, a "Making Of" movie, an animated 
 series and you can even go back to the levels to get a batter star rating. So, actually, the game 
 has a lot to offer.
  
  Heavenly Sword is an amazing package. With dazzling graphics, interesting gamplay and fantastic 
 score and some neat extras, you never feel calm or peaceful. You're always using brilliant combos, 
 blowing up catapults or destroying a bridge. It's this cinematic, immersive feel that truly makes 
 Heavenly Sword feel like a highly enjoyable, action-packed movie with a lot of memorable moments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I really want to love the PS3 I really do. But it is becoming harder and harder to remain optimistic. 
 Don't get me wrong, the console is cool looking and has potential but so far has only spawned stuttery 
 games that are in fact better on the 360. In this respect Heavenly Sword is completely different.... because 
 it isn't out on the 360. The game stutters and grinds to a halt like yours truely being interrogated 
 by the fairer sex about the precise meaning of one of many innocuous little comments that was meant 
 to be light hearted. Anyhooo.... the game is pretty, but isn't everything these days? 
  I don't want to sound too one sided, the game does what it does well but it is way overrated so 
 I feel the need to tear it down as to restore a strange sort of balance ( based on averages I suppose) . 
 My major annoyance concerning this game is not the lack of story ( which is vague to say the least 
 . I find myself asking for my motiviation to kill all these people and other than the fact that 
 if I don't then they will kill me I find myself stuck and uninspired by Nariko's (the main characters) 
 intentions) . Speaking of Nariko. For a strong fearless hero she is decidedly weak. It takes ALOT 
 of hits to actually kill an enemy, and their are alot of enemies and...... I think you see the problem. 
 
  It is repetetive and overhyped, but I could reccomend this if only to get some BLOODY USE OUT OF 
 YOUR PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgearstud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  the action in this game is flawless, switch in between stance is quick and easy not to mention 
 different (which is a good thing) . all bosses have there own personality which i like. i thought 
 adding the six axis to shooting the bows and cannons was a great addition which can be very addicting 
 once you get the hang of it. the only problem that i could say that hurt this game was the fact 
 that it was TOOO SHOOOORT : ( . even at that i think that his game still deserves a 9.5 if its too 
 short that means i liked it and want more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: triznane
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game does two things exceptionally well; one it tells a simple story in a manner that is Oscar 
 worthy and two the after touch (aiming after the projectile has been fired) is innovative and 100% 
 quality. That being said everything else in this game sucks. The hit detection (melee not ranged) 
 and combos are the worst that Ninja Theory could do. They must have tried hard to make it this 
 bad. For example while using the ranged melee attack in a crowd of about 50 npc's i hit nobody. 
 My blades were swinging around my head l helicopter and joe schmoe decided to walk up, look me 
 in the eye and hit me. This was not a one time event, oh no, this was the way that the game functioned. 
 Also, the counter system was just a crap shoot. Sometimes i would do a cool counter move and other 
 times i would just try to hit the opposing enemy and wind up getting hit myself. Then, there was 
 the blocking; I respect a game for not just having the baddies be victims but foes who block and 
 move and attack but enough with the blocking. I'm supposed to have the HEAVENLY SWORD emphasis 
 on the word HEAVENLY. This is more like the flaccid sword or maybe 'not that special' sword because 
 everybody just stands there and blocks my attacks. Thank god for block breakers moves right, wrong 
 by the time that you break the block of one of the seven guys you face at a time, your getting 
 hit by his buddy then all seven go back into block mode. But wait, that's not the worst of it. 
 When i finally start a combo on my foes they have the ability to opt out and hit me. Understand, 
 in the middle of my combo a regular guy can hit me; effectively stopping my combo and starting 
 his own. Let me state that again; in the middle of my combo, the man that I am hitting can hit 
 me back and start his own combo. For a combat game the combat system fails horribly but the voice 
 overs are amazing. So, my advice is watch the game but don't play it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampiraJen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that becomes obvious right away is that one of the main focus points of this game 
 is its story. Our Hero, Nariko is the saviour of the world, the original wielder of the Heavenly 
 Sword reborn. Or at least shes supposed to be. See, her mother was supposed to give birth to a 
 boy. But they got a 'worthless girl'. Fast-forward twenty odd years and her father, Master Shen, 
 who for a moment considered killing the child, instead trained her and crafted her into a warrior. 
 Just in case... And it's just as well too, coz King Bohan has started a little war. Cue lots of 
 ass kicking.
  
  The characters in this game are wonderful. Nariko herself is immediately likeable and sympathetic. 
 Growing up alone and shunned from her clan for being a curse upon them, she's obviously angry but 
 also very thoughtful and introvert. Kai is the only friend Nariko has, and lets face it, she's 
 not quite with the rest of us on planet earth? Her favourite pass time is a game called Twing Twang, 
 which to you and I is shooting people through the eye with arrows. However as the game progresses, 
 we learn there is tragedy is her past. King Bohan, played by Andy (*cough*Gollum*cough*) Serkis, 
 is more camp and less bad-guy than I had expected but he's still a wonderful character. Ridiculously 
 flamboyant, his relationship with his 'bastard son' is just wonderful to watch. Yet his twisted 
 sense of humour (throwing Nariko into an arena to fight for her life) shows his darker side, which 
 deepens as the game progresses. For all its focus on story telling, the scenes never go on to long, 
 the never drag or bog you down with information. They are concise and focus more on character. 
 My favourite so far is a scene in which Kai finds Nariko in her jail and we see a moment of vulnerability 
 in Kai, where she remembers a time when she was alone. It's a quiet, beautiful moment that we don't 
 see often enough in game cut scenes.
  
  The game play is has draw comparisons to God of War and Ninja Gaiden Sigma, and to be honest I 
 think that isnt appropriate. Its like comparing Double Dragon and Streets of Rage. They may be 
 the same genre, but theyre very different games. GOW and NGS focus strongly on the game play, 
 and thats no bad thing. But when people make those comparisons it is usually in an attempt to 
 say that Heavenly Swords game play is no good, and that simply isnt true. The actual fighting 
 is fantastic, the problem is that there isnt enough of it. While the story telling is well paced, 
 compared to the action in the game, it feels like the focus is on the story and not the game play. 
 Fights start up and once you really get into them, theyre over. It isnt until the last chunk 
 of the game that you get to enjoy those massive fights that were most prominently promoted in the 
 trailers and making of videos. But one of Heavenly Swords strong points is its use of SixAxis 
 when playing as Kai. Her weapon of choice is a bow gun. Once she fires a shot, you into slow motion 
 and use the motion sensitive SixAxis to guide the arrow to its target. This is pretty cool, but 
 since SixAxis is still relatively new to gaming, it is rather challenging at first, but also highly 
 satisfying when you finally manage to guide an arrow right into the brains of your enemy.
  In fact, it's using Kai that I have a bit of a problem with this game. The constant switching between 
 the two characters that you have to do in the middle of the game is somewhat annoying. You're trapped 
 in an arena with Nariko and just as the fighting gets underway, you switch over to Kai and mover 
 her along on her adventure. Then just as you get the hang of Kai, you're back with Nariko again. 
 Back and forth you go and so you never really feel like you are in the moment with the character, 
 just visiting them for a while.
  
  Most people will probably thunder through this in an afternoon, but even if you do itll be quite 
 a ride. The story is immersive and at times intense, and the game is over all a lot of fun. The 
 fights get huge towards the end and have a truly epic feel about them. Even if you just rent this 
 game, you have to experience it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizard_levy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  No doubt about it: this was one of the most antecipated games for the Playstation 3. The graphics 
 are beautiful, and realy help you travel to Nariko's World. The movement is very fluid and the 
 game controls very well once you get the hang of it, but there are some confusing spots regarding 
 the battle stances. Nariko can fight in Range, Speed or Power Stance, But since blocking's automatic, 
 you can only defend yourself if you are in the same stance as your enemy.
  
  Counterattacks are of great use in the second half of the game, and making combos that migrate 
 from stance to stance make the bate much more dynamic than what it is in the God of War games, 
 even if it dosn't have the same pace. In Heavenly Sword, you acctually have to aim at the enemies.
 
  
  The Story sucessfully combines action/adventure clich&eacute; s with a well written tale of the 
 good old Good vs. Evil. However, it realy shines when it comes to the characters. Nariko is amazing 
 from the very first monologue; you feel for her tragedy an acquires a legitimate interest in discovering 
 exactly how she got there. After that, you meet Kai, a strange cat-like girl with a traumatic past. 
 The relation between her and Nariko borders the mother-daughter situation, making both character 
 very dependant and still very human despite having the hability to kill whole armies with just 
 a couple of swords. Still with the good guys you have Nariko's Father, Shen, who adds a little 
 rationality to the party.
  
  The villains are an amazing bunch. Each of them has a very distinct personality, some are bad, 
 others are of undescribable evil. It's amazing that a game could add so much depth in the characters 
 running in less than 8 hours. If you really want to unlock everything, it should take 12 hours, 
 maximum.
  
  Still, many of the unlockable extras are free downloadable content from PSN, a very dumb move on 
 Ninja Theory's part. The downside is that ramerates do choike up a bit in spots. It most certainly 
 does not make the game unplayable, and never got in my way, but it's not always easy on the eyes. 
 As for the duration, well, i'd rather have a game that has me glued to the chair for 8 hours than 
 a game that drags the last 5 hours just so you can say oh, it took me 20 hours to finish! 
  
  It's only 7 to 8 hours long, but they will be some of the most memoranble you spent with your 
 videogame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infidexus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people said this game is too short, and it is short, around 6 hours to beat, depending 
 on how much trouble you have with the end boss. But the game is fun and exciting, and when you 
 beat it you unlock a new mode, so you can go back and try again with more challenges. I almost 
 didn't buy because people said you can rent and beat it, but I bought it and am glad, it is an 
 awesome game to add to my collection. I expect this game to hold its retail value for a while, 
 but if your looking for a game in the future, grab it when it goes on sale. The graphis are awesome 
 and the main character is HOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is Beautiful Game that would reach 9.0 if it wasnt so short. The game is really 
 good its fun and has some Drama in the end ( it was really sad at the end) The levels are short 
 but if you wanna earn all the gylth it will take alot of time.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, Ratchet and Clanks and Heavenly Sword should get the medals for Amazing 
 visual disign
  
  The game is also so popular because its similar to the God of War 2 and Conan. has an amazing story, that 
 just wants you to keep playing and playing it. Combos rock.
  The level Disgin is a Beautiful Work too Bad its too short.
  
  The main story is Fantastic 
 its really sad in the end but still its a Masterpiece. Its pretty sad in the end , but overall its 
 a really outstanding game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngeunit1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a really good example of just a great game that is a lot of fun to play. Though 
 the game for the most part is not extremely difficult (with the exception of the final boss) , the 
 game mixes up some interesting puzzles and good fighting scenes to produce a very solid final project.
 
  
  First the graphics. Heavenly Sword looks very very good. The character models obviously had a lot 
 of work put into them and it really shows. Also the scenery and environments are done extremely 
 well. Even though you do not get as much variety of environments the ones that are n the game are 
 just really good. The only down side is a bit of frame lag every one and a while, and some really 
 weird hair effects, but overall, neither of these wind up effecting the game much (but the hair 
 is still really weird)
  
  Next on to gameplay. Heavenly Sword is at its simplest one of many Beat-'Em-Up games, it really 
 does a good job of differentiating itself a bit. Does is reinvent the genre? No not really. But 
 does it do a better job then other games in the genre, yes. There is not even too many new elements 
 to gameplay to talk about here, but the way they are integrated into HS is really done well. The 
 multiple fighting stances and the ways to counter and block depending on the type of move are really 
 cool, especially because you can instantly change between them whenever you want. Is this a totally 
 new element, no, but it is done well and really works for HS. Also the AI, while at times feels 
 mindless, it usually does a decent job of keeping you on your feet and takes a bit of the button-mashing 
 out of the game and replaces it with more controlled attacks. The bosses on the other hand are 
 actually pretty tough and the AI is pretty good, especially in the final boss battle. Another cool 
 element is Aftertouch. This is when you shoot a cannonball or arrow, you can use the SixAxis to 
 control the arrows flight path. This works really well and in my opinion is one of the best uses 
 of the motion sensors yet. The only annoying part of the game is the hit this button now sections 
 that happen during cut scenes or a type of finish him to a boss. All in all they aren't too bad, 
 but sometimes they do get annoying.
  
  While there is so much good about the game, it just does not last long enough. The story is so 
 captivating and well done, but it feels like it could have been so much more then just a five chapter, 
 six hour adventure. But don't get me wrong, even though its short, a new difficulty option and 
 rewards for 100% levels do give it some replay value and it is probably worth the $60 investment, 
 or better yet, if you can find it sub-$45, it is defiantly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NPCivic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game has some awesome moments, especially during the finishing moves. It has a great storyline 
 and the cut scenes were amazing, sort of like a God of War gameplay with a Lara Croft type of chick 
 and you get Heavenly Sword. I must admit that I could not put the game down because I wanted to 
 see what happens next. The characters were very intriguing. I like the good mix of controlling 
 both Nariko and Kai. Voice overs were one of the best that I have seen to date. I can see this 
 game definitely having a sequel but not a trilogy. One thing that I found interesting and made 
 good use of the PS3's Sixaxis control was the chapters that you can control the cannon balls and 
 arrows after you shoot them. After a bit of practice, (took me about 6 tries before getting my 
 first headshot with an arrow) you get the hang of it. But one big gripe that I have is that the 
 game overall was way too short. You can probably beat in 9-5 shift. I personally like games that 
 can last longer my day at work. I found myself playing the game again to see if I can get all the 
 medallions at the end of stage to unlock all the secret stuff the game has to offer. Overall, this 
 game is awesome and features potential that the PS3 has to offer but hopefully the sequel (if they 
 have one) can work out some of the finer details, mostly gameplay length. If you like it short 
 and sweet and full of action. Recommend getting this game and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikingsfan2772
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  sure the game isn't extremely long but it has the gameplay to last if you do choose to buy it. 
 The fact that you can choose what missions to play after you have beaten them allows you to enjoy 
 the replay value even more. The gameplay in this game is flawless and has some of the greatest 
 gameplay i have ever experienced. the sound in this game is also amazing and is another great addition 
 to the game. Visually, this game is a next-gen game and is stunning visually and has some of the 
 best graphics i've ever seen. The humour in this game is classic and put in good enough intervals 
 to not make it a comedy but still enjoyable.
  
  NINJA THEORY this game is amazing. there is few things wrong with it. There is really nothing else 
 that can be done to make that genre of game longer BRAVO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yumex85
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is a great game! All the cutscenes make you feel like you are watching a movie, 
 face expressions and voice acting are pretty well done.
  From the beginning to the end, the story makes you feel like go forward to see what happens next, 
 and each level gives you a different challenge, not only those hack and slash games.
  I just got addicted to use the sixaxis to control kai&acute; s arrows! The after touch feature is 
 soooo fun!
  The bad is when u think u could play heavenly sword forever coz its so much fun, the game is already 
 over, it&acute; s true what ppl say, you don&acute; t need to be those hardcore players to finish 
 this game quickly. I took and afternoon to finish it, and that reminds me that the game could be 
 a little harder, only the final boss gave me some challenge.
  I loved the game music as well, it fits very well to the game environment, and probably will make 
 you feel like getting the game soundtrack somehow if you enjoy listening to games music.
  So, my final score is 8.0, since the game is excellent but it makes u feel so sad when u buy the 
 game on a sat morning and the game is over at sat night = (
  I want heavenly sword 2, with at least 20 hours of gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatusabeps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  i like ps3 and i like god of war but this game is nice is like god of war and is fun wen shes runinng 
 on the ropes nice fighting combat and i focused alot on the graphics and is really nice it looks 
 everything real and this is a game that i will buy and that im gonna get just because of the graphics 
 and the unique it is. Games liek this will be good online if this game was to be online it will 
 be fun and cool for people who like god of war and people who like figthing with swords and doing 
 crazy stunts and haveing fun i give this game a nine point five out of 10 HAVE FUN FOR THOSE WHO 
 GOT IT AND DONT WORRIE SONY IS GOIGN TO MAKE IT UP FOR THE THOSE WHO GOT PS3 ^_^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakehd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  sony computer entertainment always makes the best games of the world. heavenly sword is one of those 
 game. its true this game is short but what about the  of HS. for 
 only that this game is short gamespot takes 8.0 score to it. but im sure if you play this game you 
 will takes 9.0 or perhaps more. its not only about heavenly sword and even about other sce games 
 like motor storm, resistance, warhawk, etc. i and my friends waited for 9.0 score for heavenly sword 
 but when i see it takes 8.0 i come to gamespot and write this review. taking score is one of my 
 biggest problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  More than likely if you know someone who owns a PlayStation 3, chances are they are using their 
 system for things other than playing PS3 titles. In fact, I tend to leave mine running Folding@Home 
 rather than playing games. Thankfully it seems that there are now more original games out there 
 for PS3 owners to play on their expensive units; it's also good to know that the games are pretty 
 good.
  
  Sony's Big-Title for the 2nd half of the year has to be Heavenly Sword, which has been dubbed as 
 Goddess of War. While there are some similarities, the two games do play a bit differently and 
 it's not a bad thing to copy such a great title. In Heavenly Sword you spend most of the time playing 
 as Nariko, a beautiful woman who welds a powerful but cursed sword. As we start the game, we encounter 
 Nariko being consumed by the curse and we play out the events that lead to that moment. The story 
 here is incredibly well done as you get a great lead character in Nariko, a believable and truly 
 dis-liked villain in Bohan (played by Andy Serkis) and a good range of other characters. While 
 most of the game is played using Nariko and her 3 sword abilities, you do have some variety in 
 gameplay with segments played using a Catapult and a secondary character called Kai. One addition 
 that Heavenly Sword has over God of War is the cool aftertouch feature. Using the six-axis controller, 
 when using the Catapult or any ranged weapon (crossbow or cannon) when you hold the shoot button, 
 you essentially take control of the bullet/rock/bow and 'lead' it to your designated target. While 
 it takes time to master, having the satisfaction of watching that arrow slam into an enemy's head 
 is quite enjoyable.
  
  The action is excellent in the game, but the lack of variety does hurt the game a bit. You do only 
 encounter about half a dozen different enemies so it becomes a bit tedious when you're fighting 
 the same group over and over again. The boss fights are interesting, but outside of the final fight, 
 you won't have too much of a hard time.
  
  The storyline works well in the game because of the great direction and graphics. The development 
 team really did a well done job making this feel like a movie more than a game. Bohan really looks 
 like Andy Serkis and the Fox character is really annoying, as he should be. There are a couple 
 of times when the voices don't match the mouths, but considering this is cg-animation, you really 
 can't complain.
  
  While most people have complaint about the length of the game, my biggest complaint is the loading 
 in the game. If at anytime you die or wish to re-start a level/stage, expect to sit and wait about 
 30-35 seconds before playing. For the PS3, loading that long should not happen. The game's story 
 is short (you should be able to finish it in about 6 hours) , the loading makes the game feel longer, 
 and that's not a good thing.
  
  In the end, this is a great addition to the PS3 library. It is a bit disappointing that it is a 
 bit on the short side, but it does contain a great story, stunning graphics and incredible sound. 
 It seems more than likely that a sequel could be made and if it does occur, hopefully they will 
 add a bit more in the gameplay department. If you are looking for a good game with plenty of action, 
 then Heavenly Sword will not disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is awesome the cinematics are awesome the voce overs are awesome the visuals are 
 awesome the gameplay is awesome everything about this is game is awesome nuff said...... well except 
 that the game is too short but oh well its awesome isnt it? Well get this game if you dont alredey 
 have it because its awesome. Oh yea by the way did i mention this game is awesome??? There is some 
 fuuny moments in the game wich is aesome and idk what to say anymaore because its awesome yo awesome 
 awesome awsome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesom aesom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  I bought Heavenly Sword on a whim. My PS3 has been used as a Blu-Ray player for months now and 
 I felt like a little bit of gaming. So, I picked up Heavenly Sword and finished it in 2 days. I 
 was expecting quite a bit more than what I got, and was highly disappointed to discover that this 
 game is not at all a blockbuster title, but a slightly above average action game.
  
  Good: Stance system keeps things interesting. Good Boss Battles. Excellent character work- facial 
 animation and voicing in particular. Art direction- this game has a consistent and visually pleasing 
 style from an artistic perspective. Sound effects are crisp and clear. Excellent pacing of campaign.
 
  
  Bad: Technical graphics- this game looks mediocre at best and certain things (such as Nariko's 
 hair) are absolutely terrible. The PS3 is capable of so much better. Music- The song that pops 
 up with the intro is a motif throughout and is well over 75% of the music in the whole game. Yes, 
 they just play it on repeat. Story- I'm still not sure what the Heavenly Sword is and furthermore 
 I really don't care. The villain isn't all THAT bad and the hero isn't all THAT heroic. Lack of 
 a jump and block button makes combat feel less involved. Endgame sucks HARD... a way too difficult 
 and seriously anticlimactic end boss battle leaves a sour taste in my mouth right at the end of 
 the game. Arrow shooting sequences and cannon sequences rely heavily on the SIXAXIS and are very 
 poorly done... they are frustrating and boring.
  
  Verdict: Rental. At no more than 9 hours in length, this game is probably worth $8 for an afternoon 
 or two. Don't buy it, it's really not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Well... As soon as i turned on the game is was very amazed by the graphics, well actully by game 
 i mean demo, but anyway (i do have the game ;) no worries) The control system works very, even 
 thou i think the range sword is abit unescesarry, switch it out with a manual blocking system and 
 it would be gold. Not that i dont like the fact that Nariko blocks by herself, but that you have 
 to be in diffrent stance's to block certain enemies is quite annoying i think.
  Well anyway.
  
  I loved the graphics, and fights are awesome, you can really feel how YOU control 
 the battle - of course not if u dont know what a square of triangle button is - and the way Nariko 
 almost fly while hitting is beautiful. As always the heroine has to have a c/d cup, and and ass 
 that say HELLO! but despite that i really loved her red hair, gives her you know her own kinda 
 look, i mean take Lara Croft for an example, she looks like a regular person, well maybe not regular, 
 but you know she is quite realistic to look at, despite the boobs.
  
  Nariko works well in-game, and the Heavenly Sword and her is like the perfect match, her voice 
 is deep and give her a serious touch. She seem as if she is that kinda girl you dont wanna mess 
 with, cause even if you are 2,20 and call yourself Shaq O'neil, she will bust your ass no matter 
 what.
  
  So battles are quite nice. And Nariko is deffo a nice figure.
  
  Now the other characters Bohan, Shen, Flying Fox, Whiptail, and Kai. And Bohans fat son
  
  
 I liked Bohan for he arrogant way of beeing, and Flying Fox was my favourite character in-game, 
 he is funny in his own way, for beeing so ugly and weird as he is, whiptail is a really nice character 
 , and so is Fat Son (as i like to call him) i think Kai is abit annoying and cute at same time, 
 but when you play as her i wanna hit someone, the shootin function is the worst i have ever tried 
 in my whole **** life within gaming, i mean come on... its a really weird way of controlling it, 
 i mean you wanna see the arrow hit the enemy so you press R1/Square and hold it in, but at time 
 there is soo much wind, and... well i dont even wanna talk about BUT! i must say the fact that 
 when u hold the shooting button and IF you hit your target and see him or her get shot/hit and 
 it bleeds, i mean thats beautiful. I love when i'm in a huge battle, to take a dead enemy's sword/shield, 
 and see it fly through the air into another enemy's head!
  
  Overall i like heavenly sword. My own rating system goes this way: 1-2 = Sad
  
  3-4 = This 
 is **** weird
  
  5 = Its okay
  
  6-7 = Very Interresting, and good
  
  8-9 = Cool!
  
  10 = Yeeeeeh! This is awesome
  
  Control : 7 Graphics : 9
  
  Sound : 
 8 Variety : 8
  
  Overall : 8 - 8,5 Great game, worth the wait, and i love Nariko, she is a great character, cant 
 wait to see more of these kinda games in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  I have waited to review this game until i beat it. It is a short game, probably took me less than 
 10 hrs to complete and there's not much desire to go back and replay it. The graphics and story 
 are the best part of the game. Very well done. The gameplay comes up a bit short on depth. The 
 fighting system is different from god of war but not in a bad way. I wish they could incorporate 
 a jump button to make the machanics of the game work a little better. Its hard to believe this 
 chick can do so many amazing moves in battle but i cant control her jumping? Maybe for the next 
 one... if they that happens... Anyway, fighting 500-1000 soldiers at once was visually stunning but 
 they dont all come at you at once so its not as hard as it sounds. usually some will wait for others 
 to attack and so on.... There was some slow downs on screen for me but not many, considering everything 
 thats going on at one time. The boss battles are nothing special...4 main bosses, one of which 
 you fight twice and the final battle is 3 stages against the same guy. None were overly hard. Once 
 the game is finished you're left with a feeling like there should have been a lot more to it.
 
  
  Overall it was a good try but not really worth the hype. If you're into renting games, try it for 
 a week and that will probably do it for you. It wont take you long to finish this one off even 
 for a casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I just rented and beat heavenly sword. It's a very great game that had me engaged from when i turned 
 the power button on till the very last battle. it has a lot of great extras such animations and 
 pictures.
  
  When i think of heavenly sword i think of a game that was very well produced. the gameplay was 
 solid, they mixed up the mechanics so it wasn't just taking a sword and slashing through the whole 
 game, and the cinematics always kept you wanting to play more. the only thing about it this game 
 is i wish they could have made it longer. i really liked it when you could play as kai, and use 
 a bow and arrow instead of the sword, i wish they added a few more levels with her as a main character 
 and maybe even let you play as a few additional character with extra styles. overall this is a 
 game worth renting for sure, but wouldn't say it has very high replay value nor does it keep you 
 entertained for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swift18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I havn't had so much fun dieing and playing again um ever lol. This was the most fun playing a 
 game I've had in a very long time. And the fact you can beat it in one sitting well i mean cept 
 for bathroom breaks, Food, Hygiene, Talking to people lol Isn't a flaw by any means its like watching 
 a movie that you help unfold and open up and this way you can stick with story and follow along 
 and the story just gets bigger and bigger you can feel the anticipation the uninterrupted adrenaline 
 the deep involvement into the game. This is how games should be made we keep drawing the lines 
 between cinema and games but this is a Cineame haha its like this summer blockbuster that just 
 take you out of your seat but lets you control the scene and do it how you want. This game shouldn't 
 be compared other games. This piece of entertainment is its own beast and should be rated as such 
 hence im giving it a 9.5 id say 9.2 but they don't let us do that any more but entertainment is 
 about fun and i think people have lost sight of that and this thing has fun in spades. I highly 
 recommend this game even though i beat it im still gonna buy (I rented it) . To sum the rest of 
 this up. This ciamame has amazing voice acting, Amazing Cinematic quality, Smooth play and makes 
 you want to jump into your screen and chill in this amazing universe they have imagined. Heavenly 
 Sword it is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastamo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing; it was one of the best games I've ever played (in all console games) . The 
 graphics, game play and story line were fantastic! These features of the game would keep your eyes 
 glued to the screen. The game play had a copious amount of variety. There were numerous numbers 
 of combos you could do with Nariko and the Heavenly Sword. The game play was never tiring and was 
 exciting all the way through. The use of the Sixaxis controller was very creative. When you play 
 as Kai, the arrows she shoots can be controlled by the motion sensor function on the sixaxis controller. 
 You could do many various types of shots (head shots, groin shots, etc.) The story line kept you 
 wanting to play more. There were turning points that would make you drop your mouth wide open . 
 Of course, I wouldn't like to give away any of the story line :-) The graphics were to die for. 
 Playing the game in HD was crisp. The terrain, along with characters, were beautiful. The difficulty 
 of the game was very well correlated with the difficulty level chosen. The difficulties of the 
 various enemies were well put. However, some of the bosses were quite simple. If you want a challenge, 
 play on Hell Mode. Now the bad. There were only 2 things I found to be disappointing in the game. 
 First, the campaign was very short; around 6 hours. Also, most of the game was plain button smashing. 
 However, Some of the button smashing was also very intriguing. Sometimes, you just smash the buttons 
 and Nariko does something amazing, and you go like WOAH how'd I do that!? 
  
  The game should of gotten 9.0+; giving it an 8.0 just because of of the shortness of the game is 
 kind of sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwdoyle
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, and most importantly, this is a game that is a joy to play. The combos are not automatic, 
 but you don't need a dominant Street Fighter II gene either. Your hits feel powerful and it's a 
 pleasing combat system.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. The characters in cut scenes are supremely expressive while the 
 backgrounds and character models are fluid in action and just plain beautiful.
  
  A mechanic that deserves special mention is the aftertouch feature where you can control ranged 
 attacks after they leave your hand/crossbow/cannon. It's pretty much the best usage of 6-axis to 
 date on the PS3. Plus it makes using those attacks great fun.
  
  The story is very compact and to the point, but in the end is very powerful. Not to spoil anything 
 but as your character, Nariko, goes through the game, her focus narrows and in the end her motiivation 
 and actions are enhanced by the laser-focused story arc she goes through.
  
  Basically, this is a near perfect game. I would have preferred a bit more length, but since this 
 has more than enough going for it to become a legendary franchise, I'm more than ok being left 
 wanting more than to be stuck wishing for an end. I'm playing through it again... and just because 
 it's fun, not because of any unlockables. I just want to experience it again. That says more than 
 anything else to me about this wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword we've all seen the game, we say its a God of War look alike or ripoff but if anything 
 more itsn't to some sense first the gameplay is great the three stances of fighting speed, range, 
 and power are great also useful for knowing when to defend and to counter at the same time. Furthermore, 
 the story is great all though it seems similar to God of War in how you play the past. But nevertheless 
 the graphics are great (didn't play it on HD yet) the music is preety good and the characters are 
 well crafted. If anything the downside to the game is the length of the game if first time around 
 7 hrs, if experienced roughly 3 or 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tkacz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Very much like god of war, The beginning thrusts you into the past and then you relive the last 
 5 days. Each day is a chapter in the game. There are five chapters in all and might be considered 
 a short game. I would say about 7 hours long but filled with much beauty and fun. The graphics 
 are unbelievable. I have never seen facial expressions like this ever. It is so neat that its kinda 
 strange seeing it at first. The gameplay is just like god of war but more of a HD Game experience. 
 Just play it or buy it you will not be dissappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_marrik
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword can be most easily described as the perfect rental game. It's compelling story, 
 stunning graphics, and excellent cut-scenes make it a game worth playing. In heavenly sword, you 
 may choose to play as the beautiful Nariko, or her little sister Kai. Nariko wields the heavenly 
 sword, and it begins to posses her, and the story leads into a symbolic battle between heaven and 
 hell. Heavenly sword also finds a perfect balance between the styles of games like Dynasty warriors 
 , and Soul Calibur . It throws waves of enemies at you, but challenges you most by combating specific 
 powerful bosses. You don't get sick of the fighting style quickly either, because of the many levels 
 that are played as the character Kai. She has a bow that when fired, its arrows can be aimed with 
 the 6-axis controls to pinpoint an opponents death. Such firing slows down time, allowing you to 
 hit an enemy multiple times before he hits the ground. I am not a fan of the 6-axis controls, but 
 this game incorporates them perfectly. Overall, this game is a must-play, but should be rented 
 rather then bought, seeing as it's gameplay is so short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is shorter than most, but dont let that stop you from buying this game and supporting 
 the developer Ninja Theory; they have done a great job at giving us a truly next generation game 
 that demonstrates the power of the PS3.
  
  Heavenly Sword is innovative in several ways, from the game interface (basic menu) , to the mini 
 animated Super Style moves and the combat system; to the depth that the gamer will be pulled into 
 the story. Playing through I got the feel that things had now changed and after this game, others 
 that follow will have to do more. I played through in 720p and the graphics are awesome, everywhere 
 and all the time. It is amazing how many enemies can be on screen at one time and it all works 
 so well, rocks! The Super Style move animation blends in so well with the rest of the combat flow, 
 it was really done well. The sixaxis use for arrows was well done too.
  
  The story of Nariko, her friend Kai, and Clan will pull you in and keep you wanting more until 
 the very end. I have played no other game that has anything like the way this game delivers the 
 story with you.
  
  I beat the game, but it took me more like 9 to 10 hours. Ive gone back now to any previous spot 
 I like, a nice feature of the game to work on unlocking more glyphs for (more of ) the tons of 
 extra content that gets unlocked as you play through the game. There is replay value here, and 
 a hell mode once beaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehpiecemaker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Just another hack n slash beat em up, was what I thought this game was at first. But seeing a few 
 gameplay videos and all the hype the game was getting convinced me to go out and get a copy of 
 Heavenly Sword. And for the first time I actually felt like I was PLAYING B3YOND! Cheesy I know 
 but thats what it really was, sheer awesomeness. The graphics, gameplay, story, sound and most 
 of all Andy Serkis, make this game a must have (or maybe a must rent at least) . The best thing 
 about this game are the cutscenes. The voice acting, facial expressions and dialogue really take 
 you into the story and make you feel like you're playing a movie. I would be lying if I said if 
 this game doesn't play even a little like god of war, but isn't that supposed to be a good thing? 
 Well it is at least IMHO, considering how well they've implemented it into the game. Well maybe 
 they got a little carried away in putting the blades of chaos and Kratos' armor in Bohan's armory. 
 In combat Nariko is easy to control but not to the point where button mashing = teh pwnz. The thing 
 is, button mashing is what'll get you killed in no time whenever you're up against different types 
 of guards with different types of attacks and defenses all attacking you at the same time, which 
 is the case for a good part of the game. But this is what makes the gameplay fun and interesting, 
 having to change attack styles and perform air combos and super style kills which never gets boring 
 always manages to get you and your friends watching go WOAH!! . Another really fun part of the 
 game is Nariko's friend Kai, an archer. Using motion sensing controls you can control the path 
 of your arrows which is a LOT more fun than it sounds. Seriously. No matter how many times you 
 do it getting a head shot never ceases to feel amusing and always has a feel of accomplishment. 
 Overall IMO Heavenly Sword is definitely one of the greatest games to be released this year. But 
 a major downside to the game is that its too short. I finished the game in 6 hours, just one sitting. 
 I'd love to say that all the other amazing things about the game compensate for its shortness but 
 sadly thats not the case and in the end you'll still be left wanting for more. But even still Heavenly 
 Sword is one of a kind, and is an experience no one should pass on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buccaneers445
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Ever since its earliest footage was released, Heavenly Sword was compared by critics and gamers 
 alike to the God of War series, earning the nickname, Goddess of War. Thankfully, there is enough 
 unique content to make this title stand on its own. The main character is Nariko, a beautiful long-haired 
 warrior of an ancient clan devoted to guarding the mystical Heavenly Sword. At first glance, 
 the gameplay appears to be similar to that of God of War. However, there are three attack styles, 
 each having their strengths and weaknesses; knowing when and how to use each one adds an extra 
 layer of depth and strategy to the game. Attacks can be combined to create spectacular, spine-shattering 
 combos, seamlessly chained together by the PS3s great processing capabilities. The graphics of 
 Heavenly Sword are simply top-notch. Animation, lighting, and character models all look fantastic, 
 giving Heavenly Sword a very cinematic feel. The only main weak point it has is its value; an average 
 gamer can blow through it in six to eight hours. All in all, Heavenly Sword is a game that all 
 PS3 owners should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game, and look forward to it's sequel. It was so good I really wish there 
 was a little more to it, and I don't mean longer boss battles. I'm not a big fan of boss battles, 
 kind of semi-hate them, and this game was just at my limit of tolerance. At least they were not 
 too difficult once you figured out the tricks to each one, but to end the game on one long boss 
 battle brought my score down just a little.
  
  The graphics, sound, play mechanics (except for the boss battles) were all wonderful, and I really 
 enjoyed the levels that used tilt-sensing, lots of fun.
  
  In summary, great game. Yes it was a little short, and could have used less boss battles and more 
 gameplay, but I'm glad I played it and actually will play it again it was that much fun. Something 
 that is rare for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  The length of this game is dissapointing. Its only about 4 hours long, and there isent even online, 
 multiplayer or a mission mode type thing. This is a really fun game with a pretty good story ( 
 folklore is better) . Instead of making this game into a trilogy, they hsould have just but all 
 them into one game, that way we wouldent be able to beat this game in ONE DAY!
  
  Somthing else that would have made this game better is a gupm button, jumping can make a game so 
 much better. Guiding the cannons and arrows is fun but can be really hard, i still enojy it though.
 
  
  I was dissaopinted that we only got to play one chapter as Kai, i think she is a much better character 
 then Nariko. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Hevenly Sword is a action packed immitation of god of war. Not nearly as good in fact... a little 
 worst but a amazing experience for all ps3 owners and should make 360 owners jealious. It is a 
 extremly disappointingly short game 6 HOURS. They have got to come out with a longer sequel.. maybe... 
 It is no where close to god of war but the closest ps3 owners will get to it until HOPEFULLY god 
 of war 3 comes out. The SIXAXIS controls are clunky and it is awsome you can turn them off.. hehe 
 joking I love SIXAXIS just not in this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bearstation
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The story of Nariko and her erstwhile companions unfolds majestically in this action beat-em-up 
 by developers Ninja Theory. Given the fact that the games development has been as long and diluted 
 as that of its heroine, its a wonder and an accomplishment that the title contains so much character 
 and style. Originally the game was scheduled as a title for the original (and now defunct) Xbox, 
 and after several years and many changes of hands it eventually came to rest its head in SCEAs 
 lap. Pegged as a holiday flagship title for the PlayStation3, Ninja Theory has been bound and determined 
 that Heavenly Sword would receive the 4 star treatment in order to show off the amazing capabilities 
 of Sonys most powerful system. And, for the most part, they have succeeded. At first glance Heavenly 
 Sword virtually oozes with style and polish. Its visual design sets it apart from most other games, 
 featuring the exotic and fierce beauty Nariko with her signature long (read LONG) scarlet hair. 
 Obviously, this is no God of War. The game backs up this panache with some of the most amazing 
 motion capture animation ever seen in a game, brought to us by the accredited WETA Workshop team 
 (ala the Lord of the Rings flicks, not to mention King Kong) . The character models move about in 
 a smooth, realistic fashion that fools the eye with its complex simplicity. The facial modeling 
 is even finer, featuring a breathtaking range of emotional expressions that are almost eerie in 
 their humanity. In addition to the modeling, the vistas in Heavenly Sword are vast and epic, and 
 with the exception of a few camera control issues were every bit as lovely as the rest of the game. 
 Unfortunately, the animation suffers from frequent frame rate issues at strange, innocuous times 
 that mar the beauty of the title and prevents the true immersive experience that was so close to 
 realization.
  The control scheme of Heavenly Sword is a nice blend of simple hack-and-slash commands mixed with 
 a fairly deep counter and stance system that held up well throughout the game. The only gripe here 
 is that although there is a dash button, the team did not implement a jump. No matter what the 
 title, all action adventure games should have a jump button. I know there are millions out there 
 that would agree with this point. Also, the sections featuring Kai, Narikos creepy but loveable 
 friend, could have been a tad less repetitive, even though they did provide a welcome break from 
 Narikos insane acrobatics every now and then. Speaking of repetitive, the only other gripe with 
 the combat system is that the enemies are all the same. From the very beginning of the game to 
 right before the final boss fight, the enemies all fall into a scant 3 or 4 categories. It really 
 would have been nice if they would have added different types of enemies through the game, or perhaps 
 took a cue from God of War and implemented more frequent boss battles with gigantic enemies. The 
 boss battles that are present, however, are admittedly fun and full of characterwhich brings me 
 to the best part of Heavenly Sword.
  Dramatically directed by the incomparable Andy Serkis of Golum and King Kong fame, the voice acting 
 in Heavenly Sword is truly top notch. The main characters are acted convincingly and beautifully, 
 but the real show is with the villains. From the sensually serpentine fish-lady Whiptail to the 
 hilariously terrifying Silver Fox (who sounds a bit like the Monarch from the Venture Bros.) the 
 villains are voice acted with an over the top, campy theatrical flair all led by the voice of King 
 Bohan, spectacularly acted by Andy Serkis himself. In testament to this catchy, absurd genius, 
 after watching me play the game my entire household non-stop quoted villainous lines for a week 
 afterwards (especially Silver Foxes) .
  All in all, Heavenly Sword is an addictive romp featuring groundbreaking graphics with an amazing 
 production and directing team that pulled in theatrical elements for the truly Hollywood-like quality 
 of a film production. The story is admittedly a bit flimsy, but the style of the game, the full-bodied 
 characters, and the fleshed out back story (told in well crafted little anime style unlockable 
 sequences) helped to blanket the clich&eacute; d plot. The length of the game is also a bit of an 
 issue hereat around 7 hours long, its hard to justify a $60 price tag. To its benefit every chapter 
 can be replayed in hopes of achieving a higher score to access the games myriad unlockables, but 
 unfortunately the majority of the unlockables are already freely available on the PC. Beating the 
 game also unlocks a Hell mode, which might appeal to some gamers. All its flaws notwithstanding, 
 Heavenly Sword is still an amazing game that is as fun to watch as it is to play and should definitely 
 be considered a must by title for the PS3 this holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bajabbers
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I had a blast playing it, but it was just way too short. It has very good gameplay 
 and is very cinematic making it an awesome game to play through but it seems once you get past 
 all of the introduction to the controls you are already half way through the game.
  The graphics are utterly amazing and beautiful to watch and I felt the story line was great. Personally, 
 I got sucked into the storyline. It was like a mix of Prince of Persia and God of War in my opinion, 
 (which is a GREAT combination) . Overall, I would recommend this game to people, but be warned that 
 it is a very short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is short. Painfully so. It's shorter than Tom Cruise playing a hobbit. But it's 
 also one of the best action games released this year, with frantic fluid combat, beautiful graphics, 
 phenomenal cut scenes, and tremendous voice acting. It's just a shame that you can race through 
 its storyline faster than a cheetah on a moped.
  
  Heavenly Sword begins with an ending. Nariko, brandisher of the Heavenly Sword and heroine of the 
 piece, collapses and apparently dies during the climactic, final battle. The story then leaps back 
 five days, explaining who Nariko is, how she came to be in possession of the sword, and why she's 
 desperate to keep it out of the hands of the King Bohan, a chap with a heart blacker than a Spinal 
 T&auml; p album cover.
  
  It's not a particularly original plot but it is well written and, more importantly, it's incredibly 
 well told. To the point where Heavenly Sword may have set the new standard for videogame cut scenes. 
 Beautifully animated, beautifully directed, and incredibly cinematic, they may be the best thing 
 about the game. The cut scenes in Heavenly Sword don't drag the action down or have you itching 
 to skip past them as fast as possible. They're an integral part of the game.
  
  Serkis' perfectly pitched performance as King Bohan is undoubtedly the highlight of Heavenly Sword's 
 cinematics; a completely over the top villain with some of the most beautifully delivered and hilarious 
 lines in the game. The rest of the voice cast do an excellent job bringing their characters to 
 life; from Steven Berkoff's skin crawlingly creepy Silver Fox to Lydia Baksh's adorably quirky 
 Kai, there isn't a single weak performance. The rest of the game's audio is of a suitably high 
 standard; the score fades in and out, getting louder during combat and softer, more atmospheric 
 during down times.
  
  Heavenly Sword sounds great but looks even better. Heavenly Sword is a stunning game, technically 
 and artistically. Nariko seems to flow from attack to attack in a remarkably well animated manner, 
 the levels are nicely varied and uniformly gorgeous, the main characters are highly detailed... it's 
 hard not be impressed by Heavenly Sword's graphics. But there are some flaws. While the games engine 
 can handle an impressive number of bad guys on screen without any problems, the frame rate occasionally 
 hitches up. Bizarrely, the most intense stutters happen during the less baddie intense sections 
 of the game, suggesting a loading issue rather than a graphical one. And while the enemies may 
 look great, there's not a lot of variety to them. For most of the game you'll be stabbing the same 
 five or six guys over and over again.
  
  At least carving up those five guys is a lot of fun. Heavenly Sword's combat system isn't particularly 
 deep but it does have enough complexity to avoid being a mindless button masher. As is the de facto 
 standard for the genre, Nariko packs both light and heavy attacks, which can be worked together 
 into various combos. Holding down L1 shifts Nariko into her ranged stance, where she rips off a 
 certain bald Spartan wholesale by using chains to whip the sword around her, doing a tiny amount 
 of damage but pushing baddies back to clear some breathing room. Holding R1 puts her into the power 
 stance, where the attacks are a lot slower but do inflict some serious injury. Switching between 
 the stances on the fly is the key to some of the wilder combos and to blocking attacks. As an enemy 
 moves to strike, a coloured aura will appear around them. Blue attacks are automatically blocked 
 in the default speed stance, orange attacks blocked in the heavy stance and the white aura, which 
 only appears on bow wielding enemies, means you can deflect their arrows using the ranged stance.
 
  
  The stances don't play a huge part in the game's early going but become increasingly important 
 as the tougher bad guys cross your path. Some will need staggered by a power attack before you 
 wail on them in the speed stance, others will block every attack you can throw at them and need 
 to be taken out with a successful counter attack. Tapping the heavy attack button just as Nariko 
 blocks an opponent will cause her to reverse their move into something suitably painful looking 
 (she seems to favour kicks to the crotch) .
  
  As cool as the counters and combos look, they're pretty much superfluous for perhaps two thirds 
 of the game. There's a suddenly leap in difficulty towards the end of the game: the enemies start 
 to hit a lot harder and require specific block breaking combos or perfectly timed counters to do 
 any damage. Hell mode, which is unlocked after finishing normal mode, takes this even further; 
 fumbling randomly with the attack buttons tends to end in death by stabbing. Even though you can 
 blast through the first 66.66% by mashing the buttons, Heavenly Sword does encourage a more considered 
 approach. Landing combos and successful countering baddie sword swipes starts to fill the 'Glyph 
 Bar', which in turn unlocks more combos, making of videos, and other special features.
  
  Given that level after level of straight combat would get tedious fairly fast, Heavenly Sword throws 
 in a few diversions, with the most obvious being the sections where you control Nariko's sister 
 Kai. Unlike her sister, Kai has no melee abilities, instead relying on a massive cross bow like 
 thing to deal with baddies. Kai's stages are never very long but they are a nice change of pace. 
 As are the battle field stages, where Nariko uses a cannon to take out entire armies. The projectile 
 sections use the sixaxis motion sensing; once the arrow or cannon ball are in the air, tipping 
 the pad controls their trajectory. Unfortunately, the tilt controls just aren't accurate enough 
 and you'll soon find yourself in the options menu opting to use the left analogue stick instead.
 
  
  Heavenly Sword looks great, play phenomenally and is incredibly fun from start to finish. So it's 
 a shame that the start and finish are only six hours apart. As an experience, the short length 
 may actually be in the game's favour: it's constantly pushing forward, with no sections drawn out 
 just to pad the levels out. It's a very lean game that certainly doesn't out stay its welcome. 
 But it's also a ery brief experience that you're being charged full price for. There's a fair amount 
 of replay value to Heavenly Sword but you're still paying full whack for six hours of content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1657
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me. I seriously thought it was only going to be mediocre. I never expected 
 anything special. But when my brother bought it and I watched for a bit, I was amazed. The game 
 is superb.
  
  First off, the graphics. Amazing. Simply amazing. Everything goes together so well, and with no 
 frame rate problems. Only skips I saw were during the very start of cutscenes. The background environments 
 look very well done. It looks so polished and smooth.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is amazing. The smoothness of the animation is superb, and the force at which 
 the weapons connect are very appealing. When I am in a speed combo, ands then hold R1 to switch 
 to heavy..... damn the whole screen shakes at the force of it hitting. It is very satisfying. Unfortunately, 
 for me, there is not enough replay value at all, which is what costs this game the rating it should 
 have. It is over waaaaaaaaaaay too fast, and there really is no reason to play through it again 
 unless you love the fighting and animation that much. One thing I admit I do, is pull that game 
 out to show my friends when we are hanging out, because it looks so damn nice. I just wish it had 
 more replay value and a longer lifespan.
  
  It is obvious from the very beginning that it takes many aspects of God of War, and I think the 
 combat and animation is better than God of War. But at the same time, God of War has yet to be 
 released on a console like the PS3. What Heavenly Sword lacks though, is the button pressing during 
 the cinematic sequences. Some boss battles, at the very end of the fight, you only have to press 
 one button and the whole cinematic fight does itself. Which is a let down but at the same time 
 I do understand. The reason: It looks beautiful. Watching for what button to push means not paying 
 as much attention as to what is going on in the cinematic fight. Still, I'd like longer and more 
 challenging sequences.
  
  Also, I really wish it was more violent. More gore. The games story just makes me crave it. When 
 I spin with the 2-handed sword and SMASH them, I not only want to FEEL like I hit hard, but I want 
 to SEE it. There are so many perfect opportunities during the game and especially boss fights where 
 if they added more blood and gore, it would have gotten better ratings in my opinion. A game like 
 this needs it.
  
  What this game does do well is the Six-Axis controls. I think the scheme in this game out-shine 
 any PS3 six-axis oriented game. It is a blast, especially once you get better at it and try for 
 the hard head shots.
  
  All-in-all, the game is fantastic. It has amazing visuals, gameplay, animation, sound and overall 
 feel, but the short storyline and the lack of replay value is what gives this game an 8. But seeing 
 what this game can do, I cannot wait to see a God of War title to come and dominate on the PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is an intersesting game. Its development time predated the ps3 and it's dev. kits. 
 The game looks amazing and has very god of war like gameplay to it. Now this doesnt have to be 
 a bad thing though. The game features a great story. I ownt give it away though. The graphics are 
 great, the gameplay can get repetitive, but if you are a fan of god of war, then this game should 
 satisfy your need for some next gen sword fighitng until god of war makes its debut on the ps3. 
 This game is however, short, very short, now they do offer multiple difficulties so you can play 
 through all the different modes unlocking weapons and featurettes. However, for most pople it wont 
 last no mor ehten 10 hours, becuae after you beat a game you play multiplayer... but there is no 
 multiplayer so id say rent it if you have a ps3, you pay what 10 bucks to rent, thats not bad, 
 if you want to replay it or show it off, then buy it, your choice. i rented it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword may remind you of the great God of War for the PS2. It's similiar in the fighting 
 system, but the whole woman thing may pull the similiarity away. You are Nariko, a hot and sexy 
 character. You carry a sword and --- blah, blah, blah. You also can play as Kai, one of Nariko's 
 friends. You have several ways to battle and tons of combos.
  The potential of Heavenly Sword truly harnesses the PS3's power. Unfortanetely, despite it's great 
 graphics and gameplay, it ends way to fast. Only having 5 chapters with easy difficulty will take 
 a normal gamer about 6-10 hours to beat the game. Heavenly Sword leaves you wanting more and more 
 of it. It is good, but not perfect and very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppf816438
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is best for light-medium player who enjoy a good story with exciting action.
  
  Good:
  
  - charming graphic: You will amazed by the art work of the stage background and 
 character design (both appearance and personality) . Then you will get blow away by the explosion 
 effect and the realistic feeling when Nariko wield Heavenly Sword.
  
  - enjoyable system: Player can change style (range, fast, heavy) almost anytime. You can combine 
 3 different style as you like and roll away from danger when you glance it coming your way. Six 
 Axis is perfectly fit in to start air combo and to control range  
 Even the stage which we can only use Kai is fun.
  
  - nice music and sound effect: music is full of Eastern feeling. Sound of explosion, enemy yelling 
 and sword fighting is pretty convincing. Voice acting really express the highlight of each character's 
 personality. Bad:
  
  -Boss fight is easy. During the fight you need to push the right button like GOW series, but other 
 then those time pretty much piece of cake. Kind of sad since every character has pretty complete 
 build personality.
  
  -The story is short, although the story line fit perfectly into the short time frame and it almost 
 make sense why it's short (to keep player constantly in action I believe) . Still too short...
  
  Neutral:
  
  -Long loading time... so far the longest among PS3 game, but there isn't any 
 load time during stage and it do support multiple language. -sometime there is little broken part 
 during the game, it only flash very short time but I still manage to catch it. Some say it's b/c 
 of unstable fps, good thing it didn't effect game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostnut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about action. If you like games like Castlevania or Devil May Cry this is a must 
 for you. But I suggest to rent it first cause the game is not very long and quite easy. But if you 
 beat the game there's a tougher mode after. Good graphics with a story that could be better though. You 
 get to play two characters in this game. Good ending and hopefully there's gonna be a second one. Some 
 puzzles can be very irritating at times. Overall I give this game a 8.5/10 because of it's graphics 
 and the moves are so damn cool! But if you're not a hack and slash fan, don't get it cause you're 
 gonna be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Yes, there are not enough chapters and there is no online play. But this is the most beautiful 
 game on the PS3. It's that simple. The game play is awesome. You have three different fighting 
 stances to choose from as you saw through a boatload of bad guys. The combinations are limited 
 only by the speed of your fingers, so be ready to slice and dice.
  
  It's also one of the few games with the motion sensor on the controller works perfectly. Guiding 
 the arrows, balls and discs with the controller was fun and challenging.
  
  The movie scenes are great too. Heavenly Sword features of the best voice acting I've seen. This 
 is an easy one to figure out. Buy this game now if you have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronicMike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword. One of the most anticipated games of the 2007 finally gets released. Yes, I'm reviewing 
 this game a bit late, but I have so many games to play that it took me a little while to finally 
 beat it.
  
  Now, as far as the PS3 games go, you never seem to be disappointed with graphics. The cut-scenes 
 that you see in this game make you just want to shut all the Microsoft fan-boys up. I've gotten 
 questioned all the time by 360 fans, Name me one game that looks better then Gears of War that's 
 on the PS3 now, and all I have to reply is Have you played Heavenly Sword? Not just see videos 
 of it on you're computer, but actually play this game on a full 1080p TV. Now they can shut up. 
 As far as gameplay goes, it's astonishing. I love the fact that there is different stances in the 
 game, from long-range, to short-range - they all make this game an even better game that can make 
 anyone want to give this game a shot, even all the God of War freaks.
  
  The only downside to this game is that the game is just too darn short. It's definately a perfect 
 rental, but as far as paying $60, there's other games that are worth that hefty price tag. If this 
 game would have atleast had 10-15 hours of gameplay, this game would be perfect. Hands-down. Hopefully 
 when they make a sequel (if they do) , they can realize how short they made this game and can atleast 
 double the length that it is now.
  
  One main thing about Heavenly Sword that I love is the replay. After beating it once, I had to 
 go through it a second time, but of course on a harder difficulty (that you do unlock after beating 
 the game) . I am extremely addicted to getting the 3 golden awards for each mission. I finally have 
 done it for every mission, and now I feel like I got every fix out of Heavenly Sword.
  
  This game is good, but definately consider renting it, like I mentioned earlier. Oh, one last thing, 
 you better unlock the cartoon and all the artwork. It is well worth it. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword delivers the first game to use the potential of the PS3 to its advantage. The environments 
 are gorgeous, and the level of the character design in astounding. The story is told in a different 
 point of view then most people would have chosen and it works out wonderfully. The story is just 
 one of the high points in this game. Instead of using the overdone story of, Oh we're going to 
 die! Wait suddenly a sword is coming out of the sky as if from god! I will use this sword to defeat 
 everyone! , they use a different version in which the main character, (Nariko) doesn't believe 
 in the legend behind the sword but is still forced to use it to her advantage. And in the end, 
 her death is a surprising plot twist. This just goes to show that Ninja Theory is not afraid to 
 kill off their main character. Another plus is the character development, the amount of realism 
 in the characters had you caring for each and every character in some way. In one scene, it shows 
 Kai about to retrieve the Heavenly Sword for Nariko who is being forced to fight not only her own 
 clansmen, but also animals for Bohan's sick amusement. When Kai grabs the sword, a man appears 
 behind her triggering a memory from the past. The memory is of her mother's death, who died by 
 the same hands of the man that appeared before her now. Needless to say, Kai begins screaming and 
 running as quickly as she can.
  
  Now about my rating on the difficulty. This game is not particularly hard to beat, especially if 
 you are good at these types of games. But what does raise the difficulty level so high is the final 
 boss. There are three different sections to beat him, each one progressing in difficulty. The first 
 section wasn't the hardest boss you'd had to fight in the game, but he definitely was still a pretty 
 hard boss for most standards. The second one jumped up an entire difficulty level. Unless you could 
 pull of rolls timed exactly right and knew how to get past his defenses, it was nearly impossible. 
 The third and final stage of the battle brought it up another level by adding new attacks and using 
 old attacks quicker and more frequently. This led up to one of the hardest boss fights I have ever 
 had the pleasure to beat.
  
  The games graphics are probably the best I've ever seen. You can see each character expressions 
 in tremendous detail. When looking at Bohan's design, you can actually see wrinkles on his face, 
 showing his age, as well as Nariko's father. The realism placed into the environment also goes 
 to a new extreme in level design. Each area is created with so much attention to detail, it can 
 be staggering at times. Overall, this game surpasses my expectations. Although it is short, that 
 is not a big problem in this games case. The game puts quality over quantity which proves to be 
 a very wise decision. If you are not willing to buy this game for some reason, rent it. You will 
 be able to beat it, and still get the enjoyment out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alone2b
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I thought it was a great game, but it was just so short. Just like every other PS3 game out right 
 now (except oblivion I suppose, but who are we kidding? That was an Xbox title to begin with.) , 
 it was too short, but the graphics and content were amazing. I believe that it was one of the better 
 PS3 orgasms (great while it lasts, over all too soon... lol) , that I will not argue. The graphics 
 were amazing and the cutscenes were astonishing. It seemed like the designers figured out whatever 
 it was that separated a human face from the a digitally designed face as well. The characters and 
 scenery just looked right, real, almost like if it were any more real you would be there. The story 
 flowed nicely, and the voice acting was brilliant as well. Gameplay was fluid, but also, it seemed 
 to repeat itself considering the short list of combos. It had a God of War feel to it almost, but 
 lacking. Also, I'm not saying I had a hard time with the enemies, but you weren't really much stronger 
 than them at all, especically considering that you were wielding a sword that supposedly came from 
 heaven. I'm gonna stick to renting PS3 games from now on though, I wouldn't pay $63.89 for six 
 hours of gameplay with no reason to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurmatps3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an achievement in game-based cinematic storytelling. The game employs state of 
 the art motion capturing to give its characters a flair for realism rarely captured with a console. 
 But what this game didnt capture was any innovation in game play. That isnt to say this game 
 isnt fun and doesnt have a few surprises, but if youve played God Of War youre not going to 
 find anything new here and for the record... if you havent played God Of War, get off your computer, 
 turn on your Playstation, and get going. The story of Heavenly Sword follows Nariko, a warrior 
 whose curves can kill as seductively as her blades. Nariko is the hottest action female video game 
 lead character since Lara Croft. I dont want to go into the back story too much since its a big 
 part of enjoying the game but Ill give you the gist of it. Narikos clan protects a weapon known 
 as the Heavenly Sword. The sword was left behind after a warrior of light came to defeat a great 
 evil and won. Ever since then, people have been fighting for custody of the Heavenly Sword. One 
 of those people is the evil King Bohan, a twisted, perverted, and power hungry warlord. Andy Serkis, 
 better known as Gollum of Lord of the Rings fame, provides the motion capture for King Bohan. This 
 performance deserves an Oscar. He is the creepiest villain in recent gaming history and the man 
 deserves some recognition for it.
  
  This game defines the term consoler. Its a combo-based button masher. For the non-gamer, that 
 means you keep hitting random buttons on your controller to watch your character do mass amounts 
 of damage to everything around them. Though some of these titles make it feel like these games 
 take no skill, the best of them make it fun for the beginners who can do nothing but whack the 
 controller and more involved for the advanced players who like to watch their foes be vanquished 
 in style. This game falls in the better category for sure. It also incorporates some of the PS3s 
 SixAxis motion sensing functionality. You have some levels where youre shooting arrows or firing 
 cannons. By holding down the fire button you can then twist and turn your controller to help guide 
 your projectile for maximum damage. There are also points in the game where you are required to 
 do certain things like press the square button at the right time to make your character do cinematic 
 style moves. If youve ever played Don Bluths Dragons Lair or Space Ace then youll feel right 
 at home in these scenes. If you havent played either of those... again, get off your computer, 
 and get going.
  
  I started playing Heavenly Sword a week ago. I didnt have much time to devote to it due to Halo 
 3, but I popped it in and got through the first chapter. I was instantly enthralled with the visuals. 
 This game is gorgeous. With only some pops in the dynamic lighting, this game shows just how powerful 
 the PS3 is and if youre not aware, games get better over time with consoles. Take Halo for example, 
 or God Of War. Both had great looking first outings, but a couple years later and some better understandings 
 of how to make a game for the console you are programming for and you get sequels that wipe the 
 floor with their predecessors. So if Heavenly Sword looks this good, Im expecting BIG things from 
 developers in the years to come. The game, made by Ninja Theory, cannot only make an amazing screenshot 
 out of every frame, but it can handle an enormous amount of baddies. I believe in the final battle 
 there are nearly 200 running at full frame rate which makes for bloody, chaotic, button-mashing 
 fun. The sound design is clean and the music is good, but nothing to write home about. So I finally 
 moved on from Halo 3 and sat down on a Saturday morning to play more so I could write this review. 
 Well I got through the game in three and a half hours. And if you add the half hour I already played 
 that means I only got four hours of play time out of this title. I love story-driven games, but 
 four hours is too little. Having said that, the Blu-Ray disc it comes on does pack a lot of extras, 
 including a whole making of series that is really fun to watch if you are interested in the behind 
 the scenes. Also there is an animated series that you can watch which gives you all the back story 
 leading up to the game. To unlock these features you have to collect points you get from completing 
 levels. So there are some reasons to go back and replay levels that you didnt give your 110% on.
 
  
  All in all I like this game. I would recommend it to anyone who likes story-driven games or wants 
 a title that really shows off their PS3s power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  After I finished the game. I feel the passion of the team. They created a Masterpiece! U're watching 
 &amp; playing a movie. And give me a feeling of Lord of the ring . Graphics, Role Acting, Music, 
 Sound effect, Dramatic scene &amp; Action Combat, is totally a Movie class. After U watch the Making 
 of . U'll feel the team is put in more than 100% energy on it. I'm really enjoy it. Great work!
 
  
  Good: 1. Excellent real-time graphics I even seem. And U can tell the emotion on the character's 
 face. Happy, Angry, sad, etc... PS 3 is a powerful machine!
  2. Great Story. Great actors to play the Dramatic scene. U're watching a great movie. 3. Combat 
 is great, 1 vs a thousand. Sixaxis control is fun too. (Is hard to me to control at first time. 
 I'd practice it on Chapter 1b.)
  
  Bad:
  1. The story &amp; the length is Ok now. But the story can go deeper &amp; make the game play longer.
 
  2. Not in a free world. Should put more flexible on it. Go anywhere U want, more branch. Now is 
 a single path.
  3. Not too many secret to unlock. Specially Costume. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: podeque2099
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword had a ton of hype surrounding it, and for good reason. This game drops you into 
 a beautiful world full of rich visuals, loads of bad guys, and cinematics that gives Hollywood 
 a run for it's money. You play as Nariko, a killer chick with something to prove, and basically 
 will be best pals with her for almost the entire 8 or so hours it takes to beat the game. Starting 
 the game off as a normal, butt-kicking foot soldier, you will eventually get the Heavenly Sword, 
 as well as the curse it carries with it. Let's just say the length of the game is well-founded, 
 since legend says that whoever wields the sword will meet certain death. From the outset of the 
 game, you'll realize that someone put some serious polish on the visuals. Great artist colors, 
 as well as lighting effects, physics, and huge landscapes make this game shine. The character models 
 are fantastic, even down to pores on Nariko's face, everything looks amazing. The one serious gripe 
 about characters is the lack of enemy variety. Whenever you see a group of enemies, you'll quickly 
 realize that all the types look near-identical to their respective fighting styles. So it's a bit 
 redundant to see the normal enemies versus the strong enemies and be able to pick them out right 
 away. Speaking of strong, that is one of three attack styles that Nariko possesses. The fighting 
 system is very intuitive, and once you acquire the Heavenly Sword, you'll quickly pick up the different 
 attack styles. The enemies are linked to the styles, and Nariko will automatically block that type 
 of enemy's attack when in the corresponding attack stance. It sounds more complicated on paper, 
 but it's very fluid and very solid. The controls are pretty straightforward, but they are responsive 
 and work great. Throw in a few solid boss fights, scripted sequences, and the fighting is quite 
 entertaining for the few hours it lasts. It may seem a little easy, but it does ramp up quite a 
 bit toward the end of the game. A few gripes about gameplay, however. First off, I bet you thought 
 you'd be Nariko the entire game, right? Actually, probably close to 30% of the game you will be 
 an estranged, downright weird girl named Kai. I found Kai's sequences to be fun at first, although 
 they tend to drag on. As Kai, all you can do is shoot a crossbow, which actually has one of the 
 coolest features ever, aftertouch. You can actually shoot the crossbow and enter slow-motion and 
 use the six-axis to guide the arrows toward enemies or switches. It's integrated well and feel 
 pretty solid. The real aggravating part is when you are having to run away from enemies to get 
 a shot off. Apart from the Kai sequences, there are a few puzzle sequences that are a little annoying. 
 And by the end of the game, players will most likely be starting to feel a tad bit bored by the 
 fighting. Thankfully there are more combos and stronger enemies as well as a story that will push 
 the gameplay till the end of the narrative. The story is fantastic, with characters that you will 
 actually care about by the time it comes to a close, especially Nariko. You will honestly feel 
 some remorse and sympathy, even for a few of the bad guys. The story seems to take a very strange 
 turn toward the end, but it finishes nicely and ties everything together in a nice little package. 
 The sound in the game is great, although nothing is too spectacular. It has all the normal clangs 
 and crashes, as well as pretty good music during different parts of the game. Again, it's not the 
 best sound in a game, but it's solid and does the job well. That is, until you get to the cinematics. 
 Wow. The voice acting in the game is fantastic, with even the lip-syncing being dead on for the 
 most part. My personal gripe is that the bad guy in the game is apparently a voice and motion capture 
 of Andy Serkis, the guy who plays Gollum/Smeagol in LOTR, and I just find him annoying. Apart from 
 that personal note, I think this game deserves an Emmy for best animated film of the year. Not 
 really, but you know. By the time the final credits roll by, Heavenly Sword will have done everything 
 expected, shown some of the power of the PS3, done some butt-kicking, told a great story, and left 
 you feeling like you just saved the world. The biggest gripe most gamers will have is the length 
 of the game, clocking in at around or just under 8 hours. I therefore _highly_ recommend a rental, 
 if for nothing else to just get to see one of the PS3's first great cinematic achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yobyop7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The Graphics and gameplay are amazing.... When you get to use Her sister and shoot arrows it is 
 soooo much fun..... Great Story .. My only complaint was defeating the bosses with repetative block 
 defense otherwise a solid game and I wish more games were like this one .. a change of pace and 
 new step into the right direction for games to come. Im ready to buy part 2. The best graphics 
 on any game ive seen so far... The PS3 needs to continue to put games like this on their system. 
 PS3 lacks anything stellar nothing to write home about until this and it is too short , but well 
 worth it.
  buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Presentation &amp; Graphics: The graphics are pretty good in the game. Nice colorful environments 
 and great lighting. Character models also look very good as well. This is one of the best looking 
 games on the PS3 hands down. Although it is a beautiful game, the thing that stands out is high 
 quality of facial animation. The motion capture team did a great job and created the best example 
 of an interactive blockbuster movie.
  
  Sound: The game has a great soundtrack that sets the tone for the game and never feels out of place. 
 The voice acting in the game is top notch.
  
  Gameplay: Although it is a button masher at heart, there is some strategy involved to the game. 
 Different stances that Nariko, the main character, uses during the game bring about different attacks 
 and combos. Also, depending on what style you use at the time, you'll be able to block and counter 
 enemy moves if you match the color and timing of the enemies attack. There are also some shooting 
 elements with a sub character named Kai who adds her own twists to the gameplay. Kai's missions 
 usually involve her shooting arrows and avoiding enemies. You can use the motion capabilities of 
 the Sixaxis controler to guide your shot to the enemy after you fire, which makes for a fun little 
 diversion. There are also minor puzzles throughout the game, but they are simple and not too distracting.
 
  
  Replayability: Probably the most nagging thing about this game is its length. The game can easily 
 be beaten in 6-8 hours. Although it is fun enough for 1 or two more play throughs, there isn't 
 much reason too unless you want to unlock some extra artwork to look at later on.
  
  Final Thoughts: Heavenly Sword is a great start to what should undoubtedly turn out a number of 
 sequels. It looks nice, plays well, and is fun and interesting from beginning to end. However, 
 in the end, despite how good it is, the game is just over far too quickly. And its really difficult 
 to reccomend to anyone that this is a must buy at the current standard 60 dollar price tag. If 
 money is no object, and you just want to buy a good game for your PS3, then by all means you can't 
 go wrong with Heavenly Sword. However, if you want your dollars to go a long way, you may want 
 to pass on this one. However, definitely give it a good rental if you have the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnthepirate
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I'm sick of fan boys trying to take great games that other consoles have and try to bash them. thats 
 why i'm doing this review. This game is fun but nothing new. Just a big battle button masher with 
 great graphics and some cool boss fights. These fan boys say don't believe the hype of halo 3, but 
 you want us to believe your word on this? Its above mediocre, but not great, or a triple a title. I 
 played this at my friends house and we had fun, but once it was over there was nothing else to 
 really do with it but button mash some more, sorry doesn't work for me.
  
  This is a good start but i'd like to see more gameplay with the graphics and not just a last gen 
 game with cool graphics. I'm still waiting for a system seller before I invest in PS 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I have to start by saying that I dont play games as often as i'd like due to other commitments, 
 so for anything to keep my attention through to the end, it has to be something special, and this 
 game doesn't dissapoint!
  
  Usually when i buy a game it holds my interest for a few levels before i have to go do something 
 else, usually resulting in me not touching the game again for months if ever again. But from the 
 very first level this game grips you, sucks you in and doesn't let go until it's finished with 
 you, and even then it holds some sort of spell on you to come back for more.
  
  the graphics are top notch, a few people have commented about how it fails to compare to the excellent 
 gears of war and i agree, both have excellent detail and shading. however i would like to remind 
 them that the 360 is almost 4 years old now and the game makers have probably reached their peak 
 graphically with what the xbox can achieve. the playstation hasnt even been out a year yet and 
 is already matching its graphics! (Before any of youstart saying i'm biased, i also own an xbox 
 360 and am not bashing it, just stating fact) .
  
  The voice acting from the cast wouldn't be misplaced in a summer blockbuster it's that good. andy 
 serkis and all have done themselves proud once more.
  
  Gameplay i'll admit can degenerate into button bashing admittedly when there's almost 500 PEOPLE 
 ON SCREEN, when it comes to the bosses you'll have to use all your abilities to outwit them.
  
  As for the length of the game, many have complained about the game being too short. I probably 
 won't make many friends by saying this but i think its refreshing and a welcome break from the 
 thumb/back aching slog through some games e. g. Oblivion ( not taking anything away from that game, 
 excellent as it is even after all this time, it does sometimes feel endless!!!!) and would you 
 have preferred the game designers tack on a few extra levels just for the sake of making it longer? 
 the pace of this game is perfect as it is, really makes you feel as if the end of the clan is fast 
 approaching.
  
  As for the six axis? The first time i used it, it felt odd, but only on the first go. every time 
 after that i thought it was as intuitive as the rest of the game. It reminded me of the first time 
 i used an analogue controller instead of the digital, odd at first but now all consoles use them!
 
  
  I've rambled long enough now, so i'll just finish by saying, if you've got a ps3 you NEED to play 
 this game, and if you still think it may be too short, you need to rent it, you owe your ps3 that 
 much. what a game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful original graphics with great lighting. Some of the best animation produced 
 for a video game. Clean surround sound as long as you have the surround to foot it. Great enemy 
 personalities with some really really good in game cut scenes boosting higher texture characters. 
 Coolest weapon throwing system in a long time. Combat was easy to grasp at first but was also still 
 challenging when used to it.
  
  The Bad: So short that it left me wanting more. Wish it had some sort of Multiplayer maybe with 
 its item throwing abilities. Bosses felt over hard at times as if you had to fight perfect in order 
 to win.
  
  Rating based on 10/9/2007 current gen comparison of PS3 games
  Graphics 9
  Audio 10
  Gameplay 9
  Replay 7
  Worth collecting 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancerex6
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, one of the biggest first party games due out in 2007. It obviously doesn't dissapoint. 
 Every good thing comes to an end, but this game ended before you can truely enjoy the experience.
 
  
  Graphically this game is superb, from character to background, everything is in great detail. But 
 the shadowing in this game needs some work as the shadows are fuzzy and looks out of place at times.
 
  
  Gameplay is definitely one of the most rewarding part of heavenly sword, as it feel great when 
 killing hundreds of enemies in one blow. But Kai's gameplay is more fustrating than it is fun. 
 the aftertouch isnt very beginner friendly and may require you to redo the missions loads of time, 
 before finally getting the hang of it.
  
  The story is definitely short for a acton based game, it can be finished in just 7-8 hours on normal 
 mode, and theres not really a lot of rewards to be unlocked as you can find most the of the content 
 on the internet. After completing the game, theres just no urge to go back and replay the game 
 again.
  
  If this game needs to be a must buy, it will need to have more content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilly222
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  a very good game best that i have played in a while and there were also very origanal pieces in 
 the game that i havent seen in any other, the graphics and acting in the game where also very good. 
 at the start your throwin into the deep end getting you right into the game you will spend most 
 of your time given the buttons on the controller a bit of a bashing lol and you can also just about 
 pick up anything to throw at the enemy inculding the dead enemy themselves, the sixaxis controls 
 also work very well in this game steering you arrows, swords and hammers towards the enemy, the bosses 
 are also good and are well designed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrhoward
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Best game I've ever played in my life, it was full of non stop action. Actually loved the fact 
 that you could play with Kai too. It just felt like i was in the game. and from an Artist point 
 of view, i have to say this people did a Beautiful, and incredible work, the Character design, 
 the concept, the layouts, the story, make this game AWESOME... It was worth buying my PS3 for this 
 game, without even taking into consideration that it was short. Also the Animated series was a 
 blast, again lost effort was put into this game, The only thing i hate is that my TV is crap, it 
 would of been so much better to play this game on a plasma LOL .. seriously all i can say is HEAVENLY 
 SWORD ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Brimming with sky-high production values and solid gameplay mechanics, Heavenly Sword proves itself 
 in many ways, but doesn't appeal much outside of a typical rental period.
  
  The story centers around a red haired chick named Nariko. The game starts off with our heroine 
 kicking the bucket; therefore, the entire story is delivered as a flashback, which is an interesting 
 way to deliver the plot. Set in ancient times, there was a time where a prophecy stated that the 
 savior of mankind would be able to wield the Heavenly Sword. Unaware of the whole XY chromosome 
 thing, they view Nariko's birth as a female as a curse. As you may have guessed, there's a tyrant 
 king of sorts who really wants the Heavenly Sword. So in typical, super-villain fashion, he sends 
 his minions and soldiers to retrieve it. Lucky for him, he manages to corner Nariko and the sword. 
 Oh and by the way, if you wield the Heavenly Sword, you'll die. So after eventually being cornered, 
 Nariko is forced to wield this massive blade
  
  The only things keeping this game from being another button-masher are the three different stances 
 you can be in depending on your situation. There's the power stance, speed stance, and the range 
 stance. Each color-coated stance has its own weaknesses and strengths. Learning and knowing which 
 stance to use against the different enemies is a must  especially if you plan on getting further 
 than the first boss.
  
  The game regularly shifts between the two heroines, Nariko and Kai. While Nariko's sections are 
 usually hand to hand combat heavy, Kai's portions of the game are all about her crossbow. You can 
 use the SIXAXIS controls here to guide her arrows into many enemy 'masculine areas'. However, be 
 warned; Kai is absolutely defenseless if the enemy gets too close. This implementation of the second 
 character really balances the ranged and melee aspects together nicely. The game will sometimes 
 have literally hundreds, if not thousands of enemies on screen without slowdown. Most of the levels 
 will center around Nariko and Kai killing thousands of enemies. Some of the levels will also center 
 around Nariko and Kai killing thousands of enemies with a canon!
  
  The boss battles are great, but not unique nor memorable. However, the character design is absolutely 
 mind blowing, making up for the predictable fights. The controls are responsive and fluid enough 
 while the SIXAXIS is implemented nicely. Every level is unique in its own way, never letting you 
 go until you're done with this 6 hour journey.
  
  The presentation is the most noteworthy of all. The visuals are absolutely stunning, and although 
 enemies will look, animate, and play exactly the same, there are so many on-screen without a single 
 instance of frame-rate hitching, that the occasional glitch or blocky texture can be forgiven. 
 The CG and in-game cut-scenes are both fantastically animated, with the camera being an absolute 
 marvel to witness. For example, let's say that someone starts talking while you are in the middle 
 of a heated battle. Instead of stopping the action to deliver the plot twist or whatnot, the game 
 will split the camera into two screens  one with you fighting and the other being a fully real-time 
 cut-scene. These touches add to what would otherwise be a fantastic blockbuster film.
  
  The audio department is the best of all. The voice acting is some of the best to date; they're 
 perfectly synced and the cast is suiting. The score is equally strong making up an exceptional 
 audio package.
  
  At its core, the game is a success. However, it ends far too quickly to be remembered as nothing 
 more than a Saturday well spent. Sure, you'll unlock a "hell mode" difficulty and will be able 
 to unlock art/video bonuses, but playing the game over again feels like licking a plate full of 
 crumbs after you've eaten an incredibly small cookie. This can equal a not-so-hot buy, but one 
 of the best rentals you could hope for.
  
  The game-play and the production values are great, but the length and unappealing bonuses at the 
 end keep it from being a could-have-been epic. Buying this game? You may want to think about it. 
 Renting it? You won't regret it.
  
  ~Hazelnutman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtonow
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Cinematic the plot pulls you in from the get go, and this golden nugget of eye candy has provided 
 hours of fun... The game play is great- tons of action is interrupted only briefly a few times 
 to open a doorThe action sequences are great full blown throw downs The puzzle sections (while 
 few and relatively fair between) are also fun: They consist of two main types: pull a lever or 
 hit a gong. The best are the hit a gong.. Eventually, you will have to figure out how to use your 
 after touch Pick up an object, and throw it by holding down on the square or x button You get 
 a first person-ish view of the thrown object and can now control the direction w/ tilts of the 
 sixaxis. Mostly, it is throwing on a shield to hit a gong and open a door The boss battles are 
 good, slightly challenging, but not pull your hair out hard, although I could imagine a few hardcore 
 gamers complaining that some of the bosses are two easy but personally, after spending an hour 
 pummeling hundreds of bad guys, I dont want to spend the next hour trying to pummel one boss
 
  Besides the enjoying all the mashing, Ive really enjoy the after touch and replaying sections 
 of the game where you have to use the sixacces to control trajectory of bows and cannons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Being one of the first seriously hyped, PS3 exclusive games released on the console, Heavenly Sword 
 has a good deal riding on it's shoulders. The demo was called the best demo of all time on various 
 show floors months before the game's release. Heavenly Sword follows the adventures of Nariko, 
 an amazon warrior defending her people and land from an evil warlord named Bohan. Along the way, 
 she encounters a powerful artifact that becomes the focus of the game - and her main means of dispatching 
 Bohan's cronies. Although the plot to action games is usually an afterthought, Heavenly Swords 
 makers draw you in with an extremely cinematic presentation, excellent voice acting, and beautiful 
 production values all-around. They succeed. You end up paying more attention and getting drawn 
 in to the characters struggle, while still keeping the action fast, fun, and intense. Much has 
 been said about the gameplay - in my mind a cross between Ninja Gaiden and God Of War, but while 
 the combat may borrow elements from those games, it has a unique flow that seperates it from those 
 titles. The stances add variety to your attacks and different combat strategies, while powerful 
 moves called Superstyles that instantly kill your enemy with a brutal series of attacks (complete 
 with dramatic music and a swooping camera close up) - are your incentive and reward for stringing 
 together massive combos. It's a system that works well, without being too demanding or annoying 
 for the average player. Let's us not forget one of Heavenly Sword's biggest selling points: Presentation. 
 Showcasing the power and Blu-Ray capacity of the PS3, this game will consistenly have you stopping 
 to just stare at the scenery. The sound is also amonst the best you will ever hear in a videogame 
 - from the perfectly samped bone-crunching sound effects, to a movie quality musical score, it 
 deserves to be played on a nice sound system. Did I mention the incredible voice acting and amazing 
 cinematics that tell the story throughout? The only problem I can see people having with this game 
 is it's length. I beat it in 3 sittings, probably a total of 8 or so hours. I felt like it was 
 a perfect length for this type of game. Any more would've felt repetitive and long-winded. Any 
 shorter, and the roller-coaster ride wouldn't have been worth the price of admission. As it stands, 
 Heavenly Sword is a great game that every PS3 owner should give a try, and stands as a testament 
 to the potential bright future for Sony's much-lauded next-gen strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  If it weren't for the extremely short length of the game, Heavenly Sword would have gotten a 9/10 
 or more in my book. The game features some of the best in game graphics I've seen and it features 
 THE best cut-scene graphics I have ever seen. The story in this game is absolutely incredible and 
 really draws you in. It's too bad it has to end so early.
  
  Heavenly Sword starts you off playing as Nariko and having to defend your fort. Throughout the 
 game you'll switch off to play as Kai. At first I didn't particularly enjoy these side missions, 
 but later on they really fit into the story very well and get much better. These missions focus 
 on the Sixaxis controls which work well in some areas and not so well in others. One puzzle I really 
 did not enjoy in the game was throwing shields at gongs to open gates. Most times it's an awkard 
 angle to throw at, and the Sixaxis isn't as responsive as it could be. The soundtrack is terrific 
 and the voice-acting is terrific! It really couldn't be any better. The game is so good with the 
 graphics, sound, and story that it really plays like a movie. I love the combat system in this 
 game. You have 3 stances, speed, range, power. Each is effective in different situations, and you 
 really do have to use each pretty evenly. The blocking system requires you to switch stances to 
 block different attacks from enemies, indicated by a blue or orange aura around the enemy. This 
 system works really well and keeps Heavenly Sword from being a mindless button-masher.
  
  All in all, Heavenly sword is a must-play game for anyone owning a PS3. I wouldn't really recommend 
 purchasing it as it can be beaten in a weekend and doesn't offer much replay. You unlock a Hell 
 mode after beating it the first time, but there isn't much else to do or unlock. Either way, this 
 was a great starting point for what I hope becomes a new franchise for Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3146
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  A lot like God of war
  
  Beautiful scenery, colorful
  
  Great Battle styles
  
  Bohan is a great actor, funny at times
  
  Good use of SIXAXIS when throwing or shooting stuff
 
  
  Too short though- worst problem
  
  Great story, Sad ending
  
  Classic
  
  Large amount of detail to character faces, very original
  
  Lots of combos
  
  Movie scenes 
 look great
  
  Best next gen. game so far
  
  Realistic at times
  
  They should make a movie
  
  Hope for a sequel
  
  In my opinion this is a game that you 
 only play once, except maybe the one part where you play with Kai (Nakiro's friend) and shoot enemys 
 from above.
  Its my favorite part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Yeah I know.... Apologies for the generic title, but I'm not feeling too creative right now :?
 
  
  Anyways, Heavenly Sword...
  
  Ever since I first heard about this game, way back, I was interested in how it would turn out. 
 I grew very keep on this game and was eagerly awaiting its release here in the UK. I downloaded 
 and played the demo when it came out a couple of months ago, and thought it was great, so that 
 made me more excited about it.
  
  Maybe now after reading that 1st paragraph, you think I'm going to say well, I was disappointed 
 or that the game dosen't live up to the hype? Well, I can say without a shadow of a doubt this 
 game truly lives up to the hype.
  
  To sum this game up in one word; Epic.
  
  The game is an incredible rich and detailed story surrounding Nariko and the Heavenly Sword. All 
 the characters in the game are totally believable and very like-able in their own way. The character 
 and facial amination in the game is the best I've ever seen in a game so far, its amazing. This 
 really adds to the feel that your not just playing a game, your immersed in a epic movie or some 
 sort.
  
  The gameplay is simple, easy to learn but never tiresome, unlike some other hack and slash games 
 out there. The three stances of the Sword (Power, Speed and Range) all work to their own advantage. 
 You need to time your attacks carefully, not just go in their all guns blazing.
  
  Heavenly Sword plays very well, it looks incredible, the animation is amazingly detailed, the story 
 is rich, the voice acting is fantastic...
  
  The title is very fitting as this is indeed a truely Heavenly experience, and I recommend this 
 to every PS3 owner out there.
  
  :twisted: Dave :twisted: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BushWacker69
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  A very good game that kept me thoroughly entertained from start to finish, the combat easily rivals 
 that of any other action adventure and easily surpasses most. With a story that is easily capable 
 of being a hollywood blockbuster, i much prefer it in this format however as i believe not even 
 the best of films has ever matched this beauty, and it is beautiful. The Character animation is 
 flawless, and each charcter being fully developed, the bad guys even had me laughing at points, 
 with flying fox being such an evolved character that he's both hated and liked at seperate points. 
 Nariko was a fully immersive character with the monologues inside the sword (or at least thats 
 what i think it was) being enlightening to what she's thnking, with the facial animations being 
 perfect at these points. The only flaws that i have found in it is the length, yes the most common 
 of complaints, capping off at around 6-7 hours it isn't very long for a game and would appear to 
 be the perfect choice for a rental, however as it aspires to be an interactive movie it offers 
 such an immersive plot that any game that can sit you down and stare at a screen for several 2-3 
 hour sessions without every becoming tiresome is truly awesome. Also take into account that as 
 it's effectively an interactive film it's pretty long in length, with films being proven to be 
 most effective between 1.5 and 2 hours. By far the most value for money film there will ever be, 
 and by far the most beautiful game at this moment in time. but by no means the best value for money 
 game there will ever be, but it's certainly worth it in my books.
  
  my first review, i try to sound smart, but i shouldn't really, most of you got bored half way through. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tremor671
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  PS3 has (unfortunately) not been able to display the huge amount of processing power packed underneath 
 its hood... until recently. Heavenly Sword is quite possibly the most visually stunning game on 
 the market to date. The back grounds are so stunning that you'll occasionally have to physically 
 tear your eyes from the scenery just to fight the massive army in front of you. But don't think 
 this means long loading times or glitches. But that is not all heavenly sword has to offer. When 
 you play the first few levels you'll immediately notice the controls. They combine the total B. A.-ness 
 of God of War with the quick, hack and slash of epic Ninja Gaiden Sigma. The story is pretty good 
 but there's not enough twists for today's audience, unless you watch the animation series of the 
 game (available on PSN) . The major problem with the game is how short it is. The first 4 chapters 
 can be beaten in 3-4 hours and the last chapter, which is pretty difficult at times, lasts maybe 
 another 3. Multiplayer of some sort would be nice but I can't argue. All and all, Heavenly sword 
 is action packed beat-'em-up that will make you forget all about God of War II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Storyline and characters are top shelf and brought vividly to life by excellent voice acting, thrilling 
 dialog, and wonderful animations. Action is God of War like in the form of a beautiful redhead. 
 Graphics are stunning and visual presentation is the best yet seen on the PS3. The game makes good 
 use of the Sixaxis controls to add variety and spice to the gameplay. The game ends on a high note, 
 leaving you begging for more.
  
  The Bad:
  The game is over too soon. Some of the voices get drowned out by the music at the default settings. 
 Audio fluctuates a bit. Brief and minor stuttering occurs at times during cut scenes. Plenty of 
 things left unexplained to leave room for the sequel.
  
  If you're looking for the signature title for the PS3 then look no further. Heavenly Sword is a 
 visceral thrill ride of a game that takes you through a tumultuous roller coaster ride of emotion 
 and leaves you feeling both satisfied and eager for the next installment at the end.
  
  The game opens with a sequence titled The Final Battle. Immediately, you hear Nariko narrating 
 as she explains that she was meant to be born a man, according to the prophecy of the clan. Her 
 being born a woman was taken as an omen of doom. She was considered to be an abomination.
  
  After a couple of minutes of slaughter wherein you dispatch a few dozen of the thousands of 
 soldier grunts without breaking a sweat, you're introduced to the first storyline sequence of the 
 game, and the stage is set. Nariko has chosen to wield the Heavenly Sword, which no mortal was 
 ever meant to wield. To wield it grants incredible power... for a time. And then it grants death 
 to the wielder as a price for that power.
  
  As Nariko lays on the battlefield dying from the sword claiming its payment, you see the insidious 
 Lord Bohan, the main villain of the game, looking on with a mysterious raven behind him. Nariko's 
 soul starts flying skyward and she screams, Wait!
  
  And then you see her in a barren looking place, and she begins arguing with someone off camera, 
 pleading to be sent back. The game has begun. You are moved back in time in the story to three 
 days prior, where you now get to act out the events leading up to the opening sequence before you 
 catch up to where the game started. These events will encompass an epic trial that is truly worthy 
 of this highly anticipated title.
  
  Gameplay for Heavenly Sword is one of the many strong points for the title and is divided into 
 three main parts. The first part is combat, with you controlling Nariko, and will feel immediately 
 familiar to anyone who has ever played either of the two God of War games. In fact, it is nearly 
 identical and was likely copied for that very purpose. You have two main attack buttons, the square 
 and the triangle, and will automatically block when you are not attacking. The left analog stick 
 moves you around, and the right analog stick lets you dodge.
  
  In addition, the X button allows you to pick up a very wide variety of objects to throw either 
 at other enemies or at triggers. Last, but not least, you can also unleash devastating counterattacks 
 by blocking and then timing the attack correctly. Once you get the Heavenly Sword, the complexity 
 of the combat increases dramatically from mere button mashing to something a bit more in-depth.
 
  
  At that point, you are introduced to three different styles for using the sword: Range, Speed 
 and Power. Each style has different strengths and weaknesses, and is appropriate for different 
 situations. Range for example, can be used to deflect missile attacks. Enemies will also make use 
 of varying attack styles going forward. So now, it is no longer a matter of just facing the right 
 direction to block incoming attacks. If you're blocking in the speed style, and your opponent attacks 
 in the power style, you're going to get hurt.
  
  Also given when you obtain the Heavenly Sword are the Super Styles. These are your finishing 
 moves and must be charged up to use. And believe me, they finish hard. There are three levels of 
 super style moves that you can unlock throughout the game through winning style points through 
 consecutive hits without someone hitting you.
  
  Last but not least is the Sixaxis controls for the combat. Any time you get hit and knocked into 
 the air, if you shake the controller quickly enough, you can recover in mid air by latching onto 
 a nearby enemy, yanking yourself downwards. This puts you back on your feet immediately and stuns 
 the enemy you latch onto. As a bonus, it looks wicked cool. Yeah, I used the phrase wicked cool. 
 I went there. Deal with it.
  
  The second form of gameplay the game gives you is when you are called upon to wield either a cannon, 
 a bow, or some other form of ranged weaponry. This is where the Sixaxis controller gets used in 
 a truly meaningful way for the first time in a top-shelf exclusive title for the PS3. By holding 
 down the fire button after you shoot your weapon, you can have the camera go along for a ride on 
 your projectile. Then, by moving the controller, you can guide the projectile to its target. The 
 game refers to this as after touch and it is very fun. That's a good thing since you'll use it 
 frequently throughout the game. You can also use this with thrown weapons in combat if you like.
 
  
  Finally, for a couple of sequences you will control a girl named Kai. Kai is a nimble archer friend 
 of Nariko. She is a bit of a wild child, but someone you will quickly grow attached to since not 
 only is she a great deal of fun to play, but she is also a truly pure, good soul. With Kai, the 
 gameplay is to stay away from enemies, dodging over and around various parts of the scenery to 
 find cover to shoot from. Kai can hit people with her bow to temporarily stun them if they get 
 close and give herself time to get away, but she is absolutely useless in head to head combat.
 
  
  The graphics on the game range from great, to groundbreaking during some of the more dramatic cut 
 scenes. Perhaps most impressive is how many enemies the game puts on screen without the frame rate 
 protesting. While the main combat graphics are very good, it is during some of the storyline sequences 
 that they truly reach another level. The facial expressions are lifelike and the mouth movements 
 are spot on when someone is talking.
  
  Also worthy of note is the look and feel of the setting itself. Once again like God of War, the 
 game has a tendency to really feel massive. Everything in the background lends the impression that 
 it is a huge world that you are moving around in, and while the game itself is entirely linear 
 and you don't get to go and explore it, the setting feels majestic nonetheless.
  
  One of the few downsides to the game occurs at times during the audio. While the voice acting is 
 impressive, it can at times be difficult to hear what the characters are setting when the actors 
 alter their volume for dramatic effect and the music doesn't go down in volume at the same time. 
 This can be very frustrating because someone like Bohan will be ranting in a loud screech one moment, 
 and then drop down to a whisper and you'll miss something he said unless you've turned down the 
 music significantly. This can be a bit of a recurring problem as the sound of the game goes up 
 and down.
  
  As other reviews have no doubt mentioned, the other main drawback of the game is that it is quite 
 short. It clocks in at around seven hours of playtime without rushing anything. On the plus side, 
 the game is so damned impressive that you'll probably play it at least twice since you unlock a 
 higher difficulty level when you beat it the first time.
  
  I can also understand why the game was so short. The developers of the game were undoubtedly trying 
 to tell a tight, focused, creative story. They sacrificed quantity of game time for quality, and, 
 frankly, I consider that a worthy trade-off. If they had thrown a couple more hours of gametime 
 in just to make it longer, I'm not sure the game would be as intense and focused as it is. Overall, 
 while I am disappointed the game didn't last me longer, I can't say that I feel that I didn't get 
 more than my money's worth for it.
  
  In summary, this game is the first true must buy exclusive title for PS3 owners who previously 
 played Ninja Gaiden in one of its prior incarnations. It earns the title masterpiece in my mind, 
 and I would highly recommend it for anyone who doesn't mind spending $60 for a short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunner_prince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  Lara croft has been replaced. this is one hell of a game. still playing it. people say that its very 
 short. but this one definitely has a replay value. the combos are awesome and there is huge list 
 of combos to experiment with. thank god i didn't go with the early reviews and ditch nariko. i'm 
 already going back to play the previous chapters if im stuck somewhere.6-axis has been put to an 
 good use at last and its very satisfying too. kai's gameplay cud have been a bit more interesting. excellent 
 acting and voices. bg music is splendid. animation is one of the best ive seen so far. i'm definitely 
 expecting a sequel. aerial combos and special moves is a great feature.5 yrs of work has definitely 
 paid. i'm definitely looking forward for a lot from ninja theory team in the future and i'm also 
 confident that they won't let me down. they've proved that story plays and important role in games 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piru_lee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy ps3 game, its a jewel.
  
  I was afraid of the 6 hours length thing and the demo didn't gave me what I expected. After reading 
 lots of users reviews and impressions I gave this game a chance, bought it and just finished it.
 
  
  Yes, the game is short. I finished it in 6-7 Hours, but those hours were amazingly great. There 
 are games that last more than 10 hours and aren't that great, this one is awesome, even with the 
 cutscenes, witch are spectacular, the length is worth it.
  
  So:
  
  Graphics:::: 10
  Easy, the best graphics on the ps3 yet, no jaggies, beautiful. The models are sweet, Nariko looks 
 damn sexy and all characters are well designed. The landscapes and levels are great, clean textures 
 and nice shadows, really, this game is a jewel in graphics.
  
  Gameplay::::9.5
  The demo was kinda repetitive, the full game combines button smashing, with combo list and special 
 grabs. The gameplay is fast, the sixaxis is used when you throw an object or fire an arrow, also 
 used to activate air combos. For those who played the demo, the game has allot more to offer.
 
  
  Sound::::10
  Well, magnificent sound, great background and FX sounds. NO more words to say about this.
  
 
  Replay Factor::::8
  Well, if you finished the game you unlock Hell Mode , you won't replay this game unless you are 
 a hardcore gamer or your really want to unlock everything.
  
  Value::::10
  The best action game on the PS3 yet, a must have for all ps3 owners.
  
  Give it a try, don't 
 get the 6 hours issue bother you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosgrostas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful, Stunning, Cinematographic Experience ....
  Truly a work of Art a Movie or Game ? dont know but I love it!!!
  
  First as a movie this would 
 be great I wish they would just make it as a Animation movie already would be fantastic Second 
 as a game its great but not as much as its fun as a whole
  not enough liberty of action I found but really its more a movie in which there are some parts 
 which are interactive I have to say controlling the ''bullet'' time with the sinaxis controler
 
  is a dream come true WOW really cool to control an arrow up until it hits deep in the shoulder 
 OUCH !!!! or to just miss by so little anyway
  
  the graphics are not just beautiful their art litrally painted on ,Perfection!!
  why it did not 
 get a better review in I dont know
  But it is short yes.. so its like a 6-9hr movie god just rent the thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this it. This is what you've been waiting for on next gen platforms. Is 
 Heavenly Sword that good? Play it and If you don't agree then Ill book you an appointment at your 
 local psyche ward. I had been anticipating this game since someone mentioned it to me in a GameStop 
 back in Jan. Had been doing research on it and every scrap of information I picked up on it pointed 
 to what is now true. This game is awesome! From begin to end this game is enthralling and in a 
 number of ways very original. In other ways it does some same old same old, but it uses that as 
 a vehicle to achieve its overall goal: To kick butt and take names! Let's get to it....... first 
 the graphics are undeniably the best youre going to find on any platform and most definitely the 
 best on the PS3. From the movements to the cut scenes to the acting the overall experience you 
 will have in exploring the land of Heavenly Sword is outstanding. The motion capture process is 
 a labor of love. You can see the real life body movements, facial expressions, characteristics, 
 and the like. The stylized fighting and sword play are phenomenal. Hair flows, backgrounds are 
 interactive and lush; the number of characters on screen at one time is staggering. I'm not talking 
 about on screen just to be there they fight, fall, die, and everything in between. This is very 
 evident in the games great ending battle. To put it simply BEST AROUND!
  
  Game play is a step above the rest. Imagine God of war, but will precise calculation and without 
 the gore. Is that good um no, but it sure isnt bad. Watching Nariko (the heroine) fight is watching 
 a sweet ballet of martial arts. She moves sways and performs combos with the ease of your control. 
 Sometimes too easy and at other times you'll be overcome by the staggering depth of her moves. 
 Even though you'll fight hordes of enemy Soldiers you'll find it hard to use all of her combos. 
 The counter attack system is cool too. When you block an incoming attack with timing you will be 
 able to counter which will show a brief cut scene of Nariko performing what is often but not always 
 a death crushing move. What's even further flabbergasting is that it is seldom repetitive. The 
 controls them self are dead on as she will respond to your every button press. Then there is something 
 called After touch which smartly (and its bout time) uses the SIXAXIS controls to aim and throw 
 or aim and fire cannons or almost anything for that matter. Nariko's aid Kai is a little girl she 
 has found and helps her out from time to time. When she does it seems to fit perfectly within the 
 confines on the adventure and doesnt feel forced at all. Even her moves are graceful and fun to 
 mess around with. Kai uses after touch the most because she is equipped with a bow gun. It is so 
 sweet to aim an arrow from a great distance and guide it with precision into and enemy's forehead. 
 In short the game play is here all the way around.
  
  The Story -- not often an important in a beat em up game, but it here not only is it great, but 
 it is original. Youre not fighting to stop world domination, not for revenge, and not just because. 
 You fight for the survival of your clan from the disillusioned KING BOHAN. Who at times is very 
 funny. Nariko (seemingly the only female in her clan smurfette lol) the heroine is looked down 
 upon by everyone else in her clan even by her own father. Nevertheless she helps them survive the 
 pursuit of Bohan at every turn. One day she is given the task of protecting the Heavenly Sword 
 by her father Shen. This chore is given at a time of great distress as Bohan is staging a massive 
 attack on the clan. The sword is said to be sent to heaven and was wielded by a great warrior long 
 ago. It is said that when used it gives great power, but deals death to its uses as well. When 
 faced with a tough decision on her journey Nariko chooses to use the sword. From start to finish 
 she is constantly on the move and never has a chance to rest. The story is told in flashbacks, 
 but with more originality and a twist Nariko seems to be speaking to the sword from another world 
 as the story unfolds in a reverse order. To play it is to understand and truly appreciate it.
 
  
  The music is epic but somehow at the same time forgettable. No one tune stands out in my mind but 
 the score hits when needed. It is the brilliant voice work and acting done that takes things over 
 the top. The lines conform to mouth and actions follow speech with a scary realism. At times the 
 dialogue will have you sad, or laughing (especially Kai and Bohan) or angry as with one exchange 
 between Nariko and her father Shen. A full range of emotions are reached with this game. The bosses 
 also have that metal gear solid feel to them as they all have personality and are not just some 
 guy or gal to get past. No one likes Nariko except Kai and you get that feeling through the speech. 
 To close this review out there are a few things that make Heavenly Sword stand out from so many 
 before it. Nariko isn't a savior, she isn't some Bada$$, or even some sexy dominatrix. What she 
 is is a woman lost and determined to help those who don't even deserve to be helped. She fights 
 for survival and nothing more. Even in the end of the game she does something uncharacteristic 
 of heroes in these types of games. I won't spoil it, but lets say when face with a certain decision 
 if it were Kratos of God of War things would have gone differently. Speaking of the ending I had 
 not been enthralled by an ending like this since the likes of Metal Gear Solid 3. The battle between 
 Nariko and Bohan is ....... well its hard to describe..... once again to play it is to love it. 
 I will be playing this one for some time to come as it has become my second favorite game of all 
 time. Loved every minute of it thanks for reading and I hope you enjoy this game too. PEACE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoggySpew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Heavenly Sword is beautifull, I'll give you that. But there are quite alot of anoyances 
 that I noticed graphics wise. For instance, the ingame cinematics are mostly done with pre-recorded 
 renderings, some of them look uglier than the ones made realtime with the ingame engine. That is 
 cheating, and is a practice that I despice. Either you do it fully ingame, or you do it BETTER 
 pre rendered, but don't make it look like everything is done in game, when it is not.
  Furthermore, the game has not a solid framerate and suffers from screen tearing, which is allways 
 anoying. Everything also looks a bit overbloomed, but I think that is more of the style of the 
 game. Everything does have a very cinematic quality on it, especially the characters themselves. 
 The great facial animation and design makes them look on the right side of the uncanny valley.
 
  
  Story: (Bit spoilerish)
  
  The story of Nariko and the Heavenly Sword is now pretty much well known, so here is a recap: Girl 
 is cursed by Heavenly Sword tribe, gets handed over the Heavenly Sword for protection, but then 
 screws everything apparently up by using said Sword to rescue her daddy and tribesmen.
  
  Not much to ad to that story, if it wasn't for the perfect performance of Andy Serkis who directed 
 the story elements, and is also the bad guy in the play. Althought the story is quite generic somewhat, 
 it does avoid the pitfalls of clich&eacute;. The drama is unfolded in a realistic and heartfelt 
 way, especially in the latter part of the game, where everything is getting quite dark.
  
  The characters all, but one, have more dimensions to them. For instance, Roach, who isn't the brightest 
 of the bunch, is quite tragic, because the only thing he ever wants is being loved by his father, 
 who happens to be King Bohan. The only character that really doesn't have such depth is Whiptail, 
 but luckilly she doesn't ruin the story.
  
  Gameplay: And here is where it lacks: For all the glory that is the story and the graphics, you 
 have a quite a simplistic, yet sometimes frustrating gameplay elements. As is known now, you have 
 3 stances where you can switch to, each with there individual strenghts and weaknesses. But it 
 doesn't really matter what stance you prefer, you can hack &amp; slash you way through most of 
 the game in one stances. But there lies the trap, because some instances require you to change 
 stance. So this means alot of fighting, but also alot of unneccesary dieing.
  But even so, the gameplay is quite easy, so you will get through quite fast. And then it doesn't 
 really help that the game is short. The difficulty doesn't increase much during the game.
  If we must take a comparison with God of War, which was also quite easy to play for, you will notice 
 that in God of War, the enemies get stronger and more difficult and require different tactics, 
 while in HS, you stick to one strategy and you can get through with quite a breeze.
  
  After finishing the game, a much harder mode comes out, which I would've had preferred in the beginning. 
 Then the game would be much more fullfilling.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  The game strength is obviously its story, but that's why there are movies. But to be fair, the 
 gameplay is decent, but just too short to last.
  I appreciate the fact that the game is translated in almost any language available, but that money 
 could've been better used for more gameplay elements.
  Besides, the Dutch (Because I am Dutch) localisation/dubbing is mostly done with the Dutch voices 
 for SpongeBob Squarepants, which makes it hard for me to take the story serious, when Master Chen 
 has the voice of Mr. Crabs. So my advice: DO NOT LOCALISE. It costs too much money to do, and it 
 would help people learn to read and speak English.
  I do not really mind the simplicity of the gameplay, if it wasn't for its length. I do believe 
 this is a very good game you should own, if it only was for Andy Serkis' input. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fruitboy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I rented it and finished it in two days. Great looking but not that interesting, God of War wanna 
 be. Definitely worth playing but not buying. RENT IT!!! It was over before I actually got into 
 the character, or the story... the best way to describe it would be to compare it to a half hour 
 show that solves the problem by the end of each episode. Doubt there will be a sequel and even 
 if there was who would care. Again, it raised the bar in graphics, looked amazing with good game 
 play but way to short for an EPIC God of War, GRAW2, even Darkness were more epic games than this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damion_10_7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  One of the first really 'highly anticipated' PS3 games, and boy doesnt it live up to it. You play 
 the game as Nariko, supposedly an outcast in her own clan - prophecy always ruins somebody's day 
 - in a mostly 3rd person viewpoint throughout the entire game. You begin your journey immediately 
 under attack from the games arch-villain King Bohan who is after your clan for an ancient relic 
 - you guessed it - the Heavenly Sword they've been protecting for ages. It is supposed to grant 
 whomever is wielding it awesome powers but, unfortunately it kills them in the process.
  
  Desperate to save her fathers life, Nariko picks up the sword and starts swinging. (This is where 
 it gets fun) . You play through the game trying to rescue your clan from the evil King, and at the 
 same time preventing them from taking the Sword. You have three distinct stances - speed, power, 
 and ranged - and Superstyle attacks that you use from performing various combo attacks you unlock 
 as you go. As the name implies, the Superstyle attacks are very powerful and stylish attacks you 
 unleash on one or a number of foes, and can be very devastating. Theyre also incredibly entertaining 
 to watch. You block attacks and counterattack depending on which stance your enemy is attacking 
 from.
  
  Overall the controls are great. Its easy to switch stances on the fly, and the counter attack system 
 is really well laid out. The camera angles can feel a little bit rigid at times, but its usually 
 very smooth.
  
  At certain intervals in the game you change roles to the small, interesting character Kai. Kai's 
 sequences mainly involve some kind of support role for Nariko, and generally involve puzzles of 
 some sort. Instead of a sword, as Kai you use a crossbow. Coupled with the ability to direct the 
 arrows after you fire them, Kai's portions of the game are a very refreshing break from the button 
 mashing, and fairly entertaining. Besides the INCREDIBLE graphics, what makes the game really stand 
 out is the superb quality of the voice acting, and character development. Each of the villains 
 really stands out, and are all memorable. The facial animation really brings them to life.
  
  Finally, the only bad thing to say about this game is the length. Its over way before you feel 
 like quitting. Overall its an awesome game, but you cant make a game THIS good and make it so short. 
 OF COURSE people are going to want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfurse77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I love the movies and I love video games. I think this game is the first to successfully cross 
 the threshold of both mediums and keep it quite fresh. I was amazed by the art, character models, 
 the music, the actor performances... all top notch, A+ material. The gameplay was fun but maybe 
 a little too much button-mashing for my taste. The game was also short, maybe only 6-8 hours, but 
 it was entertaining and intense for that time. The story and cinematics were the heart of this 
 movie and they were awesome. Not many games do this much character development when they focus 
 so much on the game play. That is the trade off, I guess. Regardless, Heavenly Sword was a breath 
 of fresh air and I would recommend and PS3 owner to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_147
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Well.... where do i start. This game is simply a pure Masterpiece it takes a big step to proof gaming 
 is an art.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Best graphics on the console to Date
  
  Storyline 10/10
  
  A very Deep Storyline with a few Plot Twist that will make you play until 
 you finish the game
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  great combat System, you have three stances: Power, Range and Speed
  each stance has its own 
 combos and super style moves
  
  Lenght 9/10
  
  The game is a little short when you finish the gmae you unlock HELL mode wich its realy hard to 
 beat
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  
  amazing and unique game if you have a PS3 you should buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lun-Sei
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword was one of the most anticipated releases for PS3 owners, and one of that gaming 
 platform's unique exclusives. With its stunning graphics and its high production values, it was 
 expected to be a true Killer Application. However I, unlike most PS3 owners, have never been eager 
 to play that game. My thought was: a God of War , set in a sort of Japan, with a chick instead 
 of Kratos... oh please, no, thanks.
  Luckily, my brother happened to borrow that videogame from a friend, and he brought it to me just 
 so I could give it a look. Not even a dozen minutes after the videogame's start, I had realized 
 how my conjectures were totally wrong. Needless to say, I ended up asking to keep the game for 
 a few days -and the more I played, the more I realized that maybe, for once, the hype for a much 
 promised videogame was deserved.
  
  The story at the basis of Heavenly Sword is, all in all, rather simple: there's this legendary 
 sword who is said to have been left behind by a god who used it to fight the evilness of a certain 
 Crow King. Point is, this sacred sword does indeed enhance the fighting prowess of the wielder, 
 but it also happens to feed on blood -and ultimately, even on the life of its own possessor. Because 
 of its power, the sword had for centuries been kept safe and hidden by a clan, a clan of which 
 our protagonist, Nariko, is a member. When Nariko's mother was pregnant, it was expected that she 
 would give birth to the incarnation of a new savior, to the embodiment of that legendary god -but 
 alas, a female child was born, and from that moment Nariko was doomed to be considered a sign of 
 bad luck and doom for her people. But when a certain tyrant, king Bohan, is dangerously extending 
 his power and his greed to the point of desiring that weapon, Nariko decides to go against her 
 clan's order and wield the forbidden heavenly sword to save those people who so much despise her....
 
  
  The story is all in all predictable in many of its parts, yet what makes a signifying difference 
 are the way it unfolds, the kind of dialogues, and the style of acting. Yes, acting - Heavenly 
 Sword blends the expressive potential of next-gen graphics and animations with the prowess of real 
 actors used in motion capture. The result is something I have never witnessed before: it's the 
 first time one can say a videogame character is acting well the part, or is stealing the scene, 
 or is overdoing it... it makes you feel as if you were judging a theatrical performance while watching 
 a play. And it adds to a lot of acting fun even to the simplest scenes -playing Heavenly Sword 
 makes me feel not just like watching a movie, but even like watching live theatre, and going to 
 a play is something I always relish.
  
  The theatrical effect is helped both by the cast of actors and the cast of characters they represent. 
 Andy Serkis (who was also Gollum in Lord of the Rings) gives a lot of thespian eccentricity and 
 acting charisma to the shrewd but mythomaniac king Bohan, undeniably the scene-stealer of the show 
 (Serkis was highly involved with this project as he also was the acting director and one of the 
 scripts writers) . The main heroine, Nariko, though portrayed by a non-famous actress, has impressed 
 me so much with her strong will and bravery, that she probably goes as far as to be the best female 
 character Ive ever seen in a videogame (!) . Same applies for the cute half-crazy coprotagonist 
 Kai, who in my opinion is the one with the most developed psychological depth. But all of the characters 
 show such a creative originality in their artistic concept and in their personality, that Ive 
 fallen in love with pretty much all of them (except maybe Narikos father) , and picking an absolute 
 favorite is very difficult. The villains generally portray a much welcome coin-op game of 80 
 feel, being all too exaggerate and way over the top. Their peculiarity goes as far as them being 
 the likes of a moray-woman, a turkey-man, a cockroach-man.... but the characters arent build up 
 only on their crazyness, and their personalities are always a pleasure to discover during the course 
 of the game.
  
  Of course, though, a videogame isn't only visual, musical, and acting quality. A videogame is also, 
 and more importantly, the gameplay. I have seen this game being often compared to the above mentioned 
 God of War , or even to Ninja Gaiden . Now, this is a reasonable consideration to make before trying 
 the game, but it is a very silly paragon to attempt after you've played it. Heavenly Sword is quite 
 different than those other two games: it feels and plays differently, and comparing it to them 
 maybe is a bit like comparing the movies of Lord of the Rings to those of Harry Potter because 
 they're both expensive fantasy-themed blockbusters.
  The key point of the fighting system is that, whenever Nariko wields the heavenly sword, she has 
 three different stances: ranged (normal) , speed, and heavy. The ranged stance wields like a sword, 
 the heavy stance (hold R1) wields like a huge two-handed swords, and the speed stance (hold L1) 
 wields like a chain with two blades attached to its ends. Three different fighting styles, which 
 offer a wide variety of long and different combos; in addition to this they can be switched in 
 the time of a second, thus allowing you, for example, to start with a normal attack combo and then 
 finish them off ending it with a couple power attacks. And as the game goes on, more combos will 
 be unlocked, making your character stronger and supposedly giving you a reward for your progresses. 
 However, the way the combo system increases and develops, I have failed to understand: that part 
 isn't very well implemented, as in, while you're in the middle of beating off some dudes, some 
 sort of new power/speed/normal combo unlocked! message will show up. Woah, I didn't even know how 
 I did it.
  The three fighting stances also work for the block and the counter-attack: if an enemy attacks 
 you with the heavy stance, you must block (and eventually counterattack) using the same type of 
 stance. All these details work very well in making sure that Heavenly Sword isn't a buttonmasher. 
 (Actually, I challenge anyone to complete the game by simply randomly pressing the attack buttons.)
 
  Another feature of the combat system is the superstyle move : once you charged up by beating up 
 enough enemies, you can execute some acrobatic and very pleasant to see finishing move (and there's 
 so many of them to see) . You can also upgrade the superstyle move, which means that when you execute 
 it you will involve other enemies in it and thus will be doing quite more damage.
  
  Even though the combat system is so nice, one may feel the game could get repetitive if it was 
 but an endless  thing. Thankfully there's also more: 
 in some parts of the game, you will play as Kai, a catlike girl who is Nariko's adoptive sister 
 and who also is quite nuts, usually living in her own eerie world. As eerie as she may be, Kai 
 isn't an useless secondary character: she's very skillful at killing hostiles with arrows (something 
 she considers a game, called twing twang ) , and she's as agile as a cat. So when playing as her, 
 you must change your tactics completely: keeping as distant as possible to the enemies and hitting 
 them with arrows.
  You can also directly control the arrows via sixaxis movement (that is, moving and inclining the 
 joypad nearly as if it was the arrow itself) , creating an effect that looks just like the popular 
 moving camera invented by Sam Raimi. You will often end up using the direct arrow controls to gain 
 the needed precision; plus the same sixaxis system you can also use whenever you throw any item 
 using Nariko, or even when she's shooting cannon balls. At first getting used to the sixaxis may 
 be difficult, but once you've learnt it, it's terribly amusing and effective.
  
  So is this game varied and wellmade? Does it offer a wonderful gameplay mixed up with interesting 
 and original characters? Is this, in the end, a real Killer Application for the PS3?
  Well. Lets analyze the various points. First, the graphics: now, with the coming of next-gen consoles, 
 everyone seems to have suddenly gotten haughty. Look, me I dont know anything about frame rates 
 and dpi and whatever all that stuff is. All I know is that I look at the game and cant but keep 
 saying oh my gosh those graphics are so AWESOME!!. I may be naive, but judge by yourself: all 
 the screenshots you can click in my review are the actual in-game images (and you should see them 
 moving) . Plus, the game easily holds up like 2000 people on screen without any sign of lag or 
 distress.
  Second, the sounds: the music themes are composed by the philharmonic orchestra of Prague, and 
 they fit very well the atmosphere for each scene often the portray the mood and personality of 
 a specific character, and they do it nicely, so that just listening to the music you know who (what) 
 youre facing. The sounds effect have even been made by those same guys who created those of the 
 award winning The tiger and the dragon or whatever the movie was called. Now, thats what I call 
 overdoing it, but hey its nice to know they went as far as to spend a huge lot of money to simply 
 create the sound effects.
  Third, the gameplay: the fighting system doesnt always work as well as it is supposed to do, and 
 it get confusing to keep track of what kind of attack the enemy is using, especially when theres 
 that many foes pushing you from all sides (see 2000 people on screen above) . Also theres no 
 jump button I know it wasnt necessary, but hey I like jumping! Air-controlling Nariko with the 
 sixaxis just isnt enough! Anyway, with all the (not so many) bad things one could say about the 
 controls, they still show a good attempt to bring innovation into a fighting system that in other 
 videogames was becoming too canon and repetitive. And as general Flying Fox would say, theyre 
 SSSSTYYYYYYLEEEEEEEEEEEEEE.
  
  If this was all that had to be said, then this product may even be worth a 9 out of 10 points. 
 However, theres a big Achilles heel to Heavenly Sword: in fact, this videogame is really, really 
 too short. I have completed the videogame in about 8 hours, and thats not to say that Im a supergamer 
 because even the less experienced player will have it finished in no more than 10-12 hours (if 
 playing slowly) . Because the game adds to its shortness the fact that its also way too easy: sure 
 theres a more satisfying Hell Mode difficulty unlockable, but only after youve already completed 
 it the first time. Of course, theres no rule which says that a game always needs to be lengthy, 
 and we may even try to say that the unchallenging difficulty level will at last avoid frustration 
 to decrease your excitement. But Heavenly Sword asks 60 bucks, and you may not want to spend 
 all that money for a videogame which will last about one week, or less? Sure theres nice extras 
 that can be unlocked if you gain combo points and play the game well: interesting behind the scenes 
 videos, a couple episodes of the short and weird cartoons (telling the swords story before the 
 events happening in the game) but I suppose its still not enough. This is a big shame because 
 its the main reason why Heavenly Sword cant reach a much deserved superhigh marks, but must 
 be satisfied with just a mere 7.5 score.
  
  
  LUNS FINAL JUDGEMENT:
  
  Heavenly Sword is one hell of a great ride, sweeping you off, taking you inside a full action 
 blockbuster which is probably also acted better than most modern Hollywood productions, and not 
 giving you a single moment to take your breath or even to *try* getting slightly bored. For 60$, 
 Nariko and Kai shall give you unparalleled pleasure. which will be over before you have the time 
 to say PEEKABOO. This videogame absolutely *must* be rented by pretty much every single PS3 owner; 
 but if youre planning to buy it, keep very well in mind that good things end too soon.
  
  VERDICT: 8 OUT OF 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUMMONO
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword was one the highly anticipated games which I thought will be an incredible game 
 but unfortunately it turned out to be a just fine game.
  The combat system in this game is a big let down for me. I was expecting something that will be 
 able to take on ninja gaiden's or DMC's combat but it is nothing close to that. The bosses in this 
 game can be described by one word LAME , there is nothing really cool in their battle besides the 
 special moves that you perform when their health is critical. another thing to note is,
  WHY IS THIS GAME TOoo short ??!! what were they doing in the five years of developing this game?!
 
  
  Having said all that about the game there are still some good thing in it like the nice backgrounds 
 the amazing cut sence and the outstanding voice actting. only these three thing made me give this 
 game 8/10.
  
  If you are wondering if you should by this game or not then this is the answer. If you want just 
 want to play the game like any ordinary player then you better rent it but if you're in the habit 
 of collecting games it might be a good game for your collection.
  
  In the end Heavenly sword did turn to be an ultimate thing, In renting of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal-Mother
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  The Playstation's most anticipated game almost hit the nail on the head but not quite. While playing 
 everything almost feels eerily familiar to god of war, From the Mini games where you have to press 
 the buttons, to the very opening of the game. Except the manner in which the games story is told. 
 The problem with the game is there are i guess things called glyphs and you build up to do sorta 
 of special attack, there are 3 different levels, but during the game the amount of enemies your 
 fighting only allows you to do so many, but also with the more glyph you gain you unlock artwork 
 and not much else. The game it's self is action packed and will put you through a thrill ride fighting 
 through the city of a corrupt emperor to a field where you battle thousands of enemies. The sequences 
 you play as kai are fun and they utilize the six axis better than any game to date. Though a tad 
 short the rides fun while it last. If your looking for replay value this isn't your game. So if 
 your looking for a nice afternoon of slicing and dicing and don't mind dishing out the cash heavenly 
 sword is well worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword has been one of the games most looked forward to for filling out the space in the 
 PS3 library. I am glad to have this game now in my collection filling a gap.
  
  Heavenly Sword is an action game heavily based on button combos and contains some light platforming 
 and puzzles. It starts after a sizeable HD install with an intro level that takes place near the 
 end of the game. This level starts you as the main heroine Nariko and gives some tutorial and lets 
 you familiarize yourself with the game's namesake weapon, the Heavenly Sword. The main menu doesn't 
 even appear untill after this level. Once reached you have your standard options, unlockable content, 
 and level selection, which plays as a flashback from the intro level.
  
  The gameplay feels fairly comparable to games in this genre. Most button combos involve alternating 
 between the triangle and square button. Blocking enemy attacks involve choosing diferent stances 
 by the left and right shoulder buttons. The stance needed to be in is shown by a color aura around 
 the attacking enemy. These stances also have their own set of combos. There are also aerial combos 
 that are initiated by holding L1, triangle, and jolting the controller up. The aerial combos, while 
 beautifully cinematic are rather unessential for the game, and infact slow down gameplay and cannot 
 be used on all enemies. Some other motion based controlls available are aftertouch, camera control, 
 and special counter moves. Aftertouch is the first sixaxis motion that Ive used since the game 
 flOw that feels right and actually fun. It involves continuing to hold down the button that launces 
 a ballistic weapon. Time slows, the camera follows behind the launched object and tilting the sixaxis 
 alters the objects path. The sixaxis motion has proved to feel slow to respond, but the time slowing 
 effect feels to match this sixaxis flaw. Camera motion control fills in as a third thumbstick to 
 pan to a better view of the battlefield but requires tilting the controller almost 90 degrees. 
 Other motion controls are a recovery that involves jerking the controller up as Nariko gets knocked 
 back and she'll perform a counter move. Motion controls can be turned of for those not ready yet 
 to adopt, but I do suggest trying out the aftertouch. The camera motion has potential for future 
 games if done right as its seems to add a third thumbstick .
  
  When not playing Nariko you play as her friend Kai. She takes just the right amount of spot light 
 to use her long range attacks that also mix in some more puzzling and platforming. I wouldn't want 
 to play the whole game as her, but the parts she appears in are a welcome and fun diversion.
  
  The other half of the game are the cenimatic sequences. These compare to any other fully rendered 
 CGI movie, but are amazing to see running off the PS3 hardware. The motion capture, especially 
 facial animations are full of life and personality. The sequences can be emotional at times because 
 it is so well represented through the characters. They are also fairly well written that at times 
 I actually understood and felt bad for some of the bad guys where I almost wanted to tear up. Andy 
 Serkis, who did the Smiegel character on Lord of the Rings headed up direction of the mocap. Of 
 course the character he played, the main protagonist King Bohan, is the best animated and has some 
 of the best facial mocap I have seen anywhere, and is so worth seeing as it ranges from saddening 
 to downright amusing. This game probably could have been worked to be just a movie, but is well 
 complimented by its gameplay.
  
  This a very cinematic game. It ends up short as a game, but offers so much as a cinematic experience 
 that it also feels like a long movie. If you expect 20-40 hours of gameplay out of your 60 dollars 
 this may not be for you, but instead think of it as buying two DVDs and a short 20 dollar game 
 that plays very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahstar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Heavenly sword, its finally here! Living up to is action, story, and graphics. The story plays 
 out well and is VERY entertaining to watch. Never before have i looked forward to the next cut 
 scene in a game as much as i have with heavenly sword. The voice acting definitely stands apart 
 from other games, being beautifully done. The action is non-stop, with enough mini games with different 
 characters (kai) and new combat moves to keep the game fresh throughout the fight. Were it doesnt 
 live up to expectations is in length. This is literally the only flaw with this game, is length. 
 By the time is over your left salivating for more, even though the story starts and ends well. 
 If it wasn't for the length i definitely would have given it a ten. I recommend every ps3 owner 
 to try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, a long line of hopefuls to carry the Sony crown forward... yet ultimately falling 
 short of a given hype. Don't get me wrong, this game is fantastic, but at clocking in for most 
 people playing 6 hours for the total story mode, were talking about 10 dollars an hour. That's 
 twice as expensive as your average movie or twice as expensive as a Blu-Ray, 4x as a CD. While 
 I can't promise to mention the shortness of this game again, I will leave it for now.
  
  The game centers around a fire haired killing machine in the female form named Nariko... who strangely 
 sounds like she's from England. She is an outcast in her own family and clan who is fighting the 
 empire of Bohan (masterfully voiced by Andy Serkis of Lord of the Rings fame) . She is accompanied 
 by her friend Kai and father Shen and other clansmen who constantly bring her down for not being 
 the chosen one in the prophecy. The game opens with her clan fleeing from Bohan and needing to 
 protect the Heavenly Sword of prophecy, a long story short sparing almost all spoilers, her father 
 gets captured, she uses the Heavenly Sword (to his displeasure, why though, would spoil the story 
 somewhat) and the game goes on. Will she win or be redeemed? Play to find out.
  
  The gameplay consists mostly of Nariko using bladed weapons, almost exclusively the Heavenly Sword 
 with a combination of square and triangle. One is slightly more powerful and slower (The triangle) 
 and the other quicker. They can be linked together for combos which are unlocked by earning more 
 points. The points are gathered from attacking consecutively without being struck. The more combos 
 and points you get the more combos unlocked, the better you become...
  
  However there is a problem here. While Nariko is given a Ranged Stance (Press and hold L1) , Speed 
 Stance (don't press any other buttons) , and Power Stance (R1) , they are sometimes not as useful 
 as say unique weapons. Sure there are dozens and dozens upon dozens of combos, but most of them 
 to me so far feel very generic even if their animations are not. I generally think of it this way. 
 Speed + Speed + Speed, or maybe Speed + Speed + Power, or something like that to mix it up, but 
 in general most enemies can be either taken down with a mashing of the square button. If they block, 
 power attacks can be used to break guard. However for all the combos in the world, they seem to 
 be pretty interchangeable or based on button mashing luck. This game is a beatemup at heart trying 
 to be like Ninja Gaiden. It either needs to be one or the other. Also, I find the Ranged stance 
 to be entirely useless as the blades of the Heavenly Sword must contact the enemy (I. E. you have 
 to be at a fixed radius to make contact) , else the chains don't do anything. Kind of annoying.
 
  
  That being said, while the combos seem interchangeable, some are very distinct and should be used 
 in place of another, but in the end, maybe 10 of the many dozen combos are actually worthwhile. 
 However, these attacks will be used to smash heads and slash limbs and just kick ass with beauty 
 and grace as only Nariko can do. Perhaps more fun and useful is the games counter system. With 
 this, Nariko can press the triangle button to counter an enemies attack in a number of ways, often 
 resulting in a brutal end to the opponent foolish enough to attack her. When an enemy attacks and 
 lights up blue, that signals you must not be pressing the R1 button, and be in the speed stance. 
 When they flash orange, that means they are using a power attack, so hold on the R1 button and 
 press triangle to counter. While it takes some getting used to it is quite powerful when many enemies 
 attack (and I assure you, many will) . Another interesting ploy in gameplay is that Nariko will 
 block automatically if not attacking, provided she is in right stance. While slightly aggrivating 
 and confusing at first, this blocking and counter system becomes vital to survival. Another vital 
 defensive move is to learn to use the right analog stick to dodge and roll (There is one boss fight 
 in particular where you will be pulling your hair out unless you utilize quick strikes and dodges, 
 don't bother with full combos) . I guess I'd rather have a Jump button or have dodging and jumping 
 both, but you only get dodging as an evasive move. Jumping would also be nice for attacking, and 
 this is unfortunate it isn't a game mechanic but I didn't program it... moving on. Another final 
 defensive, rather, reactive move is using the Sixaxis controller when hit into the air. If you 
 shake the controller like a madman, Nariko will lash out in mid air and attack people on the way 
 down to landing on her feet instead of her back. At first it's hard to respond quick enough, but 
 if you constantly jiggle the controller when fighting in crowds, chances are you will counter anyways.
 
  
  An interesting touch called aftertouch allows you to control weapons in mid air. Yes, you can do 
 some House of Flying Daggers type throwing (And in the many sequences where you input buttons to 
 an interactive cutscene, jump through the air flying by wire type DBZ type stuff) . For instance, 
 in the second mission of the first chapter you can fire cannon balls and guide them in a first 
 person view which time slows down. A major problem is that the Sixaxis controls suck. Bad. Very 
 bad. Solution, you can turn off the Sixaxis and use the left analog stick and control it that way. 
 This is much better and significantly more fun and satisfying. Thank god you can turn that off, 
 or this might ruin some of the sniping parts of the game where Nariko's friend Kai is playable. 
 Weapons can be picked up off the ground, ranging from swords, shields, barrels or even dead bodies 
 and thrown using aftertouch. Often this is vital to solving puzzles and controlling the flight 
 by hitting a switch or some other object.
  
  Finally, Nariko gets the ultra moves called Superstyle Attacks , these are initiated by pressing 
 circle once your power meter is full. Let's just say most enemies don't survive these. The more 
 points you earn, the more superstyle attacks you earn (up to 3 levels per stance) . They power up 
 with levels and eventually become area of attack like in Final Fight or Streets of Rage, however 
 they don't drain your life... but they do the enemies, and boy how. Let's end it saying they are 
 beautiful and deadly, just like Sony told me to say about Nariko.
  
  That being said, the game is gorgeous (for only outputting in 720p *frown*) . The main cast of characters 
 have incredibly detailed models. Nariko is almost photorealistic (except for her hair, which everyone 
 in the game has horrific hair, which looks like it is right out of a Nintendo 64 game. Terrible 
 textures in comparison) . Her face frowns and smiles and has all of the expressions a real person 
 would have, and her skin is generally flawless on her upper body, but down near her limbs where 
 she is being attacked, you notice very subtle but noticeable scratches and bruises on her leg and 
 dirt streaks, common to someone in her position (think of boys playing very rough) . The same goes 
 for all other main characters. I can't imagine how many polgyons go into their models, but they 
 are some of the most beautiful character renderings I've seen, I daresay more than even Gears of 
 War, with the exception of the hair (such an obvious imperfection on what is nearly perfect) .
 
  
  However, most of the regular enemies (in fact, all) are either of a few types. The regular peon 
 foot soldiers look the EXACT same, the next rank up look the exact same, and so on. In all, I'd 
 say the enemies you face range in the 1000s, but you see maybe 10 to 15 total models... tops. While 
 I suppose that you can't fault the game seeing that Gears of War, Ninja Gaiden and any other front 
 runner game has the same issues, I'd hope a flagship game on Blu-Ray could have more models for 
 variation.
  
  The environments are massive and very detailed. The scene where you pan out and see the huge horseshoe 
 shaped waterfall with the fortress in the center is breathtaking. The PS3 displays all the details 
 quite wonderfully. It truly feels next generation with waving flags, waterfalls falling, flames 
 flickering, doors creaking and swinging on hinges. There are all sorts of pots and buckets and 
 crates and things that can be broken. These broken items can be picked up and thrown impromptu 
 style using the aftertouch feature as well, so they aren't merely eye candy that dissappears after 
 being broken. Nariko can kick them and interact with them when hitting them, although sometimes 
 the physics is a little odd, the slightest touch will send a board halfway to her head. Whatever, 
 not perfect, but pretty darn good.
  
  The animations are silky smooth and there is never any slowdown at all in combat, which in a game 
 like this, there should never be in first place. Perhaps why it was rendered in 720p instead of 
 1080p, although I'd imagine the PS3 should be able to handle that (like the 360) . Anyways, very 
 fluid in attacking animations and superstyle attacks and the interactive cutscenes. I especially 
 like how Kai walks, all slinky like a runway model, there are some very talented animation programmers 
 at Ninja Theory.
  
  The sound compliments the graphics well. The music is an orchestral fare of drumming battle hymns 
 and other JRPG european fantasy town music when combat isn't playing. Sometimes there is no music, 
 other times, there is, but it's usually good and appropriate.
  
  In the middle of combat, clanks, slams and slashes are heard all around. Enemies shout and yell 
 and taunt Nariko. She grunts and groans swinging the Heavenly Sword with all her might. Necks snap 
 when she twists heads and arrows thunk when they land in chests. Barrels break and wood piles, 
 everything has its place.
  
  The best part though is that Andy Serkis is a wonderful voice actor. He plays Bohan, the main bad 
 guy. He's so very evil, but has all the cool lines that only the coolest (And funniest) badguys 
 can deliver with such wit. All of the other actors fit very well with their roles (This game is 
 very serious, outside of some of Bohan's quips) , and Nariko pulls that off very well as the shunned 
 female child growing up in a man's world. Although it's very odd to see everyone looking so Asian 
 but all speaking in some generally British accent. That pretty much sums this game up... all 6 
 hours of it. Sure there is a hard mode, but it's just harder and you get nothing else. The few 
 extras include two anime movies, the making of, credits and concept art that are unlockable... 
 but as good as this game is, there isn't much more to it than that and you probably will play it, 
 beat it, enjoy it, then shelf it for a while. Yes, Gears of War was short, Halo is short, Dead 
 Rising is short, however those games all have tremendous replayability and multiplayer features. 
 Heavenly Sword lacks these. Even another 4 hours for a total of say 10 hours of gameplay would 
 be very acceptable, even if not much in terms of replay. A coop mode where Kai could help Nariko 
 out sort of like in Perfect Dark Zero where Joanna covers Jack in the rooftop escape would be nice. 
 Something, anything to spice it up beyond the first playthrough.
  
  Only two other things annoy me about this game. Loading, this game takes a bit to load when starting 
 up and when loading chapters and it has to completely reload if you die and restart (and you gotta 
 watch the damn cutscenes over again, no skipping) . Also, for the incredible amount of brutality 
 of this game, this is VERY little gore. If this game had decapitations and eviscerations and buckets 
 of blood like it should have and been rated M, I know this would have sold a ton of copies. It 
 only feels right to have the copious gore and blood to go along with the gratutious violence.
 
  
  Recap
  
  Gameplay : 8 out of 10
  Graphics : 9 out of 10
  Sound : 9 out of 10
  Value : 5 out of 10 (This is a game I will play through again, but not immediately. Also, I completed 
 it. I will not give lower than a 5 to a game I actually finished... games I don't finish get that. 
 This score would increase if they released this at a 49.99$ price point) .
  Tilt : 9 out of 10
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  Pros:
  + Silky smooth play with some interesting 
 twists on a traditional beatemup
  + Amazing graphics and sound
  + Just a lot of neat features like the Superstyle attacks, after touch and the whole House of Flying 
 Daggers feel.
  
  Cons:
  - DAMN SHORT! Very little replayability after a 6 hour story mode.
  - Did I say it was short?
 
  - Lack of gore and guts to go along with the violence, some long load times and lack of a jump 
 attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbx31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Visuals:
  Impressive realtime 3D, this game looks as an action blockbuster straight from hollywood. Apart 
 from the framedropping this is a unique game to look at.
  
  Sound: Idem, not too much but surely enough. Should make a great soundtrack.
  
  Playability:
 
  Somtimes hectic but you always know what you are ectually doing. And that is a good thing. The 
 action is also very balanced. Always hard but never unaccomplished!
  
  Good: Action, great storry line, excellent controls. Beatyfull to look at!
  
  Bad: The framrate 
 drops somtimes when you are seeing a vast amount of enemy's or a compleet 3d realtime castle.
 
  
  Overall:
  Do not miss this one! It is a real gem! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This review will mostly skim over issues covered by the main Gamespot review, and then cover some 
 specific issues in depth.
  
  Plot mega summary:
  Nariko, the daughter of a Tribal chieftain named Shen, wields the Heavenly Sword in order to save 
 her tribe from the evil King Bohan, fully aware that no mortal can wield the sword without it slowly 
 draining their life.
  
  Gameplay mega-summary:
  Gameplay revolves around using the various three stances of the Heavenly Sword to kill your opponents. 
 Each stance has its own unique combos and merits, and you'll need to switch stances often to play 
 effectively. There is no jump button, but there are aerial attack combos.
  
  In addition to the Heavenly Sword, there are shooting portions of the game, where you fire projectiles 
 and then use the sixaxis motion controls (or the analog stick if you so choose) to guide the projectile 
 in slow-motion to its target.
  
  Graphics mega summary:
  Graphics are detailed, bright, and crisp. The game makes use of pre-rendered and real-time cinematics, 
 and it's impressive how difficult it is to tell which is which.
  
  Sound mega summary:
  The music is excellent. The score is very professional and diverse, and alternates between bombastic 
 orchestral pieces and a more intimate pieces with an Asian ethnic flair. The music hearkens shares 
 some similarities with the excellent Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon score.
  
  Performance:
  The game plays at solid framerate, probably about 30 frames per second. Due to 
 a stable camera, the gameplay doesn't suffer at all. Strangely, some of the (pre-rendered?) cut-scenes 
 do experience frame rate hiccups right when they start... but things smooth out immediately.
  
  For more details on these basic categories, please see the Gamespot review.
  
  Commentary 
 on the game:
  
  The game's greatest strength is its presentation. The cinematics, the acting and voice work contained 
 therein, and the narrative are all Hollywood-caliber. This is the type of game that is designed 
 to establish a bond between the player and the characters, and to have an emotional impact at the 
 end of the game, and for all but the most callous players, it will succeed with flying colors. 
 While the dialog could have been better, the performances are top notch. Some of the boss fight 
 dialogs are barely better than I'm going to gut you! , but even dull lines like this are delivered 
 with genuine and emotion and craft that the averageness of the script is easily ignored.
  
  After presentation, the game's next strongest suit is its gameplay. Fighting is mainly combo based, 
 apart from counters (hit triangle as you get hit) or blocking, which you do automatically when 
 not attacking. Combos are basic enough: button sequences, generally 2-7 buttons long. When performing 
 combos, you have a second or so of leeway between each button press, which means you can either 
 execute them quickly or slow down and perform the more deliberately. Doing them more deliberately 
 not only allows you to have a better handle on which combos you're performing, but also affords 
 you a bit more situational awareness, in case you need to abort the combo to counter or defend 
 against an incoming attack. Due to that leeway between button hits, it's easy to reliably perform 
 any combo you want, and the whole feel of it is rhythmic and incremental. The game respond to you, 
 you are not made a slave to its idiosyncrasies.
  
  Gameplay also includes an aftertouch mechanic, that allows you to steer projectiles (from either 
 cannons or crossbows) with the motion sensor of the sixaxis (or the analog stick) . The motion sensing 
 is actually surprisingly intuitive and natural. A new player will probably miss all their early 
 shots, but once you get a feel for it (this happens quickly) you'll be cursing your misses instead 
 of praising your hits. While Nariko's and Kai's shooting gameplay is basically the same, the Kai 
 sequences are more involved and generally more enjoyable. The game strikes an excellent balance 
 between the two types of gameplay. Swordplay comprises the majority of the game, but shooting portions 
 are paced smartly, so that neither type of gameplay wears out its welcome. The game doesn't have 
 any glaring weaknesses. It has a few technological weaknesses, in terms of some choppy starts to 
 cut-scenes. Load times could be a bit better. Additionally, there is occasionally some minor screen 
 tearing (this may vary from TV to TV... it was not prominent, nor does it affect gameplay or enjoyment... but 
 when digging for flaws, it bears mentioning) .
  
  One weakness that is mentioned by many other reviews is the game's length, which is pegged at about 
 6-7 hours. Another weakness is a structural similarity to God of War (i. e. hero with twin blades 
 goes on path of vengeance to accomplish a task) . I'll address these one at a time, starting with 
 the God of War similarities.
  
  The game does share some similarities with God of War, but so does any action-adventure game. If 
 you ignore the wholly cosmetic similarity of having a hero with twin blades, then Heavenly Sword 
 isn't any more similar to God of War than any other action adventure game. Here's a laundry list 
 of differences: multiple combat stances, more elaborate and diverse combo system, multiple playable 
 characters, combat is more methodical and style-centric than God of War's speedier, chaotic fights. 
 Certainly there are similarities, but plenty of other action-adventure games have come before. 
 EA's Lord of the Rings action games share an even greater resemblance to Heavenly Sword, with similar 
 combo types, a counter dynamic (behaves a bit differently, but timing is similar) , and style of 
 cinematic progression.
  
  Finally, we come to the game's duration. At six or seven hours, many claim the game is too short. 
 This criticism is most likely the result of comparing Heavenly Sword to other recent action adventure 
 games that tend to last in the 10-12 hour range. Why is Heavenly Sword so short?
  
  #1. No gameplay fluff. There is no backtracking in this game. The emphasis is on fights, with very 
 few puzzles. Whereas some games toss enemies in every conceivable nook and cranny, fights in Heavenly 
 Sword are all very purposely staged to fit the story, and never feel like padding.
  
  #2. Undiluted narrative. The lack of fluff means the story stays tightly on task. You never forget 
 what's going on, and your mind stays focused on what you're actually trying to accomplish, versus 
 losing sight of the story and focusing solely on the combat. Since it doesn't pad things with fluff, 
 there is a more even balance between story/cut-scenes and the gameplay parts. Since both elements 
 are very high quality, they combine to form a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts. 
 This ultimately makes the game more enjoyable to play again and again, much like a good movie that 
 holds up to repeat viewings.
  
  #3. Cinematic story (story cohesion) . Another story-related reason. So, given the above two reasons... why 
 couldn't they simply make the story itself longer, which would thereby make the game longer without 
 adding fluff or diluting the narrative? While only the developers know for sure, the most likely 
 reason is that when a story gets too long, the plot can become bogged down with too many details. 
 Look at how convoluted many RPG plots can get, for examples. Movies are only 2-3 hours long for 
 a reason. The longer a movie gets, the more convoluted it generally becomes, which is harder for 
 the viewer to digest and can slow down the pace, as well. Heavenly Sword appears to be clearly 
 gunning for a cinematic presentation, and as such they kept their length in check.
  
  One question to ask after beating Heavenly Sword.. Does the game feel incomplete? Or do you simply 
 wish there was more of it? An incomplete game is a liability. A game that ends before you've played 
 it to death is simply a good game that merits a re-play and/or needs a sequel.
  
  In the end, you have a game there that is as much fun to watch as it is to play, and that's not 
 meant as an insult to its gameplay, but as a compliment to every aspect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovea218
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  That is the only way to describe this game. It is amazing and beyond lovely and beautiful but it 
 is a little short. But what makes up for that is the replay. I have played some levels over and 
 over just trying to achieve everything possible. I dare somebody to just press buttons because 
 it won't work .They even have six-axis controls that make sense! I love it period. It is a must 
 have because it shows off the true power of the PS3. I have never seen anything like it. The levels 
 are also really nice. You don't have to worry about saving because it does it at every checkpoint. 
 Even the opening has you gripped. You land and just have to kick butt. Quite amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Even though I only recently acquired a PS3, I've already decided on my favourite game - namely, 
 Heavenly Sword. This game showcases what the console is capable of, as well as what a great game 
 should be.
  
  In Heavenly Sword, you play the role of Nariko, a heroine wielding (throughout most of the game) 
 the Heavenly Sword a magical sword supposedly made in Heaven. It is the duty of Nariko's clan to 
 protect the sword - and not to wield it at any cost. Nariko's breaking of this edict leads to her 
 death, since the sword drains the life of any mortal foolish enough to wield it (this isn't a spoiler 
 - this is revealed right in the beginning.)
  
  The game itself takes place basically as a series of flashbacks, with Nariko's mind and/or soul 
 residing in some sort of underworld, trying to convince the sword to send her back. The storyline 
 is interesting, and does capture your attention, and despite the shortness of the game (even shorter 
 than T2T at 6-8 hours of actual gameplay) there is a surprising amount of character development. 
 Every character in the game has a unique feel from Nariko herself (a beautiful woman maligned by 
 her clan simply by virtue of the way she was born) to Kai (an orphaned girl with a rather interesting 
 concept of playtime ) to King Bohan (voiced by Andy Serkis, who is well known for his role as Gollum) , 
 who fits the role of a cruel, self-centred megalomaniac perfectly. The cutscenes are in both pre-rendered 
 and in-game format, although even the in-game cutscenes are beautiful to look at.
  
  The graphics of Heavenly Sword is breathtaking - the character models and animation are beautifully 
 done, with a smoothness and fluidity that you almost never tire of looking at. Nariko's combos 
 are also appealingly done, with slashes and jumps flowing smoothly from one to the next. In the 
 final boss battle, with the sword at full power, the sheer power of the sword is amply displayed 
 with the flashing white trails of energy the sword leaves behind. The other graphical aspects are 
 equally well done - in certain duck shoot sections of the game, each enemy dies differently depending 
 on where they were hit (some pre-animated deaths, some ragdoll deaths) , and when cannonballs and 
 rocks flung from catapults hit the dirt a plume of dust and flame sprays up which leaves no doubt 
 as to their destructiveness.
  The pre-rendered cinematics are nothing short of amazing, with facial expression and movement being 
 perfectly depicted. The only slight issue I have is that occasionally Nariko's hair appears to 
 move somewhat unnaturally, but compared to the rest of the game, well, it is easily ignored.
  
  The audio, something which I normally find to be the downfall of a game, is also of a high 
 standard. The voice acting is top-notch, with each character fitting perfectly to their voice (especially 
 King Bohan and Kai) . In the later stages of the game you can definitely see and hear the way in 
 which Bohan appears to be slipping mentally. The combat is excellently sounded, with every clash 
 of the sword being depicted - you can even occasionally hear your enemies give a little snippet 
 (my personal favourite was when I once heard an enemy say Auugh! I got his brains all over me! 
 ) . The musical score adds excellently to the atmosphere of the game, especially in combat , with 
 a very martial tune playing in the background as you fight.
  The explosive sounds aren't left lacking either, with the explosions from cannon-fire or catapults 
 thumping through the speakers, while the screams of dying enemy soldiers make you cackle with glee.
 
  
  Gameplay is probably Heavenly Sword's weakest point, although even so it is amazingly enjoyable. 
 There are three main combat styles - power attacks (slow but strong) , ranged attacks (fast and 
 capable of hitting multiple enemies at once, but weak) and speed attacks (as a local gaming magazine 
 stated fittingly, occupying the grey area between the two ) . The enemy types each require a different 
 tactic to defeat, although once you have learnt the secret of countering (pressing triangle just 
 as the enemy attacks in a specific stance, instantly killing the enemy in a rather entertaining 
 fashion if done correctly) , most of the more powerful grunt enemies become easy to defeat. The 
 boss battles, although of the typical find the pattern variety, are still quite challenging and 
 highly entertaining. Each boss fight is interspersed with cutscenes, allowing for some character 
 development. Unfortunately, the boss' tactics rarely change after the cutscene, which means that 
 even though it is entertaining, it can become quite monotonous.
  The other problem I have is that even though the enemy types require different tactics, it normally 
 means nothing more than a change of stance followed by large amounts of button-mashing - although 
 button mashing is still admittedly extremely fun.
  
  Heavenly Sword is, as I hve stated, far too short, with it's longevity only being increased by 
 a limited amount thanks to the unlockable hell difficulty setting. There are, of course, the usual 
 host of unlockables - artwork, videos, etc. But overall, once you've finished the campaign, there's 
 not much else you can do (except play the campaign again - which I admit I will probably enjoy 
 doing. Games like this can be played again just for the fun of it.)
  
  So, in summary, I would say that Heavenly Sword is a game worthy of getting - despite it's length, 
 it's great fun and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong_viking
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword has got a great gameplay and the graphic is also amazing, so are the voice-acting 
 and the history is quite good as well!
  
  But Heavenly Sword is finished inside 10-12 hours maximum, and it's not a type of game you just 
 want to play all over again either! The "difficulty balance" is not good, sometimes it's way too 
 easy while there are places where you get really frustrated because the enemies are too hard! There 
 could also been a better way to learn the fighting, all the combos and tricks.. for me it gets too 
 random what you choose in the fights.
  
  But overall Heavenly Sword is a beuitful epic history, with great video-sequenses and fantastic 
 voice-acting on more than ten different languages! The graphic is breathtaking and shows us what 
 a Playstation 3 really can do. But there are something missing in this game, which doesen't make 
 Heavenly Sword fantastic, for me it's a great game which is worth to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdxmt57
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  The first thing to talk about is the first thing you see. Graphically this game is great. I would 
 have hoped for a higher resolution but it is good the way it is. Game-play could be two things. 
 You could get through the game just mashing buttons and be fine. You can also plan your attacks 
 and execute them with accuracy. The Controls are like any hack and slash action game. Very simple 
 to use.
  there are 3 stances and switching between is extremely easy.
  
  The story in the game is great. It is like playing through a movie. Overall:
  
  The game is 
 a fun adventure. It can take anywhere between 10 to 30 hours to beat depending on the gamer. If 
 you beat it and dont care if you unlocked anything it will take 10 hours or so. If you are the 
 type of person to unlock everything it will take longer. The cast and voice acting is great. I 
 allows you to get immersed in the story rather that complaining about how bad it is.
  ALL IN ALL it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Swords development has started no less than 4 years ago. With impressive graphics and 
 a compelling story, the expectations were high. Too high.
  
  Alright, let's just start with the worst thing of Heavenly Sword: its length and its variety. This 
 game took me about 6 hours to complete, while God of War II took me no less than 10 hours of playtime. 
 And then, the very worst part of this title: its variety. There are two main things in the game 
 what you will do. The first is just killing every enemy in sight, without any pain in the brain 
 or something (like in God of War) . And the second main part is the shooting, with canons and arrows, 
 wich you can steer in any direction with... the Sixaxis. While it works better than in a lot of 
 other PS3 games (kgg... MotorStorm... kgg... Lair... kgg...) , you are far better off with the normal 
 analog controls. And another hint, choose Invert Y on, because otherwise you will be confused a 
 lot.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a great game, make no mistake, but its lack of length keep this sword from being 
 deadly sharp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto-10001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games i have seen for thr playstation 3. It definatly has a god of 
 war feel. this game would have been alot better if it didnt have those parts with the arrows. i 
 liked the the motion sensor where i controlled by moving the controller but sometimes i didnt if 
 they didnt make it so sensitive it would have been alot easier to control. overall though it was 
 a pretty good game i liked using the hot girl to play with it would have been even better if it 
 was rated M. i also like the special circle attacks but i dodnt quite like the blocking system 
 it seemed to fail on me quite alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a highly anticipated PS3 game. It is about a female warrior named Nariko who 
 is trying to save her clan from an evil king.
  
  The 1st thing that I notice about heavenly sword is that the game is absolutely beautiful. The 
 cutscenes are absolutely amazing. The voice acting is also absolutely astounding. It is some of 
 the best to grace a video game. The dialogue and story are also pretty good. The characters have 
 funny and interesting personalities. The gameplay has two aspects. One of the aspects is sword 
 fighting with Nariko. It has good controls and it is not easy. You have to use triangle to counter 
 and you must mix up your stances in order block your opponent's attacks. Nariko's sword fighting 
 requires a lot of skill. It is especially needed for the final boss fight which involves all that 
 you have learned. The other aspect of gameplay is fighting with Kai or using a cannon with nariko. 
 They both require shooting and using something called aftertouch. You can control the arrow or 
 cannonball after you shoot it. These are the most fun parts of the game. I love using the sixaxis 
 to control the arrows in the skulls of your enemies. The game isn't perfect though. It is too short, 
 but Kai's sections do have replayability. There also aren't that many different kinds of enemies. 
 Regardless of its minor flaws, this is a game that is worth playing through, I recommend renting 
 it at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackwhitehead
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  ok just to say this like in all reviews this is awsome the action is brillant the cutscenes are 
 amazing and the overall appearences is outstanding
  
  during this game you won't fight lots of different enimies but they are goood for the few that 
 they are fun to play right to the end. they have the appearence that makes you just want to rip 
 them appart. the boss in this game are brillant as well not as easy as i thought going into them 
 but a chalenge to all fighting game fans, the only thing to say is the health of the bosses is 
 anoyiny.
  
  levels in this game look superb and work well for the gameplay and during your play through you 
 will see many envirments of som eyou can shoot things at. and on that note the shooting in this 
 game really makes you consentrate on where oyur shots are going but when you hit one in the head 
 (or my specialty the arse shoot) it gives you the most satafying game you can get on your ps3 and 
 deserves to be haled as aheavenly game which makes you want to play over and over agian even though 
 it's not the long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Are you kidding me? Under 10 hr's???? I gave this game 6.5, and that's only because it looks so 
 good. Nothing special here people, . . . NEXT! If you write a review for a game you hate here, 
 make sure it's 100 word's or more. Ok I'll spread the hate, . . this game sucks. Plain and simple. 
 I was being nice but making me talk about it more is just making a better case for me selling my 
 ps3. I couldn't finish this game fast enough. please god send me back in time so I can pass on 
 this crapfest of a game. To put it briefly: This game is probably one of the greatest teases I've 
 ever played. Since the unveiling at E3'06 for this game, I was floored and waiting with much glee 
 for it's arrival. Sadly, the game really fails to live up to the hype generated from the trailers. 
 Heavenly Sword does look absolutely gorgeous. The detail in the characters and the environments 
 is some of the best in any game I've witnessed. If the PS3 needed a game to showcase it's power, 
 this is it. Facial expressions have an astounding look of realism to them, especially in the superbly 
 crafted cut scenes. Gameplay wise, the heroine Noriko controls like a dream as does her companion 
 Kai in the sequences you get to play as her. You really are able to pull off some impressive moves. 
 But the majority of the many combos you get are unnecessary as the same simple combos are enough 
 to get you through the game. But this is only part of Heavenly Sword's problems. The game is very 
 short and can easily be beaten in one sitting at roughly 6-7 hours. Over the course of those 6-7 
 hours, you will fight the same enemies over and over and over again. Barely does the game throw 
 any challenge at you even in the boss fights. Several of the boss sequences even have you fighting 
 the same exact fight three times in succession. Could it have hurt to throw in an extra boss tactic 
 to mix things up? Once you complete the game there is hardly a compelling reason to play through 
 it again other than for artwork and to get your money's worth. Ultimately, Heavenly Sword is very 
 disappointing. It is close to being Goddess of War but no cigar. Ninja Theory just doesn't put 
 the same amount of time and attention into the actual gameplay as they do everything else. For 
 Blockbuster Hollywood movies, Ninja Theory are your guys. For an epic game, perhaps not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceansandearth
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword
  
  There are times when you feel - Why do we play games? Is it because we want to fulfill our fantasies 
 in the form of a pixelated character on screen or is it because we want to hear a new story, the 
 desire to learn more by playing the game or is it because of that visceral satisfaction we get 
 out of beating the characters on screen either in wits or in battle. Because if we do play games 
 for any of the aforementioned, Heavenly Sword is one of those games that lets you do it all.
  
  Heavenly Sword starts with the premise of the death of the protagonist, Nariko; a female warrior 
 who is shunned by her clan because she is the failure of a prophecy, which of course leads her 
 clan-mates to believe that she will be the downfall of the clan. All of this while her clan needs 
 to safeguard an ancient, mythical and powerful weapon, the Heavenly Sword from the clutches of 
 those who seek to misuse its power. This of course leads to the introduction of the antagonist, 
 King Bohan, who is as unscrupulous as any videogame villain can get and is out to get the Heavenly 
 Sword by any means. This is the basic story with which the game begins. The first thing you will 
 notice about the game is the graphics. The magnificent backdrops which immediatly transport you 
 into a fantasy world; the immaculate detail in the surroundings and beautiful colours, all of which 
 leave you in awe. Though there are times when the game suffers from frame rate drops and lags a 
 bit, though none of it bothers too much. The character models in the game are rendered with absolute 
 detail, the most noticeable of which is the facial textures. The facial textures are probably one 
 of the high points of the game, so visible by the natural sheen on the face of Nariko. Every emotion 
 ranging from anger to frustration to triumph is well exhibited in the character models. Another 
 reason why you feel this is because of some excellent voice-overs in this game. With one of the 
 industry stalwarts in the form of Andy Serkis leading the Dramatic Direction you cannot expect 
 anything less. For people who are unaware of who Andy Serkis is- he is the person behind the voice 
 of Gollum (Lord Of The Rings) and that of King Kong. The combination of the emotion, the facial 
 motions and voice overs almost makes this an action movie which you are playing out in your living 
 room. The story is full of humorous moments which are so well played out that you are almost chuckling 
 to yourself, particularly those that involve King Bohan. The music in the game also allows for 
 that cinematic mood. The music ranges from moody to dark with dollops of Indian classical. Nitin 
 Sawhney, the man responsible for the music direction has done a very competent job in his very 
 first venture in videogames. The mood of this game is indeed so heavy with the audio and visuals 
 that you tend to forget that this is actually not a movie.
  
  And the most important thing about any game is the gameplay. Heavenly Sword is a third person action 
 adventure game, where the protagonist wields swords as her main weapons. This inevitably brings 
 about comparisons with other greats of the genre, including God Of War and Ninja Gaiden, and though 
 it does quite not make that mark Heavenly Sword almost makes the cut. The combat system in Heavenly 
 Sword primarily comprises of three stances - Fast, Ranged and Power. And as the name implies the 
 three stances are for quick and fast close-combat, lashing out at enemies at a distance and dealing 
 the enemy heavy damage respectively. You can also counter the enemy combat by properly timed button 
 presses. The enemies also employ these stances and you have to beat/counter enemy in their respective 
 stances. Though the game starts out fairly easy it quickly becomes imperative for you not to button 
 mash and use the combos properly. The combos are vast and varied, right from aerial to super-special 
 moves which quickly finish off the enemy with a short but beautifully rendered cut-scene. This 
 is one of the drawbacks of the game where it is felt that you need not use all the combos and you 
 are well entitled to finish the game with only handful of them. Heavenly Sword also puts heavy 
 emphasis on the usage of Six-Axis. Every projectile motion in the game, arrows, cannon balls and 
 even dead enemies, once shot can be guided to its destination by using Six-Axis motion. This is 
 actually great usage of the motion-sensor feature and also gives a fresh angle to the game though 
 it takes a bit getting used to it. The game employs two playable characters to keep things from 
 getting tedious in the form of Nariko and Kai, her young adopted friend/sister. Playing with Kai 
 is fun as she cannot deal out melee combat and only makes use of projectile weapons. Her character 
 is well developed and makes a strong impact on the story. The game also uses the feature of Quick 
 Timed Events, much like God of War, which involves deft button presses at apppropriate moments, 
 these are generally used for style efffects. The camera is done well enough though at times you 
 would feel the need of free-moving camera particularly when you want to focus on a particular enemy 
 you want to finish off. There is lot of stuff that you unlock in this game right from concept art, 
 movies, The Making Of Heavenly Sword and so on, which goads the player to re-play the game though 
 he has completed it once. The game is not very difficult and an average gamer can expect to complete 
 the game anywhere between seven to ten hours. That being said, the game falls on the short side 
 and again aks the question - Are you willing to pay sixty dollars for a mere six-seven hours?
 
  
  That question is for you to answer. If you want a game that provides you a cinematic story and 
 a great audio-visual treat along with some fun gameplay to boot, this is the game for you. If you 
 are of the type that likes to spend long hours with a game and want really deep gameplay, you would 
 probably want to rent or borrow this. Either way, you should not pass up on Heavenly Sword because 
 not often does a game make you feel that epic drama can also be experienced from videogames and 
 not just books and movies.
  
  Visual: 9/10
  Audio: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  Gameplay:8/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Overall: 8.8/10
  
  OceansAndEarth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-manny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  The voice acting amazes you from start to finish the story gets you leaning towards your tv the 
 moves gets you winceing and nariko gets you.... well excited. The enemys AI is smart ,they ,ah, 
 well do get a bit boreing theres only like 4 diffrent types of enemys . The boss battles were awesome 
 i dont think they had an endless amount of life. But they were trying to make it like a movie and 
 they did! so its short it left me gapeing for more if another one comes out i will get it. If your 
 not sure about this game ,, if you buy it you will like it. But if you hate action games rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword should be renamed, the Goddess of War, the action is intense, the graphics are simply 
 incredible, and the story is fantastic, much like God of war 1 and 2. Unfortunatly though, it is 
 a bit on the short side, but thats besides the point, this is a must buy in general.
  
  The gameplay in the game is fun and emmersive, pressing all these rapid buttons at once would sound 
 repetitive, but it is defanitly not. You can do all of these amazing moves and experiment throughout 
 the entire game. The Sixaxis also comes into play very much here too, when ever you throw a knife, 
 or shoot a cannon, or shoot a bow, you can follow the object and steer it with the sixaxis, which 
 at first, is farily challenging, but once you get the hang of it, it's a blast and never gets boring. 
 Yes the story is short but you have many reasons to go back and play through multiple times trying 
 out different combos and experimenting with different things, and redoing all the funnest parts 
 of the game.
  
  Buy this game, it's incredible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplygtr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Just a blast to play. It really flexes the graphic muscle of the PS3. The cut scenes are well animated, 
 facial expressions are spot on, voice acting is great. The three stance combo system really seems 
 to deepen the combat with more options for how a person typically likes to play (close up, heavy 
 hitter, distance) . The aftertouch system is a good addition, although I would recommend turning 
 off the motion sensing capabilities completely and controlling aftertouch (aerial combos too) w/ 
 the stick.
  It does tend to be a bit short, but so was Lord of the Rings: Return of the King and it was an 
 awesome game.
  All thing considered, a great addition to the PS3 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcowley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  It has been awhile, but I believe I can finally justify my PS3 purchase with Heavenly Sword. While 
 I know it wont be, Heavenly Sword is the closest thing to a system seller that the PS3 now has.
 
  
  The game has been hyped over the past year with multiple showings at game conventions, a small 
 sting in a Heroes TV episode and the demo release on PSN. My first playing of the demo was not 
 overly enthralling, however I thought Id give it another shot and this time pay close attention 
 to the fight mechanics. You can mistake the game for a typical button masher, but deep down youll 
 find a complex combo system which truly made the experience the second time round for me. The demo 
 seemed to draw a clear line  you either hated it or loved it. I always wondered if it was because 
 of my reason above. I wonder if those people who were unhappy with the demo were to play it again 
 would change their mind?
  
  This division appeared to limit the hype at release, but those who wanted it, raced out for it. 
 6 hours later, the experience is now over. My goal here is to convince you to buy the game rather 
 than rent it. Why? Because,
  
  1) I gave it a high score
  2) I am getting a kick back from the publisher
  3) I said so
  
  Want justification?
  
 
  Spiderman movie is 2 hours. A Blu-ray disc is $39. That is about $20 an hour. Heavenly Sword is 
 6 hours. A Blu-ray disc is $99. That is about $17 an hour.
  
  Wow! A $3 saving for what I believe a better story. (ok justification sucked but it is the best 
 I could do)
  
  There are heaps of special features like artwork, behind the scenes, making of and a cut-scene 
 menu. These all help stretch out the experience thus adding value!
  
  As I mentioned, Heavenly sword has a great story, and one that wraps well with the gameplay and 
 is professionally presented using Hollywood cinematics and sound. The great thing about making 
 your way through the game is that you can finish it either as a button masher, or as a skilled 
 combo executer. When strung together correctly the combos look as beautiful as the graphics in 
 the game itself.
  
  Youll even find yourself playing with the SIXAXIS features such as guiding an arrow into the head 
 of an enemy. I felt these were done brilliantly and is the first truly rewarding experience with 
 a motion controller since playing Wii Sports. The game once finished, will leave you satisfied. 
 However youll probably have the urge to go back and try some more controller guided arrow shooting 
 or learn some of the more complex combos. Im not really getting a kick back, so take my word as 
 a serious gamer that youll surely enjoy this game and highly recommend the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I had a great time with this game from start to finish. The fighting controls are outstanding and 
 the visuals are all incredible. I was really impressed with the way they fused cutscenes and gameplay 
 together seamlessly. The story was pretty involving and the characters were extremely diverse and 
 interesting. I think that the parts where you played as Kai were some of the funnest parts of the 
 game. I loved the aftertouch controls also. There is something very satisfying about shooting an 
 arrow from a crossbow and then slowly guiding into some poor guys head. My only complaint is that 
 the game was very short. It kinda sucks to pay 60 dollars for a game that only lasts you a few 
 hours. All in all though, the game is definitely worth checking out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrangeCrown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is very much like an interactive action film. It's just as much fun to watch as it is 
 to play. The graphics are amazing, the characters interesting and colorful, the voice/motion acting 
 amazingly top notch. The story never lets go of your attention. The fight mechanics and sixaxis 
 motion sensing are well implemented, though the latter does take a while to get used to. The game 
 isn't difficult, but paces itself very well from one sequence to the next, the action rarely ever 
 letting up. The boss battles are fun, though at times the enemies do feel cheap. 
  The game IS short, there's no denying that. However, this is a game you'll probably play through 
 multiple times, if for no other reason than to experience its beauty and fun over and over. Mowing 
 down legions of soldiers has rarely ever been so satisfying.
  Rent it, buy it ~ in any case, play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  gears of war really set the bar for graphics in a game and heavenly sword surpassed it. With 1000s 
 of guys on screen at once frame rates never drop making ir truly remarkable. The controls are very 
 easy to get use to mainly because its a ahck and slash but a little more complex. Its a fun game 
 with a great story. The one let down is that the story is very short but once you finish it you 
 are very satisfied. I would recommend buying this game if you are a ps3 owner and are desperate 
 to get a good game for a system lacking good games to choose from.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  To put it briefly: This game is probably one of the greatest teases I've ever played. Since the 
 unveiling at E3'06 for this game, I was floored and waiting with much glee for it's arrival. Sadly, 
 the game really fails to live up to the hype generated from the trailers. Heavenly Sword does look 
 absolutely gorgeous. The detail in the characters and the environments is some of the best in any 
 game I've witnessed. If the PS3 needed a game to showcase it's power, this is it. Facial expressions 
 have an astounding look of realism to them, especially in the superbly crafted cut scenes. Gameplay 
 wise, the heroine Noriko controls like a dream as does her companion Kai in the sequences you get 
 to play as her. You really are able to pull off some impressive moves. But the majority of the 
 many combos you get are unnecessary as the same simple combos are enough to get you through the 
 game. But this is only part of Heavenly Sword's problems. The game is very short and can easily 
 be beaten in one sitting at roughly 6-7 hours. Over the course of those 6-7 hours, you will fight 
 the same enemies over and over and over again. Barely does the game throw any challenge at you 
 even in the boss fights. Several of the boss sequences even have you fighting the same exact fight 
 three times in succession. Could it have hurt to throw in an extra boss tactic to mix things up? 
 Once you complete the game there is hardly a compelling reason to play through it again other than 
 for artwork and to get your money's worth. Ultimately, Heavenly Sword is very disappointing. It 
 is close to being Goddess of War but no cigar. Ninja Theory just doesn't put the same amount of 
 time and attention into the actual gameplay as they do everything else. For Blockbuster Hollywood 
 movies, Ninja Theory are your guys. For an epic game, perhaps not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  With ocean-deep combat, a sharp sense of style and epic sense of scale, Heavenly Sword rises above 
 the tedious hack-and-slash action critics feared would be the sum-total of its charms, instead 
 emerging as one of the PS3s strongest titles since the consoles lacklustre launch. A delirious 
 brawler in the God Of War mould, Legendary Sword sees the sexy heroine slicing her way through 
 a blitzkrieg of bloodthirsty enemies; but while theres nothing new in this familiar routine, the 
 option to swap between three combat stances and use different attacks to target specific threats 
 makes the swordplay feel smarter and more visceral, also giving players more to do than mindlessly 
 hammering the buttons. Intelligent rivals wholl use advanced attack patterns to get the drop on 
 you, and two wildly different characters to control as you progress through the adventure, also 
 help Heavenly Sword rise above lesser brawlers, and the movie scenes and characters brought to 
 life by Lord Of The Rings Andy Serkis invest the game with the epic drama of a big budget Hollywood 
 swashbucker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terami
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Lets get the short thing out of the way... I've read the reviews and I agree that Heavenly Sword 
 is short. I spent roughly 7-8 hours on it. Was the game still worth it? Hell yes. While a lot of 
 games are getting more cinematic these days, there's still quite a few out there that don't match 
 the quality of games like Heavenly Sword. I would much rather have one short awesome game then 
 a long average game.
  
  Playing Heavenly Sword is like playing a part in a movie. It's done so well that there's never 
 a break in the immersion of the game. I felt the story was really, really well done. For spoiler 
 reasons, I really don't want to get too much into the story in this review. Chances are, you've 
 read other reviews that have covered this anyway. Although there will be many comparisons to games 
 like God of War, and there is many similarities, HS has enough of it's own qualities to make it 
 different and original.
  
  For example, you're given the ability to use the Sixaxis to control arrows, cannon balls and missiles. 
 I have to admit, HS was my first experience with the sixaxis, so I was ecstatic when I held the 
 controller, all while trying to guide my arrows at the various body parts of my enemies. It was 
 new to me but it was so much fun!
  
  HS is an action hack'n slash yes. A button masher, no way. You have 3 weapons styles... Weak (also 
 considered range) , where your sword spits into two all while attached to chains (ala GoW) . Medium, 
 where the sword is divided into two for dual wielding. And lastly, strong, where the sword is one 
 piece, a two handed sword.
  
  Combine these 3 weapon styles with a counter attack, weak attack, strong attack and you have a 
 pretty deep combo system. There is also a super attack, which usually goes into a little cinematic 
 for added effect. New combos open up, the further you go into the game but that is really the only 
 type of upgrade you'll get in the game.
  
  While I really enjoyed the game, I'm hard pressed to find a complaint with it, other then the obvious, 
 It's too short . Everything about the game is simply beautiful. To me, it was like a great piece 
 of art. Great acting and voice acting, just like something you would see from Hollywood. Very few 
 games really have this kind of polish on them. The music was beautiful as well and I wish I could 
 some how copy it to my hard drive.
  
  The graphics were simply stunning! There were so many times I just stood there starring at the 
 screen, wishing... Wishing I could pan the camera!!! ---Oh, yes, I just remembered my one complaint... 
 You can slide the camera from left to right but you can not pan it 360 degrees. --- One thing that 
 really stood out to me was just how far I could see and how detailed the view always was.
  
  There were times when there was so much action going on, I was amazed I had no slow down. I 
 mean, there were hundreds of enemies on the screen some times. This isn't something I haven't seen 
 before but I can say, I haven't seen it done this well before.
  
  The game plays amazing, is easy to pick up and you'll be having fun in no time. Ah yes, one more 
 complaint... The difficulty goes from easy, to medium for most of the game and then... WHAM!!! 
 The last boss fight is really hard at first but once you figure out what to do... Well, the rest 
 is history. It's worth noting that after you finish the game, there is a hell mode that opens up 
 for some replay value. You're also given some art in the form of a bonus through out the game, 
 but chances are, you'll not get them all your first time through. I enjoyed HS enough to warrant 
 another play through and who knows, maybe in a year or two, I might pick it up again.
  
  Would I suggest buying Heavenly Sword? That's a tough question. If you like hack'n slash games, 
 like I do, then chances are you'll love HS. If you're only iffy on hack'n slash games, chances 
 are, a rental will do. Not everyone loves the same games after all. For me, HS was like a wild 
 roller coaster ride. I loved it. This game gets a nine from me, simply because you can see just 
 how much effort the developers put into making this game. Minus the one point for the length as 
 that was really the game's only flaw that I could see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilaznmuggle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game while it is short had great elements to it. For the first time I really saw what the 
 PS3 had to offer and this game has helped Sony come into next generation of gaming. It had a cinematic 
 feel right from the get go and let's you pull off insane combos and things you wish you could do 
 in real life. From the positive I think that it was a great story and it seemed more like a movie 
 than simply bashing buttons killing things. Although you do a fair amount of that it felt like 
 you were in a movie. This game also took good use of the six-axis controller even though it was 
 hard to get used at first. Once you get the hang of it, it feels quite natural and essential in 
 game play. Fluid controlls also were great factors in the game play. Range/power/speed attacks 
 each offered their own element of suprise and tactical use in the variety of enviornments. You 
 also get to play as 2 characters, obviously the main girl Nariko and also the archer Kai who comes 
 in handy at random times. I couldn't believe some of the things I was doing in the game where my 
 mouth was open going that was incredible!!!! The only negative I have about this game is that it 
 was kind of short and it takes a little bit of time for the learning curve. Learning to use speed/power/range 
 attacks really takes trial and error along with probably dieing a few times. Over all I think this 
 was a great game to play and VERY entertaining. If Sony keeps puting out games like this I wouldn't 
 hesistate with cost. Definately worth $60 and the next step into next-gen gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatthomson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The game's graphics are gorgeous. Great cut scenes that are some times funny, and are very well 
 done. Boss fights are incredibly repetitive and drawn out way too long. It's basically doing the 
 same thing over and over again. This becomes a big problem with the game. Way too much of the same 
 thing. Fighting the bad guys is the same over and over again. It is fun to shoot and guide the 
 arrows, but that's only a minor aspect of the game. It's very short, taking only about 6 to 8 hours 
 to beat, depending upon how much effort you try to put into each segment of the game. Overall it 
 is worth renting, but not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacEb3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game expecting a mediocre game. What I got was the best game I've played for the 
 PS3 and better than most other games as well (for this type) . The story and interesting characters 
 sparkled with humor and a firm sense of purpose. It has everything a person can ask for. The draw 
 back to this game is time yes, but what you get instead is a few hours of pure high quality entertainment. 
 Best intro to a game ever in my opinion. It immediately immersed me into the game and it hardly 
 ever lets up. It's basically a fantastic CG movie that you get to play out and experience. I am 
 left after beating the game wanting more, but that's what a good game does. A Great game. The bosses 
 are cheap at times and I spent the better part of 2-3 hours combined with all the parts that I 
 had to figure a way to beat these bastards. It was great. I don't think I can stress that anymore. 
 So go and rent it if you think I'm wrong. I truly love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nessus11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have not passed the game yet. However, every moment I play it, it makes me want to keep going. 
 But real life calls and the game must wait. The most common complaint about this game is that it 
 is too short. Bluray and HD DVD movies are like $30 to $35 bucks and people still buy it so they 
 can watch it over and over. Well in this case, you can control the movie and experience it again 
 and again. I'm just not sure if you can play it on hard or something once you beat it once since 
 I haven't beaten it yet ( I hope so though.) You have 3 different fighting stances for the main 
 character and you end up playing a secondary character which is also fun with the aftertouch feature. 
 This would actually make a good fighting game if it was implemented. I can't really compare this 
 game to God of War because I haven't played it. However, the gameplay feels like Ninja Gaiden which 
 is another great game. You can button smash through most of the entire game, or you can be like 
 the skillful people out there that are able to do the combos. You guys know who you are... hehe. 
 It becomes a whole lot more challenging and fun. I haven't heard of anyone yet that would want 
 to watch a martial art movie because the main character sucks at fighting through the entire movie. 
 Most of the time they improve near the end...=) Don't they? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  It is a shame that the PS3 price will prevent most gamers getting a chance to enjoy Heavenly Sword, 
 as it is probably the most beautifully crafted and visually arresting games of this generation.
 
  
  The quality of the cut scenes alone, produced by Andy Serkis and Weta Workshops, is simple breathtaking 
 and of the same quality of the Gollum digital animation in the LOTR trilogy. The level of detail 
 on the skin, eyes and facial movements (all in engine) is quite incredible for a video game. The 
 script and acting is also top quality with some genuine wit, humour and intensity. If you get a 
 chance, check out some of the videos online.
  
  As for the gameplay? Well it is a clone of God of War, but with a few new, interesting and innovative 
 features thrown in.
  
  The sword combat is very satisfying and consists of attacks in the different stances: speed, range 
 and power. The enemies attack in the various stances -identified by colour- and you can only block 
 and maximize your attacks by matching the stance. The combat also features a combo and counter 
 system similar to that in Tekken or Soul Calibur. As you make kills you earn style points which 
 can then be used to perform special moves - usually resulting in instant kills and a groovy animation. 
 Most of the time you fight between 4 and 10 enemies at once, but the power of the PS3 is fully 
 shown on the last level when you literally fight 500-1000 enemies at once on a Helm's Deep style 
 battle field - absolutely astonishing technically, and quite brilliant.
  
  At least 50% of the game is played as Nariko and her Heavenly Sword, whilst the other 50% is played 
 with either her kooky friend Kia and her Twing-Twang (Bow) , or as Nariko operating a huge cannon. 
 These shooting missions are unique in that require the use of the tilt controls of the SixAxis 
 controller.
  
  Throughout the game whenever you throw or fire something, you can switch to an aftertouch mode 
 where you have complete control of the projectile in flight - it is like the Bullet Tequilla Bomb 
 in Stranglehold. You can adjust the projectiles direction by tilting the controller. The missions 
 where Kia takes down archers from across a valley are very satisfying when combined with the arrow 
 aftertouch - not to mention gruesomely cruel Wink. Most of the games puzzles also use the aftertouch 
 to direct thrown hats or arrows onto shields and switches.
  
  Like God of War and Tomb Raider Legend, Heavely Sword also makes use of quick time events - movie 
 sequences where certain buttons must be pressed in time. These Hero Time sequences are largely 
 enjoyable, but they do become tiresome in the Boss Battles where they are required to perform the 
 finishing moves.
  
  If this game does have a weakness it is with the 'old school' Boss battles. The actually Bosses 
 are all very strange and weird -which is fine-, and remind me a lot of the Bosses in Metal Gear 
 Solid. Each Boss Fight, however, feels artificially lengthened and you often have to defeat the 
 Boss 3 or 4 times before it concludes. These battles often result in tiresome 20-30 minute fights 
 that Capcom would be proud of.
  
  For me this is the PS3's first standout title, and while not perfect, it is a game that everyone 
 should try to play. If you have a buddy with a PS3, camp yourself around their house to play the 
 demo, or better the game. Is it enough to justify a new PS3? Probably not, as the game is too short 
 and you'd just be left with Motorstorm and Warhawk to play afterwards. However, if the PS3 comes 
 down to a sensible price (sub &pound;250) , and you are wondering what game to get to show the system 
 off... Heavenly Sword is the game to buy.
  
  For: Breathtaking graphics; best ever cuts scenes; top quality acting; immersive story and characters; 
 solid gameplay; good use of motion controls; fighting 500 enemies at once!
  Against: Tiresome boss fights; short (5-6 hours)
  
  Gameplay: 8 - rock solid and enjoyable
 
  Presentation: 10 - some of the the best GFX on any system &amp; a superb soundtrack + voice work
 
  Design: 9 - beautifully crafted and throughly enjoyable
  Story: 6 - very short, no MP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insane00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  While this game is definitely short in that even unskilled players should be able to beat it in 
 about ten hours, that shouldn't detract anyone from at least checking it out. The graphical presentation 
 is amazing as is the soundtrack. If you have an HDTV and surround sound this game will give you 
 a real treat.
  The game play is wonderfully fluid and once you are able to find the happy medium between the different 
 stances, counters, and dodging with the right stick, the fighting takes on the look of ballet, 
 or visual poetry.
  
  But unlike God of War, Prince of Persia, or other similarly styled games, this one gives the player 
 a nice break with the shooting missions. While this may seem unnecessary or would even kill the 
 mood of the game, the ability to guide arrows, rockets, cannon balls, and any other object you 
 can pick up and throw right into the heads of the bad guys is satisfying in almost a twisted way. 
 Further if your into gore and racking up a massive body count, this game is perfect as some missions 
 will require Nariko to kill 500+ bad guys just to move on. Further the enemies begin to swarm around 
 Nariko giving off the impression that she is in far over her head.
  
  While some will complain about the length, but if you are worried about the money at least rent 
 this game. It is, at least for my money, well worth owning especially since BD movies are averaging 
 about 30 bucks and this game at twice the price gives at least twice the entertainment. Ultimately 
 the game is a beautiful treat to play and will not only bring the player into the story, but leave 
 them wishing for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword has had quite a bit of hype around it, and is aruguably the biggest PS3-exclusive 
 game this year. Heavenly Sword shines like the sun, but the short length and a few minor issues 
 keep the game from being as dazzling as it could have been.
  
  The Bad: The game is short and can be beaten in roughly 6-8 hours depending on how good you are. 
 * It seems like you have to fail a button press scene at least once if you want to succeed in the 
 button press scene. * Music tracks are reused a bit to much. The Good: The graphics are some of 
 the best (If not THE best) we have seen on the PlayStation 3. * The music, while a bit repetitive, 
 is very good and nice to listen to. It also fits in with the game perfectly. * The cutscenes make 
 the game fill like a movie, and a very good movie to. * The combat doesn't get repetitive with 
 the inclusion of the unique and impressive combos. * A couple of puzzles, shooting games, and Kai 
 Missions keep the game from getting to repetitive. * Storyline is well written * Boss battles are 
 awesome * Framerate never dips, even with literally thousands of enemies on screen * Top notch 
 voice acting * Bug-free
  
  Now, most review sites have given Heavenly Sword generally positive reviews with an average of 
 8 out of 10, but some have taken it upon themselves to give it a 7 out of 10. These guys need to 
 go back and play again. While the game is pretty short, it's almost perfect from start to finish. 
 The gameplay is mixed up with the combo system and it is not all button mashing with unique Kai 
 Missions, Puzzles, and Shooting Missions. The boss battles are very fun to, especially the dialouge 
 during the fights. You also have to strategize to beat the bosses and think about how you should 
 beat them. You can't just mash the same button again and again. The Sixaxis is implemented ok in 
 this game. When you get knocked up in the air by a power combo, you can shake the controller to 
 counter your enemy from the air. You can also use it to perfrom aerial combos. Both of these are 
 surprsingly easier and better than using the analog controls. You can use it as an aftertouch to 
 guide shots from an arrow or bazooka to specific targets. I found the aftertouch controls to be 
 ok, but harder and inferior than than using the stick. Thankfully, this game didn't make the same 
 mistake that Lair game did and you can turn off the sixaxis controls for everything or only for 
 certain things as you wish.
  
  The button press are very stylish, but if you want to beat them you basically have to lose them 
 once.
  
  The cutscenes in the game are gorgeous and it really feels like a movie. The story is engaging 
 and you will actually care what happens to the characters. The motion capture makes the characters 
 move more realistically as well. But the mouth movement and voices seemed a bit off. As for the 
 sound, there are many good sound effects in the game and the voice acting is top notch. The only 
 issues with sound is the music tracks, which, while great, are used to many times. Although they 
 fit the setting really well. The graphics pretty much speak for themselves. The only issue is that 
 sometimes Nariko's (The main character) hair goes through her body. The value is dependent on whether 
 or not you enjoy it. If you do, then you will want to play it again, if not then there won't be 
 much value unfortunately. There has been promise of downloadable content if sales are good enough 
 however. I really enjoyed this game, but this is just my opinion. I think that you should at least 
 rent Heavenly Sword, even if you don't like these types if games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Bought Heavenly Sword as my first PS3 game, heard some great things about it from all over the 
 net. Popped it in and started playing, the cinematics were stunning and the transitions between 
 such scenes and the actual game play were fairly seamless. What got me most were the faces, photo 
 realistic as anything I have ever seen; this is the power of the PS3! I got into the fights, reminded 
 a lot of GoW, and started kicking some rear. The transitions into the other styles makes everyones 
 fighting styles unique (I. E. my style leans more towards heavy speed with a mix of power whereas 
 my roommate uses more power than speed) . I got to the boss at the last sequence of the game, took 
 me two tries to bring him down and the ending credits start rolling and I stop. Simply an awe inspiring 
 game but the producers should have made it at least twice as long to give a good all around gaming 
 experience. If you are looking to buy a game, buy another one and rent-play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBrokenNinja
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game had my jaw dropping from the beginning to the end! The story pulls you in right off the 
 bat and it really makes you feel for the main character. From beginning to end the game is non-stop 
 beat-em up action. Some may get tired of the so called button mashing but i happen to thing that 
 the fighting is much more deep than that. I, being a huge fan of the Dynasty Warriors series, am 
 very used to button mashing, and compared to Dynasty Warriors this game has a whole load more combos 
 and stances that you can play with and try out. Thats what I like about the fighting is that there 
 are 3 different stances so you don't get bored. However, even if you do get a little tired of sword 
 swinging there are Kai's side missions with arrow shooting which are tons of fun. The six-axis 
 controls work very fluidly with the shooting of arrows and my personal favorite, the throwing of 
 dead bodies.
  Aside from the action the story, characters, and voices are all amazing. What makes these all so 
 good all boils down to the graphics. Simply put they are beautiful. The mouths match up perfectly 
 with the words and the voices go hand in hand with the characters. It really seemed that each character 
 had their own personality and style. It made for a really great movie style experience.
  I definitely recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffin1982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  I bought this game along with my console this past saturday. i am not into sports games, me being 
 a woman and all. with the limited amount of game choices out there for the ps3, i didn't know what 
 to get. but i figured, since heavenly sword was the inspiration for me buying the ps3 console, 
 i decided to buy it as my first game. i am very happy and satisfied with heavenly sword, the storyline 
 was unique and incredible and the graphic technology made the game so ALIVE! i recommend any true 
 action packed game player to play heavenly sword: its one to truly make a person feel accomplished 
 and complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romad64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here it is. One of the most anticipated games to come to the ps3. It has been praised by some 
 and criticized by many. Is this the game that ps3 owners have been waiting for? HELL YEAH, IT IS!!!
 
  
  graphics- OMFG! This game looks incredible. It has some of the best looking visuals i have ever 
 seen, Also the cutscenes are amazing. Some of the best acting i've seen in a game in a long time. 
 Sometimes you'll feel you were watching a movie. Nariko just simply looks stunning. The only problem 
 is her hair. You can't tell whether it's hair or strands of liquorish on her head, but that dose'nt 
 really matter. All that matters is that this game is a graphical masterpiece.
  
  story- Heavenly Sword tells the story of a young girl told to be a curse of some sort on her clan. 
 Later she is trusted by her father to bear the Heavenly Sword, the clans most prized posesion. 
 It is her job to protect the sword from king bohan who seeks the sword itself. As she weilds it, 
 it is slowly killing her. Basicaly, the story kicks ass.
  
  gameplay- The gameplay in heavenly sword is crazy. You go from slicing and dicing with the heavenly 
 sword to shooting bad guys in the crotch with arrows. Nariko's fighting system is deep, with tons 
 of combos and three different stances to kill someone with. Oh sure, the game is short but with 
 gameplay like this you'll want to play again and again. The second playable character in the game 
 is Kai. She is Nariko's little sister. She is not very strong so when u play as her your only weapon 
 is a bow and arrow. Now you may think that sucks, but it is actually one of the most exciting parts 
 of the game. Using the sixaxis controls you can steer the arrow in the direction you want. It is 
 just so fun to nail a guy in the crotch with a arrow. Using the sixaxis can be a little difficult, 
 but it is so much more rewarding than using the analog sticks.
  
  bottom line- This game is definately one of the best games to get for the ps3. It can offer you 
 hours and hours of entertainment. This game is a adventure you won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessjess11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an amazing cinematic game, finally a game that shows us what we have to look 
 forward to with the PS3. I really felt as I played this game that it set a new bench mark for video 
 games. The movements of the main character and the fighting style is one of the most real I have 
 ever seen. The acting for the cinematic was just awesome, it really gave me a feel of what the 
 character was going through and brought me deeper into the story. Here is a first, you actually 
 get to be an arrow in the game and control it through the environment and nail someone straight 
 in the head. I thought to myself, man this is what I have been missing in games all this time. 
 However this did get a little old by the end of the game having to guide 25 cannon balls through 
 the air to hit the little red targets on the catapults. All in all this game was very impressive 
 (short about 6 hours start to finish) and is just the beginning of what Sony has to bring us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdripper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Fact. I've been waiting more than a year for Heavenly Sword. Fact. When I finally got it, it took 
 me all of an afternoon to plow through the game right to the Final Boss battle. But this is basically 
 with just using basic combos, no air-flying crazy stuff, not getting all the secret glyphs, all 
 in normal mode. Conceivably, I can try Hell Mode, but I'm not a masochist, so probably not. Despite 
 this, I don't feel at all shortchanged by the shortness, or do I feel lacking in the experience. 
 The game started, it played, it ended. I had a great freaky time.
  
  There are few games out there that really make it a point to be cinematic, but really, only a few 
 make it successfully. Tons of games do cut scenes, try to be dramatic, tell a story. Most do it 
 with unintentionally funny results. Some do it adequately or very well. A few do it great. Heavenly 
 Sword knocks the ball out of the park. Here, the characters not only speak convincingly, they ACT. 
 Movements, body language, emotion- it's all done exceptionally well, particularly by the performers 
 behind Nariko herself, her sidekick Kai (easily the most refreshing and enthralling sidekick and 
 supporting character in games recently) and of course, main bad guy Bohan himself played by Andy 
 Serkis. Serkis eats up the scenery and comes up with one of the most entertainingly delicious villains 
 in videogaming. In Heavenly Sword, the cutscenes and the acting is a draw, certainly, and the game's 
 worth getting and playing through to see the many cool cinematic moments.
  
  That's not the say the gameplay is a slouch. Despite having a non-conventional control scheme that 
 lacks a block or a jump command, it doesn't take long for most players to start switching between 
 stances as needed, dealing out heavy or fast strikes and clearing paths through squads of enemies. 
 There's nothing more satisfying that saving up a Super Attack and exterminating a crowd of enemies 
 with one big swoop. Boss battles are few but long and satisfying, melding combo-heavy action with 
 some interesting (though often suprising) interactive cutscene-type portions.
  
  Heavenly Sword has a lot of flaws- mainly the short length, but also the lack of variety of enemies 
 (you only face several versions of soldiers, a lumbering breed of beast and female ninja) and half-hearted 
 puzzles involving bouncing shields which, while interesting at the start, eventually just serve 
 as irritating gaps in the otherwise non-stop action. Still, the cinematic flair and wonderful performances 
 of the actors, the personal yet epic story, the beautiful graphics and settings, exciting fighting 
 action and perhaps one of the most epic boss fights ever make this short but sweet PS3 title a 
 nice addition to a PS3 collection. If you have money to spare and appreciate craft, this may be 
 a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuneBug28
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  kinda a god of war rip off but more too it, anyhoo i thoroughly enjoyed it 9.0 out of 10. controls 
 are tight. graphics are great, 1 thing i dont understand is why ps3 dont have more 1080p or even 
 1080i games out, they all seem to be 720p, not that the game doesnt look great but come on the 
 hardware is there lets get some 1080p action!!!!
  
  aside from that little complaint i really love this game. its gow but with one bad chick well 2 
 if u count the little crazy side kick of whom i love. anyhow its definitely a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  What Heavenly Sword lacks in length, it more than makes up for in other areas. No, it's not the 
 longest game. In the end it feels about right and in no way did I feel cheated at the end of it. 
 Any longer and the complaint could have just as easily become that the game was too repetitive. 
 When all is said and done, there are two things that can really suck me into a game and heavenly 
 sword has both. Outstanding gameplay and a story that I want to invest myself into emotionally. 
 From a gameplay standpoint, the controls are sharp, responsive and like so many things in life, 
 you get out of them what you put into it. The game can easily be finished by running through the 
 same few combinations of attacks over and over again, which will be more than fine for some (and 
 I'll admit is the tactic I used to unseat King Bohan in the last series of fights.... the bugger 
 and his infinite health just wouldn't fall) . However it's a far more satisfying run if you take 
 the time to truly explore and master the combo system and different stances. If you do, you'll 
 likely find that Heavenly sword certainly does live up to its tag of vengeance being beautiful. 
 The animations for the entire set of combo's are all fluid, purposeful and absolutely gorgeous.
 
  
  Perhaps the most enjoyable and unexpected aspect of the control scheme is the use of the sixaxis 
 controllers motion sensing capabilities. Theyre subtle but extremely effective and a prime example 
 of how this feature can be implemented without feeling forced or overbearing. Tilting the controller 
 to guide arrows and cannon balls over long bridges and spanning landscapes has a completely natural 
 feel to it and should be viewed as an example to other developers. Heavenly Sword simply took the 
 zoom feature on a rifle, and then took it one step further. It totally works!
  
  As a sensory experience as a whole, Heavenly Sword is untouchable. While all of the graphical and 
 audio elements are outstanding, it isnt so much the vast scenic landscapes or ruins that set it 
 apart, but the subtleties that youll find when you get up close and personal with the characters. 
 The furrowing of a brow, variety of skin complexions, twisted facial hair and subtle smiles or 
 frowns. They all lend themselves to solid motion capture performances that when combined with great 
 voice acting and a fitting and dramatic musical score, absorb you into a good, if not predictable 
 story.
  
  Of course, this game like any other isnt without faults. The ambitious graphical design does occasionally 
 suffer frame rate and lip sync issues, but I can honestly say that I didnt feel as though it hindered 
 my experience in any way. If I did feel that the game was too short, it was because I would have 
 liked to know more about the characters and their background stories. Kais especially. However 
 given the linear and story driven nature of the game it doesnt feel wrong that I wanted more. 
 What was offered was just that good! Its comparable to reading a book or watching a movie. Each 
 is a different experience and Heavenly Sword takes the cinematic approach. If there are any arguments 
 about length that can be made, its a monetary value to game time ratio. Some will argue that a 
 $60 (CDN) price tag should merit more game time than what is offered. I personally found that what 
 I got out of it in the period of time I played for was concentrated enough that it wasnt an issue 
 for me. I believe that both sides of the argument are legitimate though, and it will come down 
 to personal opinion.
  
  There is some replay value to Heavenly Sword in the way of unlockables and a higher difficulty 
 setting, but the real attraction lies in playing through the game. These elements may appeal to 
 the hardcore, but most will likely to find themselves appreciating this game as they would a home 
 movie. Ill pick it up again and play through for the game experience. Regardless, Heavenly Sword 
 is without a doubt more than the sum of all of its individual parts. Its more than a combination 
 of Incredible graphics, sound and control design, tied in nicely to a story that sets itself up 
 and then gets to the point without feeling like it unnecessarily drags on. They combine exponentially 
 for a game that should definitely be experienced by anyone who owns a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ever since last year's E3, I have patiently awaited the release of Heavenly Sword. Seeing the game 
 designer pull off amazing combos and counters made my jaw drop. The overall graphics, environment, 
 and heroine, Nariko were all beautiful. Those were my first impressions; here are my final impressions. 
 Heavenly Sword is THE showcase for PS3 owners. As I stated before, the graphics are very detailed, 
 the environments are large and diverse, the game handles thousands (yes thousands) of enemies on 
 screen at the same time without any noticeable frame rate hitch, the story is compelling, and last 
 but not least THE ANIMATION WILL MAKE YOUR JAW DROP.
  The story of Heavenly Sword revolves around Nariko and her father's clan. Their primary function 
 is to guard the Heavenly Sword from those who wish to wield it and abuse its great power. King 
 Bohan, a tyrannical king who is brilliantly played by Andy Sekis (Gollum from the Lord of the Ring 
 movies) , seeks the sword and its power to consolidate his control over the land. As you would imagine, 
 the paths of Nariko, her father Shen, her sister Kai, and King Bohan all cross at one point. The 
 result is the meat of the game, a 5 day war pitting good vs. evil . During the game you will play 
 as either Nariko or Kai. The sections with Kai differ from those with Nariko in that Kai uses her 
 agility to outmaneuver her enemies and her crossbow to kill them. Speaking off crossbow, you have 
 the option to manually control the trajectory of her arrows via SIXAXIS controls. The learning 
 curve is steep, but once you get the controls down it is very rewarding. Unfortunately, I didn't 
 have the patience to master the controls during my first play through and chose to use the analog 
 sticks (much easier, almost to a fault) to control the arrows. Kai is a character whose first impression 
 will make you think that she is REALLY messed up in the head. She is, but as the story played out, 
 I began to appreciate her charm, her wit, and her humor. She is a good diversion from the long 
 sections played as Nariko. Speaking of Nariko, you don't get an opportunity to wield the Heavenly 
 Sword until about half an hour into the game. You will use a katana for the beginning of the game 
 as you valiantly defend your tribe and the Heavenly Sword against King Bohan's invading army. Combat 
 with the katana is... simple... thankfuily it doesn't last that long. Once you whip out the Heavenly 
 Sword the game cranks itself up a couple of gears and becomes WICKED FUN! There is TONS of combat 
 in this game so here are some things to note about fighting with the Heavenly Sword: You have 3 
 stances (Speed, Power, and Range) . The 3 stances can be switched on the fly with the L1 and R1 
 buttons. The speed stance is the default stance. AUTO BLOCK. This may seem weird to some, but it 
 allows you a better opportunity to counter enemies. Countering... You will counter using the Triangle 
 Button. Enemies will attack you and their attacks will either be Blue, Orange, or Red colored attacks. 
 You can counter Blue by pressing Triangle upon contact. Orange attacks can be countered using the 
 power stance (R1 and Triange) . Red attacks cannot be countered. Perfectly timed countered result 
 in awesome looking counter attacks that NEVER GET OLD. Super Moves- As your combo strings get longer 
 and you counter more, your style meter will go up. This is what fuels your super moves. You press 
 circle to do super moves (You can also press L1 or R1 and Circle to do other super moves) . These 
 moves will instantly kill the enemy you are attacking. High level super moves will kill 20-50 enemies 
 at once. You can roll around using the right thumbstick. Camera angles can be controlled with the 
 L2 and R2 buttons or via SIXAXIS controls. You will fight thousands of enemies in the game. At 
 some points it can be a drag because you will kill a group of enemies and then go and kill another 
 group (rinse and repeat) . The enemies will vary from basic soliders to beefed up soliders with 
 axes to ninjas... The game lacks variety with respect to the enemies and chooses to make up for 
 it with quantity. I found the default difficulty setting to be rather easy. Most games are pretty 
 easy after you have beat Ninja Gaiden Sigma and Devil May Cry 3. Hell mode is A LOT more fun as 
 the AI is more aggressive, smarter, and does more damage. The boss battles in this game are very 
 good. The bosses talk A LOT of trash. Again, much better on Hell Mode because the bosses are pretty 
 easy... You will fight Whiptail, Roach, General Flying Fox, and of course... King Bohan. The last 
 battle with King Bohan is the only truly challenging part of the game during the first play through. 
 The battle is memorable and very intense. The music in Heavenly Sword fits the mood and the environment 
 very well. It is not as epic as God of War, but it does the job well. IN CONCLUSION:
  Heavenly Sword is the kind of game that you want to show off to all of your friends and family 
 to flaunt your shiny black PlayStation 3. The game is a hell of a lot of fun to play, shows off 
 excellent graphics, has a very good story with an excellent ending, and has production values that 
 will absolutely blow you away. Does the game have flaws? Absolutely. It's not very long, not very 
 challenging on the first play through, and the enemies lack variety. Of course my main faults of 
 the game can be resolved by playing the game again on Hell Mode. It would be really nice if you 
 could just start the game on Hell Mode instead of having to beat the game first...
  I don't regret paying $60 for Heavenly Sword. It is a short game, but it is a hell of a fun, memorable 
 ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunnyPopEmcee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Alright, so Im going to try to write this review with as little spoilers as possible. Heavenly 
 Sword, from Ninja Theory for months (years even) has been touted as a potential triple-A title 
 for the Playstation 3 and in many ways it lives up to that billing, and in others it misses the 
 mark. As Im sure youre all aware of, the heroine, Nariko is part of a clan whose job is to protect 
 the Heavenly Sword, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, lets just cut to the case, Im going to skip 
 talking about the length of the good and how good it looks, those things are a given; what makes 
 this game work (and doesnt work) are the controls. Playing Heavenly Sword is guaranteed to give 
 your thumbs (and index fingers for that matter) a workout like no other game currently on the PS3. 
 Basically you go from one fight, to another fight, to another fight, to a cut scene, to another 
 fight. There were many a time that I had to pause the game and crack my thumb knuckles from all 
 the button mashing and that in itself isnt a bad thing, for the most part. Controls wise what 
 killed it for me with this game is the blocking system. To press R1 or not to press R1 that is 
 the question. And that was just during the boss battles which at times, left me under whelmed. 
 Most of those fights basically came down to the same combos as most of the cool combos where useless 
 on the bosses (as they seemed to block everything thrown at them) . Despite the fun factor that 
 went into playing Heavenly Sword, Ill say that frustration was also a big part of game play. All 
 and all, I through Ninja Theory put out a nice offering for a system that lacks titles; however, 
 this what the PS3 needs now is a game that a little longer in game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  well i really did enjoy this game as a fan of games like devil may cry and god of war, this game 
 seemed to lack that good old visceral feeling i got from those games. Also it was a little on the 
 short side. Not everything is bad in this game noway. First the game is gorgeous i have never seen 
 facial animation so realistic in a game EVER was almost creepy. Also the story was pretty cool 
 and for once the SIXXAXIS feature was actually cool. In the end i want DMC4 and GOW3 over this 
 but if a sequel is made and they fix some thing up it can really be an amazing game in the end 
 this game is the perfect rental short and sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword like Bioshock for the 360 shows clearly a matured genre where art and gaming intersect. 
 Gameplay is not only fun, it is mightly addictive. The use of the six axis motion is also nicely 
 utilized in this game. From taking down enimies through one ot three fighting styles to taking 
 out 700 enemies in just a few minutes with a long range canno Heavenly Sword scores big on flow 
 and presentation. I am not normally one to get caught up in the CGI cutscenes but I must say Bravo, 
 this is some of the best work I have ever scene. What is there to dislike, no multiplayer and some 
 have complained that it is too short. I think however to count those against Heavenly Sword to 
 heavily would be a grave injustice. If you own a PS3 then Heavenly Sword is a great action adventure 
 fighter. Better than Ninja Gaiden, and also a bar setting third person action game. If you don't 
 have a spare 60 bucks lying around this is a must renter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword was without a doubt one of the most highly anticipated PS3 titles since it was first 
 shown way back at E3 05. It was meant to show the PS3's graphical prowess and be one of the big 
 system sellers for the console. Well, if you wanted a good rental as a system seller that looks 
 pretty and plays well, this would be it. If only the satisfaction went on a wee bit longer.
  
  The story of Heavenly Sword, follows a young red haired beauty name Nariko, who is said to 
 be sent from heaven as a savior to her people, or perhaps a curse? She is meant to guard the legendary 
 Heavenly Sword, which supposidly was sent down from heaven above, along with a holy warrior who 
 vanquishd the evil Raven King; thus preventing him from taking over the land. However, a king from 
 a distant land, Bohan wants the Heavenly Sword for himself, to aid him in his domination of the 
 world. The story itself is pretty cut and dry, and its length is one of Heavenly Sword's chinks 
 in this otherwise great adventure. You can literally beat this game in anywhere between 5 and 7 
 hours, not a very long game for such a heavily anticipated title eh? The story itself is broken 
 into 5 chapters, one for each hour funny how that worked out, which will lead you through jaw dropping 
 landscapes and hordes of ferocious enemies. Some of the battle sequences remind you of epic movies, 
 one battle in one of the later chapters reminded me of The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers battle 
 at helms deep.
  
  The gameplay in Heavenly Sword, is a button masher at heart; but you cannot simply button mash 
 your way through the seemingly endless number of enemies in this game. If you try to do that you'll 
 just end up as Bohan's prettiest war trophy. When Nariko wields the Heavenly Sword, she can use 
 it in three different stances: Power, Speed, and Range. Each one of these stances has its own set 
 of combos you can pull off, and you unlock more combos as you advance in the story and by how many 
 points or kills you get in a stage. You activate the different stances by holding down either R1 
 or L1 and pressing either Triangle or Square, your two main attack buttons. Which, having three 
 different stances and hundreds of combos to choose from, constantly changes up your gameplay and 
 the enemies that attack you will require you to use these three different stances. When Nariko 
 hits enough times sucessfully, a meter built into your health bar goes up, when the little gems 
 inside it light up she can unless a super move. The damage and range of these attacks depends on 
 how many of the three gems are lit. But, they range from her slicing a guys.... you know whats off 
 to her grabbing one soldier and swinging him around like a merry-go-round and hitting anything 
 in her path. The other big aspect to the combat is the counterattack system. Nariko will automatically 
 guard if she isn't moving, but if you press Triangle at certain times in an enemies attack she 
 can either severly injure them or kill them, depending on your timing. This can get you out of 
 some tough jams, when you are surrounded by some 20 or 30 of Bohan's minions that is. And if guarding 
 doesn't work, simply dodge by directing the right analog stick, Nariko is far more nimble and quick 
 than most of her enemies. Speaking of the enemies in this game, they range from either the grunts 
 or the sword fodder as I called them, whom never block and just seem to run in and die. To the 
 power blockers, who block most of Nariko's attacks unless you use a guard breaking combo and who 
 use primarily power attacks which are slow and easy to dodge. And numerous others who have their 
 own attack style and moves. And there are also a few stages that involve Kai playing Twin Twang, 
 in other words, she shoots bad guys dead. Her specialty is shooting arrows at enemies, since this 
 is all she does, she doesn't do close range combat. Which in some of her stages can be annoying 
 since you may forget this little tidbit of info. But, her stages are generally fun, you can use 
 the Aftertouch feature to guide her arrows at the enemy, implying that you can direct the arrows 
 using the Sixaxis controller that is. At first, it is annoying and you will miss alot, but after 
 a while you get used to the Aftertouch feature. Very few things are better than aiming an arrow 
 at a guy's forehead, or other 'parts' if you really wanna be dirty.
  
  The boss battles are another thing about this game that makes them fun and satisfying to play, 
 though they can be kind of annoying. You will only run into a handful of boss battles in Heavenly 
 Sword, remember the length of the game to thank for this, but they seem to be worthy foes for Nariko's 
 blade to sink into. During each of them, you will have to pull off a fancy scenes using button 
 pressing sequences, which when you go through for the first time can be annoying. It seems like 
 the reaction timing of the button pressing is off, there were many times where I would press the 
 corresponding button when it came up on the screen multiple times but the move still failed. This 
 causes the boss to regain some of their health, which makes the battle go on longer and can be 
 a real pain.
  
  However, the camera can also sometimes be a pain, if you are constantly moving back and forth, 
 the camera will move with you. It didn't happen too many times to me, but it can be kind of dissorientating 
 if you are in the middle of a heated battle.
  
  The characters are lovable, for as long as you know them, and are also aspects to the game that 
 could've been played out a bit more. Nariko you obviously get to know quite well and Bohan you 
 get to like/hate depending on how you look at him. But, many of the other characters are just kind 
 of there, Bohan's henchmen aren't really described or even talked about much. You pretty much see 
 them in one cutscene, then you kill them, nothing really satisfying about kill some major henchmen 
 I know next to nothing about. But, you cannot forget Kai and her Gollum like antics, she constantly 
 talks in 3rd person and has a sort of peculiar charm about her that just gets you to enjoy her 
 prescense.
  
  Oh, and there is a slight puzzle aspect to this otherwise all actiony button masher. But, it could've 
 been left out, it is not very inventive or unique. You see a box of hats to the side? Well, chances 
 are there is a gong nearby that needs hit by one...... and that is it. This so called puzzle aspect 
 of the game could've been overlooked, it just seem so to be a hamper on the games progression.
 
  
  The graphics....... well, if you wanted a game that showed off the power of your PS3, then this 
 is THE game. The character animations look like real life people, they look as if you could reach 
 out and touch them through your television screen. The battles seem like poetry in motion, Nariko 
 moves swiftly throughout the battle without lag or hang ups. The environments looks absolutely 
 gorgeous, the streaming waterfalls, soaring mountains, and vaste battlefields never looked so realistic 
 before.
  
  The voice acting is some of the best I've ever heard in a game, period. The actors really bring 
 the characters to life in this game and are more than worthy of praise for their work. The sound 
 design besdies the voices is okay, not great, not bad it just doesn't seem to add or take away 
 from the mood set in the game.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for an afternoon's worth of pulse pounding gameplay and fantastic visuals 
 then Heavenly Sword is your game. If only it were a bit longer and a few other things were done 
 better then it would probably have been a far more enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is awesome! The story alone is worth every penny of my $60. Once you start the game, 
 you play this female character named Nariko and she is using this Heavenly Sword against maybe 
 a thousand troops. She falls to the ground and the heavenly sword is taking her life out of her. 
 She's about to die, but before she does, she started to have flash backs of how all this started. 
 This is where everything begins, so you'll have to play the game to find out what happened next. 
 The story of this game is epic. I love it all the way.
  
  The graphics are amazing. I have never seen such beautiful graphics on another console. The facial 
 expressions on every cutscenes and the background is very very detailed. Heavenly Sword graphics 
 wise is over the top. If you are a graphic whore, you'll love this one.
  
  The voice overs and background musics are perfectly implemented. There's no one point where you 
 don't feel that the music didn't belong in the game. The voice overs are done perfectly. There's 
 no out of sync or such things in this game.
  
  The only downfall I see in this game is the length everyone is complaining about. However, if you're 
 like me, who has a job and can only play maybe an hour a day, this game will take about a week 
 to 2 weeks to finish. After you beat the game, there's a HELL Mode you can play which adds replay 
 value. I will definitely replaying this game.
  
  Bottom line is, this is the reason I bought the PS3. The beautiful graphics, great sounds, and 
 epic storyline. If you have spare money, get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonycometh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the bad things out of the way first:
  
  First off, I think we have either very dumb video game nerds who don't know that gamers with... 
 A life can't beat the dang game the first time in under the legendary 6 hours or I've been slacking 
 in gaming skills. I don't know why we slammed the game hard for the time factor.
  
  Second. I made fun of Sigma for mistaken hard for blocking and overall cheating. Although Heavenly 
 Sword doesn't have such obvious cheating antics as Sigma, it mistakens Hard for blocking and the 
 enemies having too much health. What's the point of a heavy attack if the enemy can block the dang 
 thing? Hard is not being to touch some awesome boss since he/she can dodge beautifully or something!
 
  
  Third: The story was fairly decent, if not good, but what I was looking forward to was the music! 
 Even though music isn't THE major factor, I still felt the composer could've done MUCH better and 
 had more tracks. About 20 tracks reused over and over doesn't cut it for this music lover and sometimes 
 felt misplaced to me.
  
  Now time for the good:
  
  The repeditive fighting isn't TOO much to bare when you have some sweet mini-games with Kai and 
 the sixaxis. (Which for once was used correctly and made you feel as if you accomplished something!) 
 Heh, fighting the bosses is sweet to do in itself, making you feel as if you're watching/playing 
 a fight scene from the movies since YOU CAN'T BUTTON MASH. If you button mash, you won't get any 
 farther than the first chapter and you'll be the Gamespot member who rates the game low since he 
 can't figure out why he can't beat that boss! You actually do need... I don't know, A BRAIN to beat 
 the whole game. And yes... a plan for many situations.
  
  What's original or unique that seperates this from last gen?
  
  - Thousands of enemies on screen 
 to kill... with little to no frame rate problem.
  
  -Without the sixaxis, slow motion arrows and air combos would either be tooooo easy, or not there 
 at all.
  
  -Voice acting and story is pretty top notch. (Play Shining Force Neo and see why I say that!)
 
  
  -More sophisticated than God of War. :o
  
  I clocked in around 10 hours or more. It may appear pretty short, but the experience still makes 
 it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodsoul
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  just a good damn game. the controlls are well done, and switching from stance to stance is effortless. 
 the combos are easy and plentiful, and are unlocked in an encouraging way. breathtaking graphics, 
 and fun elements name this game a MUST play. it would get a 10 if it wasnt for the fact that it 
 is rather short. but dont let that stop you, this game is totally worth the 8 or so hours it takes 
 to play. as for the tilt factor, this game is jsut one of those games that gives you that ciertain 
 something, that special feeling that really makes it stand out. its probably the acting and the 
 characters, they are just so cool. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ginglejangle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Well, ever since heavenly sword was first announced everybody was exited about it and wanted to 
 get a playstation 3 for it. The long wait is over and the game has arrived was it worth the wait?
 
  
  The games story is very entertaining and very well written. Its about a young lady named Nariko 
 that holds the heavenly sword and needs to fullfill her prophecy. The heavenly sword is a very powerfull 
 weapon but and the cost to use it is the persons life. The sword has been protect by a clan but 
 has been under attacked by king bohans soldier. This is a great story and I dont want to spoil the 
 rest of it.
  
  Once you start the single player you will know your playing something special. The graphics are 
 one of the best I have seen and everything is well detailed. The textures, player models, and the 
 lighting all look great. Were the game really stands out is on its animations. Their amazing and 
 look ver good.
  
  Most people probaly already know Heavenly sword have great graphics but what about the gameplay? To 
 me the game plays better then it looks. Theres over 50 combos you could do and all of them look 
 great and diffrent. You unlock more during story mode and its really cool to see all the combos 
 in action. There are 3 stances you could use quick, long, and powerfull. Quick attacks are attacks 
 that that are very quick but do medium damage. Long attacks are attacks that can hit an enemy from 
 a distance but dont do much damage. It is a very good idea to use it if your surronded by enemys. Powerful 
 attacks are attacks that are deadly put are slow. All of them are very balanced and work great. You 
 also you these stances on defense. When your enemy is about to attack a color shows up go to the 
 stance that has that color and the attack is blocked. This also works very well and is funner then 
 just holding one button to block attacks.
  
  During the story there are parts where you have to use tilt to unlock the puzzles or to guide cannon 
 balls to kill thousands of soldiers or break cannon ball launchers. You guid Shields, arrows, and 
 cannon balls in slow mow and and guide it in the direction you want to. Tilt works very well in 
 these situation and is a great addition.
  
  Heavenly sword has great boss fights that are really fun to do. The attacks they do are very cool 
 and is just a blast to do. Once their life gauge is almost empty you press the square button and 
 this goes to a scene where you have to push a button so you can finish off the boss. Beating bosses 
 never looked so good.
  
  The part where the game falls short is the value. The game is about six hours long and after your 
 done you only unlock hell mode which is like the same thing as normal single player only with enemys 
 attack doing more damage and the enemys being better at blocking. One you finish regular story mode 
 you should unlock everything and have no need to play it again unless you want to get all the medals. You 
 can get medals by doind a very good job in a section. Theres 3 total in a section you can get.
 
  
  All in all Heavenly sword is a great game. It looks great, plays great, and sounds great. There might 
 not be enough in the game to make you buy it but in makes a hell of a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is without a doubt the most incredible experience on the PlayStation 3 to date. 
 With gorgeous graphics, incredible voice acting and animation, and an unprecedented story, Heavenly 
 Sword truly is a piece of art. In terms of its infamous mock-title Goddess of War, this game couldn't 
 be any different if it tried. As a matter of fact, Heavenly Sword is better than God of War on 
 almost every level.
  
  First of all, the combat is much more in-depth. With three different stances, or attack styles, 
 and a seemingly infinite number of combinations, fighting is much more fun and involved. In addition, 
 the game doesn't even need or use the amazingly excessive amount of violence seen in God of War.
 
  
  Secondly, the story line is one of the most captivating stories I've heard since Kingdom Hearts. 
 The game connects you and the characters so tightly, it's almost impossible not to feel some emotion 
 throughout the events of the game.
  
  Lastly, Heavenly Sword has received a ton of criticism for its length. I beat the game in about 
 6 or 7 hours, and in all honesty, I appreciated how brief it was. The game didn't joke around or 
 waste your time with meaningless puzzles or worthless treasure hunting; the game throws you in 
 there in the heat of battle and never lets up.
  
  I could go on for a while, but I don't want to bore you too long. All in all, this game is epic. 
 Unique and captivating, you can't go wrong. A definite must-have for PS3 owners everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  The moment you place the game into the PS3 and see the intro, the production value becomes very 
 obvious. As you may have already know you start the game off as Nariko, who is the chosen one but 
 is considered to be a curse because she is a female and not a male. The game starts from the end 
 and then jumps back to the beginning in which you work your way to the present. Overall the story 
 is quite entertaining.
  
  Gameplay
  The controls for the game are very solid. Even though many have compared the game to God of War, 
 I have to say that is simply is not a God of War game and such a claim would give potential buyers 
 of the game the wrong impression. The battle mechanics is very different and does not feel of play 
 like a God of War game. Heavenly Sword fighting mechanics is based on the three stances that Nariko 
 can have at any point in time in the game. These stances are the range, speed and heavy. Your default 
 stance is the speed stance, while the range and heavy are done by holding L1 and R1 respectively. 
 Overall this system works well but it takes quite a while for you to mentally grasp the general 
 concept.
  
  The stance in which Nariko is in, directly affects who she can attack, counter-attack and block. 
 Speed stance and heavy stance are the stance that are needed to block blue and yellow attacks respectively. 
 When enemies attack, their color would be either blue, yellow or red. Blue represents speed, yellow 
 for heavy and red is supposedly unblockable. Blocking in the game is semi automatic. This semi 
 automatic blocking works by changing effectively to the right stance. So that if an enemy is using 
 s speed attack and then switches to heavy, you would have to press the right shoulder button at 
 the right time to block the heavy attack. This is what makes is semi-automatic. For some folks, 
 these mechanics can be rather frustrating.
  
  While the core of the game is based on Nariko's adventure, it is regularly broken up by Kai's mission 
 which are a welcome addition to the game. Kai's mission mainly revolves around sniping and attacking 
 enemies with her bow and arrow. One of the most welcome addition is the arrow view when firing 
 at enemies. Allowing Kai to have unrealistic accuracy when attacking enemies, however this new 
 method of sniping is quite fun.
  
  Throughout the entire game there are a few puzzles. None are overwhelming or particularly satisfying 
 for they are a bit to easy.
  
  Graphics
  The game simply looks awesome. The facial animation and the general texturing are great and the 
 game features some of the best graphics for this gen. However all this glits and glamor comes at 
 a cost, which is the framerate. The overall framerate of the game is not too stable. There is screen 
 tearing, slowdowns, lip syncing problems ever so often. As usual, the shadows are not too great 
 because of the technique used to generate them.
  
  Sound
  The sound also great for it adds the drama and the sense of feeling that your are actually there. 
 Voice acting is nothing short of being top notch and believable.
  
  What I didn't like
  The game is painfully short. There is noway of getting around this major hurdle. It not long enough 
 to feel satisfying. At the end of the game, there is a sensation of disatisfaction for it simply 
 does not give the sense of fulfillment. It would have been different if the game was share brilliant 
 but it just good and being just good for $60 is not worth it. The loading times are long and what 
 makes it more annoying is that it reloads the stage if you die instead for just re instancing, 
 reseting the the already loaded level. Cutscenes are partially skiippable, in that you can only 
 skip FMVs but cannot under no circumstance skip in game cutscenes. Needless to say that this can 
 be very annoying.
  
  Conclusion
  Heavenly Sword is a great looking and solid game but in the end it just decent for there isn't 
 any real sense of fulfillment at end of it all. By the time you begin to enjoy it, its all over. 
 This game would definitely be worth the admission at $40 but not at $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamaSume
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  The slated game for the developing PS3 is in full effect and out there to be played. I could not 
 wait to pick up this game. I couldn't right away as my retailer was already sold out the time I 
 got there. But I have it now and I'm going to review it. The game is the best looking game I've 
 seen.... EVER. The facial characters and body motion is all done to a key. If you like highly immersing 
 games I already recommend this to you. The gameplay mechanics are reminiscent of God of War heavily. 
 Although it's not as over the top it's still pretty figurative in the believability factor. I'm 
 not gonna try and dodge a bullet and say that this game will last you a while, or is an average 
 game length. The game is short... really short. I just got done with what I thought was the pre-game 
 or introduction phase when key plot twists and turns were taking place. Then the game ended when 
 I just got primed in my Heavenly Sword playing ability. The point here is it's an ultimate rent 
 of game if you can rent it. If your like me you will end up buying it because it looks so damn 
 pretty in your game collection. Story - 9.9 Fricken WOW. If it was a tad longer with more characters 
 They could sell this thing of as a movie.
  
  Gameplay - 8.5 The gameplay is nicely strewn about with the stance control and weapon variety.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal - 4.0 Other than playing the game over and over... and over one more time, this 
 thing will take an afternoon to beat at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlaiz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is something else. Like most reviews have said, it is about presentation. I have to say 
 that this game is heavenly. Non stop action, facial expressions that are so amazing, you would 
 think that the characters are real. I also liked the motion control. Most reviewers don't like 
 it but it worked out well for me. A little different, but cool. The only thing I can say that is 
 bad is the no block button. I am a Ninja Gaiden fan and I use that block button more then any other 
 button on the controller. It would be nice to control the block better. I like the three stances. 
 I would have to say that the three stances were really fun to use. The counters really awesome 
 as well. Some reviewers said that you would just end up using the triangle button all of the time 
 throughout the game. I don't think those reviewers really spent enough time playing the game. I 
 use everything that the game offers. I guess that is why I highly prays this game because everything 
 it has is good.
  Give this game a chance. It is worth every bit of time you give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machiknight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Nariko and Kai, the two seemingly only females of a clan of warriors charged with the onerous task 
 of protecting the Heavenly sword , a sword brought by a mystical warrior from heaven in order to 
 defeat its evil madman of the time. This game is truly a classic, and tells a story that is riveting, 
 in no small part by how amazingly beautiful it is. The story follows the last 5 days of Nariko's 
 life as she learns to wield and the awesome might of the Heavenly Sword. While initially comparisons 
 to God of War seem accurate, they are not . Not quite anyway. While God of War could be a button 
 mashing paradise of slaughter, Heavenly Sword is a slower paced more methodical fighter. While 
 it is possible to button mash your way through most of the game, it actually makes the gamer harder 
 then if you slow down, take your time, and plant the right moves at the right time. Countering, 
 block breaking, slaying foes while on the ground, and other moves are used to dispatch your enemies, 
 and while the game has literally tons of different combo moves to learn, (reminded me of Kingdom 
 of Paradise for the PSP) you can easily get through the game with the few basic moves you start 
 with. The game also has several sections devoted towards Nariko's adopted sister, Kai . Kai seems 
 like a slightly mind-addled almost teen who is somewhat godly with the strange rapid-fire bow weapon 
 she carries. These sections of the game you control Kai, and can use her weapon to snipe and slay 
 numerous enemies with ranged attacks. The interesting feature Of Kai's ranged attacks lie in the 
 aftertouch controls of the arrows the fire. By holding down the button you use to fire, the camera 
 angle changes to the shaft of the arrow, and using the sixaxis motion control you can direct the 
 arrows to land in their target. This addition to the gameplay is wonderful, and a good break from 
 the action of using Nariko and the sword. The game does have a few annoyances, such as throwing 
 hats at gongs in order to open doors, which doesn't really seem to fit with the game at all. But 
 all in all it is a high quality production that would make any awesome addition to a gamers has-played 
 library. The story of the game is so fast paced it can be played through literally in an afternoon, 
 and though it is over that quickly, the intrinsic sense of accomplishment you will receive from 
 playing is great. The story truly is well done, and the character animation and graphics are so 
 awesome, i found myself actually looking forward to the awesome cut-scenes. The shortness of this 
 game should not deter anyone from playing it, though the price tag to actually buy this game doesn't 
 translate. This is probably the best rentable game available currently, and if the price was more 
 around 30$ it would be well worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_newsome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Perhaps the best graphics of any game i have seen to date, character detail, facial movements, 
 hair, age lines everything is there!! Hundreds upon hundreds of enemies on the screen at once with 
 completely crisp and clear gameplay is something to marvel upon. Watching the story unfold is truly 
 like going to an Imax theater and watching some of the great films of our time. The controls are 
 very smooth, 3 fighting types and control interface is very do-able. The game is not for button 
 mashers as the boss fights require strategy and a mix of the ranged, power and speed attacks. The 
 story is very intriguing and keeps you wanting more after every chapter. The game itself does finish 
 a bit quick if you sit and play for a while, but its well worth it to go back and collect higher 
 scores on previous levels. Also the hell mode is something even the elite gamers will struggle 
 at times with. Overall i give the game about a 9.8, would be a 10/10 if it last a bit longer, but 
 no complaints. I will definitely be waiting for heavenly sword 2 if in-fact there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NachoPSN
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  From the second you start the game until the amazing moment that it ends, this game never stops 
 bringing the action. Sure, its not as long as BioShock (probably half the length actually) , but 
 I must admit that its even better. Besides, you wouldnt complain if a movie was short. Its over 
 when its over, and this 10+ hour game (and a replay of about 6-8 hours) will keep you busy for 
 a long time. Theres also many concept art, movies, behind-the-scenes, and other unlockables you 
 get as you progress through the game. And before I start, the answer to your question is no, this 
 definitely isnt Goddess of War. The story is amazing. The beginning does draw parallels from God 
 of War (hero seems to die) , but its much more in-depth. When you finally get to the end, you really 
 love the story. All of the main characters, even the villains, feel so real that at times you mistake 
 a cut-scene for a movie. This is brought to life by amazing voice acting and animation, as well 
 as terrific graphics. Speaking of graphics, this is definitely the nicest game on the PS3 to date, 
 and there are certain times when you get amazing draw-distances and cant help but smile. All of 
 this is accompanied by an amazing fighting system thats more complex than God of War, but not 
 over-the-top. It has a perfect mix of deep, but not too deep gameplay, which is not an easy task. 
 When fighting with your Heavenly Sword, youll get three stances, Speed, Range, and Power. They 
 all have their purpose for the various enemies youll encounter. To look at combos you have and 
 the ones you get later on, theres a list right at the start menu. Some enemies will require a 
 certain stance and change color based on the one you need to use (ie Blue=Speed, Orange=Power, 
 Red=Invincible) . In addition to all this, there are other aspects of gameplay. There are times 
 when youll need to use a cannon and rocket launcher, both of which are controlled using the tilt 
 function, although it helps rather than hurts the gameplay (unlike LAIR) . Theres also another 
 character, Kai, whose main attack is shooting arrows which are also controlled using the tilt function. 
 Sure, maybe the AI isn't as smart as your precious HALO and it could be longer, but it's a fun 
 game, and that's all it has to be. Overall, this game could last you 15-20 hours two times through 
 (depending on how good you are, and trust me youll want to play it again, maybe on Hell Mode) 
 and its definitely the first really next-gen game the PS3 has seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablusx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword for the most part is a great game. For the Playstation 3 this would be considered 
 a great boost to a line up that so far has been okay so far. The good is that it maintains great 
 visuals and amazing controls throughout the entire the game. I can not recommend enough that you 
 spend a couple minutes learning any new combos that you get. The bad is that it is short and you 
 can finish it in a free afternoon (like I did) . Also, once you get past the fancy graphics the 
 game really does not add that much to the button masher that most people like me have not been 
 through by playing games like Devil May Cry or even Dynasty Warriors. For any person that likes 
 a good fighting game for the PS3 this game is must. For those like me that have PS2 games or for 
 those that do not like fighting games this is a must rent/buy used used game. Until later this 
 is about as good as it gets on the PS3 in terms of any fighting games (including VF5. Darn that 
 on-line) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronjob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Everything about Heavenly Sword is absolutely beautiful and breathtakingly rendered. From the magnificent 
 scenery right down to the scorching Jessica Alba/Scarlett Johansen love-child main character named 
 Nariko .
  
  The story is compelling and enjoyable and improved only by the excellent voice acting. Every character 
 is acted - from voice to movement and facial quirks - with near perfection, from the endearing 
 Kai (who is one of the best game characters I have seen in a long time) to the delightfully evil 
 King Bohan (Andy Serkis) .
  
  The gameplay is great, too. It's filled with combos that are not absurdly complex, but not button-mashingly 
 simple. Some of them are absolutely jaw-dropping when performed (not to mention, ball-wracking) . 
 And one of the most enjoyable parts of the entire game was using the SixAxis motion controller 
 to direct the twing tang (bow and arrow) . Hands down, the best use of six-axis I have seen.
  
  As much as I loved Bioshock and its wonderful retro look with atmospheric dystopia and in-depth 
 story, I would be compelled to place Heavenly Sword on-par with it. The story is not as deep, but 
 I found it more compelling and engrossing during play.
  
  Alas, the game was definitely too short and some of the boss battles were - while not simple - 
 rather plain. That is, they were occasionally difficult, but they were nothing more than watch 
 for the weakness and then exploit it when the bad guy conducts his repetitive movements and attacks 
 . I would have preferred much more intelligent bosses.
  
  I can't wait to play the rest of the trilogy and I hope they find a way to bring us more Kai! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thanatos101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Finally PS3 gets a game that looks like it will help the PS3 out. Although it will help, it just 
 that I believe I played this game before.
  
  What can I say, other than it's the most similar game to God of War. Karatos is replaced by a girl, 
 and the story line is different. Nearly everything else is the a same. the battle system is almost 
 the exact same. Range, speed and power. The main three types of attacks in God of War.
  
  Perhaps the most amazing thing about this game is the stunning graphics, I mean whoa! When did 
 they get this good? The facial features were as realistic as it can get.
  
  But however amazing the graphics are, it doesn't make up for how short this game really is. Just 
 over 6 hours to beat. Just when you are getting into it, it comes to an abrupt halt. If only it 
 would have been longer it would have better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Anther disapointment from PS3. I cant give a good score just becasue the videos look good.
  
  No camera control puts it right back in with the PS2. This is a teen game so dont expect much 
 as far as real sword fighting. The Ai is redicoulsly stupid. They will stand there as you mash 
 and wait to fall down.
  
  The video graphics are decent but i thought it was supposed to be a game. They tried to mask the 
 fact the game is bad by showing you a bunch of videos.
  
  Finished in a few hours of mashing, you dont even have to look at your TV. With all the hype I 
 better give it a perfect 10.. becasue they said it was good, and because I want a game to be good 
 so bad????
  
  trust me I wanted this game to be good. Since there isnt anything worth playing on the PS3 i will 
 spend a few moments dusting my PS3 off today. Dont waste your time buying this game, you will thank 
 me. believing the hpye will force you to play it anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Its really a video more than a game. You mash and mash and it plays random videos that have good 
 graphics but the game play itself doesnt have much to talk about as far as graphics. Screen gets 
 crowded and you cant see what your doing anyways so the moves make no difference.
  
  Go rent a movie if you want to watch videos because this game seems about 85% videos and 15% mashing. 
 I got bored in about 15 minutes. You cant look left , you cant look right , you cant look up, you 
 cant look down. More or less more PS3 junk.
  
  After pushing the same button over and over about 1000 times with your back turnned to the tv you 
 will see what a weak game this is. I recommend not even renting this unless you like sword videos.
 
  
  This is the most liniated game I have played in years. The AI is really bad, bosses look PS2.
 
  
  xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx 
 xx x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is so good your gonna need to have a smoke afterwards. This is a great sony exclusive 
 it brings a little something new to the game table. Great graphics for those intense fighting scenes 
 and throw in a little focused shooting an you've just got a sony classic the game is very smooth 
 an the story line was worth watching (even tho you had no choice at some points in the game) its 
 fun to switch up the combos with a little power to speed an when you have to for those large gangs 
 of enemies bust out a range in that combo. Alot of beating down in this game an the action dosent 
 stop till the games over. Although the game was mad fun, it seemed a little to short but im still 
 tryin to get those goals for each of the levels. This game is a great buy. Just a little peice 
 of what sony has to bring. I give this game a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impulsivity83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have faulted heavenly sword for being short at between 6 and 10 hours. This seems 
 to be a somewhat valid criticisim until you look at most similar action games which are far less 
 polished. Many of the clasics aren't a whole lot longer including Halo 2, Gears of War, Devil May 
 Cry, God of War (both parts) ect. A few games with an action core make it to 20 hours or thereabouts 
 but only through item hunts, back tracking and simplistic side quests. Take Ninja Gaiden for instance, 
 subtract the searching for orbs and other items in the backgrounds and the backtracking through 
 the confusing city streets and the true action crux of the game doesn't last much more then 6-10 
 hours with another 6-10 of filler. The same applies to Metroid Prime 3, without back tracking if 
 you add up the boss fights, the large scale pirate battles and the other parts of the game that 
 pop so to speak theres really not much over 6 hours of real goodness in there either. The point 
 is that Heavenly Sword is as good or better then the best 6-10 hours in any game ever. Yes, I mean 
 that. I've played games since the original NES and in terms of impact, production values, insane 
 100 on 1 fun and depth of combat options this game ranks at the top. At first when you start out 
 with only a longsword and 15 combos using square and triangle it seems like you're headed for a 
 Lord of the Rings: Two Towers type experience with simplistic combat and combos you'll do over 
 and over till the end. At the end of the first chapter this all turns around as you get the Heavenly 
 Sword. You have 3 stances, ranged (Kratos style blades you can create huge whirlwinds with and 
 deflect projectiles) , Speed (where the sword becoems two fast daggers) and Power (where the sword 
 is used in one giant shield breaking piece) . Thats pretty nice but what REALLY makes the game great 
 is integrating the 3 styles into your attack. You can change from one form to the other without 
 delay letting you do the first half of a speed combo then slam the guy with a power sword smash 
 as a finisher or use ranged to push everyone but the guy with the shield away and then break his 
 block with a fast fluid switch to power attack mode. This is the best example of an easy to use/rewarding 
 to master combat system I've come across in an action game and it keeps things fresh and interesting 
 until the end especially as you unlock new moves throught the game. Much like Devil May Cry and 
 others you are rewarded as much for style as for simply kiling enemies. If you just hack them to 
 bits you'll only go so far. Theres a meter at the bottem with 3 glyphs each of which represent 
 unlockable content (combos, artwork, videos ect) and depending on the level of style you display 
 you will get a 0, 1, 2 or 3 glyph rating at the end of the action sequence. This encourages you 
 to be at the top of your game at all times and rewards you for doing difficult manuvers like counters 
 (which greatly boost your score) and for not being hit (which is required to keep the meter running) . 
 The most rewarding glyph levels of all are with Kai, the second playable character who acts as 
 a sort of sniper. You will find yourself with 20 enemies coming at you and each one will need to 
 be hit in succession to get the full 3 glyph rating. Its amazingly fun trying to line up your shots 
 then using the siraxis controller to make the arrow bend and move in slow motion flight for the 
 elusive head shot. A lot of sequences are very difficult and well worth the effort of getting 3 
 glyphs. This system adds far more to the replay value then simply having items randomly hidden 
 in rocks you have to find.
  
  The music, scenery and character acting are all top notch. Outside of movies like Lord of the Rings 
 never has there been so much attention to cinematography, music and acting in a fantasy enviornment 
 in any medium. Yes if this wasn't a game it would be one of the best fantasy movies you've ever 
 seen. As it stands its far and away the greatest movie you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColossusSquid
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Just as the gamespot reviewer said, this game shows off some great addictive game play, awesome 
 graphics, sound, and an intense story line although short.
  
  I loved the characters, and for once, the characters actions don't conflict with their speech. 
 There's only a few main characters, but each has their fair share of plot-engagement. Kai and Nariko, 
 the two female protagonists, are quite entertaining, and the evil villain, is kooky and deranged, 
 reminding me of kefka for the best.
  
  Right off the bat I can remember about three places in the game where on the normal setting, I 
 actually died multiple times. The first being the fact that I was o soo terrible with the motion 
 sensing controller. It's not that bad though and I actually found myself enjoying the motion sensing 
 aspect once I got the hang of it. It prob took around 15 minutes for my impatience to turn into 
 determination. My favorite part of the game is the end. I will say this, all the corny lines of 
 the story come then, but they really don't take much from the grandiose battle with some fabulous 
 graphics. After finishing the game, I was satisfied in all regards.
  
  It's a great play even if short, and I hope that I can expect more games of this caliber. Definitly 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treznick
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful, absolutely a beautiful game. No doubt about it.
  The cut-scenes to actual gameplay actually combine seemlessly.
  The voice acting is superb and 
 surprisingly the lip synching is 95% spot-on! So used to playing japanese games where listening 
 to the voices and watching the lips move are like watching a dubbed godzilla move. No sir, not 
 here! It's very satisfying.
  Story? Excellent , it's a 10!
  Graphics? 10!
  Sound? 10!
  Control? 7...
  Replayability? 4! yes, a four.
  
  Gripes about the control: -You can't jump 
 &amp; that annoys me. If you have legs and can use them, you should be able to jump. -Now people 
 have liked the fighting and combat to that of God of War. I feel it's more Devil May Cry . To me 
 DMC played like a straight-up button masher. It's frantic, just keep mashing those buttons and 
 quickly and you'll kill something! GoW, seems like a button masher, but I found more control and 
 fluidity with combat there, not here. HS is a frantic button masher, where ou'll have to take a 
 break from playing just to give your thumbs a rest. That's not a plus for me.
  -Sixaxis control. This feature plays into this game, but does it fit? Well, it is novel and interesting 
 at first. Then it just becomes tedious and you wish you could do without it. How does it fit in? 
 Well, anything with a projectile, whether it's an arrow, thrown shield or sword, cannon fir or 
 even a corpse that you toss, you can go into the projectile's POV and control were it flies. Like 
 I said, it's really cool, but could have been left out.
  
  The most bitter pill to swallow with this game, is that it's really so short and there's no strong 
 desire to replay the game once you've beaten it. And that's really sad. And it's a shame to drop 
 $60 on a game you only want to play once and that game could be beaten in a day or over the weekend, 
 if you've got things to do. This game is a perfect 10 to rent but only a 7 to own.
  I love the extras though, especially the videos on the foley artist at work and the actors doing 
 their thing. Watching the actors surprised me, for once, the actors and the voice actors were the 
 same person. Also suprising to see was that the villian, Victor Matlen from Beverly Hills Cop was 
 one of the bosses, General Flying Fox. Well, that and Nariko really doesn't look like a cross between 
 Olivia Munn and Angelina Jolie.
  
  At the end of the day, you're looking for something to rent for your PS3, there is no question, 
 rent Heavenly Sword. If you're looking for something to buy, go buy Warhawk or wait for Assassin's 
 Creed (and wait for that review) . This is a jive turkey to be buyin!
  While it's not a purchasable, it simply wouldn't be fair to give this game less than an 8 . So 
 an 8 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  No matter how long it will take to finish this game, no matter the frame rate, no matter the excellent 
 acting of the digital characters ... YOU MUST BUY THIS GAME to justify your purchase of the PS3. 
 At the beginning I thought $60 for a few hours of gameplay are a littlebit too much .... I was 
 WRONG !!! you will enjoy every second of this game .. and yes you will want for MORE !!!!
  If this is an example of what is coming for the PS3 in the next months / years ... then ... VIVA 
 PLAYYYYYYYYYSTATION !!!
  
  Peace.
  
  P. S. I am still debating if the cut scenes are real-time or not ..... too good to be true ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionRising
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  And so was born the legend of our Heavenly Sword... 
  
  Heavenly Sword is one of the most astounding games I have ever played. With its intense combat, 
 ridiculously stunning visuals, massive array of sounds, great voice acting, and music, and its 
 excellent motion capture animation, this game will leave you out of breath and amazed by the time 
 it ends... and then you'll crave more! Heavenly Sword may not be a good buy for some people, but 
 it's the perfect rental for all.
  
  CONS
  No game is perfect and without flaws, but Heavenly Sword gets pretty damn close. I only found one 
 problem with the game, and that's its length. Bigger doesn't always mean better, but this game 
 should have been longer.
  
  Now onto the pros; the many, many wonderful things about Heavenly Sword.
  
  STORY
  You're 
 put in the shoes of Nariko, a young woman who was supposed to be the Heavenly Warrior reincarnated. 
 Because she was born a woman, her clan members think she is powerless to protect them, and they 
 call her a curse and such. She was trained by her father, Shen, who's the leader of their clan, 
 to wield the Heavenly Sword. Now, a king from a distant land, named Bohan, marches after the Sword. 
 He knows of its power and wishes to wield it.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is so intense and epic from start to finish, it's unbelievable. I get excited just 
 writing about it. The combat is probably the best part. It's divided into three parts called stances. 
 Each stance plays differently and does its own amount of damage. There's the Heavenly Ranged stance, 
 which does quick, ranged, weak attacks that can block certain projectiles such as arrows. To enter 
 the Ranged stance, hold L1. Then, there's the Heavenly Speed stance. This is the default stance. 
 The Heavenly Sword is split into two separate swords, which are quick and do moderate damage. Finally, 
 there's the Heavenly Power stance, entered by holding R1. This stance is powerful, but slow. The 
 Sword is in one large piece, here.
  
  You can also use various environment objects such as dead bodies, dropped shields, dropped swords, 
 etc, and throw it at enemies. This is also used to solve puzzles and open doors. If you hold X 
 to throw the projectiles, you activate the AfterTouch. It's a type of precision aim where you tilt 
 the SIXAXIS to guide the projectile. Good fun. When playing as Kai, Nariko's sister, you can also 
 use the AfterTouch to guide the bolts from her crossbow.
  
  There are also timed button sequences similar to those in Resident Evil 4 or God of War. These 
 are used to reach certain areas or finish off some enemies and bosses.
  
  GRAPHICS
  All I can say is wow! The graphics are definitely made for a next gen system. The characters look 
 amazing, and the environments are beautiful. And Bohan's army: thousands of characters on the screen 
 at once with no issues or anything. And Heavenly Sword has the best motion capture animation I've 
 ever seen in a game.
  
  AUDIO
  Heavenly Sword's audio is more massive than a DVD. 
  The music is great. It really sets the mood, and the voice acting is superb; as good as any Metal 
 Gear game.
  
  PROS
  +Stunning Visuals
  +Great Voice Acting
  +Amazing Music
  +The Best Motion Capture I've Ever Seen In A Game
  +Intense Combat
  +Immersive &amp; Epic Gameplay
 
  +Great Story
  
  CONS
  -Too Short
  
  FINAL
  Final Score - 9/10
  Heavenly Sword may not be a good buy for some because of its length, but it does make the perfect 
 rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Frist off the Acting in Heavenly Sword is the best ever so far in a video Game . its like a movie 
 plus you get the Game with the movie just Great. the combat in the Game is great and the death 
 moves that Nariko can do in the Game is awsome. the boss fights are Great and the bosses taunting 
 you is just Awsome not many Games have this so when one comes out for me just Great fun to watch 
 and listen to. the music in the game is Great as well. sometimes i think the cam in the Game zooms 
 out to far so at times the players on the battle field are kind of small in my view. but this is 
 a small thing and it dont take away much in my view still a lot of fun. i bought Heavenly Sword 
 and i am having a blast. its to bad the Heavenly Sword in my view will be over shadowed by Halo 
 3 CALL OF DUTY 4 SO many games this year by the end of the year Heavenly Sword might be lost in 
 the Game pile and never get the true credit that the Game should. might be a short Game but it 
 is a lot of fun. and i have played many long Games that was just so so on the fun scale. so go 
 out and buy Heavenly Sword i sure did. thanks mars188 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Well i will ignore my dissatisfaction with majority of current reviews of Heavenly Sword and just 
 give my skinny on the game.
  To start we'll go from the basics and down into the heart of the game. First things 1st, graphically 
 the game is just mesmerizing. Character design is just beautiful as well as the execution of the 
 movement. Surrounding throughout the game have so far made me quite often stop and just peak around 
 during the rare breaks in constant mayhem that follows the game. One issue i did find was on pretty 
 much all of the main characters, specially Nariko and the bad guys. If you look closely you can 
 notice that collision of her hair of Flying Fox's blades get pretty poor from time to time and 
 those parts tend to cross into the body or items around in a very thorn in the eye way. As for 
 the sound, i was near speechless on my 1st play thru. Special effects and the surrounding are beyond 
 realistic. If you listen closely you can hear the birds in the background and mostly only when 
 they are actually close enough to hear. Weapon noise and clanking is based on the weight and size 
 of the weapon and not just the type as it has been used in games thus far. As for the music score 
 it is unprecedented in so many ways. As the game unfolds the music follows to a tee and manages 
 to either uplift an epic battle or bring in more anticipation during a dramatic part and so on. 
 If you have $10 extra, this is one video game score you want to spend it in.
  Voice acting and character acting are a story for itself. To a good part the rest of the cast is 
 overshadowed by Mr. Gollum, Andy Serkis and with a good reason., the man is just unbelievable. 
 Rest of the cast is also up the par and the psychotic and to an extent very bizarre sounding bad 
 guy just solidifies the acting quality in the game
  
  Controls in the game are very tight and whats more important very simple to pick up, use and quickly 
 master. SIXAXIS levels may be a bit frustrating at first but once you get the sensitivity right 
 i found those intermission to be very fun and a great change of pace. I found another issue here 
 and this is as much of a controls issue as it is gameplay. Nariko's moves are all about combo's 
 and fluidity. This actualyl works against you if you just mistime yourself by a split second, as 
 you tend to fall into a no escape ass whooping which leads to losing precious combo hits. However 
 on my 2nd play thru so far i have been able to work my timing a whole lot better and it is not 
 that big of a deal any more.
  
  Replay value is so so to be honest., Yes the game is very short and unlike DMC you do not have 
 a ton of difficulty lvls to master as really the only reward you need to get is all of the glyphs 
 to unlock all extras. Now i found that if you play a few lvls @ 1st to get a warmup and grasp the 
 basics of gaining glyphs and combat control you can easily get them all in 2 play thrus. However 
 on the note of the Heavenly Swords lack of lengthyou have to look at a fact that you are spending 
 those short 7 hours playing thru such a seamless combination of a dramatic story told almost like 
 an interactive hollywood blockbuster from start to the end, which thus far has not been a case 
 with this game genre. Production values, acting, just out of this world combat, clever level design 
 and the sheer beauty of the game offset the lenght and justify your money as well spent.
  
  As for some more about gameplay i will start with one more troubling issue with the game. Camera 
 angles are not bad, as you will get used to the static camera position. For those that are right 
 now saying, dude camera sucks, dont forget, your L2 and R2 buttons are their to give you a perfect 
 swing in any combat situation and allow you to stay fully aware of everything around you. This 
 for those that havent played the game yet is a must as it will give a bit more fast paced, dramatic 
 angle to the fighting, but more than anything it will allow you to anticipate your enemies attacks.
 
  This point also leads me to one important thing which is a comment by another reviewer that said 
 you can beat the game but just timing your counterattacks perfectly which is bascily saying you 
 can beat it with one button. Most of the hack and slash games have a gimmick like this, but the 
 beauty in HS is that if you use counterattack to start your combos and fights it is a perfect opener 
 and it is a breaking point in allowing you to execute all the amazing combos that game has to offer 
 instead of button mash your way thru. Heavenly Sword to a great extent is what you make of it and 
 the main reason i took this long to review it is that i wanted to cover ALL of the angles of the 
 game instead of playing it for few hours and than jumping on here and making a partial review.
 
  
  Now i can go on and on about the excellent story line in HS, and give you a ton of spoilers in 
 the gameplay department but i am getting tired of typing so i will say this much. Heavenly Sword 
 is a must buy and it is a whole lot more than 8/10, so grab some cash get it, and enjoy this masterpiece 
 to its fullest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barhtezz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  amazing game, although short and no online, but still its worth it, how can u imagine online would 
 b? i really cant imagine it having an online game play, and a 6~7 hour play for experienced players 
 aint so bad, cuz its enjoyable, its better than having a 20 hours game, where the story keeps on 
 streaching or by sacraficing other elements of the game. if ur looking for long games, go play 
 some final fantasy (which is amazing) , or perhaps some of the early classic super mario (not that 
 im saying its bad, its really fun, but its really long, but cant compare the 2 games now can we?) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Okay firstthis game is not God of War I or II Why. because not enough blood.. story line is 
 a what I might say. POOP! I believe the story line couldve been a lot better. I also didnt like 
 the bosses.. they were POOP as well. I as thought there was not enough blood. I mean you have 
 this massive sword and when you start slicing people up. their is only a little bit of blood that 
 comes out I really hated the way the bosses actedI think they went a little over board with 
 that one. And one more thing I dislike about this game is that it is very very short.. I beat 
 that game in one day.. I mean I paid 60 bucks for this game and I beat it in one day. They 
 need to start making these games longer or something because this makes no sense what so ever. 
 But it does have some reply value to it. Out of all the bad things Ive said about this game 
 its still a good game to playThe game play is great and I had fun playing the other character 
 in the game. I believe her name is Kai. I like the way she uses her bows and you can use the controller 
 to direct the arrows. Anyway the game is fun but I wish something could be change. sometimes I 
 wish I was a game tester or something like that so I can tell these people what there missing or 
 even help them out with the story line. Like I said before this game is NOT like God of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronronmx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Seriously, game developers nowadays focus way too much on making games look good and writing movies-like 
 stories, and forget about what a video game is. Don't get me wrong, Heavenly Sword is gorgeous 
 and has some great voice acting and great presentation, but that's it... there's nothing else! No 
 platforming whatsoever, no puzzles, no freedom at all... you walk from point a to point b, fight, 
 walk again, fight ( the same enemies through the entire game ) , climb a few ladders, fight... you 
 never have to think, the levels are small and very linear.
  
  I have to admit i had a lot of fun with the bow and the sixaxis aiming, and the combat is fun and 
 very responsive, the combos are cool but you don't get to choose what to unlock, there's no character 
 customization at all like in God of War. Heavenly Sword is just a tech demo in my opinion, and 
 isn't worth $60.
  
  Oh and did i mention how freaking short the game is ? 6 hours ? Really ? I really hope HS 2 will 
 be longer, have more depth, have interesting puzzles and i hope it won't be SOOOO linear. I had 
 high expectations for this game, and i want it to be great, but this first installment just doesn't 
 live up to the hipe, at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKountz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  A gorgeous presentation and stylized world is created with this game. The best thing about this 
 game I believe is the characters in it. From Nariko herself, to the generals, to King Bohan all 
 the characters come to life with depth and personality that is usually not present in a video game. 
 It is almost like a hollywood blockbuster movie. The fighting system is superb and the superstyle 
 moves are great fun to watch and perform. The game mixes it up with the character Kai and her unique 
 style of play. Kai unlike most alternate characters is not a burden to play with but actually really 
 inventive and as enjoyable to play as Nariko herself.
  
  The puzzle system doesn't invoke much thought. It consists of hats and gongs and while this was 
 a neat idea the first time I did it. Why would it be cool to do it again and again? But puzzles 
 aren't really what this game is about. It's about fast pace action that will keep you coming back 
 for more.
  
  It is shorter than one would wish for but the story winds up so neatly that if it was any longer 
 it would just drag. All together a great game to add to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  I remember when Sony first showed Heavenly Sword at E3 my eye has been on that game ever since 
 then
  
  First off people need to cut out with garbage God Of War comparing in some ways it does play as 
 God Of War but Nariko has WAY more variation then Kratos does Also where Heavenly Sword shines 
 way more then God Of War is actual character depth and just great freaking awesome story each character 
 was put together excellent and you actually feel sorry for some of them as the story goes on an 
 you kinda grow attached to them in some ways for me it was Nariko/Roach/Kai
  
  The Sixiaxis was great in this game it took a few trys but its awesome specially using Kai an shooting 
 the arrows at other soldiers it just feels so rewarding specially when you shoot them from such 
 a long distance As for graphics i mean theres really nothing i need to say but amazing really the 
 facial expressions are just jaw dropping i never thought facial expressions was possible yet I 
 cant get over how great the facial expressions are sometimes i just leave the game and just look 
 at Narikos face in the chapter selection screen its amazing
  
  Now to go talk about what everybody is totally **** and babying about the games length Is the game 
 short? Yes
  Can be beat in one sitting if you have nothing else to do with your life? Yes
  
  It took me about 2 and a half days to beat it and im not really complaining Heavenly Sword 
 to me honestly its like one of your fav movies you can play it over and over and not get tired 
 of it the freaking combos are endless if you really trying to master it Its just a great freaking 
 game i dont see why you just want to rent it im sure sooner or later your going to want it to play 
 again I feel like Heavenly Sword is a game every PS3 owner should have its great from beginning 
 to end its really showing what the PS3 is capable of The game is just pure greatness and as many 
 have said before me since when greatness defined in a length of a game? I have said once before 
 i will say it again gamers are SPOILED This game deserves not less then a 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, the first offering from development studio Ninja Theory, is a visual and auditory 
 treat and delivers some of the best character performances in a video game in a long while. Ninja 
 Theory fell back upon the ageless action/beat'em up formula for Heavenly Sword, mixed in some Quick-Time 
 Events (QTEs, think God of War) and some basic puzzle elements for their initial offering and pulled 
 of a great, if short PS3 gaming experience.
  
  Drawing from the elements which make a great movie, Ninja Theory, sunk a ton of effort into making 
 the game look great, sound great, flow great and have memorable characters. Graphically, Heavenly 
 Sword is a masterpiece. The environments are very detailed and the backdrops are gorgeous and expansive. 
 Nariko's attack animations flow and move beautifully and at times, the amount of characters on 
 screen is amazing. Unfortunately, the game features only a handful of different enemy models. This 
 helps when you need to determine which approach you need to take when fighting them but can bring 
 about an element of repetition to the game. All of the story told in Heavenly Sword is done so 
 through the many cutscenes between almost every section in the 5 chapters of the game. All of these 
 focus on a limited set of main characters interacting with each other with heavy emphasis on facial 
 expression and body language, which is quite amazing to behold. Character models are great and 
 wonderfully detailed and move extremely well thanks to all the motion capture work that went into 
 the game. Many cutscenes feature just head shots of the characters and the detail is extraordinary 
 and among the best ever seen in a game. The voice/lip movement sync is a bit off but hardly takes 
 away anything from the story or game. The soundtrack, with a very Asian feel is excellent but the 
 voice acting steals the show in the audio department. All characters/cast deliver a solid, big-screen 
 caliber job for their respective part with special recognition to Lord Bohan; s voice actor (Andy 
 Serkis) who also lent his considerable talent to the motion capture technology for the game. The 
 sound effects are also top notch.
  
  Gameplay is very tight and has to be when three different fighting styles are available, especially 
 when they can be changed mid-combo. Ninja Theory was light on the QTEs but they are placed well 
 and feel paced to the situation they are used in. Included with the combo system is a blocking 
 scheme as well as a similar counter attack feature. If an enemy attacks in a certain stance, you 
 can counter or block their attacks if you are in the matching stance. This is identified by a glowing 
 aura which surrounds the enemy before he/she attacks. Blocks are pulled off automatically, given 
 you are not performing an action and countering is done with the triangle button. Each time you 
 counter or string together combos without taking damage, a meter fills up, allowing you to pull 
 of some devastating multi-enemy, wide range attacks which are useful in large groups of enemies.
 
  
  To further mix up the gameplay, you can also take control of Nariko's sister, Kai. She is not all 
 there but can still dole out the pain in her own way. She attacks primarily using her crossbow 
 but does have a stun attack if an enemy gets to close. Kai's sections are almost always long range 
 assaults on enemy positions and use the aftertouch control scheme heavily. By holding down the 
 fire button after pressing it to fire, you enter a slow-mo, behind the projectile view in which 
 you can guide the item up, down, left or right to hit your target. This is cool and incredibly 
 powerful and Kai's fights hardly seem fair to the baddies. Especially powerful attacks occur when 
 you fire an arrow, pilot it through a flame and hit a explosives/fireworks box. Expect crazy projectile 
 trajectories with every shot.
  
  Heavenly Sword offers an element of replay with an extra difficulty level after the first go through 
 as well as unlockable content in the form of movies/artwork which can be achieved by mastering 
 each section of the game. Early in the game, you naturally approach each situation mashing buttons 
 but as the game progresses, and you find the power in the counter attack and combo system, you 
 may want to go back and tackle some sections where you got beatup a bit and try them with your 
 new, smarter tactics.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a short game, about 7 hours but is a site to behold and an all-around great experience 
 on the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  Ah heavenly sword, hyped to the sky and seemingly doomed to dissapoint any that go in with expections 
 stuck in the clouds. It's an excellent game that every PS3 owner looking for something to play 
 should definetly give a try.
  
  That's just it though, before I get into any of the specifics of the game , it needs to be said 
 that it's 1 niggling and purchase denying flaw is it's length. Sure in this day and age we've grown 
 used to games that no longer take use 20 hours, with the ps2 in particular it started to be commonplace 
 that new games would be out and could be completed in 7-10 hours on average. That never really 
 did go away and it was usually made up for by including harder difficulties, many unlockable goodies 
 like costumes/featurettes/bonus weapons/etc. Heavenly sword though is literally only 5 hours long, 
 sure it does in fact include medals on each stage that you can aim to get- 3 per level in fact- 
 129 in total. The issue is one of sony's own incompetence though, in their efforts to promote heavenly 
 sword and all that it entails they've released for free download both online and on the PSN store 
 all 5 mini cartoons and all 5 making of featurettes. This leaves a bunch of production artwork 
 as the sole thing to really work towards and well even most of the best art is showcased in those 
 free for all making of videos so the unlockable portion of the game kind of becomes a bust. All 
 this means is that once you're finished with the game there really isn't much reason to continue 
 on for a second playthrough unless you want to attempt the punishingly hard Hell mode which is 
 opened up after completing the game. So in the end you have to ask yourself if it's worth 60 bucks 
 for essentially 5 hours of very entertaining action gaming. I strongly suggest simply renting this 
 game unless you want another graphical showpiece for friends to see when they come over. With that 
 out of the way I'll explain why despite it's miniscule length this game still deserves the 8/10 
 that I gave it. First of all graphics/music/presentation is the best on the ps3 if not the best 
 there is period right now. The odd bit of screen tearing and very rare slowdown does little to 
 hamper the visual artistry going on here and the soundtrack is very well composed. The biggest 
 thing though that's been mentioned in countless previews and reviews are the cinematics in the 
 game, they are a sight to behold but then you shouldn't expect less from the likes of WETA , these 
 are the folks that did the CG in the LOTR trilogy as well as peter jacksons King Kong. The gameplay 
 is actually really fun despite having what amounts to simon says fighting. If you've played the 
 demo you might have had a small taste of how it works. Nariko has access to 3 seperate stances 
 with the heavenly sword, range stance which is basically a crowd clearing weak combo, speed stance 
 which is the default series of fast effective but not very strong strikes and power stance, very 
 slow potent strikes that only the stronger enemies can even block. What happens during combat though 
 is there are 3 color flashes associated with attacks. Blue corresponds with speed, orange with 
 power and red means unblockable. Nariko will automatically block if you just stand still so long 
 as the incoming strike is the same stance that she's in. The added quirk to this though, you can 
 counter attack by pressing triangle at the right moment when blocking which usually results in 
 an instant kill on the poor sap that tried to hit you. It's actually somewhat fun to repeatadly 
 counter attack enemies and you get rewarded with medals faster for doing so well. There are various 
 combos and such to mess around with as well should you choose to be more offensive in your playstyle. 
 The second gameplay scheme in heavenly sword resides in what the game calls aftertouch essentially 
 when you shoot a bolt from a crossbow/cannon from a cannon ball or throw something you can go into 
 a user controlled slow motion view by simply keeping the fire button held down. It's especially 
 fun when firing volleys from side character Kai's twing twang crossbow weapon. You guide the arrows 
 in slow motion right through enemies heads. Finally the game also has quicktime events as they've 
 come to be called. Basically it's just like the old laserdisc game dragons lair. The game tells 
 you to press a button and you have to press it. Some of the events give you some grace with messing 
 up but alot still result in instant death should you miss a button. The game gives you infinite 
 continues should you ever die and at worst you only wind up at the start of whatever scene you 
 made it to so even during these events with some tenacity you'll keep going. So that's pretty well 
 everything there is to say about heavenly sword, if it sounds fun you should play it. If you have 
 money to blow and don't mind spending 60 bucks for 5 hours of entertainment value then by all means. 
 Otherwise I really do recommend playing this game by renting it at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashmodai69
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This is on of those hack and slash, roll out of the way and repeat. but it sooooo freakin awesome!!! 
 First of the story if very good, the voice acting and cut scenes are top notch, i almost forgot 
 i was playing a game and not watching a movie sometimes. They really should make a movie about 
 this game, with Angelina Joile as the main character. Anyways back to the game the action is nonstop, 
 the graphic detail is some of the best ive ever seen. I like how you can pick up almost anything 
 and chunk it at your enemys. The motion sensing controls for guiding your projectiles takes a little 
 getting used to, but i think it was a great tidea to use that to break up the button mashing. Yeah 
 its kinda like GOW, but who cares this is a GREAT game just like GOW. It is pretty short but i 
 had more fun playing this game all the way through than anygame in a while. Im sure they will add 
 on content like the did for Ninja Gaiden (or at least i hope so) . So if your looking for a great, 
 fun, beautiful looking game GET THIS ONE!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword has had a rocky path during it's making, it was even going to be on the original 
 Xbox, but now it's here as a Playstation 3 exclusive and it was well worth the wait.
  
  Many people look at Heavenly Sword and call it a female Kratos or God of War. Even though the game 
 is much Like God of War, it's a brand new game and has alot of originally.
  
  The game does start off alot like God of War, with the main character getting killed and showing 
 what happened before this time. So, the game has many flashbacks included in it. Nariko's (the 
 main character) clan have been protecting the Heavenly Sword for a long time.
  
  Whoever has procession of the sword will have amazing powers but the king wants the sword to himself. 
 Nariko's village starts getting attacked and she find out that she's the only hope of the village. 
 The game has some puzzles mostly consisting on opening doors by throwing objects into shields to 
 bounce off to open the door with hitting the switch. This game uses the Sixasis control really 
 well, probably one of the best controls with it so far. Speaking of this there's another girl in 
 this game named Kai who uses a crossbow and while she uses this the game goes in first person. 
 With Kai you can control an arrow in which she shoots with the Sixasis and once you get use to 
 it, it really works well.
  
  The game has many button sequences included in it. They are just like God of War. There's button 
 mashing and other stuff you have to click or move. Don't worry of you screw up the game isn't that 
 punishing. The combat system is really good. There is alot of moves and counter attacks which show 
 like a cutscene most of the time. The game does feel like button mashing in alot of ways during 
 combat but it's easy to ignore this. The System is advanced cause you have different style's of 
 attak ans so do your enemies.
  
  The boss fights are pretty good, they are challenging and sometimes they can feel pretty cheap 
 but the game has some pretty epic battles and usually it takes a couple fights to get to the boss 
 before you get to him. Once you weaken your enemies a button will appear over them which you usually 
 do a button sequence to finish them off. Also, some bosses will kill you and you will have to try 
 many times before killing them. The game can get challenging at times, but not to challenging you 
 will want to throw your controller.
  
  The story is very well written and it is quite interesting. The story tells alot from cutscenes 
 and feels like a movie, and it feels very epic. The characters are very well fitting in the game 
 and they make the story alot more enjoyful. The game has one of the greatest stories on the PS3 
 in a game so far, there's a great ending and a story to back it up, and throughout this story you 
 will find very little weak points.
  
  The sound is very amazing game in the game. The musical score is very good sounding to the ears. 
 The sound effects sound right. The voice acting is excellent, it feels like a movie with great 
 actors in it and they put each voice to each character very well making them feel they have their 
 own personality. This is what makes the game so wonderful. The game will be remembered for the 
 sound and the excellent story telling.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and they have nice textures and they are colorful. I mean the game 
 has 1,000 enemies on screen all at once and it looked amazing. The environments are well done and 
 they looks amazing as if it was a movie you were watching. The draw distance in the game is also 
 very impressive much like God of War. The Character Models look very well done, The characters 
 act and move like they should and it makes the game's story and gameplay feel much better when 
 you first pick it up. The character's had good animation and the whole game looked like a high-profit 
 movie.
  
  But, there's one bad thing about this game, it is short. It could be beaten in 4-7 hours but the 
 time you are playing it is wonderful. The game won't really have alot of replay value.
  
  Therefore, Heavenly Sword is a masterpiece and shouldn't be overlooked by most PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is a great game and a welcome addition to my PS3 library. I have been anxiously 
 awaiting this game for months and it has lived up to my expectations.
  
  Graphics - Stunning. Beautiful colors and life like characters help bring the story to life. I 
 did notice a bit of slow down here and there when there are hundreds of enemies but that is to 
 be expected and nothing bad enough that it hurts game play. Nariko is designed as one beautiful 
 and strong looking heroine, and the rest of the cast is extremely well designed and rendered.
 
  
  Sound - Great sound effects and excellent voice acting. Music is crisp and fits the mood. Only 
 problems I have seen is lip syncing gets a bit 'britney at the VMAs at times during cut scenes, 
 but over all it's great.
  
  Game play - Very God of War-esque but with it's own signature on the genre. It focuses more on 
 actual sword fighting and not so much in magical powers as is the case with GoW and it's God powers. 
 The controls work very well, and the ability to control projectiles in flight is both innovative 
 and fun; especially since it works great.
  
  Overall - Heavenly Sword is one of the best games out there for any system. It is one of the first 
 games to give you a taste of what the PS3 can do. It's only short coming is that like God of War, 
 game that it will be constantly compared to, it is a bit short; but the time you do spend playing 
 it, will be some of the best gaming you do all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  There is simply only two things I can say bad about Heavenly sword.
  
  1.) The game is short...
  
  2.) There is a screen tearing issue....
  
  Both minor discomforts 
 as everything else in the game if perfect... The graphics/story/gameplay are all amazing!!!
  
  The gameplay is mostly very exiting complex fighting using the Heavenly Sword among other weapons 
 to wipe out literlarry thousands of enemys.
  
  The game also involves shooting cannons/arrows etc and controlling the after touch using the Six 
 Axis....
  
  This works better than you could imagine, a great deal of fun.
  
  Basically in my opinion this game is a must have for every PS3 Owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aroman010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Please don't let my header fool you. I absolutely love this game. The graphics are unbelievable 
 and the action is second to none. However any game you can beat in a day and a half is a game that 
 is not forth 59.99 I dont care if it is HD or not. Over pricing of games has to stop and has to 
 stop now. The game is based on a beautiful vixen named Nariko who has been raised as a warrior 
 to fight with a Ninja clan who has been placed with the duty to protect the Heavenly Sword. This 
 Sword has been said to drain the life force of the user of this blade until they eventually perish. 
 Without spoiling the story Nariko is put into a situation where she has no choice but to use the 
 sword and thats when the real fun of the game begins. With the heavenly sword you have 3 fighting 
 stances. Speed (Default) , Range (L1 / Think god of war with blades on chains) , and Power (R2 / 
 Like nightmare from soul caliber) . Bad guys will constantly surround you and you will have the 
 chance to decimate them with the Heavenly Sword with ease. The fact that the fighting system is 
 so deep makes this game unbelievably fun. No paper, rock, scissors here, You can repel and counter 
 enemy attacks, store up and use one hit kills, as a matter of fact it's almost unfair how powerful 
 Nariko becomes because she is virtually unstoppable. Now aside fro Nariko another character worth 
 mentioning is her sister Kai. Kai is a bit on an eccentric who is a little on the dazed and confused 
 side. Now Kai is not much for physical combat however she is absolutly mean with a crossbow. Now, 
 Kai and Nariko both have several chances to use projectile weapons and I will not spoil anything 
 by mentioning what you get to use. All I would like to mention is that by holding the square button, 
 the camera switches view and you can control the flight of the projectile with the sixaxis controller. 
 It is actually incredible how good the six axis works with the projectile camera. Time slows down 
 and you can hit anything with this ability. This makes these segments unbelievably fun. Now for 
 the sad part. The game has 6 chapters and they go very fast. Now the cast of characters is incredible 
 and the voice acting is unbelievable. But once your on chapter 6 You should have the game beaten 
 within the next hour or so. Needless to say, Heavenly Sword is a Breath Taking, energetic, highly 
 innovative, fresh look at what action games should be on the next gen system. However if the game 
 could only outlast its price and offer some more story, only then would it be a complete success. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword has been on many peoples wanted lists since we first saw glimpses from it way back 
 in time.
  Now its finally out, does it live up to the hype?
  yeah, It sure does. The story is really good, graphics is stunning, sound is exellent. It has good 
 controllers and make good use of the siaxis motion contoller aswell.
  The only real letdown is the fact that is over way too soon.
  First run thru will take about 
 6-10 hrs depending a little on how fast you run from one location to the other but since the graphics 
 are mind blowing why run through so fast when you can stop and take a look at the gorgeus surroundings 
 here and there.
  
  Despite its rather short story it's one fun ride from start to finnish.
  The battle system works 
 really well and the combo list is almost endless, just this system makes it fun to play again and 
 again to try and master all those more tricky combos.
  
  If you think the game is a bit easy the first time, you will also be rewarded with a harder mode 
 after the first runthrough.
  If you are a fan of games like God Of War this game should satisfy you for at least a little while 
 even though it doesn't really have much to say against GoW but if it would have a lengthier story 
 it could have given GoW a fight.
  Nariko, the main character feels like she could be Kratos Wife or someting, they both are kickass 
 characters!
  All in all if you want a game that plays well, looks stunning and sounds terrific and likes button 
 mashing action games in general, be sure to give this on a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rovi209
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is very pretty. the grapics looks great and the faces moves like a real human. the fight 
 schem is pretty good. and it's nice to play two characters that have different ways of fighting. 
 some might say the games is short and it is. you could take your time but it puts you in a lot 
 of fight so you don't want to stop. the bosses are not that good. you won't really feel like you 
 beat a really badass opponant, rader a guy with a really long life bar. all and all it's a good 
 game. but you should rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, the third person action/adventure franchise of the PS3 is finally here. For those 
 unaware, this was one of the first announced games for the PS3, and even appeared in Heroes on 
 NBC to hype it last season.
  
  In HS, you play as Nariko, a warrior women who was born to the head of her clan, instead of a son 
 who had been prophesised to be coming to save the clan. Thus, Nariko is an outcast. Throughout 
 the story, she chooses to wield the Heavenly Sword, the weapon of a God which will destroy any 
 mortal who wields it. The story is melodramatic, but the production values and excellent voice 
 acting really sell it, making this the equivalent of a 1st tier hollywood blockbuster.
  
  The control scheme, while simple to pick up, hides an excellent depth that you wouldn't suspect. 
 Even at the end of the game, you are likely to be discovering new, and satisfying ways to put your 
 enemies down. During several level, you will play as Nariko's friend Kai, who is a Sniper. These 
 patient, Sniper levels make excellent use of the SIXAXIS controls, and also provide a welcome pacing 
 reprieve from the near non-stop action of Nariko's levels.
  
  Is this game short? Yes, it clocks in around 6 hours. Is their replay value? Well, this represents 
 one of few games I have actually wanted to play through again immediately after beating, but there 
 is no real reward for doing so. In the end, this may not be the greatest value available, but it 
 is a great game that you won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Scar
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the games that show the V8 of the PS3, the game seriouesly has some nice graphics, 
 and the moves and combos are nice,
  
  The story is not that deep thou, however it is good.
  
  The game play is not that easy, because 
 without Combos your just a kid holding the joystick and banging on those buttons, so if u dont 
 know any combos, u better not play this game.
  
  The game has no Difficulty setting, and this is a bad thing because couple of those fights are 
 not that easy and on some of the bosses fights i was prying for some healing potions.
  
  Bosses are a bit hard, and the last boss is just what made me lose intrest into the game. Games 
 have one and only one purpose, which is make us have fun. and the last boss really refuses that 
 idea.
  
  So to sum it up, if u like chinese girls in panties and you like punching and shaking ur PS3 joystink 
 then this is the game for you =D
  
  Regards,
  The Scar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panther_G
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is a preliminary review of my first reaction. This is amazing... it's a freaking Asian 
 / female God of War . So basically once I got past my PS3 fangirliness, I actually started paying 
 attention to what was going on. ALL of the AI is fairly intelligent in that you can tell that they 
 wait for you to strike before they react. It takes several moments of not doing anything for them 
 to take the initiative. As far as the graphics go, all I can say is wow.... come on... It's like 
 being able to control a painting. The scenarios are much like that of Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
 However, the environments are not nearly as destructive as I would like them to be... if you hit 
 a barrel, sadly, it won't splinter.
  
  That characters are awesome and you fall in love with them almost immediately. Kai happens to be 
 my favorite with her constant childlike taunting of the enemy and quick wit. You can't help but 
 want to kill again just to hear what she says next. Speaking of Kai, I believe that her crossbow 
 and arrow flight control in game is one of the absolute most fun aspects that was created for Heavenly 
 Sword. It's almost exactly like flying a fighter in Blazing Angels using the six-axis.
  
  The hand to hand fighting style are incredible but very difficult to master... mostly because I 
 haven't had a game challenge me in years. Not in skills. Wit maybe.... but not skill. The fact that 
 only certain stances will block certain moves makes the player stay on his/her toes and forces 
 him/her to PAY ATTENTION. This is NOT a game that you can play without looking like so many other 
 action RPGs. (E. g. God of War) But again, I haven't played more than a few hours so my thoughts 
 are not yet complete. I will either confirm or correct my opinion in a matter of days. Until then... Frag 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delcidanddarth
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Deck:
  
  An achievement of story-telling that will keep you impressed and interested throughout the entire 
 game.
  
  Review:
  
  Let me begin this review by telling you what this game is not. It is not a God of War clone. I 
 would even go so far as to say this is not a game... not in the expected way. It is a story told 
 much in the same way as you would an epic fantasy movie, such as Lord of the Rings. The graphics, 
 especially the character animations, are amazing. The voice-acting is on par with real movies (not 
 directed by Uwe Boll, that is) , and the only difference is that you get to control the characters 
 during battles. Given the length of the game, character development is on the short side, but I 
 believe the game does an admirable job of giving us as much of a backstory as possible during the 
 5 day time-frame. The music in the game is sufficient, though not nearly as captivating as the 
 animations and sound effects.
  
  The most important part of a game is its game-play. It is in this sense that this game is extremely 
 dissimilar to God of War. Yes, the main character, Nariko, can wield dual chain-blades like in 
 God of War, but this is one of her three attack stances. This would be her range stance, and is 
 useful for keeping large numbers of enemies at bay, and also for knocking an enemy into the air 
 for an air combo. Her regular stance is useful for taking out single enemies, and her power stance 
 is useful for larger enemies or breaking through the enemy's block. Attacking becomes like a simplified 
 Mortal Kombat fight, where you can pull off combos using various sequences of the two attack buttons, 
 but also switching between stances mid-combo. I say simplified not because the fights are easier, 
 but the difficulty of the combo system is lower than Mortal Kombat. Some fights require you to 
 face multiple enemies (and types) at once, thus making which combos you use an important decision.
 
  
  Doing combos, especially stringing together combos between enemies without getting hit, is how 
 your style meter fills up, and once it is filled, you can initiate an instant kill sequence. Additionally, 
 gaining style points fills up a second meter, but this one measures your performance thus far on 
 that stage, which unlocks bonus content and new combos. This second meter also serves as the main 
 purpose for replaying the game, other than, of course, seeing how many ways you can air-pummel 
 that foot soldier. The combos are incredibly fluid, and pulling off several combos makes you feel 
 invincible.
  
  Another great way to add style points is countering. Countering is actually blocking followed by 
 a button press. Since blocking is automatic (another key difference from God of War) , countering 
 is just a timely button press away. The only caveat is you can only autoblock attacks in the same 
 stance. Strong attacks (akin to your power attack) can be autoblocked only while in power stance, 
 and are easy to see because the enemy glows orange instead of blue while power attacking. However, 
 life isn't all autoblocking, since enemies can also perform a super attack (as seen by the red 
 glow) , and these cannot be blocked. Once you do perform a block, countering is easily done by pressing 
 the triangle button, and you better become an expert at this since it is the only way to beat the 
 game's later bosses.
  
  The last difference between this game and God of War is the lack of jumping. This is probably the 
 reason I wouldn't classify this as a regular game, it doesn't really fit the mold of an action 
 hack-and-slash adventure game without jumping. It makes platforming impossible, though there are 
 still a handful of puzzles. These puzzles involve accurate throwing of various items, such as shields 
 or rockets or cannonballs. The term accuracy usually isn't used too much since most action games 
 have an auto-aim feature. Heavenly Sword does them one better, by using motion-sensing aftertouch. 
 Basically, the camera switches to a second-person view behind the item and you control, somewhat, 
 the direction by tilting the controller. Although this detracts from the reality of throwing/firing 
 things, it makes it much more enjoyable to hit enemy catapults when you feel like you have some 
 control over the trajectory. A similar mechanic is used for the sniper missions where you control 
 the trajectory of arrows, and the game certainly takes advantage of this for some surprisingly 
 fun mission setups.
  
  For all the complaints about lack of enemy variety, take this list and see what you think: soldier 
 with single sword, armored soldier with shield and sword, heavily armored soldier with shield and 
 sword, heavy soldier with axe, heavy soldier with hammer, ape-like soldier with claws, ninjas with 
 dual swords, and archers. No, this isn't the biggest list of enemies in the world, but it's definitely 
 not the only two or three types that others complain about. Also, fighting enemies depends a lot 
 on your environments, and the game does offer up a surprising amount of variety in environments, 
 most of which you can use to your advantage (or are required to use) . Bosses are also fun, though 
 once you get the patterns down they aren't that difficult. My only complaint about the fighting 
 is the lack of blood. Was getting a T for Teen rating so important to not include blood?
  
  Graphically, the game is absolutely stunning, with highly-detailed everything, from giant landscapes 
 and buildings down to the realistic-looking skin and amazing facial expressions. The characters 
 do look like actors in a movie, and not just puppets with voices. My only complaint would be that 
 the shadowing effects don't always look great during cutscenes. On the other hand, the cutscenes 
 are also incredible, and you will enjoy them just as much as playing the game.
  
  Combined with the graphics is a captivating story that, although not an award-winning novel, takes 
 an interesting script and excels thanks to the amazing voice work and animation. And even with 
 the short story, the characters are enthralling and humorous, and the story is intelligent and 
 offers some real emotion.
  
  Finally, with so many other reviews hating on the length of the game, I offer up this point of 
 view. If the game really is more of a game-movie hybrid, is more gameplaying really something we 
 want? If you rush through the game, it only takes 6-8 hours, but every minute is something you'll 
 savor. Is this really worse than a game that takes 40 hours, but you spend 30 hours leveling up, 
 or a game that is 40 hours, but it's all basically the same hack-n-slash through level after level 
 (such as most of the dynasty warriors games) ? The game does offer some replayability, with trying 
 to get gold on all stages, as well as the hard difficulty, but the real point is, would you want 
 to watch the greatest movie ever made if it was more than 4 hours long? This game is really one 
 of those games you don't want to put down until it's over, and I can't think of how that's a bad 
 thing at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  If the PS3 needed a triple A title then this was always going to be the 1st game to show the Ps3 
 community what the PS3 could, and, can do!! Don't get me wrong there are some really decent games 
 but not many exclusives to boast about. Sure Motorstorm and R: FoM hit the ground running but we've 
 been thirsting for a game like HS to get over the dross of games like Full Auto, F4, etc. So is 
 this the game that we've all been waiting for? Well what do you think? Of course it blooming is!!!! 
 Its not perfect, lets get that out the way first. HS has definately got a familiar formula that 
 will remind of Tomb Raider or God of War 1 and 2. It also has has moments of glitch during the 
 movie playback and iffy camera angles on occasions. I've also read that the game is short and can 
 be completed quite quickly, 6 and half hours, however I've not experienced that myself. Onto the 
 good stuff!! The production values of the game in the voice acting, graphics, interactive elements, 
 the cut scenes and WOW factor are simply awesome. Sure there's no online stuff but that's no surprise 
 and to be honest it doesn't matter. Its a very immersive game that you can't helped but be charmed 
 by. As HS actually has Character SHOCK!!!! Basically its no game that any self respecting PS3 owner 
 can not play. You know the standards are going to be high as HS was brought to you by the same 
 team as Ninja Gaiden Sigma!
  
  Nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welshdragon92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  im not really happy about the game being 6-8 hours long but im happy that they are making a trilogy, 
 they have already written the story for ''heavenly sword 2'' and i hope they will make it soon.
 
  The gameplay is really good on it and the combos are awesome they just make me laugh when i do 
 an aerial attack and slam them into the floor.
  The difficulties don't really bother me, if its too hard for me then i just try again and get better.
 
  
  If u get this game then you will be truly ''wowed'' the graphics are awesome and the cutscenes 
 are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omi1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  If one word were being used to describe this game it would have to be Beautiful . Heavenly Sword 
 succeeds in areas that most game fail in my opinion which is quality. Team Ninja put alot of there 
 focus to make a complete interactive movie. There's really no difference in quality between the 
 cut-scenes and the game play which I have never scene in a game (For those of you who are use to 
 games having some excellent DVD-HD quality cutscenes but then wait, other cutscenes in the game 
 are pixeled animation) . Team Ninja also didn't go overboard with the whole panning around the main 
 character at will which in somegames cause major camera angle defects in a game. Feels like God 
 of War which if they ever decided to cross-over the 2 games would not be a problem (will never 
 happen though companies aren't that smart) . The one thing that was the problem for me with this 
 game but honestly I really didn't mind it too much was how short it was, but then again short games 
 have more replay value than games that take weeks to beat.
  The character acting was the best I have ever seen in a game to date - Period, If companies are 
 as patient to make games and continue to work with companies such a Weta Digital who's concern 
 is majorly quality. We are gonna have alot of new and exciting games to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper2k0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding this game I was pretty anxious to play it but since I haven't gotten 
 around to buying a PS3 (yet) I had to pay my friend a visit. I was floored by the graphics, the 
 sound, the story and of course the gameplay. I loved both God of War games and I found certain 
 similarities with this title. Anyway I managed to beat this game in about 10 or so hours and for 
 me that is one of the reasons why I didn't give the game a higher score. Simply put: It's too short. 
 Not just that it's too easy too. I wished the developers (Ninja Theory) would have made the gameplay 
 more challenging and a bit more lenghtly because a title like this deserves better. All in all 
 a great title to own (if you're into this sort of genre) and a better one to rent (for an evening 
 of slaughtering fun...)
  
  - Nariko would kick Kratos's a** any day - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockaWuzHur
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game really did suck for me. I was looking forward to it until I played the game. Now dont 
 get me wrong the game was far from broken but it got boring after a while. I mean COME ON!!! This 
 is another attempt from a developer to bring some hot girl out and make her beat up hordes of bad 
 people. She wears skimpy clothes and carries big weapons. Woohoo!!! If you're looking for a fantasy 
 action game play God of War. It may be a last gen title but it blows this out of the water. Story's 
 okay though. Here's to those game developers some people care about playing games rather than looking 
 at them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an extremly well thought out game, however, its not long enough to be considered 
 a game in my book! The game does fascinate me in numerous ways though. One thing that really intriged 
 me was the fact that the main character was a female. This is not seen in many games, and the fact 
 that this game was based off a female character makes it rather entertaining mainly because its 
 not seen in everday games. Another thing was the story, it connects and doesnt leave the player 
 confused like some games i have played in the past. The battle style and attacks never get old, 
 which is really good because when i played games like God of War i would easily get tired of the 
 repetitive combo attacks. The only actual down fall is the length of the game. I rented it and 
 beat it the same day... the game isnt that long and could easily be beaten in about 5 hours of ones 
 day! I have replayed it and it is just as fun as the first time, however, dont rent it first cause, 
 then youll beat it and most likely wont buy it... thats my plan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gclark50
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this straight, first of all this game is not even close to God of War!!!! This is the 
 only reason I purchased this game in the first place, because everyone claimed it was God of War 
 for next generation. As far as Im concerned there is absolutely no comparison, I can admit it 
 is a rip off of the game but a boring one all the way through. I'm actually on the last level of 
 the game and I don't even feel like finishing it, I'm sure I will just because I dished out a stupidly 
 $60 for it. I had read about every review before purchasing this game and I never read one bad 
 thing about the sound, sure it sounds great at times but what about the glitching? I mean the sound 
 glitches so bad in the first few levels I thought something was wrong with my system; I cannot 
 blame the system though because it plays all my other mediocre PS3 titles just fine. Please, please, 
 please take my word for it rent this game before wasting your money. Don't believe the hype the 
 graphics and sound are way to glitchy for your hard earned $60. I feel as ripped off as the day 
 I purchased my PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianpm
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  - Heavenly Sword has some of the best production the game industry has ever seen. The cutscenes 
 are almost life like with the facial expressions. Its truly like none other. The story happens 
 to be interesting along the way.
  
  Graphics
  - The game is beauitful, the cutscenes are great. The only problem is the occasional framerate 
 drop and some screen tearing, but nothing that gets in the way.
  
  Gameplay
  - Nariko basically has 3 sets of attacks. A range attack, normal attack, and a power attack. Thats 
 the whole game but throw in some counter buttons and some on screen button cutscenes. The A. I was 
 a total letdown to me, the bosses were very dumb and easy to learn. It gets repetitive toward the 
 end though. But the gameplay system does work very well I might add.
  
  Sound
  -Heavenly Sword has some fantastic sound. The voices to the characters bring them to life, the 
 acting is top notch. Overall
  - Heavenly Sword could have been a great game but the lack of puzzles and tons of arena fighting 
 bring this game down a little bit. Throw in a 6 hour campain brings it down a little more. It does 
 get kinda repetitve due to the lack of weapons and such. But if you can get past the length and 
 repetitivness you will enjoy this game. It could have been great but it falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theh8er
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a simple review. This is the best looking game I have seen on a console. Yes Gears was 
 ridiculous but this has it beat in the graphics department. It is full of action and great God 
 of War button sequences and cut scenes. I am amazed at the look of the game and you will be too. 
 The game is definitely fun but definitely short. You get a feeling of wow this feels like its coming 
 to an end already and sure enough it is. Thats the only gripe I have. There is a good mix in of 
 shooting and controlling the cannonballs, arrows, shields etc. If you liked either God of War you 
 will definitely like this game. When a certain neck gets broken in a good ole fashioned nuse you 
 might crack an evil smile like I did but hey thats just me. Anyway get this game. This and Lair 
 are Graphically awesome but this may have a slight edge. The Sony Devs have the graphics down, 
 now they just need to push out more games and teach the third party Devs how to do it. I am no 
 fanboy I love my 360 also so dont think this is a biased review. In closing note GET NHL 08! 360 
 or PS3! ITS OFF THE HOOK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  As context to my review, my favorite games in the last few years have been RE4, Metal Gear Solid 
 3, and Shadow of the Colossus. Games with narrative go a long way for me and Heavenly Sword does 
 a great job of conveying an entertaining story that takes full advantage of the potential of this 
 new generations hardware. It was easy for me to be setback by the reviews that floated around during 
 its initial release, reviews that I believe may have been soured by the amount of hype and expectation 
 placed on it. I believe that much of its negatives are often times exaggerated because there are 
 certain things that are assumed when playing this title. It's for example, assumed that its has 
 to play a lot like God of War, which although having similarities, is really not all that close, 
 not even in story line as many have suggested. Another is that games have to be long, I guess in 
 order to justify the price of games these days. When these assumptions are carried through the 
 experience of playing Heavenly Sword, I think it does much to diminish its merits. Primarily in 
 the realm of combat. The combat system presented in the game wouldn't stand well using the heavy 
 button mashing and combo reliant system used in God of War. The combat system presented asks that 
 the player be patient and is more like playing a slimmed down Soul Caliber than God of War. The 
 game can be outright frustrating if you try to button mash your way through every battle. Its much 
 better if take your time to understand where the game developers are trying to take you with its 
 combat, e. g. use counters and stances.
  
  As for the criticism that the length of the game is too short, well it is, and for me that 's mainly 
 due to how interested I am in the personality of the characters and their histories. A longer game 
 could have given us more history, but it does leave room for prequels or sequels. In these terms, 
 of sequels and prequels, Heavenly Sword acts a lot like a milestone that allows the player to see 
 where games are going and encourages me to support games like Heavenly Sword in hopes of realizing 
 this vision. I was happy to play it and I think that any PS3 owner should go out and rent it, and 
 if you feel so inclined as to support not so much the game but what it stands for, I also encourage 
 that. It's a great time and I yearn to play more.
  
  Pros: Presentation, story that builds in its epicness. Great storytelling (more blockbuster summer 
 release than a Fall release movie) . Rich combat. Makes one yearn for more. Awesome use of Sixaxis 
 for character Kai.
  
  Cons: Combat requires a shift into patience. Makes one yearn for more. Framerate gets minor shakes 
 in some places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I do love a good hack n slash game and heavenly sword is one of those great hack and slash games, 
 the story and visuals are very good and definatley the games strong points. However the camera 
 angle is at times awkward even though they gave us the option to change the angle with the R and 
 L buttons, however it generally makes it worse. The aftertouch is a great idea and was implemented 
 ok, but at times it felt awkward to use and using the left anolouge stick was easier to move the 
 object or body around. The voice acting was fairly good, King Bohan was the best example of this, 
 however characters like Flying Fox got annoying real fast. So over all if you want a game that 
 is more focused on the story and visuals then actual gameplay you might want to try heavenly sword 
 out, but instead of buying it rent it as it's too short and the gameplay just doesn't hold up enough. 
 My recomendations for improving the gameplay would be to adopt EA Games control scheme of The Lord 
 Of The Rings The Two Towers and The Return Of The King, as those two games were great hack n slash 
 games, had terrific gameplay and still gave the option to use ranged attacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Like thousands of gamers I was eager to get my hands on this game, now that i have it, I am blown 
 away by the artistic and story presentation of this game.
  
  Graphis: Wow is the only word i can say for the graphics. I was blown away by the sharpness and 
 clarity of the game. the facail exspression, animation and FPS where almost flawless. never in 
 a game have i seen such detail to every aspect of the enviorment even in action settings. If this 
 is a sample of what the true next gereration gaming graphics will be like boy are we in for surprises 
 when they get it perfect. this is not saying that the graphics in this game arent fantastic its 
 just saying that even as good as they are in hs they will get even better over time. point and 
 fact as with GOW we thought that it couldnt get any better and to are great surprise it was blown 
 away on GOW2.
  
  Sound: Again words cant describe how fantastic the audio is in this game from the action music 
 to the sound effects they are right on target surround sound blossoms in this game.
  
  Game play : This is where like many others i have critic, granted there is tons of great action 
 throughout the game. the main problem is it is too short for the heavy price tag. secondly thier 
 are tons of great fighting combinations but by the time you learn them all the game is over really 
 almost before you get to use them all. the best part in my opion is the sixxas intrication throughout 
 the game. it is way too cool to control the flight of an arrow and cannon balls from the catipolts. 
 and the great use of it within boss battles makes a player feel more involved in the battle. it 
 gets boring very quickly when all you do in a game is button mash.
  
  Replay value: This is the second critic i have there really isnt much to do in a replay way unless 
 you want to improve on how or what ways you fight. maybe HS will add some new levels or maps to 
 advance the stroyline earlier with in the game of better yet ad a online aspect to the game i really 
 feel if thay ad the online they will sell tons and maybe even sell thousands of PS3's.
  
  Over haul : As stated in my opening line finally we have a game worthy of the PS3 this is what 
 i feel. like many others i am dissapointed in the length of the game but i still am over whelmed 
 on the artisct value of the game. This is a great game with a wondeful storyline with out standing 
 graphics and sound and a game that uses the sixxas wisely and in away that actually makes sense 
 and even breaks the boriness of plan old button mashing. This is a gmae that makes a player feel 
 as if he or she is part of the storyline in its real time cut scences and mini games. the animation 
 is the most realalistc that i have ever seen in an action game. The sound is right on point and 
 even relaxing. The best part of this game is the AI isnt a sloch its challenging in most cases 
 not too mention the toins of enemys to wipe out and better yet the enviorment stays in tack when 
 you kill them they just dont desolve into the wood work so when a battle is over you can see the 
 terror you inflicted. My only grip is it is too short buit to the developers wish im sure it left 
 me wanting more. I wish you all great gaming and i recomend reluctantly that this be a rental because 
 6-8 hours of game play isnt worth the 60 price tag or wait till it hits gameflys 50% off bin. Such 
 a shame a game really this good had to be as short as it was and will end up hurting thier bottom 
 line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zubin75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Let's draw up an analogy. Do you like Fudge? Because that's what this game is; short, and oh so 
 sweet. The visuals are unbelieveable. The in game sequences blow you away, and show what the PS3 
 can really do, it also gets me giddy about how people are really going to squeeze out all the power 
 out of the system, like God of War 2 did with PS2.
  
  The storyline skips a few steps along the way, it is a little melodramatic, but it's worth forgiving 
 for all the eye candy. Facial acting and expressions are unparalleled from any game on any platform. 
 I hope game designers start to realize that mashing buttons and great visuals don't fully complete 
 a game, sound, story and of course gameplay, are essentials to a great title.
  
  Gameplay seems a bit choppy at times, especially when fighting multiple enemies. Again, the comparison 
 from God of War, to roll out of the way, you need to pull on the right analog stick each time as 
 opposed to holding it down to keep moving it around. It makes for you taking a bunch of hits that 
 weren't intended. I wish the heavenly sword was a bit more powerful at times. I feel like the most 
 powerful sword in the world should have cut through blades and people like butter towards the end. 
 It sort of does that, I would have liked to see more though.
  
  Sometimes, I wish there was a way to slow stuff down because it just looks so great. Defintely 
 worth the price of admission. Do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most beautiful games i've ever seen. Graphically, it's simply gorgeous 
 with amazing detail and artistry in the environment. It also has the best real-time cut scenes 
 i've ever seen with every emotion and facial expression detail captured perfectly. From the slightest 
 raise of the eyebrows to the screaming fury of Bohan, the devs did a great job with all the face 
 motion capture. In terms of gameplay, there's a seemingly endless list of combos you can pull off 
 between the three stances (speed, power, ranged) Another great thing is the aftertouch effect to 
 control anything you throw with pinpoint accuracy. Also, the boss fights seem to resemble God of 
 War type sequences where you have to do an exact key press when instructed in order to defeat the 
 boss. If you're looking for a game to showcase the power of the PS3, this is it. Everything from 
 the draw distance to the fact that none of the destructible environment pieces, along with dead 
 bodies and weapons, never disappear. And just wait til you get to the scene where you're fighting 
 hundreds of people at a time. Now, the only flaw to this game that i can see.... it's just way 
 too short. i finished it in about 6 hours.... if that. Other than that, i really have no gripe 
 about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I was so hyped up to play this game ever since it was announced. Really cool sword, Long flowing 
 red haired female warrior, really cool battle scenes, etc, etc.
  
  After purchasing the game, my first reaction was, Holy $%@# this is cool. THe game lived up to 
 all of my expectation. The graphics are amazing (possibly the best ingame graphics i have ever 
 seen) The voice acting and emotions of the characters faces are almost life like. The characters 
 themselves are each unique and creative. The sarcasm of the sick minded King Bohan almost makes 
 you like the character, despite the fact that you must kill him. Gameplay is amazing, making huge 
 combos, then the perfect execution of a counter one hit kill, on top of that is really cool sound 
 effects when the combo finishes. After a good combo, you hear a high pitched (and rather satisfying) 
 *SHINK* as if to say that you totally pwnd that NPC. I can't say enough about the gameplay, Even 
 after finishing the game i wan't to replay it just because i love how much fun it is to do combo's 
 and watch Nariko flip around and do cool killing stunts. It literally feels like your in an action 
 movie. On top of Playing as Nariko the sword wielding warrior, You also get to play as a side character 
 Kai, who wields a cool looking Crossbow. She acts like smeagol but the way she kills is really 
 cool. After shooting the arrow, you can use the sixaxis motion sensing to control the bolt..... 
 Although if you want to beat the game without replaying alot... i highly recommend just using the 
 joystick instead of the motion sensing..... Although its cool, the joystick is by far easier to 
 use............... But master it if you feel the urge to O__o Here is where the biggest problem 
 of the game comes in......... TOO GORRAM SHORT !!!!!!! .... gosh this game would be really shiney 
 to recieve a 9 or 9.5 had this game increased the length of the story. I swear had i not split 
 the game up into three days, i would have finished this thing in one day (spaning of about 6-8 
 hours to complete the story once......... and thats including redo's of bosses i lost to the first 
 time around) I was told this analogy works really well. The entire game plays out like the final 
 run into the climax of a Final Fantasy Game. It feels as if this game had so much more back story 
 and in between material that was missing to make the game feel complete. Almost as if this game 
 was a Demo of a Much Larger game that was in production. However had the game been too long that 
 would have lead to its down fall......... Its just that it would have been nice if it were longer. 
 Given all that, it was a very enjoyable game, and the replay value is extremely high due to the 
 games length, Im pretty sure i will replay it 2 - 3 times then play hellmode once or twice before 
 i move on. In the end it was a great game, and highly recommendable to anyone who owns a PS3. Its 
 by far one of the best PS3 exclusives out there. If you don't have a problem with the length of 
 the game, you should enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeDaMan10
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally!
  I have been waiting for a new unique game like this that tests the ps3's capabilities i am playing 
 my ps3 more than my 360 now finally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melt_ME
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  SICK SICK SICK for god sake this game is a 10/10 ! its incredibly sick and never been done before. 
 its a ninjagaiden killer. i just got the game today and im stuck at the first boss now and im having 
 hard time to defeat him. i never thought that such a game is goin to be made someday. its really 
 hard. its really fun. it really needs alot of concetration. counters is hard to be done and its 
 a amaizing when u do them. if u dont have a ps3 to get this game then u dont have a life. every 
 gamer have to play this one. mashing buttons is incredibly fun. Gamespot reviewers must rereview 
 this game a gain. this game is much more than 8/10. if ur a ps3 owner and u dont have this game 
 then u better get it for real. ahhh i love my ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish I was blown away with this game. The graphics are beautiful and the game plays 
 really well. It is a short game but everything goes so smooth after its over you feel like you 
 just watched a really bad-ass movie. Its not really really really short but its not really long 
 either.. There are 6 chapters that all have maybe 10 or so parts to each chapter. This game puts 
 you in mind of God of War but after you play it you will realize that its something all to its 
 own. There is a lot of detail in the facial expressions and everything. The people look really 
 nice. Probably the best human graphics Ive ever seen actually. This is defiantly one of my new 
 favorite games. Its a great break from the usual crap they keep putting out this game is truly 
 amazing. But yeah I could babble on and on with this game but Ill shut up here YOU NEED TO BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSchem
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I'll start out saying I have only played the demo for this game, but having so much hype, this 
 game let's down rather quickly. If you've already played God of War, don't waste your time/money 
 with this game. It's pretty much the female version of Kratos. I thought at first when I saw this 
 game that it'd be sweet, granted the graphics look awesome. But once she busts out with the blades 
 on chains, all I could think about is how much Kratos would like to slice her to bits with his 
 Blades of Chaos. This game totally ripped off God of War, it just happens to not be set in Greek 
 Mythology times. So save your money on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerokoolpsx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Everyone said this game is short, it is, BUT everyone is rushing through the game, and not enjoying 
 the eye candy in the background and the amount of detail in this game is breath taking. The combo 
 system is easy to use, with the three stances, switching back and forth adds some nice flavor to 
 it. The narration of the story fits well with the game from Nariko, Kai, and occasionally Bohan. 
 The biggest innovation about the game is the aftertouch. Whether it's shooting an arrow with Kai, 
 or a huge cannon with Nariko, the after touch makes targeting easy. It may take a while to get 
 used to at first with the sixais, but after getting the hang of it, it's cake. Using it with the 
 rocket launcher, killing hundreds of Bohan's army is very entertaining. All the game's cutscene 
 are in game, except for the intro and ending. It has the Super Style, Combos, where Nariko charges 
 her meter, and once it gets to the first level, using it, will instantly kill one mob, and damage 
 others in a certain radius. Getting it to level three, will kill all mobs within that radius, which 
 is useful near the end of the game. On the down side, game is short, not much re-playability, beating 
 normal mode, unlocks Hell Mode. Heavenly Sword has extra content that gets unlocked with glyphs 
 in each chapter, that add a few hours searching for them, to unlock everything in normal. Kai is 
 the other character, but she lacks any range combos. A lot of people has compared this game to 
 God of War, this game has stances, with combos, in air, on ground, switching on the fly, while 
 GoW is more button mashing. Both have button prompts on screen for finishing off a boss, or doing 
 extra damage to regular mobs; Kratos with magic, Nariko with her Super Style,. There are no powerups 
 in HS, just glyphs for health, but what GoW lacks is a counter system, where you can counter any 
 mob, even getting knocked up into the air, while a certain mob is attacking you, there is always 
 the counter, that is helpful. In the end, this game is definitely worth getting. Gamespot's review 
 doesn't do HS any justice for this great game from Ninja Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is just another hit for the PS3 along with Ninja Gaiden Sigma and Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. Well, what I have to say about the game? 1st we have the great game play with easy-to-handle 
 game control, the amazing combo systems and fighting styles. Secondly, Ill describe how good the 
 storyline is. It is like Gamespot review where they said that the game is like watching a great 
 fantasy movie, enjoying the good performance of the actors while they are playing their roles and 
 enjoying the story as well. The game characters are cool and they are like real actors. This game 
 brought a new level of storytelling that is for sure.
  
  The graphics of the game are amazing, youll see that when you buy and play the game. One bad thing 
 about the game is that its short, if they just made it a little longer. Over all the game is a 
 must play if you own a PS3, you cant resist playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space-Q
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  It's a shame that this game is getting 8's because of it's length. this is an easy 9 or 9.5. Acting, 
 story and production are top notch, they make other video games look like they have video-game 
 acting, and stories. Hopefully this starts a trend of spending more time and money on story, presentation 
 and acting in video games.
  
  gameplay is awesome in this too, with a mix of god of war style hacking and slashing and some unexpected 
 FPS style gameplay.
  
  It's only about 8 hours long but, I'd much rather play more games like this... ones that are exciting 
 and fun their entire length rather than dragging out a game just to make it longer. I never got 
 bored while playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonomon101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  The graphics are phenomal! The sound is the best i ever heard, its really surrond sound. The story 
 is very good. I havent beat it yet i've only played for a couple of hours, but i've heard that 
 this game can be beat in less than 10 hours. That the only reason that it got a 8 i believe. If 
 that wasnt considered it would be at least a 9 easy. For those ppl that have full-time jobs, and 
 can only play 1 to 2 hours a day. This game wont be that short to us. If you have doubts about 
 buying only because the time length is in question, then i would rent it or play a friends copy 
 and see how Amazing it is. You could play this game over and over and make up for the short time 
 and still get your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hustler1987
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  its a bit short yer cwick example kinda like 300 only thing your on ur own takin on 1000s of people 
 with some great designed bosses you have obvious different attacks POWER / REANGE / SPEED / its 
 easy enough to pick up and get to grips with kinda god of war feel for me with easier puzzles though 
 but if your gonna get it youll need a hdtv and dont do what i did buy the game thinkin you can 
 run it normally where as the next day i had to go back and buy a hdmi cable to run it through so 
 if your gonna get it make sure you got a hdmi cable other than that play and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinDragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have played and the only reason i gave it an 8.5 is because it 
 is so short. It's a good thing I rented it because I would have been upset... I compare this game 
 to some women I know.... A COCK TEASE. Yeah !!! You guys will know this and still like it trust 
 me when I tell you. The graphics are amazing and its awesome to see so many enemies on screen at 
 one time and another thing I liked is the the dead bodies just keep piling up. I can't wait for 
 part 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolokowoh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an immersive step forward in the genre of beat em ups. The game focuses on Nariko 
 and Kai but has an array of humorous characters. The graphics are top notch. The sound is perfect 
 in every way. It has great sound effects and great voice-overs. Glitches are hardly found. They 
 do happen, just not enough to mess you up . The worst part of the game is actually the story. The 
 game doesn't really take it's self entirely seriously, but instead adds hilarious conversations 
 into the story to keep it fresh. This really is the only problem with the entire game. The story 
 might not be immersive, but the gameplay is. The gameplay is awesome with a focus on three stances: 
 speed (the normal stance) , power, and range. Reversals are key to survival but aren't too tough 
 to do. The difficulty is just right, giving a challenged for noobs and experienced players. If 
 normal difficulty isn't challenging enough for you, try hell mode. Hell mode is tough but not impossible. 
 Reversals harder to pull off and enemies are tougher, stronger, and faster. Different elements 
 of gameplay like Kai's crossbow and a rocket launcher make challenges fun and fesh from the beat 
 em up gameplay in most of the game. Kai operates like Leon from resident evil 4 and the rocket 
 launcher is just fun to use. Heavenly Sword is no God of War but stil is a immersive and fun beat 
 em up with perfect controls, great graphics and sound, plus a not great but still good story, making 
 a must own game. This game is one of many emerging reasons to own the PS3. If you don't have this 
 game yet or a PS3 for that matter, save up for One of the Best Games of All Time , HEAVENLY SWORD 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nalani100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  The graphics are phenomenal. Incredibly realistic. It's like watching a live movie. The gameplay 
 is revolutionary. The mechanics are fantastic. There are a lot of good combos to use. The power, 
 speed and range stances are cool to switch between. A few different types of baddies to kill throughout 
 the game... and you come to know which stances are best to use to defeat them. But some of the bosses 
 are ridiculous. The last guy was so hard! You think you kill him and then you find out it just 
 takes you to another stage with him... and he's even harder there! It also sucks when you have to 
 be Kai, Nariko's sister. All she can do is shoot her arrows or rockets. Aiming those things can 
 be fun and they can also be stressful and frustrating. It all depends on the target. The voice 
 acting is extremely well done. The actors did an awesome job. I especially loved the diversity 
 and the individual personalities of the characters. Each one was distinct and unique. This game 
 would have been a true gem were it not for the lack of MORE. The game ended too suddenly. I wanted 
 more. It seemed like the crew spent so much time making the game so perfect that it would've taken 
 a lifetime to make a game of this quality the length of say, a traditional God of War game. The 
 ending was pretty sad, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laggarticus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  It may sound pathetic to real gamers (i. e. idiots who think that a game's not a game unless it's 
 an FPS with one or more invading horde of aliens and 120 different varieties of assault rifles) , 
 but ever since Final Fantasy VII, I have been fascinated with a video game's capacity to tell a 
 story and look damn good doing it. Unfortunately, with few exceptions, this is the video game industry 
 and innovation engenders copy-cats and sequels rather than further innovation. Now, let me be honest 
 - I have nothing against either Halo nor the FPS genre in general. I do, however, feel that the 
 FPS has been run into the ground, beaten to death, set on fire, pureed in a blender, buried, dug 
 up, beaten further, defiled in unspeakable ways, and in a fit of ironic zeal born of dyslexic misunderstanding, 
 beaten still further with a dead horse. Heavenly sword, on the other hand, is more than a fine 
 game. I genuinely felt that this game is perhaps the first game which truly demonstrates just how 
 much the video game can unlock hidden levels in art. We all know that a video game can offer opportunities 
 for graphic artists to imagine and create gorgeous visuals, for composers to stretch their talents 
 creating music that molds emotion properly, and for writers to explore brave new worlds and regale 
 us with grand tales and fascinating characters. Up until now, however, the thespian has been somewhat 
 limited in what he can contribute. True, voice actors can sometimes make or break a game, but the 
 ability for actors to add to games have been limited to either a voice or else somewhat limited 
 motion capture that doesn't come near to capturing the nuances brought to the table by any actor 
 worth their salt. I hold a degree in Theatre, and I cannot stress enough how awesome this game 
 is - how excited I was when I saw some of the behind the scenes making of clips in this game. This 
 is the first time I have seen a game give actors the chance to stretch themselves in their craft 
 and have it show up in the game. Now I know, this game would never have won anyone an academy award 
 for their acting, although Roach is very well portrayed and it's VERY surprisingly easy to connect 
 with. I'm not sure if it's pity or sympathy I feel, I know that I really feel bad for the poor 
 guy. Also, Kai's past isn't really explored in great depth, but what is revealed, along with the 
 acting of the woman who played her... simply put, I have never been more emotionally invested in 
 a mission while playing a video game - and once I got to the end of that mission, that emotional 
 investment was extremely well manipulated. In short, Heavenly Sword gave the actors the opportunity 
 to explore characters they might never have been able to play at all in real life - given the chance 
 to explore their talent. Heavenly Sword pioneers new techniques which allows actors to contribute 
 their craft to games. This isn't just the motion capture techniques which in the past have only 
 scratched the surface of what actors can contribute to games, folks. This is a whole new level 
 - a story which I think no one would have been able to pull off in game format before. If the gameplay 
 isn't the best I've ever experienced within the genre, it is fun and more than adequate for the 
 game. Combat is intentionally meant to be more strategic than, say, God of War. Enemy AI, while 
 not dazzling, is usually made up for by sheer numbers and having to keep tabs on how each enemy 
 type is best dealt with and in what order. Some may think it too easy, but again, I think they 
 may be missing the point of the experience if they dwell to much on it. The game may be short - 
 a fact that some professional reviewers harp on (a drawback which didn't hinder their scores of 
 Shadow of the Colossus or Ico) . It is, however, also gorgeous, full of characters pulled off expertly 
 by actual actors, and some of the best music I have heard in a game since Final Fantasy X. Whenever 
 I score a game, I always base it on the experience I had with a game. I don't dock points for failing 
 to be revolutionary in certain aspects if it doesn't get in the way of the game being fun. Heavenly 
 Swords gameplay, certainly falls into this category - not revolutionary, but it's still fun. Some 
 aspects require a little bit of playing with before you get feel for it and settle into a groove, 
 especially when it comes to aftertouch - tip hold the controller so that it is parallel with the 
 floor, analog sticks pointed at the ceiling when you launch the projectile since if you hold the 
 controller parallel with the TV, your projectile will start heading straight up. Also, use VERY 
 small motions to change the flightpath - it doesn't take much and quick jerky movements will just 
 foul things up. Now, to close this review, I must say that, yes, I am aware that some people will 
 disagree with me about this score. No, I am NOT a PS3 fanboy desperate for a hit for the system. 
 I honestly weighed my feelings about the game after I played it, wrestled with what I experienced 
 and took in what I thought was a plus and what was a minus for it. In the end, it simply came down 
 to the fact that the actor in me was blown away by what I was seeing - Nariko crawling around and 
 pleading with the camera in between chapters brought me back to some of my experimental Theatre 
 classes and the primal emotions evoked therein. When the facial expressions on a character being 
 rendered in real-time give me goosebumps, the actor in me wins out. That is why I am prepared to 
 overlook what are ultimately petty complaints in an otherwise unprecedented and thoroughly exquisite 
 experience. I feel this game's contribution to what games can be -what is in my opinion the first 
 game which heralds a true next gen experience - constitutes a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Are you kidding me? Under 10 hr's???? I gave this game 6.5, and that's only because it looks so 
 good. Nothing special here people, . . . NEXT! If you write a review for a game you hate here, 
 make sure it's 100 word's or more. Ok I'll spread the hate, . . this game sucks. Plain and simple. 
 I was being nice but making me talk about it more is just making a better case for me selling my 
 ps3. I couldn't finish this game fast enough. please god send me back in time so I can pass on 
 this crapfest of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex77k
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun playing this game. It is short indeed, but not repetitive. In fact I was surprised 
 with the variety of gameplays and the type of enemies (IGN review had lowered my expectation a 
 lot though) . The presentation of the story is excellent, especially the interaction between the 
 actual gameplay and cut scenes. There is good humor, characters in the game have very entertaining 
 personalities (especially king Bohan) .
  
  The size of the battles range from small to epic. Boss fights are engaging, and above all, the 
 combat is fun. Shooting stuff with aftertouch is actually a lot fun as well. I wasnt expecting 
 it, but I enjoyed shooting with aftertouch.
  
  If you own a PS3, you should play this game, no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptrtwnsnd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Many other reviews have already mentioned the brief amount of gameplay this game has to offer, 
 but what amazed me about this game was the fact that they didn't drag the story out like so many 
 other games do. While it IS a little on the short end I'd rather have it that way than go through 
 random dungeon after dungeon with no story progression as MANY other games do. Also, the facial 
 features and voice acting are the best I've seen in any game on any platform. PERIOD. As far as 
 the Hack-n-Slash aspect of the game, one can find that in most other beat-em ups, its just a matter 
 of what type of player is at the helm. Its very rare that a game can grab the player from start 
 to finish with its visuals, story, and gameplay. Even the good games have lulls from time to time. 
 That cannot be said about this game. Heavenly Sword is definitley worth getting if your a fan of 
 a great story, amazing actinig, and top of the line graphics. You can rent it, but the top notch 
 presentation will at least have you rent it twice, which is still less than $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  One of the most prolific games for the PlayStation 3 has finally arrived. For better or for worse, 
 Heavenly Sword succeeds at elevating the standards of acting in a video game production. It also 
 happens to be a fun, if somewhat short and poorly-paced game. As much as the games industry aspires 
 to Hollywood-level credibility, games like Heavenly Sword focus so much on the presentation of 
 the story that they almost neglect the controller in the players hands.
  
  The ancient fantasy tale chronicles a handful of days in the life of the female warrior Nariko, 
 who is supposedly the human reincarnate of a mighty warrior from the heavens who wielded the Heavenly 
 Sword itself. However, her birth drew skepticism and hatred from her clan that expected the re-born 
 warrior to be someone else. She carries the burden of the sword as well as the stigma of being 
 a curse to the clan. The swords divine power draws the attention of the evil King Bohan, and Narikos 
 small clan must endure the endless pursuit Bohans army. Mortals gradually die while wielding the 
 sword, but Nariko makes the conscious decision to use it against Bohans minions and prevent him 
 from acquiring it. In fact, once the game begins, Nariko is already dead; the entire game is told 
 in flashback form while Nariko remains isolated in Hell after the sword consumes her.
  
  A sword with supernatural powers and and an evil king dont necessarily make key ingredients for 
 a compelling plot. The way the story is presented to the player, however, is simply top-notch. 
 For starters, it doesnt hurt that this is one of, if not the most attractive PlayStation 3 games 
 yet, both technically and artistically. More importantly, developer Ninja Theory has taken acting 
 in the digital realm to a new level with terrific voice acting, uncanny facial expressions, sweeping 
 music and motion-captured performances. Andy Serkis (Gollum, Lord of the Rings) lent his vision 
 for dramatic directing to the project, influencing the performances of the main characters as well 
 as personally portraying the character of King Bohan. The characters are some of the most believable 
 in gaming history, and the acting is unquestionably what the game will be remembered the most for.
 
  
  But Heavenly Sword is not a movie; its a game. Unfortunately, actually playing the game isnt 
 nearly as compelling as watching it. Theres nothing particularly bad about the combat itself; 
 mashing the buttons to attack yields results early on (and Nariko usually has enough health to 
 make this a viable option) , but as enemies become more adept at blocking, players will discover 
 waiting for enemies to attack first as the key to victory. From the scrub soldiers to the boss 
 fights, counter-attacking by hitting triangle at the moment of a block is an integral part of fighting. 
 How Nariko attacks and defends is governed by her three different fighting stances: speed, range 
 and power, each of which are useful in different situations. The stances also determine whether 
 or not you block, and some players might find the lack of an actual button for blocking disorienting 
 at first. Its also an odd design choice in general, since the two rear shoulder buttons (relegated 
 to useless camera-pan functions) could have easily served this purpose.
  
  Instead of challenging players with tough opponents, however, Heavenly Sword prefers to throw waves 
 of several brain-dead enemies at Nariko at once, usually in controlled enclosed spaces. Tiny and 
 simple puzzle-solving elements often transition between combat sequences, but most of the progression 
 is pressing forward to find the next group of soldiers to slaughter. Certain doors will even remain 
 blocked off until the final enemys death magically triggers the removal of the barrier. Serveral 
 non-interactive, elaborately animated sequences require players to follow onscreen button commands 
 rather than perform the actions themselves; one of these God of War-inspired events has Nariko 
 jumping across rocks to scale a cliff, which only highlights the questionable exclusion of any 
 sort of jump button. Boss fights are long drawn-out affairs that revolve around avoiding the same 
 attack patterns several times over. While the audiovisual presentation of the game is worthy of 
 being called next-gen, the actual game design is stuck in the past.
  
  For a good portion of the game, the player will take control of Narikos deranged sister Kai who 
 fights exclusively with a crossbow. Kais missions involve sniping at enemies while attempting 
 to gain distance from them, and for the most part, they help to break up the monotony of Narikos 
 sword-hacking. They also highlight the aftertouch mechanic that allows players to guide arrows 
 and other projectiles in mid-air. By default, this is controlled by the motion/tilt controls of 
 the Sixaxis, but many players are likely to find the traditional analog stick controls to be more 
 accurate, and ultimately, novelty is a small price to pay for consistency.
  
  The derivative game design is almost offset by another unfortunate feature: the games 6-8 hour 
 length. For such an elaborate production, its puzzling why there isnt more gameplay to accompany 
 the fantastic-looking environments, and it seems downright wasteful for Ninja Theory to put so 
 much effort behind sweeping vistas that only get 15-20 minutes of screen time. Paradoxically, this 
 also works in the games favor; players can replay any one of the games numerous sections, allowing 
 them to relive their favorite parts and giving them another opportunity to master the combat. Players 
 who complete sections with style rather than sloppiness will unlock new combos and concept art 
 and videos, but since every attack Nariko starts with works perfectly fine for the entire game, 
 and the unlockable media is readily available online, theres little motivation for perfecting 
 difficult scenarios.
  
  For a game with little to no replay value, the $60 price tag for Heavenly Sword makes the game 
 difficult to recommend on the strength of its presentation alone. PlayStation 3 owners would behoove 
 themselves to either rent it or watch someone else take the reigns of the controls. The game is 
 undoubtedly a graphical showpiece for the console, but the lack of fun in the gameplay department 
 makes it one of the most disappointing games of the year thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XL83
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The comparison's to God of War, Sony's hallmark slash 'em up, are inevitable, but you'd be wrong 
 to write this game off as just a GOW clone. I won't bore you with the details (Gamespot can do 
 that for me, in their official review) , but I will tell you, gamer-to-gamer, this game really is 
 an experience.
  
  The visuals are stunning. Sure, there a couple of framerate dips, especially in the later stages, 
 where literally thousands of enemies are clamoring for a taste of Nariko's blood, but they will 
 not break the game for you. In fact, they kind of seem like another special effect and are not 
 guilty of breaking the immersion whatsoever. The animation is absolutely out of this world, and 
 the detail in the cutscenes will have your jaw on the floor. The environments are huge and varied. 
 Nariko looks HOT (for a pixelated vixen, of course) . The camera never gets in the way, and the 
 special camera effects when using special attacks or counters are just awesome. Truly cinematic 
 in scope and energy. The sound is absolutely top-notch. A fantastic motion-captured cast, (including 
 Andy Serkis, of LOTR Gollum fame) brings all of the cutscenes and big fights to life. The sound 
 effects are great, and the music, wow. The sound is perfect, in my opinion. Nothing needs to change. 
 As if stunning production values aren't enough, the gameplay is stellar as well. I won't bother 
 with the specifics, but suffice it to say, fighting is a blast with both playable characters. A 
 successful counter gives you a cinematic close-up of Nariko snapping some poor fools neck between 
 her thighs, for example. Heavenly Sword's only weakness is the length. The game took about 7 hous 
 to run through, but believe me, it was so good that it was hard not to play it in one sitting. 
 Thankfully, I want to play the game over and over, so it does have a certain amount of retail value. 
 Whether you think spending $60 on this is justified or not is a matter of personal taste, but if 
 you like action/platformer games you owe it to yourself to play it, whether you buy, borrow, or 
 rent it. I have absolutely no regrets buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkane246
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Its a beutiful game with the best graphics I have ever seen. But its short. I beat it in one sit 
 down (6 hours) . The reply value is good. Great unlockables. Very intense from start to finish. 
 It kept me interested and amazed the entire time. The acting in the cut scenes were soo good that 
 I had to watch them again in order after I beat the game. The combat is displayed with incredible 
 detail. The only downside to this game is the length. But on the other hand it is a hack and slash. 
 It didnt really matter on the length because when you beat it you get hell mode. It becomes an 
 entirely different game. I just have to say get this game. If you dont want to spend your 60 dollars 
 just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Originally, I was a part of the massive amount of people who thought this would just rip off God 
 of War. To some extent, we were right, but this game goes beyond the rip-off category, fitting 
 neatly into its own category. While not perfect, the game has more high points than low ones.
 
  
  The story centers around Nariko, a 23 year old woman who was born into a clan. Unfortunately, a 
 prophecy stated that she was to be a man, who would rescue the clan using the Heavenly Sword. That 
 didn't happen, so she has lived a life of riducule. When the enemy makes its appearance, the clan 
 is defeated, and taken into captivity (those who survive, anyway) , including Nariko's father. Now 
 the guardian of the sword, Nariko must fight her way through waves of enemies to take down the 
 evil king Bohan. Oh, and she's WIELDING the sword, which will eventually kill her. All of this 
 is told through the flashbacks that Nariko has after a God-of-War-esque opening.
  
  From the get-go, the action is frantically paced, throwing waves of enemies at you. They aren't 
 that smart, but their sheer numbers may be enough. Truthfully, you likely won't see a game over 
 screen until after an arena sequence, but the game is still fun. Puzzles mostly consist of door 
 opening, involving throwing things at gongs. Aside from Nariko's kicking butt and taking names, 
 a girl named Kai, a friend of Nariko's, and slightly crazy, has her role to play. She is an archer, 
 and a dang good one at that. Most of her sections involve stationary shooting, though one lengthy 
 one involves running around. Thankfully, the aftertouch effect, which lets you control projectiles 
 and arrows, allows for forgiving shots. I personally like Kai's sections, but find that they distract 
 from the high paced Nariko ones. Both sections include Hero Moments , which are like GOW's context 
 sensitive moments. These are different in that missing one is not fatal immediately, but they do 
 require instantaneous reflexes. These sections sure look cool, but they will mostly be a tedious 
 exercise in trial and error.
  
  The music is good, adding the appropriate effects, and the soundeffects kick butt out of the park. 
 The lovely slashing sounds that occur at the finish of combos must be heard to be appreciated. 
 Also, at long last, we have competent english voice actors!!! Not only that, but the dialogue is 
 GOOD and occasionally FUNNY! This is Hollywood quality stuff here, folks. Sadly, you may need to 
 turn the music down to hear the voiceovers, which are a bit on the quiet side during cutscenes.
 
  
  As for graphics, the game looks like Lair's little sister. Not everything is the same quality, 
 and the enemies all look the same, but the characters (particuarlly Kai) have great features, facial 
 expressions, and body language. They look... human. Not photorealistic, not really, but everything 
 has a sort of painted quality to it. And that is a good thing. The only major complaint here is 
 that the developers got everything right, except the flowing of Nariko's hair. It sticks to her 
 shoulders far too often, and doesn't move with fluidity, prefering to jerk around. Still, minor 
 quip in the face of greatness.
  
  As for longevity, a devoted player will finish it in about 8-10 hours, while skilled players can 
 manage in 5-7. There are unlockables, but aside from Hell mode, everything else can be viewed online. 
 Still, if you're determined to unlock it, then have fun.
  
  All said, I love the story, the gameplay, the characters. Hell, I love the game. But, like all 
 relationships, it can be bitter, and it's over way too fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwArM15
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is outstanding in so many ways.. the graphics right off the bat are just jaw dropping.... 
 you can see for miles and miles, from the millions of enemies on screen, to the wonderfully crafted 
 landscapes.... this game is just amazing... seamless combat, from pulling off insane, un-thought 
 of moves, to dodging and escaping your foes... the boss fights are ok, kind of easy in my opinion...... 
 but the amount of detail in this game, totally blows me away..... the voice acting.... is........ 
 just astonishing... the cut scenes have set the bar for any game in the future.... they totally 
 blew me away.... just a great, well done job from everybody.... is the game lacking something??? 
 i don't know, to me it feels like it is.... i think it might of been the reviews i've read, where 
 it was said to be too short.... so i think i really just took my time to play through it, and try 
 to make it seem like it was longer than it actually was.... which may have hindered my overall 
 experience...... but still...... this game deserves nothing less than a 9.0... it's just............. 
 i can't explain it, YOU have to pick it up and experience it for your self............ but if you 
 don't pick it up, then deffinately rent this badass mofo of a game.... it's outstanding.... from 
 top notch graphics.... amazing gameplay and in game combat..... great sound effects.... and superb 
 voice acting and cutscenes (still can't get over how AMAZING the cutscenes were) ... this game is 
 deffinately my fav. for the PS3....... i hope to god i see more games that use the PS3 like this 
 one in the future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ovnispr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I do not understand why some reviewers gave this game scores below 8. Heavenly Sword is a great 
 game in all aspects. Its full of action, the graphics are beautiful, the music and sound are excellent 
 and the performances are terrific.
  
  Seriously, this is by far the best Playstation 3 game I have played to date. The words can't describe 
 how much I enjoyed this game from start to finish. You can see that the developers took the time 
 to make almost everything right.
  
  Let me start by describing the gameplay. In short words, it rocks. There's just so many combos 
 that you can pull off. Once you master the controls and unlock all the moves, you will have a great 
 time disposing of your enemies. With three stances, and a vast amount of combos, its hard for you 
 to do the same thing over and over. This game is not a button masher. You need to know what attack 
 to use in certain situations and how to block certain attacks. However, there is no jump button. 
 This would have been a nice addition to the gameplay, but to me it is not completely necesarry 
 because you can still dodge the attacks with the right analog stick (and it works) . Also, there's 
 some levels where you get to play as Kai (Nariko's friend) . While she does not have the same amount 
 of attacks as Nariko, she keeps things fresh. Now lets talk about the graphics. Heavenly Sword's 
 graphics are beautiful. The levels are well designed and the amount of details is great. It has 
 a very peculiar artistic style and so it cannot be compared to any other game. The character models 
 are top-notch and so are their movements. In short words, the game's graphics can be described 
 as: art in motion.
  
  The music is excellent. It's full of emotion and I believe it suits the game very well. Sound is 
 also great. From the sound of the swords, to the explosions, this game delivers. Perhaps one of 
 the most astonishing things about this game are the performances. I have to say that they are the 
 best I have seen in any video game. It feels so real and you can actually feel what the characters 
 are feeling. You feel their anger, you feel their happiness and you care for them. This game is 
 full of strong feelings. It feels like you're actually playing a movie. I need to congratulate 
 Andy Serkis for another excellent performance.
  
  All in all, Heavenly Sword is a title that any Playstation 3 owner should play. With its interesting 
 (and sad at the end) story, the combo system, the music and sound, and the performances, this game 
 has potential. Buy it or rent it, if you have a Playstation 3 you should play this game. Although 
 this game is short, it actually has a lot of quality. I like games like this one, that deliver 
 quality over quantity. Besides, this is one of those games you can play and never get bored. Some 
 games are long but lack the level of quality that Heavenly Sword has. There are many things to 
 unlock (concept art, making of movies, in-game cutscenes, anime mini series) , and specially, if 
 you beat the game you will unlock Hell Mode. I hope there is a sequel (even with that ending) , 
 because quite frankly, I really enjoyed this game. If you haven't played this game I suggest you 
 do so. Most of you won't be disappointed. And if you have the money, buy it. This is the kind of 
 game that deserves to be in my collection (and perhaps in yours) . Bravo Sony and Ninja Theory for 
 finally delivering a quality title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br3ttski22
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Ok i no i havnt writen a rewview since doa 4 but wot the hell
  
  FIRST THINGS FIRST CUTSCENES
  
  THERE GREAT THERE FANTASTIC THERE THATS IT LETS MOVE ON
  
 
  Ok
  
  Like God of War ???? yes Youl Like Dis
  
  it is like god of war but its got its own style n feel to be not assioted with it its just not 
 a clone is what im trying to say!!
  
  im not gona spo the stroy but i will just give a little inside
  
  BASICLEY
  
  there is 
 this sword (Heavnly Sword) hence the name and your farther and his people have been protecting 
 this sword for years until the rightful user comes along a boy as the prophecy say but when the 
 mother pops out a girl things go **** up!! and baiscley u youse the sord to kick thousnds of guys 
 asses!!
  
  There No Spoilers :D
  
  The Game looks fantastic with sceniory just looking photo like the AI charecters which you fight 
 not inclueding boss charecters look a bit dull n designs r repeated but when your fighting a thousnd 
 on screeen at once u may not care like me :D
  
  in the game you play as two chareters kara and kai karas parts r god of war style hack n slash 
 and kyes parts r run and shoot at first kais parts seems to suck because you carnt move but when 
 she does there not bad at all
  
  The sixass is used greatly in Heavnly Sword as you move your arrows, fruit, cannon balls , bodys 
 and anything else you decide to throw at enemys u hold square this makes time slow down n automaticley 
 turns to sixass it takes a while to get uster but not long to crack
  
  I realy enjoyed heavnly sword wel worth the &pound;32.99 i havnt played a game where the story 
 keept me interessded for so long not since the gold Metal Gear Games well worth a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword has been hyped for months, and now it has finally arrived the one question everyone 
 is asking is does it live up to its reputation?
  
  The answer to that question is YES. Heavenly sword is an amazing game that all Playstation 3 owners 
 owe it to themselves to play.
  
  Story:
  The story of Heavenly Sword without spoiling it for you; tells the tale of Nariko, a member of 
 a warrior clan who have been tasked to protect the Heavenly Sword for no mortal can weild it without 
 paying an ultimate price; so of course Nariko ends up swinging the Sword around herself. The story 
 is really engaging and is glued together by a fantastic cast.
  
  Presentation:
  The best way to describe Heavenly Swords presentation is that it has the look, feel and style of 
 a movie. the cutscenes are lavish and look amazing, with motion capture used to really bring the 
 characters to life. also Andy Serkis joins the cast as king Bohan and he also played a big part 
 in directing the actors in motion capture.
  
  Graphics:
  the graphics in Heavenly Sword are unbelieveable, from the characters to the environments. the 
 cutscenes have tremendous visuals and the in game graphics are also spectacular. when the camera 
 zooms in on the characters faces it looks real, the skin textures look real. The evnironments have 
 and oriental feel and when you look out into the distance, the landscape looks surreal and has 
 the scope of a painting.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game plays brilliantly, the scope of fights can change in an instant, from fighting 10 men 
 down to facing one heavily armoured bad guy. the combos achieveable are brilliant, and look fantastic. 
 the camera changes perspective to give the player an action sequence called a superstyle move that 
 looks like a scene from a film (most of Nariko's superstyle moves involve causing the enemy excruciating 
 pain by way of ball breaking.)
  
  Sound:
  the voice acting in HS is superb and adds to the cinematic feel, the actors do a really good job 
 of portraying the emotions of the characters.
  
  Overall Heavenly Sword is an all round great game with great visuals, sound and excellent gameplay. 
 My only quarrel with the game is its length as i found it was a little on the short side, hopefully 
 since this is meant to be one of three, they will adress this next time round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  This game has had a lot of hard work, time and effort put into it. This game is suppose to full 
 up an entire blue ray disc.. do i believe that. No. This game has been worked on for quite along 
 time and for what.. good facial animations?
  
  There has been a lot of hype around heavenly sword from when it was first announced, i myself was 
 hyped over this game as well but in the end was disappointed. The problem with Heavenly Sword is 
 it tries too hard. In the end though it is a game with insultingly simple and repetitive combat 
 and the whole game can be finished in roughly 5 hours. The visuals are superb but that really doesn't 
 make up for the rest of the game.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely the best around for PS3 if you wanted to show your console to any of your 
 friends this is THE game to use. The frame rate is also pretty solid. The facial animation is great 
 some of the best visuals to date.
  
  Game play:
  Shame.. this game could have been a milestone better if they had put more effort into it. The game 
 has three combat stances, that really is not enough. The game has a killing move with a little 
 cinematic. They really wanted to show off the visuals more than anything else. This game just isn't 
 really that challenging. The enemies lack charisma with hardly any variety and some boss battles 
 are kind of cheap.
  
  Sound:
  Again great music. The enemies sound really good. Nice altogether.
  
  Overall:
  This game 
 is nothing to me anymore. Visuals and music is not enough to replace horrible repetitive game play. 
 Luckily there are some good games on the market like God of War and Ninja Gaiden Sigma don't worry 
 there all playstation exclusives as well. If you really want to see for yourself give this game 
 a rent but it was not my cup of tea. score:
  4/10 almost not quite.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafuyu1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword Is One Of The Most Summer The Players Are Waitning To Buy It . For Me , It Was The 
 Last Game I Beat It Before The School In My Country &amp; It Was Worth It ...
  
  The Gameplay Between God Of War And Ninja Gaiden , &amp; That; s Cool For Me ...
  
  The Graphics 
 Are So Close To Reality &amp; perfect . Also , The Screen can hold more than 1000 Characters &amp; 
 That's Make You Shock By That ....
  
  The Sounds In Game Are Amazing , There's More Than 10 GB Of Sounds Inside The Game CD . If Notice 
 to the music , You Can Listen To Some Of Arabic Music &amp; THat's Suits the game ....
  
  I Finish The Game In 13 Hours on the normal mode , But It was the best 13 hours ever since Devil 
 May Cry &amp; Ninja Gaiden Sigma ....
  
  Trust Me , If you Didn't The Game Yet , You missed alot Of Fun ....
  
  Me Score Is 10 / 10 
 ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, one of the most anticipated titles for the PS3 is finally upon us. And let me tell 
 you something -- it does not disappoint. Heavenly Sword has an outstanding presentation and story. 
 Great voice acting by Andy Serkis and amazing facial animations and textures add to the impressive 
 presentation. Honestly, I must say that Heavenly Sword has one of the best presentations that I 
 had ever seen in a game. I am just stunned. Ninja Theory really deserves a round of applause for 
 this aspect of the game. The story in Heavenly Sword is actually quite a simple one. King Bohan 
 wants the Heavenly Sword from Nariko's clan, which obviously refuses to give the sword up to him. 
 So, an all-out war breaks out, and, as most of you probably know, King Bohan's army captures Nariko's 
 fellow clan members, including her father. Now it is up to Nariko to free her clan from the jails 
 of King Bohan, but to do this successfully, she will need the precious Heavenly Sword -- the possession 
 that is ever so dear to her clan, and that also drains the life out of the person that wields it. 
 So therefore, she is basically sacrificing herself for her father and fellow can members -- a very 
 honorable thing to do. Once Nariko decides that she must wield the sword, you will find yourself 
 gracefully hacking and slashing your way through waves of enemies. In Heavenly Sword, there are 
 3 different fighting stances -- Speed, Range, and Power. The Speed stance is really the main stance 
 that you will be using throughout most of the game. Attacks while using the Speed stance are swift 
 and effective, and work quite well against many enemies, although it is not very effective against 
 enemies with shields, armor, and/or other defensive equipment. The Range stance (hold L1 to use) 
 makes use of the Heavenly Sword is a rather weak way, but if you are completely surrounded by enemies, 
 it is the perfect time to use the Range stance. The range stance can be used for clearing things 
 up -- you can't inflict any serious damage on individual enemies while in the range stance, but it 
 really is helpful if you want to get enemies off of your back for a short period of time. And finally, 
 we have the Power Stance (hold R1 to use) which is the most powerful of all the stances. Although 
 Nariko becomes much more slow while using the Power Stance, it does allow her to inflict huge amounts 
 of damage on most enemies. It is very helpful when you have to battle more powerful enemies. So, 
 there we have it -- the 3 stances of the Heavenly Sword. They all work very well, and it adds a nice 
 level of complexity to the game's combat system. Oh, did I mention that each stance has its own 
 large set of combos that you can perform? Guess I didn't . . . But combos are always a joy to pull 
 off in Heavenly Sword. Oh! One last thing -- there are things called Superstyle attacks which you 
 use by pressing O while near enemy. Superstyle attacks are very unique moves that Nariko can perform 
 every so often. And these are absolutely fantastic to watch . . . simply awesome. Overall, the 
 combat in Heavenly Sword is very impressive, although it has a few issues here and there, such 
 as some bland, boring, enemies, and definitely a bit too much repetition at times, too. Regardless, 
 this is an excellent combat system. Now let's talk about the visuals. Well, there's not much to 
 say except AMAZING -- possibly the PS3's best-looking game up to date. Heavenly Sword is a very sharp, 
 detailed, and colorful game that is simply beautiful to look at and admire. And, those oh-so-wonderful 
 and realistic facial animations that leave you literally stunned. This is what I call top-notch. 
 Heavenly Sword's sounds also delivers -- from the great voice acting (Andy Serkis!!!) to the amazing 
 musical score, this game isn't only eye candy -- it's ear candy as well. One thing that people complained 
 about in Heavenly Sword was its length -- a games that takes you only 6-8 hours to complete. Right 
 now, I would say that I've been playing the game for roughly 6.5 hours now, and I'm on the last 
 level. So, yeah, it is short, but it's good enough that you'll be finding yourself playing it over 
 and over again. Yeah, it's that sweet. Short but sweet. Regardless of its length and a couple of 
 flaws in its combat system, Heavenly Sword is an excellent game that every PS3 owner should buy, 
 or at least rent. This is a truly unforgettable experience, and makes me proud to own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonel81782
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Yes Heavenly Sword is similar for the God Of War sequel but I must say that its new features that 
 has is more impressive then its predecessor. The storyline is more complex mostly regarding his 
 family legacy and prophesy. The motion sensor finally it can be use to a game besides Warhawk. 
 Mostly of the use is on the shooting parts of the game itself including the shooting of bowing 
 arrows. Nariko is a very beautiful lady with unique fating skills that I love to use. The Heavenly 
 Sword that was given to her from his father. With that sword she you can use very different style 
 of moves that even overwhelms the God Of War Cratos. What also make it very cool in this game is 
 the handling of a second character named Kai mostly known as Nariko's sister, she is not much of 
 a fighting type of close but with her weapons that she used like the cannon and her ark. Bottom 
 line this is the best game for the Playstation 3 right now. Yes it is short but I'll prefer a game 
 like this that is short than a bad game that is long.
  For sure it will be a sequel like this. God Of War has its contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamber303
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Hello all,
  I got the game earlier today, I 've played for about 7 hours now and I have to say that it is AMAZING.
 
  
  The graphics are awesome, the sounds are very nice. Speech? there is lots of it. The fact that 
 the characters show emotion is a big + and the music is very very nice.
  
  It's true when they say that you are basically watching a blockbuster hit. The acting is good.
 
  
  Lets not forget that this is but the first release. Imagine how much better a sequel would be.
 
  
  I will have to give these guys a good score for HS.
  
  It is short but at least you can keep on playing over and over again. That; s how involving HS is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheed3k
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Personally I am growing tired of spending 40 hours trying to beat a game. I think my fiance is 
 as well. Its a nice feeling to sit down and get the fulfillment of conquering a game and Heavenly 
 Sword does this in less then 8hrs. Every minute of playing this game or watching the beautiful 
 cut scenes was enjoyable. Between the engrossing story line and fun game play it is easy to see 
 why you would want to beat it in one sitting. The game is simply put gorgeous. The game play is 
 fun and keeps things fresh with changing characters and switching to a shooter which you aim using 
 the Sixaxis controller. Heavenly Sword has the production value of a Metal Gear Solid game and 
 the fun and adventure of the Ninja Gaiden series. Yes, the game is short but the entire time it 
 is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamprey263
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  People have loved to rip on the PS3 for a while. I admit, I've been one; though, I feel I have 
 more of a right than most since I actually own one. In short, everything has been anything but 
 great. Die hard Sony fans have been giving us the Iraq war strategy for the console war... just 
 wait several more months then you'll see, and Wii360 fanboys will run home crying . Well, I've 
 been waiting, and waiting... still waiting. Sony has come out with lots of so-so games at best, 
 but Heavenly Sword is the better of those. So basically, if you're convinced the previous Sony 
 exclusives were great and worth praising, you'll blow your load when you get your hands on Heavenly 
 Sword. As for me, I don't limit my fanboyism to any one system, so I think I can give this an honest, 
 non-bias review.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in this game are pretty good, but the video sometimes suffers noticeably 
 choppy moments here and there; however, most of the time it's never really a problem. Though, I 
 do often feel that the camera stands too far away to really allow the player to appreciate what's 
 on the screen. Though, it's obvious a lot of love went into making this game look great.
  
  SOUND: For the most part, the sound is good. The soundtrack has a few all right tracks, but nothing 
 unique enough to remember. There is a problem though with the sound, most of the time only happening 
 during the special attacks when you hit the [circle] button, the sound gets noticeably waaay louder 
 when the villains go ouch , and that gets annoying.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The combat isn't the greatest. It's somewhere between a button masher like God of War 
 and a kind of zen counter-attack combat game like Genji. Learning to counter is important, but 
 sometimes can prove difficult when getting attacked by changes of speed/heavy attacks (though, 
 you can mostly anticipate countering speed attacks) . Attacking enemies turn blue when they attempt 
 a speed attack, letting you know to hit the [triangle] button to perform a counter. When they turn 
 orange, that's a heavy attack, and you must switch to a heavy stance or take damage. To block, 
 you simply need not attack. Killing enemies can be done by countering attacks at key moments, resulting 
 in instant kills. Other times, you must run up onto enemies while they're on the ground and kill 
 them while they're down by attacking while your above them. Sometimes this gets confusing when 
 you first start to play as you don't know who is down for good and who is down just temporarily 
 (because both squirm about; but I learned the best trick is to try to see who is still carrying 
 a sword, as dead people drop their swords) . This game lacks the kind of time sensitive moments 
 that really made God of War and God of War 2 really great, though, they're in there. Also, one 
 cool thing is you can pick up items in the game and throw them, and by holding down the throw button 
 you can guide where the item you tossed goes by using the SIXAXIS (this can also be optioned to 
 using the analogs) . There's some moments in the game that break from the typical combat, which 
 are often just you shooting at things with either shields, arrows, or a cannon; these are welcome 
 additions, in my opinion. Also, in these modes, you can use the SIXAXIS to guide the projectiles 
 by holding down the fire button.
  
  STORY: there's a story here, but I don't care to talk about it. Some of the best parts in the cutscenes 
 are watching the characters themselves. They were developed enough to be fit for Hollywood. Though, 
 I often thought that Kai (the main character's sister) was made too much to remind me of Gollum 
 with the way she acted, down on her knees moving about like a cat, and her reluctance to refer 
 to herself in the first person singular. MY TILT: This game is fun, but nothing that makes you 
 go wow . There's some frustrating combat control issues, such as relying to heavely on the counter 
 combat system but not being able to really master it. I think this game is more about reflexes 
 than combat, and I think those expectations of the players are a bit high on the reflex issue (though, 
 they also seem to be expecting less of players during the time sensitive simon-says moments) . Plus, 
 a game made to look so real just seems like a joke when you man a cannon and find it fires a good 
 shot every 3 or 4 seconds, so within 2 minutes you can easily kill about 700 enemy soldiers, and 
 you ask yourself so how the hell are these people on the run with technology like that . Still, 
 the game is fun, and you get scored on each level with the ability to go back to any level and 
 try to reach a top score; so there's some replay value there. Still, I was expecting more for a 
 game that everyone was saying to wait for so that all Wii60 owners would cry their eyes out, but 
 this was not it. This is not even a good reason to buy a PS3 if you were thinking abou it. Once 
 I'm done with this, I'm going back to playing Metroid Prime 3 until Halo3 comes out. This game 
 didn't live up to the hype, is not a great game by it's own merit, but it's still an okay game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This full version of Heavenly Sword improved by a mile compared to the demo. The graphics are very 
 beautiful and deep story makes the game cinematic. Nariko is a sexy hottie and almost made me believe 
 that she was real after playing the game. The opening fight was heartpounding with hundreds of 
 armies surrounding you. Too bad it fell a bit short with the length, so that's why I deducted 10 
 points from it or else it would've been a perfect score. This game left me wanting more. It was 
 well worth the $60 and has a good replay value. If you want to take part in a movie, this game 
 will fullfill that. 6-8 hours isn't too bad compared to watching a hollywood movie for only 2 hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUNPR77
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautiful and is great the graphics are incredible and the story is excellent to make 
 a movie . The combat moves and the cinema tics are very realistic and you never going to see a 
 loading screen . Is a must play . If you don't have a PS3 you missing one of the most intense games 
 of the year . When i start play i cant stop because you think you are part of the story and that's 
 the issue of this game make you feel part of the action and make you belive the character is real 
 . This is the real reason to buy a PS3 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sylvrfonic
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I was not expecting to be so blown away with the digital performances that shine through all glitz 
 and graphics. This game characters, as fantastic as they are, are easily the most believable I've 
 ever seen in an action game.
  
  The game play leaves you with a couple options. You can mash buttons until your heart is content 
 and still likely make it through the game. But, the game rewards you for taking the time to learn 
 the combos and special moves. After each session with this game I found myself looking to see what 
 bit of concept art or game related video I managed to unlock. There were even times that I would 
 replay a section because I just needed one more token to unlock something or another.
  
  This game grabs hold of you from the beginning and does not let you go. The ride is short yet thrilling. 
 The fact that the game is short does not diminish it's value. This games greatest value lies in 
 its capacity to carry games at least one step closer to the kind of cinematic experience that can 
 capture the pathos of characters situation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ginuwine_for_u
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  it's always good 2 have both systems.... i have both xbox 360 and ps3, yo this is the best game... 
 sorry xbox 360 i still got love 4 you but the ps3 is about 2 take over!!!!!!...... the heavenly 
 sword made me feel like i was there in the game....... it is a must have. this game brought back 
 hope 4 the ps3..... you know microsoft is mad lol...... all these low ratings they need 2 stop hating 
 on the ps3.. warhawk &amp; heavenly sword are great games, is just getting started.. it's always 
 good 2 have both systems.... i have both xbox 360 and ps3, yo this is the best game... sorry xbox 
 360 i still got love 4 you but the ps3 is about 2 take over!!!!!!...... the heavenly sword made 
 me feel like i was there in the game....... it is a must have. this game brought back hope 4 the 
 ps3..... you know microsoft is mad lol...... all these low ratings they need 2 stop hating on the 
 ps3.. warhawk &amp; heavenly sword are great games, is just getting started.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pluto213
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Did anyone stop to consider the megabytes it takes to create a game like this? There were 10 gigabytes 
 of music alone for this game. 4500 lines of dialogue and an hour and half of cut scenes that is 
 the length of an average movie (which they did compare it to) sorry to point out but that is alot 
 of work. The two things gamespot said bad about the was length and not enough diversity in the 
 enemies. And yet they rated rainbow six Vegas a nine and all you did was shoot the same people 
 over and over again and do the same things over and over again and yet it is a top pick for them. 
 I like Vegas fun game but don't bash one game for game play and praise another with the same scheme. 
 And as for the length I have little time to sit around the house and play games so it didn't bother 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CR00K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I don't care what ANYONE says, reviewers, you guys, ANYONE. The people that didn't like it more 
 than likely just couldn't get the controls down. Example: To do an aerial combo, you have to do 
 an L1 attack pressing triangle once, then move the controller in an upward motion. I remember seeing 
 people complaining about that and it made me laugh because I can do it 100% of the time. You can 
 turn off the motion controls, anyways. Heavenly Sword is an amazing game. It took me about 7 1/2 
 hours to beat it but the game has so much action in it in those hours, it didn't even seem short. 
 I was always on the edge of my seat (err..... lounge chair.) wondering what would happen next. I'll 
 get flamed for this, but I don't care. Heavenly Sword is probably in my top 10 favorites.
  
  And it's really not all that short if you're trying to check out the many unlockable videos, 
 the whole anime series, over 100 beautiful artwork pictures which look amazing on my HDTV, and 
 trying to master all of those combos! HS really has more in it than you guys think. Do you know 
 how many combos are on Heavenly Sword? I remember counting over 40 the other day. That's a lot.....
 
  
  Going back to play is very easy because there is a level select, which is always good to have in 
 a game. Going back and playing earlier parts with all your unlocked, crazy moves is really fun.
 
  
  One more thing. On the technical side, this game is unbelievable. I'm not trying to spoil anything 
 by saying this, but fighting with over 500 guys on screen at once is CRAZY! The lighting is nice, 
 the textures are nice, the colors are nice, the character models are nice, facial animation while 
 playing and while watching in-game cutscenes are nice. Everything!
  
  BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outcastt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best titles as of yet on the PS-3. Two complaints (1) is the length of the game. 
 WAY WAY WAY to short. Come on guys you have 54 gigs of space, use it. (2) In this age of Boob physics 
 you gotta give your girl a little more motion. She moves like shes wearing a steal breastplate. 
 I do have say though no multi-player and the shortness makes this a rental not a buy. No true re-playability.
 
  
  This is the most fun I've had so far on the PS-3. It captures you from the opening fight to the 
 last swing of yor blade. The story sucks you in and adds real flavour to the game. The Best in 
 game cut scenes in a very long time. Top notch voice acting and very intense action sequences. 
 You will be begging for more when you hit the end and believe me that end comes all to quickly. 
 Can't wait for more in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  this is one of the top noch games for ps3 very nice story and graphics are just amazing, this game 
 is worth every penny for ps3 owners and this game really suck you into playing it, i love it, i 
 havent beat it yet but people are saying is about 6-8 hours long but it can be better it all depents 
 on how good of player you are, best game hands down, also this game defines true power of PS3 even 
 though i think PS3 is more powerful then what we see now since its been almost a year since PS3 
 launch, but this game describes one of good reasons why should we all have Heavenly Sword, go SONY. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shotdownblues
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  If there was any game that makes movie games look great its this game. My 7 hours was well spent 
 learning the story of the Heavonly Sword! I wonder what hands this sword is going to fall into 
 when they make part2. Please please make a part 2 Ninja Theory. Before i played this game i was 
 thinking 6-8 hours for a game is just to short but this 7hours never let me down. If you like Wu-Shu 
 movies like Hero or Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon or KungFu Huslte you will love this game. When 
 it comes to gameplay there is alot to enjoy. They dont shy away from calling there own game a masher 
 and in the first hour of the game they tell you button mashing is good for certain situations. 
 This was the first game i really enjoyed using the 6axis control. They really did make it fun for 
 a change. When you finaly get the controls down and are able to pull off all the stuff this Princess 
 can do you will be one happy gamer. My personal fav is tossing ppl in the air and jumping into 
 the air after them. When it comes to the look and feel of the game you will be blown away. If its 
 from the wacky Wolf to the dumb but yet loveable Roach you will find yourself having feelings for 
 the characters. That dam Wolf guy! Revenge never felt so good!
  
  If they added 4-6 more hours on this game i feel we would be talking about GOTY material.
  
 
  The story of the Heavonly Sword is a good one and if your waiting to play this game your wait 
 will be well worth it. Heavonly Sword is a true next-gen game with some old school hack and slash 
 fun...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly worth owning a PS3 for, and is the best game I have played for the PS3. It is 
 also one of the best games that I have played this gen, if not the best. As it is like partaking 
 in an epic film it is so immersive, addictive and enjoyable.
  
  The animations are the best I have ever seen, the gameplay simply rocks, with plenty of room for 
 creativity to create your own style between the 3 fighting stances. The combos and finishing moves 
 that can be pulled off are straight out of a top production martial arts flick. The graphics, draw 
 distance and artwork in general is truly a sight to behold. Heavenly Sword also has the best usage 
 of the Sixaxis yet with the after touching ability to guide arrows shot from Kai's crossbow, as 
 well as the ability to guide objects thrown. Truly a masterful touch to the game. The environments 
 are destructible. You can pick up objects, weapons, and hell, even the bodies of fallen foes to 
 throw at enemies.... simply awesome.
  
  Other than Oblivion, and maybe Bioshock, I cannot think of another game that I have played this 
 gen that truly met it's hype for me..... and then some. I actually like this game more than Bioshock 
 personally, as I dig the action/adventure genre more than FPS. But, in any event, the game is nothing 
 short of a masterpiece.... despite it's length. As ALOT went into making this game, and it clearly 
 shows that this game is a work of art.... period.
  
  To all of those who have not even played the game, but are bashing it by throwing reviews around.... LMAO. 
 Speak from first hand experience, or do not speak at all. Regardless of what the reviews say, I 
 am betting that to the vast majority gamers out there who play this game, it will be every bit 
 of an AAA game experience, and will find that it is a sign of great things to come for the PS3.
 
  
  Well done Ninja Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  It's a shame that so many people along with the game critics out there have given this game low 
 scores just for being a so called short game. Take the game for what it is and then rate it!!! 
 It's a cinematic action game!! Hints the word CINEMATIC. For those that don't know what that is 
 it basically means it has movie like elements. If they were going to make a game that was over 
 100 hrs of play time they would have called it an epic action game!!! This game should get no less 
 of an 8.5 rating from anyone. I'll start with the graphics. There is only one way to explain it, 
 just flat out beautiful. From the character animations to the cinematic cut scenes to the environments. 
 Heavenly Sword is non stop eye candy. The cut scenes in general are truly amazing. The facial expressions 
 and character details are one to behold. Next is the sound. The voice acting in the game is truly 
 one of the best I've ever heard in any game. Each actor plays there part perfectly never giving 
 you an idea that they cheeped out in the voice department. The score and sound effects combined 
 with the great surround sound places you in the center of the action. Next is gameplay. This is 
 where some say it gets repetitive. This I again have to disagree. Again take the game for what 
 it is, an action game!!! It's funny how FPSs don't get the repetitive tag. Honestly how may ways 
 you shoot someone can get a little old, lol. But with Heavenly Sword the combo system keeps the 
 action fresh in my opinion. Instead of mashing the buttons, trying to master the counter attacks 
 and combos keep the battles intense throughout the game. I've also heard that the characters you 
 fight get repetitive. This to me isn't a big deal at all since your fighting like 5 billion of 
 them at the same time who cares what they look like, lol. Besides with the shooting sequences with 
 Kai (she is another character you get to play at certain places in the game) and the boss fights 
 keep the gameplay fresh throughout. Also just to through this in for gameplay, many say it's like 
 God for War... ok think about it... now is that a bad thing, lol. Next is replay value. This for 
 some is the place it hurts most. If your not interested in mastering the combo system or playing 
 it in Hell mode after you complete it the first time. There's not much for you to go back to. But 
 for me, I've had a blast playing it and will return many times just to master the combos and watch 
 a great story unfold again and again. Finally the overall rating. For me I give it a 9. With the 
 beautiful graphics and voice acting it earns that score alone, but the combination of fast paced 
 action battles adds to the fun. The only draw back from giving it a perfect score is the replay 
 value and length. Though length isn't a big deal to me to drop the rating much because they've 
 done a great job with everything else it still leaves you with wanting more. Besides that it's 
 an incredible gaming experience on the highest scale. I highly recommend this game for anyone who 
 loves cinematic action games or just action games in general!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machamicho555
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Three Words To Descripe The Game Exactly.... SICK AS HELL !
  
  a Real MasterPiece. End Of Story...!!!
  great experience, yea the game have a small problem with 
 the length but it's a collection MUST.
  i bit this will be one of the best games ever on the ps3 till the ps4 comes up.
  i guess most 
 of the ppl who played the game will agree with that so much.
  and whoever is going to complain about the length and make the ppl feel like it ruined the game 
 he is completely wrong and mistaken.
  the game is great great great.
  go buy it and enjoy playin, u don't have to spend weeks or days infront of a game to call it good.... Heavenly 
 Sword is just a Unique Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itsdewdewbabiee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  This game is an awsome game start to finish. Ive read many reviews for this game and did not sway 
 me to buy this game. I just picked it up today and I cant put it down. Graphics are just so detailed, 
 skin tone, skin imperfections, simple twitch of facial muscles it is a beautiful creation. This 
 deserves higher than a 8.0. I never found myself bored at any point of the game. Like some critics 
 might complain of the repitious battle sequences. If anything I think it shows off the awsome power 
 of the PS3. Where you can see literlly hundreds maybe even thousands of warriors on screen, that 
 is what I call epic. The game is a movie bottom line, and I cant wait for the sequel... Its an 
 awsome game, its a game ment for your collection, and not rental! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of my purest reviews to date..., and i haven't read a single review on heavenly 
 sword, so here goes... 
  
  At first, my initial reaction was something of a mixed bag, read on....
  
  High production 
 values are obvious right from the word, 'GO'.
  Its hard to describe the visuals without using the word 'Heaven' (Excuse the pun) , however the 
 detail really appears when things are very close up which makes me wonder if the cutscenes are 
 ingame graphics or not? And maybe if some trickery is used? 
  In particular, more attention to detail are in the characters faces and facial expression's, so 
 i can't imagine every character on screen having this much detail in gameplay. Regardless, the 
 game runs at a steady pace, even though the frame rate isn't quite as smooth as one would hope 
 for, but there are hundreads of enemies on screen, which isn't no visual trickery from where i've 
 been sitting. 
  
  The game is generally paced well, but seems very scripted, also with context, that oddly seems 
 out of place.
  Like, giving you the freedom to figure out the controls, when later in similar circumstances, only 
 then are you told what you were already left to figure out for yourself in the first place.
  
  The gameplay is heavily (not henvenly) based on combat if you hadn't already guessed as much?
 
  Does it work?
  Yes, not only is it very functional but it does the job very well and perhaps a bit too simple, 
 but then thats what makes this a fun game to play without the frustration, but without the challenge. 
 In reality though it is very repetitive and its every thing else that makes this game worth playing. 
 
  
  The story is interesting and a joy to watch, some good talent for voice acting but not so likeable 
 from the main character herself, but the story has something very interesting going on, it doesnt 
 sit between being bad or very good, its strangley engaging to watch, even if the characters are 
 talking rubbish, which a lot of the times, they are. The presentation on these parts is as slick 
 as any other game i've seen, and the attention to minute detail is astonoshing. but then this is 
 one area that the game creators have really focused on, so it makes me wonder, if that same detail 
 had been focused on another part of the game, this would suffer from it. 
  The game isn't a long one, and thats probably due to the high lick of paint and polish this game 
 has had, thanks to its long life cyle in production. I remember seeing this game way back before 
 the ps3 had even been released, it went through a lot of visual changes during the process. Its 
 very enjoyable while it lasts. Its not the best PS3 game out there, but will definitely be a new 
 breed of a fanchise. Expect heavenly sword 2 to improve on this ones success.
  Very entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonydwyer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  The only thing that stops this being perfect is the length of the game. The graphics are great, 
 the story is great and I cannot complain about the action. The controls feel fluid and solid, making 
 the game easy to learn, after 6 hours of hack &amp; slash the only flaw I can see is a bit of slowdown, 
 but its not that often it happens and would never ruin the experience you are having while playing 
 this game. It is easy to see why this game is being called goddess of war. This is a excellent 
 title &amp; even if you rent it you must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latinbro1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Swords is the anticipated action game from Ninja Theory. It has you playing the lead character, 
 Nariko, and a sub character Kai (sorry in advance for any misspelled names) . The game starts out 
 with the ending and then takes you through the past events leading to that ending ala God of War 
 1. The game has a slow start and a story that seems at first uninspiring. However, it picks up 
 momentum and keeps you entertained all the way to the end. Like many stories (whether in video 
 games, books, or movies) that of Heavenly Sword does feel like there are missing pieces to it. 
 You are definitely left with question, be it out of curiosity or confusion, about certain characters' 
 past and about the Heavenly Sword history (which the short anime series helps with but they could've 
 done more) . The game can feel repetitive but never boring. If you get into master the stance system 
 in the game than you'll find it very fun all the way through. In regards to enemies, however, you 
 only see, tops, 5 kinds of enemies throughout the whole game (giving it that repetitive feel) . 
 The boss fights are fun and can provoke mixed feelings (mainly the last one) . Some seem tough, 
 others have camera issues working to their advantage, and a few are just not challenging. What 
 really shines about this game though is that it really feels like a movie. The game is divided 
 into chapters, with section and those sections go back and forward between Kai and Nariko. It is 
 kinda cool to start a boss fight and get to a nice little break point, change to Kai to see what 
 she is up to and then go back to the boss fight with Nariko (and it doesn't feel like it abruptly 
 stops the action) . And did I mention that it has humor (thanks to Kai) and nice little surprises? 
 It has those interactive cut-scenes ala RE4 and they work beautifully, leaving you wanting more 
 of them. The game does provide epic moments with opportunities to kill dozens and dozens of characters 
 on screen. Nothing is more satisfying than seeing people fly every which way when you shoot them 
 with a cannon. Did I mention this game is beautiful? I'm sure I did, but if I didn't it is extremely 
 jaw-dropping, eye-popping beautiful. What makes this game so great graphics-wise is it doesn't 
 rely on that bloom effect that makes games so shiny. The characters look so life-like it make one 
 imagine what games will look like a few years from now. Character animation is flawless and their 
 facial expressions are so detailed you can literally see their foreheads wrinkle when mad or annoyed. 
 The frame rate holds great with the exception of some minor hiccups during cut-scenes; out of all 
 places. The major issue with this game is that it is short and a bit easy (with the exception of 
 maybe 2 bosses) . Began playing it at 6:00pm and was at the last boss fight by 12:40am. Then again, 
 Shadow of the Colossus was short too and that was a fun ride too . So, if you really want this 
 game and feel like you might play it more than once I see no reason why to avoid buying it (I did) 
 but if you are one of those looking for a one time thing and care little about the story, then 
 you can save money by renting it and finishing it in one evening. I would've given the game a 9.0 
 if it had some good extras, more variety in enemy characters, and more difficulty levels. I must 
 say though, the Hell Bound mode is fun to play thorough since it does add a degree of difficulty 
 - if anything, it make the difficulty feel just right. The AI is a little tougher, you take more 
 damage, and some sections are harder (e. g. time limits for the cannon section are cut in half) . 
 The extras are essentially what you've downloaded, if you have, from the PSN store. There are some 
 nice art work to appreciate and the, now common, "theater view" mode to watch the cut-scenes. No 
 alternate costumes, alternate weapons, or unlockable characters. It is a bare-boned yet beautiful 
 and fun must-play game that's worth playing but will indeed leave you wanting more than what it 
 offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munkey4098
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game that just awed me on the PS3. I have never played a game that has literally hundreds 
 of enemies on the screen and runs so smoothly. First off i want to touch off on the shortness of 
 the game. I think back to the 360 launch and Kameo. Kameo was an awesome game but it was short 
 it definitely didn't take away from the game play. This is one game finally showcases what the 
 PS3 is capable of. The graphics are subperb. The frame rate is smooth and the game is addicting. 
 If you are looking for a long action title then you should look at another game, but if you want 
 fun this game will be right up your alley and a fine addition to your playstation collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futuretrunks21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  i gave this game an 8.5 because of the length of the game. i would of gave it a higher grade if 
 it was longer. i beat the game in less then 8 hours, and a little over two hours just to beat the 
 last boss. i kept dieing with him having just a little life left like 6 times. just have to figure 
 out what works better and keep at it. once i found what worked best i beat it. so its one of those 
 keep trying games in certain areas of the game. the game play is good, the different stances make 
 the game great. There are combos in the game, but switching between stances while doing combos 
 or fighting in one stance and switching stances mid swing is cool. the storyline is great, its 
 not that deep of a storyline like a metal gear game, but a good one. overall this game is a must 
 buy. there's alot of unlockables in the game, like images, videos, things such as that. so even 
 though i beat the game i still need to unlock everything. after you beat the game you get hell 
 mode. i haven't played it yet, so i cant review on it but its probably a hard mode to play the 
 game through. so just go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emericaordie
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly sword is hands down one of the top games out on the ps3 right now. The graphics on this 
 game are stunning, the character acting is superb, the story line really does pull you in. Most 
 of all the gameplay is really fun and there is a depth to it. The fighitng in this game never feels 
 dull always new enemys, new enviroments and new skills constantly along to the way. Another thing 
 the Sixaxis controls on this game seem to blend in really nicely unlikely other games where it 
 feels sort of tacked on. The action is really non stop in this game, it does not get reptitive. 
 So if you have a PS3 I definitly would recommend not to miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  OH MY GOD! Now this a game. DANG I have to admit MS got it handed to them this time. WOW! If you 
 need a reason to buy a PS3 this game could be it!
  
  Graphics 9
  
  Sound 10
  
  Gameplay 13 (9)
  
  funfactor 8
  
  replay value 10
  
  The only thing I don't like is 
 that this game is on the short side, once you get into the rythm of things you will not want to 
 put this game DOWN!
  Once again excelent game excelent use of the PS3 hardware and excelent story I can't wait for Heavenly 
 sword 2! ( For real!)
  GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  It is true this game is amazing. Lets start off the story. It is a pretty well made story. It isn't 
 a amazing story but its pretty good with some twists and turns in it. The visual quality it pretty 
 nice. One of the best looking ps3 games yet which is nice. Combat: Combat is pretty unique because 
 anytime during a fight you can change to either range/ heavy/ or fast attack stance. You can also 
 use the O button at certain times to do a pretty brutal instant kill move which is cool. The boss 
 battles are also cool and although they seem like they will never end they still are great. lengths: 
 It is extremely short only lasts about 7-8 hours but it seems that recently all the new games being 
 released are truly short. All in all: this game is great just what the ps3 needed. Nice story, 
 great combat, nice visuals and sound and some great characters and bosses which makes for a great 
 game experience. It is a must rent for anyone with a ps3 only because your can beat it so quickly 
 but still its worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashhero
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  ... In terms of production value that is.
  
  Pros:
  
  The graphic is beautiful.
  
  The sound/music is stunning.
  
  The combat is exciting. The cut-scenes are movie quality.
 
  
  The story is excellent and immersive. Cons:
  
  The length of the game. But I don't see any problem with it as God of War is only a 7 hour game. 
 Heavenly Sword is about the same length.
  
  In conclusion, Heavenly Sword truly is a revolutionary masterpiece in the action genre. It will 
 bring any action game fans to tear. This is one masterpiece any gamer should not give up on.
  
  Oh, did I mention it is more fun and more addictive than God of War?
  Take that Kratos !
 
  
  *P. S. And it deserve at least a 9.5/10 from Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabathamax
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I finally got my hands on my own copy of Heavenly Sword and I am so glad I did! I have not beaten 
 the game not even close yet. I am into chapter 3 but so far I am very impressed. Its just a fun 
 game, the controls are not hard to learn. The only thing Im having a bit of a time getting use 
 to is using the sixaxis control when aiming arrows and cannon balls. It takes a little getting 
 use to but once you get the hang of it, it is very cool. You have to do a little of everything 
 to progress to the next chapter, such as hand to hand combat, then you play Kai for a bit and she 
 likes to shoot arrows only. As far as the graphics I think they are great, I have a 55 HD Mitsubishi 
 TV and the picture really looks good, they put a lot of detail and beauty into the game. I have 
 been reading the reviews and people are not happy because the game can be beat in 6 hours or so 
 but if your like me it will take you longer... LOL Im hoping there will be add packs we can download 
 from Sony in the near future. So I give this game a 9.0 and think you will be happy playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is here woo hoo I beat the demo very quickly which was fun, then read the reviews, 
 apparently different people will beat at it different times, some say 6 hours others say about 
 10 hours. Not sure yet how long but I am enjoying Heavenly Sword. H. S. has fun action, stunning 
 graphics and humor. It utilizes the sixaxis controller its fun to be able to control your projectile 
 weapons, which is a cool feature. It takes practice getting used to the controls but once you do 
 it adds to the game. This is one will keep you entertained for quite a while. I just beat Heavenly 
 Sword, anyone who is playing and haven't beaten it yet be prepared for the final boss. He is a 
 pain in the ass, have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EternalDove
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game caught me by surprise, for five reasons;
  
  One, I have been kinda checking up on this game, and was generally uninterested. It seemed to easy, 
 or that your character was just a god complex and couldn't be taken down.
  
  Two, the game came out of no where. I wasn't one to be checking the release date every single day, 
 so when this hit Gamespot, it caught me by surprise. Especially because it had such great reviews 
 and everything.
  I didn't think this was coming for about another month or two, at least.
  But I am glad it came, very glad.
  
  Three, it felt like God of War from the beginning, but 
 as the game progresses it gets more and more interesting, and complicating on a different level. 
 Not complications that will frustrate you, but complications that will make you think before you 
 do, and keep you on your toes. It's controls are even more in-tune than God of Wars', and that 
 is saying something.
  
  Four, the story is great! It really takes you in and introduces you to a new world, the characters 
 are very memorable, and you get a bond with them. The voice, and character acting is on a level 
 higher never seen before. It's just all around, story wise, a great tale.
  
  Five, the graphics are absolutely amazing, as to be expected on any PS3 game. But this is the only 
 GOOD game that's been released on the PS3, and not only is it outstanding on game-play standards, 
 but it's also amazing in graphics. Those two mixed makes a truly amazing experience.
  
  I am the type to like game-play over graphics any day, and this is without a doubt the best mixture 
 of both that I've seen released for the PS3, or any Sony title for that matter.
  
  The only downfall to it, is that it's to dang short! But, the game has extreme replay value, not 
 because it's a different game every time you play, but it's kind of like a good book. You just 
 can't stop reading it, and in this case, you just want to experience the story over and over again. 
 You can't stop playing it.
  
  Over all, this game is a must have for any PS3 owners. Absolutely must have.
  If you're like 
 me, and have Wii, 360, and PS3, and just bored out of your minds of the games you have. Pick this 
 up, you will enjoy it. Your PS3 will love the attention.
  
  Or, if you want, get it so you have something to play for a bit longer till Halo 3, if that's your 
 fancy.
  
  Thank you for reading!
  
  McKay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidingstar
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  i don't know why any of you are reading these forums when you should be out getting this game!!! 
 and for the people who skim read....
  
  GET THIS GAME!!! GET THIS GAME!!!
  
  the people that didn't give this game a perfect 10 should be FIRED!!!!
  and they probably lied 
 and said the played but... probably haven't, or they have and have no taste in games, movies, music, 
 and especially ART. so quit talk en crap and PLAY ..... and yes i quoted myself. ;@ )
  
  
  P. S. the reason why i put 100 or More Hours is, because im not keep en track. im gunna keep going 
 till the end... peace out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyAce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is an action packed game from start to finish. This game has amazing graphics non 
 stop action gameplay and a great story. Graphically Heavenly Sword really shows what the PS3 can 
 do. This game looks amazing and there are times where you will be fighting 1000 bad guys at once 
 with barley a single slow down. Another thing thats great about this game is that the voice acting 
 in this game is extremely good the actors in this game really bring the characters to life. The 
 only problem I had with this game is that I wish it was longer but believe me it is one hell of 
 a ride. If you have a PS3 Heavenly Sword is a must buy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotpoultry
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword, an extremely hyped game for the PS3 from relative newcomers Ninja Theory, is a 
 great game that lives up to the hype. Heavenly Sword is a combat-based action game for the PS3. 
 The game uses a new combat system that is based on three combat styles. There is speed, a two bladed 
 stance that does moderate damage, power, a slow but devastating style, and range, an almost completely 
 useless style that hurts from afar but does extremely little damage. You switch between the styles 
 so to automatically block attacks of the same style. If you block you can counter just as your 
 enemy hits you to get a one-hit KO. This system works very well and keeps you on your toes the 
 entire story. Speaking of story, this game has a pretty good one. It revolves around Nariko, an 
 outcast of her clan. She takes the clans sword, a sword from the heavens that her clan has been 
 protecting for years. She takes the sword to save her clan, but due to its divine nature it will 
 slowly kill her. Nariko, and her archer friend Kai, take down the evil conquering King Bohan. All 
 of this is held together by the best voice acting, lip-synching, and graphics I have ever seen. 
 All of the characters feel unique and interesting. Although it is very, very good the game is not 
 perfect. It is very short at only about six hours ( about 10 if you want to unlock everything) , 
 and I finished it in one sitting. Another problem is the repetitive enemies, as you will kill only 
 about 15 enemy types total. These and a few other minor problems are present but it does not really 
 prevent you from really enjoying the game. Even though it is too short, Heavenly Sword is a great 
 game that is just as good as I hoped it would be. It is truly next-gen and I suggest you buy it 
 or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyVivica
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, one of my favorites by far. I think the graphics are amazing and the styles 
 and manuevers you can use to dish out some a** whipping is definitely cool, and being a chick is 
 definitely a big bonus in my book. I also loved how they had the animes available to lead into 
 the game. And the story is brilliant. I know everyone keeps comparing it to god of war, but thats 
 just completely untrue. Yes God of War was great (one of my favs as well) , but just because Nariko 
 has an attack style with the swinging chains is no reason to think they are so alike. I mean the 
 stories are completely nothing to do with one another and Nariko is way hotter than Kratos come 
 on he is so pale. Anyways this game was worth the wait and was definitely just what I needed. This 
 game may be short but I will play it over and over again just like I did with the demo:) If I could 
 play that short little demo every single day since it was realeased... I will definitely be playing 
 the game alot (not to sound like a huge nerd or anything) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exgucci
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  The amazingly talented actors that did a marvelous performance in this game should have a great 
 deal of credit. The amazing next gen. graphics speaks for itself. This game really sets new standards 
 for future adventure games to come. The game has some fantastic presentation, which introduces 
 brand new design for next gen. adventures. The intriguing characters give you a disturbing and 
 amazed reaction at the same time. The music in HS has some of the best scores Ive heard in a video 
 game so far. The bombastic orchestra and the mystic Asian influence melodies really help create 
 a very special and epic experience.
  
  Heavenly Sword is a must buy game for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Once in a while, there comes that one game. One game that just doesn't fail to hold your interest 
 from begining to the end. One of those rare games that just keeps that level of excitement and 
 fun from beginning to the end. Heavenly Sword is just that. Granted it is short game, and to many 
 people they will argue that because it is short game it manages to keep that excitement from beginning 
 to the end, but that's not true. I thought Devils May Cry was excellent too and the length was 
 nearly equal to Heavenly Sword, but it didn't have same great pacing of Heavenly Sword. It simply 
 did one heck of a job with pacing. Let's get into detail.
  
  First let's talk about the graphics. The graphics is absolutely beautiful, but rather unsteady. 
 The frame-rate does drop time to time especially near the end where there are thousands of enemies. 
 It doesn't effect the gameplay so it isn't a big deal, but seeing how great it looks when it does 
 run smooth it does make you feel like a shame.
  
  The details of the graphics are just incredible. Many people talked about how great characters 
 look, but characters are easily the least impressive part of the game in terms of visual. The background 
 detail are just amazing. It isn't realistic looking game. It is more artistic looking game and 
 the background does look slightly artificial, but in a good way like a painting. The characters 
 themselves look great too but there are some slight problems with clothing details and of course 
 the infamous hair. Still that is really minor thing to complain about. Best part about Heavenly 
 Sword graphic is that unlike many currently released games, it doesn't look glossy. It looks quite 
 soft and even slightly muddy but that is the art style of the game and it just fits perfectly.
 
  
  Let's talk about the gameplay. This is another strong part of Heavenly Sword as it has really solid 
 combat engine. Unfortunately it isn't as deep as Ninja Gaiden Sigma or Devils May Cry. The combo 
 system works really well and you really have to mix that 3 stances like how you would mix high, 
 mid, low attacks in fighting game and that works quite well. The counter system works quite well, 
 although it is a great shame that the counter system doesn't seem to work against bosses. There 
 are limited number of attacks enemy bosses have that can be countered, but most of them aren't. 
 One negative thing about combat engine would be that super move. It does great job showing that 
 great looking cut scene and does help you in game by getting rid of most enemies on screen, but 
 overall it feels like it just takes away from the game more than it provides. First if you are 
 on the corner of the map, your character just magically slides to the center of the map to unleash 
 that super move which breaks that movie like presentation of the game. Also the game has really 
 good combat system, but that super move just shortens the combat by just eliminating most enemies 
 on the screen. I feel like it would've been much better if they used that circle button for throws, 
 so the game could've had another set of rock paper scissor balance of fighting, which is throw, 
 block, and combos. In most fighting games, throws beats block, block beats combos, and combos beats 
 throws. If Heavenly Sword had another level of depth like that, it might've reached the depth of 
 other high quality action games like Ninja Gaiden Sigma in terms of combat depth. However, be warned. 
 This game is NOT action/adventure genre. This is pretty much beat-em-up genre. Sure there are small 
 number of puzzles, but that is nothing more than to just give you a break from the action. Very 
 much like how Street Fighter 2 had that break the car bonus stage. This game is ALL about the action 
 and to many action fans, this is probably good news. If you are looking for that mix of pace like 
 in God of War, you could be disappointed with Heavenly Sword. Heavenly Sword manages to avoid being 
 repetitive game thanks to good mix of gameplay ideas. Kai the second playable character is there 
 for that. Her game is quite different from Nariko by making her part of the game more about running 
 away and shooting. The after touch system is pretty good but not good enough to make any type of 
 shooting game. Thankfully, Kai's part of the game gets cut off just when you are about to feel 
 like you are playing not so great shooting game. Also Kai has many acrobatic moves to use against 
 enemy soilders and objects to jump over, making her part of the game vastly different not only 
 when it comes to action, but the interaction of surrounding and enemies. Still there are some flaws. 
 Enemy A. I is way too passive in normal mode and very defensive. They do great job surrounding you, 
 but not much after that. Also there are some lack of variety, but not as much as reported by some 
 reviewers. There are almost 10 different types of enemies and many of them has their unique patterns 
 of attacks and defensive patterns, so all of different types of enemies feels unique. Also there 
 are some rare glitch problems. Sometimes few enemies might decide to not move at all. I mean completely 
 frozen still until you hit them or something. Also I've seen one occasion where an enemy character 
 was suspended in air after dying. Not big glitch problems but it's there.
  
  Also that isn't the only way game mixes things up. There are small segments in the game where Nariko 
 uses single long sword instead of Heavenly Sword. Oddly, for me this part of the game is more attractive 
 to me even though I cannot use that 3 stance system, mostly because of personal preference of liking 
 that single sword over double sword or one big sword making slow attacks. She just look so much 
 cooler with the long sword than Heavenly Sword. Well that is matter of personal preference but 
 that single long sword action mgiht not be deep as Heavenly Sword action, but does great job mixing 
 things up. Let's move on to the sound. The voice acting is just supremely well done. I don't think 
 I've seen any game that has better voice acting than Heavenly Sword. Not just the voice acting 
 becaues those characters did excellent job acting because they did all the facial expression as 
 well. Also the music is excellent. There are many music in the game that will just remain in your 
 head replaying itself over and over. However, there is a flaw in sound. The problem comes with 
 music. The thing is that music comes and goes without much of organization. It is much better compared 
 to demo, but it still feels like music placement hasn't been as well thought out as it could've 
 been. It is fairly minor complaint and flaw, but it is noticeable. To many people, they will be 
 glad to know that story of Heavenly Sword is excellent. It is much deeper than most people will 
 expect. Very predictable story indeed, but the story does use many metaphors to send out some messages 
 to players about wars and poltical satires. I won't go details about it because I don't want to 
 ruin a good story, but there are many visual metaphors, metaphors using objects, words, and method 
 of story telling to give out that message. It was surprsingly well done aspect of the game. Hats 
 off to Andy Serkis and developers for such a great job in directing the game to match that movie 
 like presentation, not only in terms of camera angle but also in terms of quality of story telling 
 and giving depth to that story using symbolisms that creating a story that actually has a meaning. 
 Not many movies even have such depth these days.
  
  Overall, Heavenly Sword is just one great game that does everything right. The length is certainly 
 on the short side, but after playing the game, experincing the story and the pacing, adding anymore 
 on to the game to increase that gameplay would've utterly ruined the entire game so I thank the 
 developers to choose not to mess with such well put game by extending the game with repetitive 
 levels just to avoid such criticism. It was the right decision to stick with what they have carefully 
 planned. If you are the type of person who watches same movie more than once and can really appreciate 
 great storytelling and plot, then this game is a must for you to have. If you are a gamer that 
 really doesn't care about the story and just want to experience good action and just play the game, 
 this game deserves at least a rental. Even to these type of fans, some of them might want to consider 
 purchase because it does contain very solid action and fairly deep combat engine that you might 
 want to invest your time in to explore it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of hack and slash than you shouldn't miss out on this Sony exclusive masterpiece 
 called Heavenly Sword for the PS3. You are play as a character named Nariko who her family and 
 people are being attack by another clan army ruled by this Evil lord called Bohan, which I love 
 this character for the simply fact that is being voice acted by the same person that played golem 
 in Lord of the Rings. Back to the story, so Bohan is after your father who is the protector of 
 this Heavenly Sword. The game starts from your last minutes before your death in the game and you'll 
 be playing the game from your flashback. As you play you figure out what happened in the beginning 
 that leads to the final moments in the game.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply top notch. I feel like a broken record but this has to be 
 one of the best looking PS3 games out there so far. I facial animations are by far the best I've 
 seen in any game to date. I can go as far as saying even better than Mass Effect just from the 
 videos I've seen so far. The voice acting in the game is right up there with the visual. Aside 
 from that I've noticed little hiccups in the game while moving around frame rate tends to drop 
 down but not so much to a point that takes you away from the fun in the game.
  
  The controls in the game are really tight and deep. You have three different fighting styles in 
 the game. You have speed, power, and range which make game really fun to play when it comes to 
 fighting. There's a variety of combos that you can do in the game which are cool to look at. Also 
 you have auto block which takes a little getting use to when you playing a hack and slash game 
 like God of War and Ninja Gaiden. Compare to those games Heavenly Sword is a cake walk but it starts 
 to get a little difficult at times. You also have great sixaxis controls in the game which work 
 pretty well in the game doesn't feel added on just for the sack of it like in other games.
  
  The game will probably take you a good 6 to 10 hours to play through. Also once you finish 
 the game on the normal difficulty you will unlock Hell mode. So if you're looking for a game to 
 fill that void like me until the flood of great games come out this is a good game to get right 
 now. If you're tight on money I would give this game a rent. This is a must play game if you're 
 a PS3 owner. Trust me you will not regret playing this game with the non stop action adventure 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommybao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game has it all, action, great storyline, good voice make over, great visual effect, and a 
 bit of comedy. This game is alot like God of War for those who are God of War fans. The story start 
 out very similar to God of War and then flashback. The fight scene is a bit more intense and graphic 
 witch makes the game more enjoyable to play. The game is a bit short for a PS3 game. You would 
 think that they can make it a little longer with blue ray technology. Overall the game is nice 
 addition to any action gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiberiusJones
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Heavenly Sword is the latest attempt by Sony to bring a truly great new franchise to the PS3. While 
 it is certainly a fun game, it falls far short of greatness. The graphics for the most part are 
 beautiful, a few frame rate hiccups don't ruin the experience. But like GS says, the bad guys are 
 too generic and not at all varied. Essentially, once you've played the first 30 minutes, you've 
 played the entire game. Unfortunately, this is almost literally true as well, as Heavenly sword 
 can be finished in 5 or 6 hours... less if you're a very skilled player.
  
  Essentially, Heavenly Sword is the ultimate rental... it is fun, but in no way is it worth $60.
 
  
  So, once again, Sony fans are left begging for a truly great game to hold up against the Xbox 360's 
 big hitters like Gears of War and Bioshock. WIth no other highly anticipated releases due until 
 2008, it may be quite a wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hashim19
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  You play Nariko, a fiery red-haired warrior who takes up the ancient Heavenly Sword to defeat the 
 invading king and his army. Heavenly sword has turn out to be one of the best action adventure 
 game that i had never seen befor. It is also one fo my favorite game of all times. The game play 
 of this game is really stand out from any games out there which make heavenly sword really fun 
 to get in too. The graphics in this game is really done which show you what the ps3 can really do. You 
 u have 4,000 bad guys on screen beautiful animation. Sound effects are fantastic as is the music 
 and voice work. The cutscene work is fantastic, as are the extras. IF u own a ps3 this year this 
 is the must have game of all times.
  the story in this game is what truely make heavenly sword one of the best game on the ps3 so far. has 
 u play has nariko. When your family has been destroyed and your clan's most treasured artifact has 
 been threatened, it's up to you to seek revenge. You play Nariko, a fiery red-haired warrior who 
 takes up the ancient Heavenly Sword to defeat the invading king and his army. However, the more 
 Nariko wields the sword, the more it slowly drains her life-force, ensuring her death within hours. 
 Cut your way through a swarm of enemies using the transforming sword and develop your own fighting 
 style on the fly. It's no picnic, though, because your enemies will use advanced tactics in their 
 attempts to bring you down. The game brings all the power of the PS3 system to bear for a gorgeous 
 and incredible final battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serph-1925
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  You play Nariko, a fiery red-haired warrior who takes up the ancient Heavenly Sword to defeat the 
 invading king and his army. Heavenly sword has turn out to be one of the best action adventure 
 game that i had never seen befor. It is also one fo my favorite game of all times. The game play 
 of this game is really stand out from any games out there which make heavenly sword really fun 
 to get in too. The graphics in this game is really done which show you what the ps3 can really do. You 
 u have 4,000 bad guys on screen beautiful animation. Sound effects are fantastic as is the music 
 and voice work. The cutscene work is fantastic, as are the extras. IF u own a ps3 this year this 
 is the must have game of all times.
  the story in this game is what truely make heavenly sword one of the best game on the ps3 so far. has 
 u play has nariko. When your family has been destroyed and your clan's most treasured artifact has 
 been threatened, it's up to you to seek revenge. You play Nariko, a fiery red-haired warrior who 
 takes up the ancient Heavenly Sword to defeat the invading king and his army. However, the more 
 Nariko wields the sword, the more it slowly drains her life-force, ensuring her death within hours. 
 Cut your way through a swarm of enemies using the transforming sword and develop your own fighting 
 style on the fly. It's no picnic, though, because your enemies will use advanced tactics in their 
 attempts to bring you down. The game brings all the power of the PS3 system to bear for a gorgeous 
 and incredible final battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acarrillo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Segun Contactos hara un segundo t&iacute; tulo para mientras creo que tendran que arreglar algunas 
 secuencias en el juego que son muy marcados en este, aunque aun no lo he jugado, los que si me 
 comentan que la trama es interesante pero muy corta, asi que deberan mejorar esto.
  
  Esta mujerota Asiatica o no se que raza pero esta!!! bueno es un estilo de Kratos pero increiblemente 
 las graficas me impactaron espero que su banda sonora no desvarie como en otros grandes t&iacute; tulos 
 que prometen pero no llegan a serlo.
  
  El role play esta muy bien detallado. ademas de las secuencias en el juego lo sobrepasan definitivo 
 es un juego que sera bien vendido aunque debieron pensar en que seria bueno alargarlo mejorarlo 
 el otro titulo que aun no se sabe si es que ira a completarse tendra tendencias de GOW hasta no 
 ver no creer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Much has been said about Ninja Theory's action-adventure starring the fiery red-head Nariko. Called 
 a shameless God of War clone with roots going back to the days of the original XBox and reviews 
 both amazingly positive and crushingly mediocre, Heavenly Sword has had a hard stand leading up 
 to its release.
  
  The title's namesake, a powerful blade once wielded by a celestial hero and now guarded by a warrior 
 tribe awaiting the foretold rebirth of said hero is the object of King Bohan's desire. You play 
 as the aforementioned beauty Nariko, a member of the sword keepers who are relentlessly hunted 
 by Bohan's enormous army. When her father is captured by the malicious tyrant, she sees no other 
 choice than to wield the legendary blade herself, well-knowing that any mortal carrying it into 
 battle will inevitably be devoured by the sword's lust for blood.
  The story remains entertaining throughout the game which is mostly a testimony to the great dialog 
 and charismatic characters coupled with a fantastic presentation similar to movies like Hero. However, 
 one can't help but think that some elements, more specifically Bohan's crow ally, could have been 
 more fleshed out and might have actually been kept in the dark for a possible sequel.
  
  The Heavenly Sword is actually two separate blades though, as Nariko has the choice between three 
 different stances. Per default, she'll be using the speed stance allowing her to trade quick blows, 
 while the power stance merges the two blades into one colossal zweihander for great amounts of 
 damage at the cost of agility. Lastly, the range stance attaches the two blades onto long chains 
 reaching farther off enemies and excellent for mowing down her immediate surroundings at the expense 
 of all blocking capabilities.
  
  Incidentally, blocking is performed automatically, given you're in the stance your attacker is 
 currently using. This is signaled by a short, colored flash around attacking enemies, of which 
 there usually are about a dozen, carefully circling our heroine, waiting for the opportune moment. 
 While most enemies will stick to the default speed stance early on, later parts of the game can 
 get rather hectic with different enemies attacking at the same time with various attacks, demanding 
 a great deal of careful attention and reflexes.
  
  More demanding than the common grunt enemies are the few but lengthy boss battles, each of which 
 demands a fair amount of strategy as you use Nariko's stances to counter their hard-hitting special 
 attacks. At certain points during boss battles and sometimes while traversing terrain, you're forced 
 into timed button pressing sequences similar to games like Shenmue or God of War, which are noticeably 
 more difficult, but often result in rewarding cinematics as Nariko wears her enemies down.
  
  You'll not be fighting solely as Nariko however, her emotionally scarred sister Kai gets some 
 play-time as well. Her parts play vastly different from Nariko's as the nimble Kai is equipped 
 with only an automated crossbow and not trained in any melee combat, so you'll always want to keep 
 a save distance between her and her targets. Although some of her sequences tend to drag on a bit, 
 Kai is certainly a welcomed diversion and her quirky character and funny monologues make her a 
 joy to play.
  Like all projectiles in the game, notably the sparsely available rocket launcher and just about 
 any debris or weapon on the ground, Kai's bolts can be steered via after-touch using the Sixaxis' 
 tilty-support. This technique incidentally works quite well after a few tries and if you feel uncomfortable 
 with it, there's always the option to turn it off. There are even a couple of environmental puzzles 
 requiring precise throws, however they are usually not overly complicated and few and far between.
 
  
  Looking at a couple of pictures, it quickly becomes apparent that the game looks marvelously, thanks 
 to not only the stunning art design but also great technical proficiency. The most outstanding 
 features are the incredible facial animations throughout the game, used to give every character 
 the kind of expressiveness other games are lacking. This becomes apparent during the many cutscenes 
 done with professional actors and directed by motion-capture-experienced actor Andy Serkis, who 
 played Golum and King Kong. The environments are similarly charming in their architecture and the 
 graphics engine is capable of handling hundreds of enemies on screen fairly well. It's of notice 
 however that the frame rate feels constantly slow, not to the extend of unplayability, but it's 
 definitely noticeable.
  The audio in the game is just as fantastic as the visuals, featuring razor-sharp dialog coupled 
 with fantastic acting. And while the plot is certainly sinister and dark, you can't help but giggle 
 when Kai threatens a soldier to hit his weak point for massive damage. The entire soundtrack is 
 just as outstanding with an orchestral score accompanying the action-packed adventure.
  
  Even with all that praise though, Heavenly Sword's weakness is its disappointingly short length. 
 An experienced player can finish the game within 6-7 hours and while there are a ton of unlockable 
 extras as well as a harder difficulty mode once you finished Nariko's vengeance tour, it's hard 
 to justify the full price. However, the production values are certainly there and the game is a 
 fantastic experience from start to finish. One can only wonder what might have been, if the experience 
 lasted just a bit longer... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
