-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hellboy: The Science of Evil
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/hellboy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cooperative play lets you drag another person in with you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simple, repetitive combat.
 Way too easy.
 Disjointed story.
 Obscure puzzles.
 Swords break as easily as your expectations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Krome Studios
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The combat in Hellboy gets repetitive before the first level ends and never presents a challenge. 
 This is a boring, bland game. 

  There is a moment in Hellboy: Science of Evil when you have to face off against a hideous gorilla/octopus 
 hybrid. It roars with anger as its slimy tentacles writhe like sloppy worms. At this point, your 
 adrenaline should gush as you raise your stone-encrusted fist to do battle with this horrific abomination. 
 In practice, you'll slurp up a rogue strand of drool as you halfheartedly pound your well-worn 
 square button for the umpteenth time. In a game where even swinging half-formed frog men around 
 by their prehensile tongues can elicit a hearty yawn, it's not surprising that facing off against 
 a monster that should reside exclusively in nightmares feels downright boring. The only thing Hellboy 
 does really well is make you appreciate how far the beat-'em-up genre has evolved since games that 
 play like this were commonplace.  

           Hellboy and Abe Sapien look desperate to leave this game.      

  Hellboy has a beef 
 with a witch who refers to herself in the third-person. You'll spend the first half of your quest 
 trying to shut her up for good before you suddenly decide your real enemy is a horde of cyborg 
 gorillas. The story is a convoluted mess of inadequate motivations and long soliloquies given by 
 every skeleton you meet along the way. Instead of simple explanations that keep you abreast of 
 why your missions are taking seemingly random turns, you are given such contemporary one-liners 
 as "We're not in Kansas anymore, Toto." Despite the cursory effort given to constructing this nonsensical 
 tale, the cutscenes are all too frequent and far from concise; plus, you can't even skip them. 
 Ron Perlman lends his voice talents, but while it's fitting how often he mutters "That was easy," 
 his usual smarmy punch is nowhere to be found.  

  The main draw in a game involving an endless stream of enemies should be an entertaining combat 
 system. There is no such draw here. You'll spend the majority of your time rapidly slamming the 
 square button to punch with the occasional gunshot thrown in for diversity. This game is so easy 
 you don't even have defensive maneuvers in your repertoire. Why would you need to block when your 
 foes barely even attack? Enemies will meander up to you then simply stand still, waiting for you 
 to turn around and smack them in the face. It's not uncommon to find yourself surrounded by a gang 
 of ugly ghoulies only to walk away with your life bar still at the optimal level. You can pick 
 up unwieldy swords and spears to give your aching fists a rest, but these serve as only graphically 
 different versions of the same tired battle mechanic. Later enemies have bloated health bars, which 
 force you to use discarded weapons to dispose of them in a timely manner. This serves to only frustrate 
 because even the heartiest sword will shatter after three blows. Though these enemies take longer 
 to kill, they never pose a serious threat to your own life.  

  The only time you'll find yourself challenged is when obstinate puzzles and directionless level 
 design lead you down the path of frustration. In one level, you are told to light torches to continue 
 on your way. After using flaming spears to pass the first few sections like this, you come to a 
 point where that tactic inexplicably doesn't work anymore. Instead, you have to reach your hand 
 into an already lit torch and extract flammable bullets -- a technique never explained prior to that 
 moment. In another level, late in the game, you have to find tiny switches hidden along walls. 
 Again, this maneuver was never exhibited before, which leads to a frantic search trying to figure 
 out how to progress. The game is full of moments where it appears to be broken, at least until 
 you realize that you just need to stumble upon some random solution.  

           Despite his impressive size, the werewolf is a big pushover.      

  Science of Evil 
 is as likely to win awards for its technical prowess as Hellboy is for being a dapper duke. It 
 makes sense that the game keeps a relatively steady frame rate because it never tries to do anything 
 that will actually push the hardware. Character models lack detail and diversity -- you'll see only 
 two or three different types per level -- while textures are muddy. Fortunately, the game runs without 
 any noticeable hiccups even when a second player jumps in locally or online. Though cooperative 
 play often makes a game more fun than slogging through alone, an extra player here merely makes 
 this already easy adventure even less challenging.  

  There is no reason to waste your time with Hellboy: Science of Evil. Even fans of the comic won't 
 find much to dig here. The story is handled so inexpertly, it will only anger those who have invested 
 hours reading the paper exploits of Hellboy. Weak combat and ugly visuals should deter those just 
 looking for a solid beat-'em-up. With expectations for licensed products already so low, it's a 
 testament to how poorly designed this game is that it can't even live up to the mediocre games 
 around it.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dazzleboy909
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  i agree with one statement by gamespot that the combat is repetitive but it is a a perfectly good 
 game besides hellboys stupid jokes in the cutscenes the game is great the only thing they could 
 improve is a larger choice of characters and more combat choices besides that this game is a perfectly 
 good beat em up (if you dont like devil may cry dont get it)
  
  this is a great game mainly for big hellboy fans but even if your not a fan you can enjoy it this 
 game covers nearly everythng you can think from shooting scenes to beating up giant samurais and 
 nazis the main thing about this game is you have to play for half an hour to get the hang of things 
 or to get into the mood of what the games aboutbut if your hoping to play a less surreal game youll 
 be dissapointed
  
  the real question is how can you not like this if you enjoy the films like devils and fishes kicking 
 the crap out of samurais then you will love this game
  
  thanks for reading
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apennismightier
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Hellboy: Science of Evil - The title has nothing to do with the game itself and it's beyond easy 
 and even more boring... This game can be completed in 6 hours, 3 if you know what you're doing 
 and don't waste time trying to kill bad guys that can be easily skipped. 
  
  Not only is the game easy, it gets frustrating. Hellboy's punch attack sends enemies flying across 
 the screen, only to have you meander up to them to deliver the final blow. It becomes annoying, 
 unless you want to waste ammo that barely makes a scratch in most enemies until the later levels 
 anyway.
  
  I have to say I was SEVERELY disappointed when I beat the game. No cutscene, no explanation, just 
 a big "Thank you for playing Hellboy: Science of Evil". What a rip... It's as if the developers 
 just gave up at the end.
  
  Avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stelouka
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  The only aim of this title is ti go with the movie production for business reasons. From the begging 
 of the game you understand that the game is in possesion of patchwork. It is clear that the hypothesis 
 of the game is different of the movie's hypothesis, which also is low quality. Until the end we 
 are going to transport to six areas and to different dates without to be clear the reason of this 
 transports. Also the cut scenes imitate the comic's style but they don't be interesting. Additional, the 
 voice-overs is non-existent and the battle is very simple and reapeted. Substantial, the Science 
 of evil instigate us for button mushing tactic.
  in conclusion, the Hellboy: soe is a monotonous game with exasperating platform facts. The Mike Mignola's 
 fans will be disappointed. The only positives is the nice soundtrack and the good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBoy40
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll let you know from the start. Hellboy: Science Of Evil is no game that's going to revolutionize 
 gaming as we see it, but it isn't no way as bad as critics are making it seem. Critics are raising 
 their expectations way too high for video games. They expect every game to be deep, and complex, 
 while forgetting that the main purpose of a game is to be fun, and that's exactly what Hellboy 
 is. Even though gameplay is repetitive you'll still find lots of enjoyment beating down the enemies, 
 which aren't many different types. But they are still fun to kill using many different combos, 
 which are button mashing, but still very fun to watch. I'm a big God Of War fan myself, and that's 
 what this game had to be modeled after. From the combo based moves, to the on screen button you 
 have to press to perform a finisher. The graphics are good, but nothing amazing. Even though all 
 the graphics look clean, with no jagged edges, some of the textures could've used more details 
 than they have. The story is a little complicated to keep up with, so that is a downside, but if 
 you're like me, the story plays a part, but the gameplay is what actually matters. The sound is 
 superb, with voice acting from the cast of the movie, and the background sounds are good, for example 
 I was in this village at night time, and I could hear the sound of crickets through out the level. 
 I like Hellboy on a moderate level, so I'm not a big fan, and I still like this game. So do I think 
 Hellboy Science of Evil is worth the money? Yes, if you like a simple beat-em up game that is fun 
 to play, also if you like the God Of War games too. Oh, and by the way, I got a little Qee Hellboy 
 key chain and a free pass to the movie when I got the game from GameStop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aka_Oni
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is far beyond horrific for even the most notorious of die hard beat em up gamers. I didn't 
 notice a story line to begin with and second of all the combat is so repetitious I had to put it 
 down after about 10 minutes. The back ground settings aren't all that bad however and the dude 
 that voiced Hell Boy did a rather good job of what dribble I heard out of its mouth. To be perfectly 
 honest with you going from room to room crushing enemies is a good thing it's just I don't think 
 that my other senses should be insulted with a game such as this especially when running on next 
 generation counsels. If you want a beat em up blow the dust of the nintendo and grab bad dudes 
 or double dragon or take a look at DMC this game was better left as a movie idea instead of franchises 
 trying to do project rushes and end up with semi aborted games like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I can sum up Hellboy: Science of Evil in one word;
  
  Booooooooriiiiinnnnngggg!!!!
  
  It is without a doubt an absolute waste of time.
  
  I would imagine that a hardcore Hellboy 
 fan might like it. Not being one myself I can't say for sure, though.
  
  This game has no story to speak of. If it does it was told so poorly that you don't notice. 
 
  
  The gameplay is mind-numbingly repetitious and consists almost entirely of fighting through room 
 after room of enemies. Kill them all and the ghost door, or whatever it was, opens.
  
  You then get to do the same thing in that room.
  
  Hellboy can also use his Right Hand of Doom 
 to smash through obstacles. You basically hold R2 and tap the square button.
  
  Sound like fun? It better, because you'll be doing it alot.
  
  As bad as the game was, it didn't 
 do everything wrong. Just most everything.
  
  The graphics and environments were ok. Ron Perlman provided the voice of Hellboy and did a decent 
 job with the dribble he was handed.
  
  Quite frankly, this is a terrible game and I would even hesitate to recommend it to Hellboy fans.
 
  
  It might just piss them off. Believe me, I played the Futurama game, so Ive been there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhazim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  hellboy : science of evil is butiful great lovely game yet . yes because the comics books brings 
 some fun and some enjoyment in the same time wow i love it as tell you before this game is so funny 
 . now lets score it guys right here right now , the first thing in this game is storyline form 
 other series of hellboy and thats real score 9.4 , the second thing is speed of game is not perfect 
 but not very bad so there in there 7.9 , the third thing in this game is effects the effects not 
 very good this specily by power of consoles ( (next generations) ) but thats mean isn't game like 
 a bad 8.3 , and last thing in this game the simple graphichs between deffrence other games like 
 it 8.1, last word if want buoght this game just buy it but don't think this game is perfect from 
 other sides if you want it take it . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
