-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/minnanogolf5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great online play.
 Gameplay is as tight as ever.
 New swing works well.
 Rounds don't take long to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only six courses.
 Not many different play modes.
 Music and sound effects are terrible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 494 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Clap Hanz
Genre: Golf
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A new swing and excellent online play freshen up the Hot Shots experience just enough to make Out 
 of Bounds worth the price of admission. 

  Ever since its first appearance on the original PlayStation, Hot Shots Golf has been a model of 
 consistency. Big-headed cartoony golfers, realistic courses, fast-paced gameplay, and simple controls -- you 
 know what you're getting when you buy a Hot Shots Golf game. That's the good news... and the bad 
 news? Outside of a new swing mechanic and some enjoyable online play, there's little else new in 
 Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds. Even so, it's still a fun game that's worth a look if you're a fan 
 of the series or arcade-style golf.  

           The new swing mechanic isn't exactly revolutionary, but it works well.      

  The 
 first thing you'll notice when you pop the disc in your PlayStation 3 is a 10-plus minute install 
 to your hard drive. But unlike many other games that make extensive use of the hard drive, Hot 
 Shots' install pays immediate dividends with quick load times throughout the game. Hot Shots' main 
 single-player mode is Challenge mode. As in previous games, you start by choosing one of the two 
 unlocked golfers, then you compete in a series of nine and 18-hole tournaments to unlock equipment. 
 You'll also unlock the rest of the game's 15 anime-inspired golfers and six courses. Because there 
 are so few courses, you're forced to play each of them at least five times before unlocking a new 
 one. Granted, you'll be playing different holes on the course with different rules and stipulations, 
 but putting 10 hours into the game with only four courses available to you is frustrating. Thankfully, 
 the realistic course designs are pretty good, and they can get quite challenging depending on pin 
 placement or wind conditions.  

  The big change to Hot Shots' gameplay is an all-new swing mechanic. You can still use the traditional 
 meter with the three-button-press method if you'd like; both methods give you a limited number 
 of power hits and let you press the D pad to change where you're striking the ball. But the new 
 swing works really well and makes the old method feel antiquated -- which it is. With the new swing, 
 you press the X button to start your swing and then press it again to set your shot's power, which 
 is determined by how far your golfer is into his backswing. The club head sparkles at 50 percent, 
 but it's solely up to you to gauge any other power level. The third press of the X button determines 
 the shot's accuracy. A large circle appears around the ball, and as the club head approaches the 
 ball, the circle shrinks. When it's smaller than the red brackets that indicate the maximum tolerance 
 for a decent shot, you hit X again. Putting uses the same mechanic, but emits a beep at 25 percent, 
 sparkles at 50 percent, beeps again at 75 percent, and sparkles again at 100 percent. It'll take 
 a round or so for you to become accustomed to the new swing, but it's worth the effort because, 
 as in real golf, you're playing by feel rather than by staring at a meter pressing buttons.  

 
  If all you had to look forward to were a new swing, it would be difficult to recommend Out of 
 Bounds. It's good, then, that there's an excellent online mode to complement the game's tried-and-true 
 gameplay. The first time you go online, you'll make a custom avatar that, believe it or not, is 
 even zanier than any of the game's over-the-top golfers. You can pick from a number of goofy faces 
 and outfits to make all sorts of perfectly absurd characters. For example, you can create a boy 
 with a face straight out of  South Park , wearing a football helmet, a snorkel, flippers, a soccer 
 jersey, and a backpack. There's no shortage of ways to make your avatar stand out, which begs the 
 question "Why can't we make our own playable golfers?"  

  Once you've made your character, you'll go to a clubhouse lobby, which is an actual place, such 
 as a saloon, safari camp, or beachside cafe, where you can run around and interact with other players 
 via text chat. This is also where you go to set up or play matches and enter tournaments. If you're 
 in a hurry, you might just want to play nine holes with seven other players, but if you've got 
 the time and are looking to take on the best, you can enter a tournament. Up to 50 people can participate 
 in a tournament. They take place every 15 minutes, and you must book your slot a half hour in advance 
 or catch a tournament with an opening just before it starts. A reasonable but not too short time 
 limit for each hole keeps things moving along, and the ability to chat with players between holes 
 as you wait for everyone to finish gives you just enough of a sense of who you're competing against 
 without exposing you to too much nonsense. Our experience online couldn't have been better -- players 
 were polite, the rounds went by quickly, and there was no lag whatsoever. Unfortunately, thanks 
 to periodic disconnecting issues, which Sony says it's working on, not everyone we played with 
 had the same great experience.  

  The PlayStation 3 version of Hot Shots: Out of Bounds looks exactly the way you'd expect it to 
 look. The big-headed, big-eyed characters maintain the look of previous golfers in the series, 
 though they aren't quite as interesting as some earlier characters. From an artistic standpoint, 
 the courses aren't anything to marvel at, but technically they look just fine, and their slant 
 toward realism works well when combined with the unrealistic characters. Hot Shots' relatively 
 simple visuals do have one benefit; the game runs smoothly at all times -- a must for a game where 
 precise timing is so important.  

           It's a lot of fun making a custom avatar to take into the online lobbies.      

  Hopefully, 
 you've got a stereo or MP3 player handy for when you play Hot Shots because it sounds dreadful. 
 The golfer and caddy voices are particularly obnoxious and repetitive. The music is just as bad. 
 There are only a handful of tunes in the game, and they're not very long or very good. You can 
 turn off the music, but you can't turn off voices, so unless you mute your TV, you're stuck listening 
 to something annoying.  

  The Hot Shots Golf series has changed very little during the past 10 years, but there's no question 
 that while still good, this is a franchise in need of a shot in the arm -- or at the very least, 
 more courses. But that said, the new swing and robust online play freshen things up just enough 
 to make it worth getting a tee time with Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: endymion17
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  My video game pals and I have always enjoyed playing a round or two of Hot Shots Golf. It was a 
 game that made non-golfers like us feel a little bit like pros. (Well, for a few minutes anyway...) 
 Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds, the first for the Playstation 3, is our favorite game in the series 
 so far.
  
  As always, the game play is deep and addictive. This time around, a new swing type has been added 
 for even more varied game play. I have to tell you, it works. I have found myself barely using 
 the 'Traditional' swing style in favor of the new 'Advanced' swing style which doesn't used a meter, 
 but instead allows the player to press X on the upswing to determine power and press X again on 
 the follow-through to determine impact. It makes gameplay feel faster and more fluid. Both swing 
 types have their pros and cons, and players can easily choose between the two depending on their 
 preferences.
  
  This game isn't going to 'wow' you with great graphics or an epic orchestral score, but it isn't 
 ugly or unattractive. The menus are straight-forward and readable, and the courses, which are detailed 
 and colorful, look great. The characters keep the same animated style adding the same fun and playful 
 feel. The music is upbeat and quirky, the same as the voice acting which won't win any awards but 
 keeps with the style of the game. Difficulty wise, the game gets more challenging as you move up 
 the pro ladder, but there is an Easy mode for players who are having some trouble, a nice feature 
 for the younger kids or casual gamers.
  
  Nowadays, every game has to have an online component on these next-gen gaming systems and in this 
 aspect HSG: OOB definitely doesn't disappoint. The new online play is the best part of the Hot Shots 
 Golf experience. Going online, you get a chance to create a small character who wears clothing 
 items you've collected in the game. This character is an avatar which players can use to move around 
 the different lobbies and interact with other players. Each lobby has different tournaments, all 
 with unique rules and rankings, to keep things interesting. I also can't talk about HSG's online 
 play without mentioning its download-able content. So far, they have added two new courses and 
 five new characters including Sackboy from LittleBigPlanet and Kratos from God of War. They have 
 even hinted that there might be a LittleBigPlanet themed golf course in the making. Along with 
 these new additions, there are new costumes for almost all of the original characters in the game.
 
  
  I feel that the training mode could use some work, and next time around maybe developer Clap Hanz 
 could add a Tour or Season mode to lengthen the single player experience, but overall the game 
 succeeds in providing the deep gameplay that its known for. In a time when a lot of players are 
 playing gory first-person shooters, Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds is a game with several hours 
 of fun that everyone can participate in.
  
  My Ratings:
  Graphics: 8.0
  Audio: 7.5
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Value: 8.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows what they say about opinions. However, I have to disagree with the review on gamespot. 
 I think this game is fantastic. Its colorful, fun, and easy to get into. Its a simple yet addictive 
 golf game with wonderful courses and characters. It's actually much deeper then I initially thought 
 it would be. You can win new balls and clubs in addition to learning new shots. New characters 
 are unlocked slowly in my opinion but it does make you want to keep playing the game.
  
  I can't wait to start playing online. There is supposedly a massive online community for this game 
 and apparently many updates. My Wife loves this game as well and its relaxing for the both of us. 
 For a non serious game that everyone can like choose this classic.
  
  Just be prepared for long update times when you go online. 
  
  It takes awhile to download 
 the multitude of online updates. Although this definitely is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabioPizzini
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Yes this golf it is great, the new shot option it is more fun than the predecessor, it give a really 
 feeling of swinging a wood!
  
  The graphic is much better than the predecessor, and the feeling is really good, there are lot 
 of details in the enviroment and the ball flight without loosing any frame, also there are plenty 
 of effects and easter eggs.
  
  You will find plenty of friend playing on-line, and the tournaments are a great player vs player 
 competition.
  
  Also playing localy vs a friend will give you a lot of fun, and an 18 course tee will give you 
 legendary story to tell to your sons.
  
  On the Playstation store, you will find a lot of new items, tees, also new toons for play with, 
 they are not too much expensive so you can buy all the things, without thinking too much at the 
 money.
  
  If you want play golf, this will be a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshDunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I love golf on all levels. I love to play real golf. I've played just about every golf video game. 
 I subscribe to golf magazines. I was on the golf team in high school.
  
  So it's not without experience that I tell you this is the greatest golf video game of all time. 
 I've had the game from the very first day it arrived at Best Buy, on March 19, 2008, and I still 
 play it almost every day 5 months later.
  
  You really have to spend some good hours in the single player mode first to unlock new characters 
 and courses. These trials are redundant, but it's good practice, especially if you are new to the 
 Hot Shots series. You will need to unlock new characters and courses before being eligible for 
 some tournaments online.
  
  Once you do go online it's very addictive and really fun to play with people from all parts of 
 the world.
  
  I think you should buy this game if you don't have it. And if you don't have a PS3, buy one of 
 those first, and then buy this game.
  
  -- Josh D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemBoys46290
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  This hotshots was very similar to the rest if you have enjoyed the large head cartoony golfers 
 in the past you will again. A few things are different this time around they introduced a new swing 
 at first it is a little odd understanding how to contol your power and atuallymaking it work but 
 once you adapt to it, it becomes pointess to go back to the traditional method. Also in this one 
 they have created fun online play. not only do you go online and play with others, but they let 
 you decided what room you want to go in and you run around and you get to talk to others and that 
 way yu can get people together to play a game instead of waiting forever and a day for others to 
 join. the only problem i did find wth this game is that with how advanced playstation is and all 
 the other games you can actually talk in why cant you in this one. i mean yes they do allow you 
 to push R2 and type to the others that you arein the room or you are playing with. i understand 
 n the lobbys not being able to talk there are to many peole but when you are in a private game 
 with one or two people i think you should have that option. and there is always the chance you 
 will be playing with the one jerk that doesnt undrstand golfers ettiqute. i do have to say it was 
 worh it and is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Hot Shots Golf game before so this is the first time for me with Out of Bounds, 
 so what can I say about the game? It's great!!! It reminded me a little bit of Mario Golf for the 
 N64, which by the way is the best golf game that I have ever played.
  The graphics are smooth and the courses are great, very diverse one from another. The one in the 
 mountains with snow and the other in Africa are awesome!!!
  At first the game didn't grab me like the way I expected because it begins very easy, but then 
 the difficulty grows up and that's when you feel the challenge in the game. Some courses are really 
 difficult and takes time to know them and make good scores.
  A complaint, like a reviewer below said, is when you gain prizes by the cards, most of them are 
 gear but I can never use them!!! That's a little irritating. But in another hand, I like to upgrading 
 the characters. 
  Overall, this is a nice game and I'm glad I bought it. It's very addictive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  So if you loved the series, kudos. You got some better graphics. Seriously, what's next gen about 
 5 golf courses and an old system of leveling characters? Somehow I expected more. I will say, on 
 a positive note, I love the new swing mechanics. It feels more fluid. It doesn't change the game 
 but it helps a little to set it apart from all the others before. I owned Fore! and I can't tell 
 the difference except for the new swing mechanics. But since I bought a 40g with no backwards, 
 (I was desperate. Sold my Xbox 360 after its 3rd RRD to my brother in law for what i paid for it 
 lmao) I had to settle for Out of Bounds. Why did they call it Out of Bounds when there's nothing 
 special about Out of Bounds? Am I the only one who thought you should have been able to hit people 
 with errant shots in Fore! and subsequently think there should be some special significance the 
 name, or else just call it HOT SHOTS GOLF 5! Can you imagine Halo 3: Fire at Will, as though theres 
 some rare character named Will that pops up from time to time and drops rare gear? Or how about 
 GTA IV: Fresh of the Boat? or Metal Gear 3: The Guns of the Patriots? oh, well. You get the point. 
 
  Another postive, I like the grab bag of cards you can pick from at the end of each win which gives 
 you better equipment you can't use because you're not an expert yet. Yeah, how stupid. You can acquire 
 gear way before you can ever use it, which begs the question, why do I even have it? And the stuff 
 you win through cards is usually the stuff you just earn through leveling up in every other Hot 
 SHots Golf game. Nothing next-gen here. I would actually like to see an Outlaw Golf Game for PS3. 
 I miss those strippers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  There are a few things to say that are negative towards this game and I was really wanting to say 
 nothing but good for it..... so here it goes. ;
  The Negatives
  1. No live chat during gameplay.
  2. Limited number of courses... NEEDS MORE or at least a couple 
 off the PS-STORE?
  3. Non-HD-Visuals where is the clean non jaggy edges?
  4. Installation time really sucks.
  5. $60 price point.
  
  The Positives:
  1. Fun to play.
 
  2. Nice online multiplayer options.
  3. Once loaded up... the game runs fast and you can complete a course fast.
  
  I hate to say 
 there are more negatives than positives... but it is still a solid game. Thats my review... if you 
 can find this game for $40 or less... it's a must buy.
  If you were a fan of Hot Shots on PSP, PS1 or PS2... you will be able to pick up and have alot of 
 fun with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I've never been interested in the sport known as golf. Sitting there watching a guy get his biggest 
 wood out and then smacking a ball many yards, only then to set off walking towards it, taking his 
 time, then smacking it again, hoping to get it into a hole in the ground. The sport just isn't 
 appealing enough for me. Golf games on the other hand do hit me with curiosity. They seem to make 
 the sport more attractive than it actually is. There's plenty of golf games on the market now, 
 from Tiger Woods to Mario Golf, all have something going for them, be it realistic or plain arcade 
 fun.
  
  Clap Hanz has been creating golf games for the Playstation brand since 1997, now the fifth carnation 
 of Everybody's Golf is here with us (AKA Hot Shots Golf in USA) , offering players a great golfing 
 experience on the Playstation 3 that's full of fun for casual or hardcore golf fans alike.
  
  It should be noted that Everybody's Golf doesn't have any sort of career or character driven 
 single player mode. It might sound a little disappointing, but the lack of career doesn't affect 
 how you look at Everybody's Golf once you start cracking into it. You'll forget you even bothered 
 thinking about career. The single player is split into three sections. Challenge mode, which is 
 the main bulk of the single player. Stroke Mode, this is just a single play on any of the courses 
 you've unlocked so far. The last is training, which is self explanatory.
  
  Challenge Mode is where you'll be when you play Everybody's Golf offline. It's the place that gives 
 you the chance to open up the unlockables. These range from new clubs, characters, character outfits 
 and balls. There's a lot of content to unlock and the challenge mode is filled with loads of tournaments 
 to beat. Every time you beat these they will allow you to select a card, which reveals what you've 
 acquired. Starting as a novice in the first group, you've got to make your way through the tournaments 
 until you have filled up the VS metre, then you can go off and beat the "boss" of that skill level 
 and ascend to the next class level.
  
  Blasting through the ten skill levels will take some time but the game does a great job of slowing 
 taking you through the game. The first skill level is really easy and only takes place on the first 
 course. Working your way through them unlocks other courses that gradually get harder. Clap Hanz 
 has done excellent work with how the game raises the challenging level, you never feel as if it's 
 suddenly spiked up in difficulty from playing the last tournament when moving on to the next. Special 
 rules make their way into the tournaments to either increase or decrease the challenge. It's a 
 good inclusion as it spices up the gameplay. Things like Big Cup rule make it a lot easier to get 
 the ball into the hole; it's a big giant black hole that seems to just love to take balls in. Others 
 are extreme weather problems and point handicaps.
  
  It's the first time ever that the Everybody's Golf series has gone online. Clap Hanz has created 
 an exceptionally well thought out online mode. When you first get online you are asked to create 
 an avatar for yourself. These avatars represent you in the lobby rooms that people join when they 
 want to play a game of golf. There's a varied amount of clothing and appearances you can dress 
 up your avatar with. The game gives you the ability to try obscene things like dressing up your 
 dude in a tuxedo suit with a Friday the 13th Jason Mask. Oh, and he could have a pet chicken if 
 he wanted to. It's the most whacked out part of the game. You are limited at the start to a certain 
 amount of items, but progressing through challenge mode and playing online unlock plenty of more 
 gear to outfit your avatar, just like if you were playing with a Barbie.
  
  When you've had fun playing Barbie, you'll be able to select a lobby and join the other players. 
 The lobbies come in different types, like jungles, indoor clubs, deserts and saloons, although 
 they don't really do much apart from the physical look. The avatar can interact with some items, 
 mainly sit on chairs and slide down stairwell balconies. A patch has been released recently where 
 a football has been added to the lobby, so people can kick it around. It's kind of a pointless 
 update and serves no real purpose other than to annoy people when you boot the ball in their face, 
 guessed I should of shouted "FOUR" before hand to give them a warning, mwaha.
  
  Getting into a round of golf online comes with ease. Tournaments are the main attraction. These 
 happen every 15 minutes, and there are 10 different ones for each of 15 minute slots, giving you 
 plenty of choices. Going online without much gameplay behind you will result in a lot of the tournaments 
 being closed. This is due to you not unlocking a certain character or course yet. It can be annoying 
 when you want to join in a huge session but just don't have the progression for it yet. The more 
 you play, the more the online really becomes its own, with lots of different types of tournaments 
 to enter. If you just want to have fun then you can set up your own rules and cup and invite some 
 friends to come play with you.
  
  There's no voice communication, so to get in contact with other players in the lobby you need to 
 type using text, using the inbuilt Playstation 3's XMB text function. A simple press of the R2 
 button opens up the menu for you to type words that will appear above your avatar's head. You can 
 also do this in tournaments after you've finished a hole and are brought back to the score sheet. 
 There's also preset text that you can select with the L2 button, but we all know it's best to insult 
 someone's bad playing with your own original abuse. The online experience seemed to work mostly 
 without any problems. There was no lag, mainly because there's not much data to send between systems. 
 You don't actually see other players play their round, only their results that appear at the end 
 of the hole.
  
  As you can probably tell, Clap Hanz seemed to put a lot of focus on the online. It's not the only 
 thing they decided to add though. After having the basic bar shot gameplay format for the past 
 ten years Clap Hanz have decided to feature a new "Advanced Shot" mode. This gets rid of the classic 
 bar and instead shows only your player and his club. Pressing X to shoot will make the player do 
 his swing animation. It will show a ghost image of a club to tell you where 100% is. The club also 
 flashes yellow when it goes past the 50% power mark. Pressing again will select the power, and 
 then for a third time you need to hit it when the club comes down to the ball and is within the 
 hit circle area. If you look deeper into it you'll see that in fact it's just the traditional three 
 click basic bar shot but with a new skin. Saying that it's still the best way to play it because 
 it just feels more natural that watching a bar go across. It makes it harder to judge those shots 
 that aren't requiring full power and at the same time it feels more like you are playing the game 
 of golf. It makes it more fun in a challenging sort of way. It's still not as interactive as the 
 Tiger Woods analogue swing format, but it beats the old fashion way that's for sure.
  
  Everybody's Golf has plenty of different shots and features the typical shots you'll probably know 
 of, like backspin, forward spin and slicing it to the left or right. Taking it one step further 
 than that are the special shots. These are unlocked as you keep using the same character, rewarding 
 players who keep playing with their favourite golfers. For instance I decided to go with the cute 
 girlie Jasmine (she's the front cover lady) . It was either her or the cowboy dweeb Nick, so I opted 
 for the cute one, makes logical sense.
  
  Every time I levelled up her Loyalty I gained a new upgrade of some sort. First it started with 
 more Power Shots and then it moved onto things like extra costumes and then the special shots. 
 There's a few of them and they all have specific reasons for them to come in handy. For example 
 the Super Back Spin AKA the Homing Shot is used for when you are near the pin. If you manage to 
 get a perfect shot and land over the hole, then the ball will burn blue flames and spin backwards 
 towards the pin a couple of yards. Others are the Super Top Spin (AKA Rising Shot) and Super Side 
 Spin (AKA Spiral Shot) . If you master these then you'll be at a better advantage for those harder 
 placed shots.
  
  So right now you are probably wondering if there is actually anything wrong with Everybody's Golf. 
 If truth be told then gameplay wise there is nothing bad at all. One thing that is disappointing 
 though is that unlike the other games in the series, you can't actually dress up your character. 
 Reasons given were that the character models were that detailed that opting to just give you a 
 selection of colours was less time consuming. Another thing is that there are only six courses 
 in the game. For a golf game, this is very little compared to some other competing titles on the 
 market. Clap Hanz has assured us that new courses, along with new characters, will become available 
 over the Playstation Network (with one course coming out on 19th June) , which is great news, but 
 they will cost money.
  
  Just looking at screens of Everybody's Golf should give you a big example of how great looking 
 the character models are. They are highly detailed and really stand out with rich colours and great 
 animations, complementing the anime style excellently. The courses don't shine out as well as the 
 models, due to some evil jaggies popping their heads up, but don't let it put you off as they do 
 have their moments with some varied designs and lush holes to play on. There's not really much 
 to speak about the sound effects. There's lots of effects of balls been hit, and hitting things, 
 so expected plenty of that. The courses have niceties with animals, planes, ocean waves and other 
 things creating atmospheric sounds. The music is listenable and quite relaxing; then again it is 
 golf, no need for heavy guitar and the like, not like anything fast is going to happen.
  
  I really can't stress enough just how much fun Everybody's Golf is. From the moment you pick up 
 the controller and start hitting your first ball, you come to understand the charm that the game 
 is filled up with. It's golf at its purist fun. Simple for new comers, yet at the same time deep 
 enough for the hardcore ball hitter. It is pure arcade at heart. If you have the slightest interest 
 in the sport, or just feel like taking a swing at a golf game and own a Playstation 3, then there 
 really shouldn't be anything stopping you from getting this game. So get your wood out and smack 
 those balls because this game is a hole in one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  never quite sure why it always takes Sony such a long time to release Hot Shots Golf game. In the 
 past, typically a Hot Shots game would arrive in the U. S. about 6 months after being released in 
 Japan. For this fifth iteration, we've waited a total of eight months. Make no mistakes about it, 
 as I'll emphasize this profusely: I wholeheartedly believe that the Hot Shots Golf franchise is 
 the epitome of videogame golf. It's always looked deceiving, thanks to its heavily Japanese art-style, 
 and yet it always features one of the best representations of the sport. Hot Shots Golf: Out of 
 Bounds is no different; it continues the tradition of the ongoing franchise, by never boring the 
 gamer, and always offering a rewarding experience. 
  So after waiting eight months for our go at the fifth Hot Shots Golf game, I can certainly say 
 that the wait was well worth it. Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds is the epitome of the franchise, 
 and perhaps the epitome of golf games. It continues to be both accessible and yet immensely deep, 
 at the same time. The addictive nature of the game knows no bounds, and it makes shelling out $60 
 for the game very worth it. On top of that, the online sessions can make for some great fun, and 
 supporting offline four player support is also a great move. A round of applause for Clap Hanz. 
 And yes, that was yet another pun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kawlyn
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Recently I've looking for new game that's easy to play and kid friendly for when friends drop over.
 
  It used to be that when friends popped over we'd just pass the controllers around and play a couple 
 rounds of Tekken or Soul Caliber. Fighter games are usually great for your casual or non gamer 
 friends, a couple drinks and some button mashing and your all set. That and fighter games lend 
 themselves well to company, in that the game, doesn't get in the way of people socializing. It's 
 easy to set down and turn off.
  Anyway with the advent of children who are now becoming old enough to be cognizant of what's going 
 on, but not old enough for the content to be appropriate ; we now needed some new games.
  Rock band does pretty well in this area, but there's a bit of a learning curve, and when a couple 
 people are playing, it is hard for the rest of the people in the room to carry a conversation.
 
  Which brings me to Hot Shots Golf, which is a bit of a stretch for me. In general I hate sports 
 games, why not just go outside and play the sport. Also in particular, I hate golfing. It's a perfectly 
 good way to ruin a walk in the park.
  But having read some reviews, the game looked pretty accessible, and fun to play. And who can argue 
 to Moe anime golfers.
  Turns out, and I never thought I'd say this, I really like the game. I'm actually playing it for 
 myself, not just to learn how it works.
  It's not exactly pick up and play though, there is a bit of a learning curve. I'm beginning to 
 see some of the appeal to the Wii. For a 'simple, cutesy' golf game there is lot of information 
 on the screen. Add to that the fact you're using all the buttons on the controller, this will be 
 a bit of a challenge for any of your non-gamer friends.
  Anyway it's fun, it's cute, it's rated E, and relatively easy to play for your 'casual gamer' friends. 
 For your non gamer friends I think the control scheme and interface is a bit complex.
  I gave it an 8 out of 10. Is it that great a game? I'm not so sure, but when weighed against the 
 requirements I had when I went out looking for it, it gets an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuxiMuxi
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  This was my first game for the PS3, and only, in 3 months after buying the PS3. After playing the 
 demo over and over again, I was sure of buying it. I couldn't be more satisfied. It's simple pure 
 fun. Never before was I thrilled with a golf game, besides this is also the first golf game I ever 
 bought in almost 25 years of gaming. 
  
  After advancing in the single player mode, I began playing online, and it further gained my respect. 
 It's really brilliantly developed. The online mode resembles a kind of habbo, with better graphics 
 and more fun stuff, were you can socialize while you follow the tournaments and select which you 
 want to enter. 
  
  Graphics are great, physics are very real, the only thing could be better is the voice of some 
 characters, but believe me, overall playing satisfaction is guaranteed. This game will perhaps 
 be one of your first games for the PS3 and surely will be one you will play most till the PS4 comes 
 out in some years.
  
  100% buying satisfaction guaranteed
  100% gaming satisfaction guaranteed
  
  Here in Europe, Hot Shots Golf is called Everybody's 
 Golf: World Tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukimurasanada3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I like all of the Hot Shots Golf games. I have played each one since its beginning w/ HSG 1 on 
 the PS1. This is another great game from the series.
  There have been some changes. For one, the graphics are smooth and silky. The swing mechanic has 
 changed for the better, and provides a more realistic experience while not taking away the fun 
 in playing and the accuracy you could get from the swing mech in the previous games. The original 
 swing mech is in the game, but i highly recommend using the new mech.
  The offline component is fun until you start repeating courses. This is about once you get the 
 3rd level (or Pro level) characters. But the thing that makes HSG OB way better than previous installments 
 is the online. It is fun, easy to use, and with updates coming, we can expect to see improvements 
 that'll make online even better. The only thing i dont like about online is only being able to 
 input messages via text, and you have to input it as though you were inputing a cell phone text 
 message, which is difficult on the PS3. If an update provided the ability to talk via headset, 
 it would be a lot more fun and convenient for the players.
  I would demo this game first, but i think most people will find the game fun, easy to pick up, 
 and hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This is coming from someone who bought practically every Tiger Woods installment from 99-08. Move 
 over Tiger, Everybodys Golf is here and has just taken your crown as the top golf game on the market!
 
  
  Realism or Fun? Everybodys Golf is most certainly the latter, and indefinitely proves that the 
 latter is the best choice. Tiger has been going on for so long now, it has become boring and stale. 
 Sure EG has been around for a while too, but this edition is without a doubt alot better and more 
 fun than the current Tiger game.
  
  The main game mode of World Tour is Challenge Mode, in which you start of picking between 2 novice 
 golfers Nick or Jasmine, and proceed to work your way though the challenges set then defeat the 
 opponent at the end of completing a certain number of said challenges, thus unlocking them and 
 moving up to the next level, eventually unlocking Intermediate and Expert golfers, more clubs, 
 balls, items of clothing and clubcards for more courses.
  
  Everybodys Golf is one of those games that are easy to pick up and play, but difficult to master. 
 The introduction of the new Advanced Swing mechanic is a welcome touch, but dosen't really add 
 that much in terms of depth of gameplay.
  
  Graphics are solid throughout, courses look great and the characters all have their own flair about 
 them.
  
  Where this game really shines though, is online. Playing a round of golf online with friends and 
 others from around the world is terrific fun. Just log in, choose a themed lobby, sign up for a 
 friendly game with 8 golfers, or if you're feeling up to it, signed up to a real time tournament 
 with up to 50 golfers from around the world, with the chance to win prizes and more items for your 
 online avatar. Sometimes just hanging out in the lobbies, chatting and exploring can be just as 
 fun as the gameplay itself!
  
  Everybodys Golf : World Tour is a non-stop fun packed round of golf. With crazy caddies and goofy 
 golfers it's bound to score a hole in one with any golf fan!
  
  --Dave --
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turnget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I Will start by clearing up the sound issue that gamespot has pointed out, yes the music is below 
 par at best and the sound effects are not much better.
  In saying that you have to understand that this is the sort of game that you sit back and play 
 your own tunes knowing that you will not need to listen to any of it anyway.
  what I'm trying to say is that any fan of the series will know full well that this is going to 
 be the case and will not deter them in any way.
  the presentation is its usual cheerful cartoony self, don't let this influence you in thinking 
 that the game play is anything childlike cause it is one of those game that you can easily play 
 but will take you a long time to master.
  the new control system, which is a different variation of the classic three button tap control, 
 is a refreshing addition although its fundamentals are the same.
  The multiplayer element of this game is a testament to how easy it can be if a little effort is 
 made. Too many times i have seen so called next gen games simply no where near up to standard, 
 when a simple game like this can show them how it is done on a much smaller budget.
  All in all hot shots golf out of bound/everybody's golf world tour is the best golf game out at 
 the moment offering you hours of fun and plenty of longevity due to its simple but well made multiplayer 
 mode.
  if you had any doubts about this game, rent it, or lend it from a friend and you will see that 
 it really is a deep, fun, attractive experience. A must imo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Hot Shots Golf has always been a consistently good golf game and it has become even better in Out 
 of Bounds. First, the menu system is really quite nice; with nice backgrounds and easy-to-use options. 
 The game also has tons of stuff you can unlock that really makes you want to complete the game. 
 The characters are very diverse and have their strengths and their weaknesses. The graphics are 
 very bright and crisp, although it sometimes can be a little cartoonish. But that is what Hots 
 Shots Golf is all about, so I really can't complain. One minor thing that I love about this game 
 is the sound effects, especially when you strike the ball. It makes such a satisfying sound which 
 makes playing this game that much more fun. The multiplayer is a blast, as well as the single player. 
 The only reason I rated this game a 9 instead of higher is because this game is not entirely for 
 everyone. Some people might like the Tiger Woods games better because of the more realistic characters 
 and gameplay. In the end, Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds is an incredibly addicting golf game that 
 has tons of stuff to do in it. If you are a fan of the franchise, I highly suggest to get this 
 game; you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I worried about paying my hard earned money for this game of cartoon characters on a golf course. 
 After an hour the game totally won me over and I understand why the reviewers use phrases like 
 "It's addictive". I got used to the cartoon figures and do not hate them as much as I did when 
 I started playing. The courses I have seen so far-that is two-have been really nice and the game 
 play is.... well.... addicting. That means that it is hard to put down the controller and walk away. 
 My biggest gripe is that it is so slow to advance in the game. After around five hours I still 
 have only two characters and two courses and what I have unlocked is trivial stuff. I realize that 
 I am never going to come in five under par and score eagles so I wonder how long I am doomed to 
 not see 95% of the game. Maybe waiting for cheats will be my destiny here. In terms of Tiger Woods 
 vs. HSG they are two different games and my respect goes out to both. There is no reason that Tiger 
 fans should not enjoy HSG. One side note, the Japanese game has been censored to take out some 
 sexist stuff that is considered good clean fun in Japan but not in the USA, so please do not buy 
 the game in America if you are tempted by some of the off color screen shots from across the Pacific. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first started the game and was treated to a title screen of tiny anime morons dart past 
 the bottom of it and a enthusiastic chorus of screeching high-pitched vocalists wailing "Everybody's 
 Golf: World Tour"!!! in a typical Japenese fashion. I initially thought OH MY GOD WHAT THE F**K 
 IS THIS!!! 
  
  No offense I hate the whole over the top Japenese Manga Anime shindig but after a matter of minutes 
 playing the game, I fell in love with it's sugar dipped sweet plum looks and immensely simple control 
 scheme that provided and experience so relaxing, it could rival the snoozy depths of Flow.
  
  Everybody's Golf doesn't so much as reinvent the long time sports title, now in it's fifth 
 installment, but refines it do such a high quality I honestly do not see how they're going to improve 
 upon this.
  
  Graphically, it is stunning. Yes, they aren't realistic and yes, Tiger Woods doesn't make a wide 
 smiled appearance grinning all his 34 glamourous white teeth in your eyes. But the cartoony, anime 
 visuals are incredibly charming and are an instant win over. Everything runs incredibly smoothly 
 and slickly.
  
  Playing the game is so easy , the swing bar has been totally refined and is incredibly simple and 
 intuitive so much so it makes Tiger's control scheme look like some sort of medieval contraption. 
 It's easy and simple but it's incredibly effective it offers the same depth and quality offered 
 in Tiger only more accessible to the players.
  
  The single player modes are incredibly in depth and offer a lot of variety with a League Mode offering 
 you the oppertunity to unlock characters, costumes and courses. Two player is increasingly more 
 competitive and with a majorly overhauled online mode, you don't have to organise Tee Times and 
 nonsence unlike the Japanese. Again, everything is easy to set up and wastes little time phaffing 
 about in shed loads of menu screens and option buttons.
  
  Everybody's Golf is incredibly addictive and charming package, it may seem overly enthusiastic 
 at first glance and may put some off, just don't let it. It is far more enjoyable than any PGA 
 Tour game EA gave released in recent memory and it gives the increasingly dull game of golf a relaxing 
 and 100% enjoyable rework it so desperately needs. Easily the best sports title on PS3, and a warning 
 to Tiger - you have your work cut out.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grayfox79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Hot Shots Golf is back, this time bringing its addictive game-play, (along with it's cartoony style 
 characters) to the PS3. Being very accessible to the newcomer, it still is a game that can be deep 
 and rewarding. With a fresh coat of next-gen paint and "new" swinging mechanics, the classic series 
 brings a much needed staple to the Sony camp.
  
  The developers have added a new Advanced shot swing system, though the traditional swing meter 
 is still available for those who prefer. With the advanced you have to watch your golfer's swing 
 to set the power and accuracy. The advance swing technically is still a 3-click mechanism. Pressing 
 x to start the swing, again to set the power on the back swing, and once more for the power. The 
 club will flash to indicate 50 and 100 percent power. After setting the power a circle will close 
 in on the ball to set the accuracy. Using the advance shot adds a tad bit more difficultly to the 
 game, though it doesn't take long for it to feel like second nature. Nailing percentages under 
 a 100% are a bit trickier. All in all, the new advance shot feels more natural than the traditional 
 meter.
  
  The core of the single player game is in the challenge mode where you unlock new characters, equipment, 
 and courses as you advance through the ranks. Each rank has 9 events, some 9 holes while others 
 are 18, where winning an event nets you a new item, and sometimes character. To move up a rank 
 you have to win a Vs match, which unlocks the character that you beat. As you rank up you'll open 
 up the game's 6 courses. Each character also has a Loyalty level associated with them, increasing 
 each time you finish a round with them. Loyalty levels are important as it will let you use better 
 clubs and balls, have more power shots, or things of that nature.
  
  The real meat and potatoes of the game is the online component. Upon joining, you'll have to create 
 a custom avatar, from there you'll be put into a virtual lobby where you can walk around. Here 
 you can chat with others , set up games and join online tournaments. You can either get into an 
 8-player user created game , or you can book a time to join a 50-player tournament. Tournaments 
 are starting all the time so you never have to wait too long for a game. Some tournaments have 
 a different set of special rules, such as using a certain character only, advance shot only, big 
 cup, or just combinations of these sort of things. Playing online is the part of the game that 
 is the most fun , as you'll not only be up against yourself but many other people that are probably 
 better than you. 
  
  It's easy to forget how nice the graphics are in this game. While you're entrenched in a round 
 of 18 holes you might not notice the ducks in the ponds, or simply the color of the leaves. The 
 characters themselves look good too, though at times they have a slightly eerie feel to them, in 
 a Chuckie sort of way. But that may be the result of the number of hours I have put into this game 
 already.
  
  About the only real drawback is the lack of online voice support. Hopefully Clap Hanz will have 
 us covered in an update. That and the lackluster elevator music still can't bring this great game 
 down. Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds offers the same great physics engine that you fell in love 
 with long ago. That coupled with the great online play makes this a must have for PS3 owners . 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Hot Shots Golf: Out of Bounds is a very very fun game! The game is visually appealing, challenging 
 and has a great reward system.
  
  The graphics are very good. Every hole is clear and easy to interpret. The cartoonish models for 
 characters adds a lot of fun to playing. I find the game fairly challenging. I am new to golf games 
 but I was able to pick this one up and start playing with the advanced settings because the method 
 just seemed natural. I didnt have to learn how to use some meter bar or time the movement of analog 
 sticks. I have played demos of golf games and they all turned me off. Hot Shots has me hooked because 
 of the swing mechanism. There is a reward system in the game that gives you new characters, clubs, 
 caddies and outfits to name a few. It is a lot like achievements on xbox live so it is nice to 
 have something to work for when playing.
  
  All in all I really like this game and since it is the first sports game to get me hooked I have 
 to say the game is really good. I can sit down and play 9 holes before I go to work in the morning 
 and just have a lot of fun. I havent tried the multi player yet but that is very hard to do on 
 the playstation network anyway. Finding friends is near impossible so I am a little let down by 
 this fact and think unfortunately multi player wont be an option for me for a long time. 
  
  The game is great fun but the multi player (due to playstation network) is a severe let down. 
 If this game would come out for 360 with Live then I would buy it again just to have someone to 
 play with.
  
  The game rates high but outside of the developers control is the play station network so I cant 
 give it a score too high mainly due to being spoiled by xbox live. There is a new standard in multi 
 player and it is one that caused me as little work as possible to get into a multi player game 
 and one that causes me to have friends a button away.
  
  I would definately recommend this game but caution you if you want to play multi player.
  
 
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Well we were definitely due up for another HSG, and this one delivers just as much as any other 
 installation in the series. There are some obvious things missing, such as (at least by me) hope 
 that we'll be able to play our own soundtracks instead of the constant elevator music, etc.
  However while there isnt much new there are 2 pretty important things. 1st being my favorite and 
 that is the online play. While i've only played 1 tourney and 1 strokes game online i have to say 
 that the overall experience is enjoyable. There isn't much lag, which i know is a great relief 
 to anyone. With stats being permanent, no one wants to deal with the power setup thingy skipping 
 half the bar when u are staring down a 150 yrd chip to the whole, between two bunkers and a 7mph 
 wind directly west. One fun but more of less just a aesthetic aspect is the avatar lobby. You can 
 design little ppl to communicate with others and hang out in the "club house", and these little 
 guys can be dressed in bunch of other stuff you win in the single player mode. Not sure though 
 if the players can award items for official tourneys, but if not, that should definitely be a patch 
 in near future! All in all there are plenty of way to play, casual and serious and so far there 
 is actualy enough players to keep the waiting down to minimum!
  
  Second new thing is the advanced shot system. It is very similar to already years in use system 
 from TW golf series, and it offers some advantages to those that wish to go thru hours of practice! 
 Also almost all of the single player brackets offer at least one "advanced shot only" event so 
 if u really wanna get a shot at maximum number of prizes you might wanna master it! To me i did 
 not find it all that important but i guess if you are very serious about the competitve online 
 part of the game it could give you an edge.
  
  As for the usual stuff in the game, there are overall 6 courses with numerous layouts and a lot 
 of different approaches. You will play with a giant cup, strong wind, shuffle holes, only female 
 players and so on! There are also 18 characters offered on the main screen and they as usual are 
 "characters" and also offer a variety of play style. On a side note, i am not sure if it is somewhat 
 of a japanese trend to spastic out of your mind, but some of the available players are borderline 
 terribly spastic or have some unusual "love life" tendencies" (read: Bjorn, Suzuki, Sophia, etc)
 
  
  Graphically game is very easy on the eye with some minor grainy areas but which wont bother you 
 unless you are one of the people that drive the camera to the weirdest nooks on the course to see 
 if everything was scripted perfectly. Menu is easy to navigate with all of the options so blatanly 
 displayed that a blind man would see them. As always there is the profile section with you stats 
 and of course most importantly the video clips of your best shots. Game offers auto-save as well, 
 in case you get too excited and forget to hit L1 (or R1, i forgot already) , to save your best/worst 
 shots!
  
  Other than that pretty much everything else is there that a regular HSG fan would expect. So overall 
 i have to say that it is a solid game with a long awaited online play (at least by me) , and while 
 it doesnt offer a whole lot of new things should keep anyone in with a taste for golf or just a 
 good party game playing for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Police08
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  When i got this game i knew that i was getting a good game and that i would not be disappointed 
 because of the past hot shots but i was not expecting the online they added to it. Its awesome 
 and alot of fun. For the online it looks like they took the outline for PLAYSTATION HOME. You can 
 create your own player (cartoon) and walk around lobbies and talk to other players and interact 
 with. When you want to get into a game you just have to sign up for a game and wait until the time 
 stated on the sheet. (e. i. 12:15, 12:25,12:45, etc.) . The gameplay still as good as always with 
 a new twist added "advance shot" which is a little harder than "tradition shot" but it gives you 
 more control on the club and ball. Overall another awesome hot shots game that i love and if you 
 have played any of the others this is one to look at, and a great game to add to your collect. 
 I give it an 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwenaellp
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Fun golf game still realistic and the online play is well done, waiting for patch to add voice 
 support and more courses.
  The lobbies to chat are originals and fun and jumping into a game is easy, book a time and you 
 will be entered automatically...
  The graphics are really gorgeous and the sound might be limited but when on my surround system 
 I can hear people talking and birds singing behind me..
  The new shot system is very easy to use and you can view your golfer in different angles which 
 helps a lot...
  By the way where the heck is the review from this web site the game has been out since the 18 of 
 march !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  I have noticed many times that other web sites have reviews days before gamespot, weird....
  
 go buy it only Japanese developers can make titles like that....
  NiCE SHOT !!!!!!!!!!!!! Sony 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcspeakeasy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  The first thing that you have to realize when playing this game is that it is not meant to be super 
 realistic in the same vein as the TIger Woods golf series. The Hot Shots series has always been 
 about a more comedic, slapstick version of golf that happens to have some incredible physics involved. 
 It also certainly has a more Japane-sy feel to it, since every Hot Shots has been a direct port 
 of the original Japanese release. So adjust your interest accordingly.
  
  With that out of the way, I have been a long time fan of the Hot Shots fan since the second one 
 came out on the PS2, through the PSP version, and up until the current PS3 version. I have to say 
 this is by far the most advanced and enjoyable version of all.
  
  The one thing that is really noticeable from this version and the previous PS2 version are the 
 graphics. Everything seems to be nicely textured - the character renditions, the animals, the shrubbery 
 all look great. Everything is really nice, bright and contrasty it just makes you feel positive 
 while playing the game. I really like the character renditions actually, simply because of how 
 smooth and life-like they are despite being based on a cartoonish character. Also, you can't ignore 
 the fact that Out of Bounds also renders multiple courses AT ONCE, so that you can even hit the 
 ball onto another fairway and still keep it playable, which creates added strategy.
  
  I think that you ultimately have to look at the gameplay when distinguishing this game from Tiger 
 Woods golf. There's no Analog stick movement here, just button face pressing. But it still feels 
 fairly intuitive. If you have played the game before, most of the gameplay is very similar. The 
 new things that they add are the guide markers on the beginning drives. There are also clearly 
 shown arrows that help steer you to the flag hole. The one thing that they did away with is the 
 ability to have separate ball spin/trajectory definitions. In past games you could have a low-line 
 shot but still add backspin to it or a high shot with forward spin. Now you can only have a low 
 shot with forward spin or a high shot with backspin. It still feels and plays like the originals 
 which is a good thing because I feel like I can pick up right where I left off. The new swing system 
 feels better too than the old system. It took me about a half hour to learn the new system and 
 I am still adjusting to figuring out how to hit about a 75% shot. I discovered that if you press 
 the R2 bumper button and you can see a profile version of your golfer and that should allow you 
 to gauge the increments between 50% and 100%. What's also new to the larger console version, but 
 was also on the PSP, are the challenges, that help you earn the beloved character items. I liked 
 this approach as opposed to the create a character version of Hot Shots: Fore!
  
  If you are new to the game, I think the manual is actually excellent, compared to past versions, 
 and really does a great job of telling you how to play the game and gives you some great tips on 
 gameplay.
  
  By far the most important part of this game is the multiplayer option. I actually just spent a 
 great deal of time walking around the created game rooms and club houses with my avatar, double 
 jumping and doing crazy stuff with the right analog stick. When it came down to playing a real 
 tournament it was really smooth and fun. It really adds a more exciting element to the game because 
 you face real opponents and even if you lose a tourney you don't quite feel all that bad. There 
 is of course no real risk or reward system from what I have played through (I may be mistaken) 
 for winning the games just the personal satisfaction. You don't feel quite as bad because you realize 
 well... that there are probably going to be more than 3 or 4 others who didn't finish on top either. 
 It is just fun to play in my mind. What is really great is that you can take your customized characters 
 and their club and ball arsenal into multiplayer play. So characters of different clubs and balls 
 will be squaring off, which can create mismatches but it also encourages you to play the game more 
 on your own.
  
  Here are some of my gripes and they are small. More courses! The PSP version had about 6 as well, 
 I just cannot understand why the PS3 version could not have more. I can only assume that it was 
 a factor of time. But I will also assume that they have the option of adding more courses through 
 online updates. I also feel like the menu system is not as crisp in my mind. It can still be a 
 bit confusing to get into multiplayer games or what not. They also removed the put-put golf minigame, 
 which I think they should have included, it was not that hard. These are only minor gripes but 
 overall the game is excellent in my mind. I'll be playing this for a while at least until GTA IV 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lexvold
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  For those who have enjoyed previous version of Hot Shots Golf (PSP or PS2) , this next installment 
 is more of the same. This is not necessarily a bad thing. The game is engaging in its presentation 
 (both audio and video) and with the ranking system, the more you win, the more challenging the 
 opponents become. From a novice player to someone a bit more experienced, you will find hours of 
 enjoyment. 
  
  The addition of online multiplayer was something I wasn't too excited about, but after trying it, 
 I found the clubhouse easy-to-navigate and the online play quite fun. You can schedule a tournament 
 and hang out in the "club house" for it to begin or you can create your own "room" and in a few 
 moments a few strangers dropped by and a game began. I have found the online community for this 
 product very positive, an atmosphere that would be appropriate for kids as well as more "reserved" 
 adults. Canned and custom comments can be sent to other players at the completion of a hole, but 
 as the pacing is quite quick, the canned comments are usually all you have time to send. 
  
  In the first floor of the clubhouse, I saw between 20-40 people playing online the first day 
 the game was released. I'm not sure how many people will be available as the game's release date 
 gets further and further in the past. However, there are hours of challenge in the single player 
 mode, but for those not usually interested in online play, I encourage you to give it a shot and 
 know you will be pleasantly surprised. Online games tend go be completed in under 20 minutes for 
 9 holes. Short enough to pick up a quick game here and there to relax.
  
  As listed on the packing, the game runs in 720p. Not the most exciting or demanding specifications, 
 but it certainly is a step up from the PS2 version. It is hard to take the landscape too seriously, 
 however with the cartoonish characters, it is really more about fun than photo-realism.
  
  Sound is a mixed bag. From the voice welcoming you to Hot Shots golf in a nearly indecipherable 
 voice to the "crickets" that are incredibly annoying, this is certainly NOT a game you will crank 
 the volume up for. The music is something you might hear in an elevator, and if you did, you would 
 probably be willing to jump out a few floors early and take the stairs. When I make a close chip 
 to the hole the audience seems to convey disappointment rather than applause for the fine shot. 
 It just seems like the sound is unpolished, the caddy "advice" certainly supports this. My advice, 
 turn the sound down, the play and the visual and engrossing enough.
  
  This game is probably not worth $59. CC had it for $10 off and Best Buy matched that price. Knowing 
 what I do about the product, I would purchase it again at this price. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
