-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Iron Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/ironman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Flying at top speed.
 Tearing apart tanks and helicopters.
 Playing catch and release with missiles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abrupt spike in difficulty is intolerable.
 Levels follow same repetitive progression.
 Combat isn't very exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 4.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 433 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Secret Level
Genre: Action
Date: May 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Iron Man's high-flying new adventure is hindered by erratic difficulty and repetitive level design. 
 

  Held captive in a cave by soldiers armed to the teeth with weapons of his own design, Tony Stark 
 ponders his fate. Faced with the ugly truth about the world he has helped create, he resolves to 
 turn his genius to other purposes. Stark constructs a high-tech suit of armor and becomes Iron 
 Man, embarking on a quest to ferret out the evil fueled by his creations and salvage his shameful 
 family legacy. Iron Man, a game recently released in conjunction with the feature film, parallels 
 Tony Stark's plight. Iron Man dons the high-tech suit of wide-open game spaces and shiny visual 
 effects and tries to leave the old stigma of movie-based video games behind. Zooming around and 
 blowing up stuff does have its thrills, but that new-suit shine grows dull about halfway through 
 the game as the difficulty spikes drastically while the level design flatlines. After that, there's 
 just no reviving Iron Man.  

  Iron Man begins in the cave where Tony Stark constructs the rudimentary rough draft of what will 
 evolve into the iconic hot-rod red and gold suit. After his escape, the plot diverges from that 
 of the movie, following similar themes while pitting Iron Man against a host of enemies that fans 
 may recognize from the comics. Levels are bookended by cinematic cutscenes that generally show 
 a little bit of character interaction and then a lot of Iron Man flying hither and yon. Only Robert 
 Downey Jr. and Terrence Howard have lent their voices and likenesses to the game, and their performances, 
 like the cutscenes themselves, are adequate.  

            Taking the Mark III suit out for a joyride is a blast.      

  After the initial, 
 linear tutorial level, Iron Man is set loose into open battlefields for every subsequent mission. 
 Flying around these large spaces is one of the more entertaining bits in the game, given that they 
 are satisfyingly big and look quite good while you're screaming around them at high speeds. On 
 most levels, the terrain is thoroughly contoured and provides plenty of opportunities for flying 
 low through valleys or ducking behind ridges to evade enemy fire. With detailed suit animations 
 that help bolster the sense of speed, Iron Man is at his best when flying into or out of battle. 

  Actual combat is a different story. Of the myriad martial means at Iron Man's disposal, the missiles 
 and repulsor beam are the most useful, but also the least exciting. It's difficult to take on groups 
 of enemies while flying; not only will you soon pass them by, but you'll also likely stir up more 
 enemies while coming back around for another pass. As a result, the most efficient way to deal 
 destruction is to hover in the air near your foes, firing repulsors constantly, shooting your missiles 
 whenever they recharge, and dodging the constant barrage of incoming missiles. It's a shame that 
 a game with such wide-open spaces steers you toward such a limited combat style, but it's really 
 the only way to succeed against the brutal difficulty of the second half of the game.  

  Iron Man's other weapon, the unibeam, is very powerful but takes precious stationary seconds to 
 charge up, seconds that you rarely have. As you beat levels and upgrade your suit tech, this charging 
 time shrinks. You can also reroute your auxiliary suit power to direct extra juice to your weapons, 
 but that power is best reserved for boosting your life support. Even with these tweaks, the abrupt 
 increase in difficulty shrinks your available charging windows down to almost nothing. Using the 
 unibeam is doubly risky because it draws power from your suit, power that you'll constantly need 
 to recharge your life meter. Five or six missiles to the chassis while attempting a unibeam charge 
 are enough to force your suit to power down, which you want to avoid (especially later in the game) 
 because you can recover from a power down only three times before failing the mission.  

  One amusing element of Iron Man's combat system is the ability to grapple enemies. When Iron Man 
 is close to a foe, he can grab onto them, triggering the unit-specific grapple animation. Most 
 of these require a spat of frantic button tapping or a timed button press, and they result in the 
 spectacular destruction of that unit. Breaking helicopters in half and ripping the lids off of 
 tanks is great fun the first few times, but eventually it becomes more of a hassle than it is worth. 
 However, grappling missile batteries or howitzers is often worthwhile because this lets you control 
 them for a few shots and take out a few stubborn enemies quickly. You can also grapple incoming 
 missiles while in flight and throw them at whatever you like, which, in addition to making you 
 feel like a rock star, is a powerful way to deal damage. Unfortunately, the timing is tricky to 
 get down, so more often than not you'll receive a face full of missile for your troubles. Furthermore, 
 later levels are so thick with missiles that in the time it takes to catch and release one, five 
 more will have crashed into your head.  

            The structural integrity of this helicopter is about to take a bad turn.      

  Iron 
 Man is reasonably entertaining for a few hours, but then things turn sour. Each level follows the 
 same template that has you taking out a few consecutive groups of targets, then moving on to deal 
 with the superweapon or supervillain (sometimes both) . This is fine for a handful of missions, 
 but it quickly grows stale. You'll likely complete the first half of the game's 13 levels with 
 relative ease, but the latter half is a totally different story. Enemies abruptly increase in number 
 and become much tougher, and the air fills with enough missiles to cause a partial solar eclipse. 
 Constant dodging and frequent retreat behind hillsides to recharge your health are essential survival 
 tactics, and even elite evaders will experience their fair share of failure. With no checkpoints 
 to break up the lengthy missions, failing is incredibly frustrating, and it'll take a strong measure 
 of grim determination to soldier on to the end.  

  Beating certain levels will unlock them for play in the One Man Army mode. This places you in familiar 
 level environs with a time limit and a number of enemies to kill. If you complete your goal, you 
 will unlock one of five classic suits from the Iron Man comics, which you can then use should you 
 choose to replay any level. These might delight Iron Man fans, but if you're really going to attempt 
 levels again, the customizable Mark III suit that you use throughout the campaign is your best 
 bet.  

  Iron Man makes a decent opening argument against the just-another-movie-game stigma. However, by 
 smacking you with a punishing difficulty spike instead of striving for more complex mission structures, 
 it sacrifices most of the goodwill it garners in the early going. Completing the game is a frustrating 
 trial with no substantial reward, and even sympathetic jurors will have a hard time ruling in its 
 favor.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hyphysince86
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  Ok I know alot of you seen the movie and though Damn hope tha game like that to well alot of us 
 where wrong. The Game suckz big time the only thing I like about it is the diffrent Iron Man costume's 
 other than that the missions I found 2b really, really, really hard. Graphics suck, controls suck, 
 also It'll seem like you'll spend 8hrz tryna beat only one level with really isn't cool with me 
 but like I said the only cool aspect of the game is the costumez and the upgradez gotta luv upgradez 
 other than that it suck not even worth chucking it out the window (providing the fact u paid $60.00 
 buck) other than that rent it before you buy it why? because it SUCKZ man really it does suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
 suck suck suck suck suck suck suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Okay i was thinking iron man was gonna be a amazing game just like the movie which is probably 
 what all of you other players thought. Well we were all wrong the game was a total letdown first 
 the flying was horrible you would fly and go the other way you wanted to. The graphics weren't 
 as good as a lot of people expected. Plus the worst thing about it was that when you would fly 
 you would land where you didn't want to out of nowhere. All and All in my eyes this video game 
 really wasn't the Spiderman 3 which was a good game of the movie this was a letdown when it came 
 to the movie-game duo. So if anyone wants to try it read these words RENT IT FIRST OTHERWISE YOU'LL 
 WASTE SIXTY DOLLARS ON NOTHING. Bottom line it stunk wasn't a good movie-game duo graphics stunk 
 the flying stunk the whole game stunk. Here's what you want to do first watch the movie then that's 
 it you're done don't try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this is iron man... iron s***!
  
  God, when i bought this game, i thought i was buying a good game, but it was just a huge dissapointment.
 
  
  So, you start the game and you go to the first level, your in the mark 1 suit, blasting up enemies 
 with a flamethrower, quite entertaining, graphics are decent, so yes, the game is quite fun.... at 
 first, then evry mission becomes repetitive, just flying around shooting enemies every level, so 
 you beat level 1, level 2, your in the mark 2 suit and this time you can actually fly around. The 
 flying controls are a bit wierd: hold down L2 halfway to hover, hold it down all the way to gain 
 altitude? Does this explain why the R2 and L2 buttons have been redesigned? So, level 2 is beaten, 
 next level, flying around shooting enemies, next level, same thing, next, the same over and over 
 and OVER AGAIN!!!!!
  The gameplay is too repetative! GIVE US MORE VARIETY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  While i was playing, i noticed a glitch that happens in level 4 and level 10: sometimes, after 
 you beat those levels, the game CRASHES! HOW DO YOU MISS A GLITCH LIKE THAT!?!?!?!?!?!
  
  You also got a "one man army" mode. What do you do in it? kill enemies. Yeah, are you surprised? 
 Beating these levels unlock new suits to use in story mode and "one man army" mode, and each has 
 it`s own unique system things (like weapons and armour and all that garbage) but this does little 
 to save the gameplay. So overall: good graphics, good sound, poor gameplay, don`t play.
  
  Final score:
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  
  Sound: 3/5
  
  Gameplay: 2/5
  
  Entertainment: 
 1/5
  
  Overall: 10/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spymaster1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  IRON MAN!!!!!!! AWESOME GAME!!!! ONE OF MY FAVORITES!!!!!!! Very addictive!! First level is where 
 you escape with his "Mark I" Suit and its Kinda long if you dont know where your going!! The first 
 level is so big i kept getting LOST!!! And Then the second level "OF COURSE" is where you go for 
 a test flight... i died 2 times and i got kinda freaked out cause you only have 2 backup generators 
 so you have like 3 lives! But i beat it! this Game is awesome!! Just Flying around is Just awesome 
 and ripping off helicopters tail end and tearing off the top of a tank is just outrageous!!! But 
 Just 1 thing the controls are kinda hard to get Used to But after a while you get the hang of it. 
 ITS JUST AWESOME i Reccommend Fans of IRON MAN to buy this game!!! I GOT MINE AT "TARGET" CAUSE 
 ITS 10 BUCKS CHEAPER THAN ANYWHERE ELSE!!! AWESOME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Order26
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  = First of all, the only comment I want to say on the graphics of Iron Man is the visuals and graphics 
 are good. Reasons are:- It has good and well-improved cutscene graphics.- The Mark I and II is made 
 in a simple, yet smooth way in all-gray.- The Mark III suit is the best suit in the game. It has 
 great visuals and a little bit glossy.- The A. I is made in a [bad] simple way, they have similar 
 idiotic mind with the A. Is of Spider-Man 3.- Lastly, the effects and environment. I can only say, 
 when I played the game, was it's simple and good.
  
  Sounds:
  = The only thing I like on the sounds of the game are only the voice-acting, rock background music, 
 and the explosion sound-effects. When you're using a speaker, specifically 5 speakers and a subwoofer, 
 turn it to full [when your parents are not around] and experience the big bang banging sound effects 
 of Iron Man.
  
  Gameplay:
  = Sadly, the gameplay is... bad. I admit it. It was bad. I'll tell you [readers] why the gameplay 
 was bad:
  
  - It has repetitive gameplay. Surely, you use the same punch all the time.
  - There is no point-system at all, in which you can't even buy the upgrades. Only unlocking it, 
 of course.
  - The only thing you can change in your suits are only the "Explosives" and "Machine Guns", you 
 can't even change your "Repulsors" and "Armors" (not the armors Mark I - III) .
  - As what I said in the Graphics category, the A. Is are acting like they aren't true A. Is, to simply 
 put that definition: "S T U P I D A. Is". That goes the same to the tanks. They get easily eliminated. 
 And for the bosses in some stage, their offense pattern is easy to memorize, they go to the same 
 pattern all the time. And the only thing that is good in the game is its story.
  
  Replay:
  = Seriously, you don't want to play the game again, unless you want to unlock the bonus 
 armors and the other upgrades. And that's the only good thing in playing it again.
  
  Overall:
  = For my last comment: The game is great in its sound effects. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuGundam_20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought Iron Man on the first day it came out I had such high hopes. I just went to 
 see the movie and after how great it was I was more than excited to play the game. I have to say, 
 even though it was given such bad reviews, I was not disappointed. This game truly let me become 
 Iron Man and every time I play it I have a great time. The game play itself can get repetitive 
 I admit but flying around the expansive levels, shooting down jets or helicopters and even ground 
 based tanks with repulsor rays and customizable missiles is such a joy. 
  In terms of graphics, I don't why people complain about it. The graphics are very good in this 
 game. The detail on the suit, including when it gets damaged is amazing. I can accidentally fly 
 into a mountain and the scrape marks would be there. The environments look stunning, as well as 
 the machinery trying to shoot you down. As missiles zip by, you see their trail and Iron Man flying 
 is just awesome. That coupled with no frame rate issues equals top notch.
  Redoing missions are fun, and so is the one man army mode. Unlocking and using all of the suits 
 is such a great addition to the game. Also, they are all different and it's not just being the 
 same suit with different looks. These definitely add to the replay value.
  The only problem I have with the game is ground combat. Running with Iron Man and fighting with 
 ground based enemies (like whiplash) is too hectic and crazy. However, the games positive aspects 
 outweigh the bad points.
  I would recommend this game to all Iron man fans and gamers who want to experience what it means 
 to be Iron Man
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Gameboy
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  The reasons I gave this game a 5.5 are because first of all, this game does not follow the story. 
 Some people might find that disappointing and now they won't even bother buying the game once they 
 read my review. Second of all, the camera view is bad. I mean seriously you don't even know where 
 the attack, (the shooting and explosions) , are coming from. Third of all, It's hard to do a melee 
 attack on a enemy. The only way you can land a punch is if you were looking straight at the enemy, 
 but it's hard to get in front of him. And last, the movements and flying controls aren't good. 
 I'm sure the company that made this game could have improved at least the movements and flying 
 controls. To conclude my review I would like to say that I did not enjoy this game, but for those 
 iron man fans, I will not stand in your way and stop you from buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  When buying this game, I didn't have the highest expectations for it, but unfortunately, this game 
 didn't meet them. This is not the Iron Man experience that I had expected.
  Story -- The story in this game does relate somewhat with the film, though there wasn't much of a 
 story to work off of. Tony Stark, millionaire weapons designer, gets captured by terrorists somewhere 
 in the mountains of Afghanistan. These terrorists want Stark to build them a missile, but instead 
 he builds a model of the Iron Man suit and gets out. Eventually, Tony realizes that the terrorists 
 still have his weapons in various places, so he goes out to get them. The story is there, but it's 
 nothing special at all. The voice acting isn't all that great, though the sound during combat is 
 quite nice.
  Graphics -- Iron Man looks good, though sometimes the color of his suit looks a little blurred. Environments 
 mainly look bland and have weird coloring, along with the tanks, helicopters, soldiers, ships, 
 buildings, trees, mountains, etc. The graphics aren't anything great at all.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay is what shoots Iron Man down out of the sky. The controls can be difficult 
 to learn, since you have to hold down LB and A to accelerate while in flight while moving the anolog 
 sticks to steer Iron Man. Holding down LT will make Iron Man fly up while in a standing position, 
 and tapping it will make him hover in one place. Iron Man's attacks get repetitive, along with 
 the missions. Your attacks consists of RB, RT and B, along with shooting missiles. These controls 
 do get frustrating, especially when you use the beam when holding down RB. This attack drains your 
 power and uses a lot of time, time that you don't have. Most of the time you can't even use the 
 attack because tanks, trucks, helicopters, soldiers, jets, and so on are all shooting 10 missiles 
 at you. You can grab onto a missile and send it back, but you won't even be able to pull it off 
 as another 5 missiles come at you. Grabbing onto planes and helicopters is difficult, but is a 
 good way to destroy tanks. Missions get frustratingly repetitive. You have a map on your screen, 
 and the targets you have to destroy appear as orange, while other enemies are blue. Missions are 
 destroy 8 important targets, then destroy 5 really important targets, then destroy the boss's major 
 weapon that he'll use on innocent people and finally destroy the boss. Another bad thing is that 
 there are no checkpoints. If you die during the boss fight, you have to start over all the way 
 from the beginning. This will eventually make the game frustrating after a couple of hours. The 
 gameplay could've been a lot better.
  Story: 5.7/10 -- it tied in to the film's, but there wasn't really much of a story to begin with.
 
  Graphics: 4.7/10 -- Iron Man looks good, but the coloring in this game either looks blurry or discolored.
 
  Gameplay: 3.9/10 -- The gameplay sucks in this game. The controls are bad, there aren't any checkpoints, 
 levels and combat both become repetitive, and the combat becomes very frustrating as well.
  Final Thoughts: It seems like this game was made in one day. Iron Man can be beaten in a casual 
 weekend, though there isn't much fun out of doing it. For Iron Man fans, consider renting this 
 game, but whoever who isn't an Iron Man fan or is interested in getting this game, don't even rent 
 it. It's not worth it, trust me. If a little more effort had been put into this game, I would've 
 liked it a bit more. The repetitive and frustrating mission designs, combat, lack of checkpoints, 
 bad voice acting, blurry graphics and bad controls, prevent Iron Man from flying very high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_c4
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Where the hell do i start with this dismal hack job of a game. Perhaps with the controls and aiming 
 system.
  
  Flying is not a smooth process at all. The transitions from take off, to flight and hover are horrible 
 and clunky. He twitches all over he place. I didn't know Iron Man had Parkinsons, my condolences.
 
  
  The aiming and weapon systems are also horrible. There's no strategy really to what weapon you 
 use or when you use it. Just lock onto something press a button and some stuff blows up. Wow that 
 was rewarding.
  
  The animations are repetitive. the only reason i didn't give this a 1/10 is because catching missiles 
 and ripping helicopters and tanks in half is really cool. Too bad it plays the same animation evvvvery 
 time. It just makes the only good part of the game boring after about 15 min.
  
  All this game is good for is screen shots of Iron Man flying. They should have just called it POKEMON 
 SNAP: IRON MAN EDITION.
  
  I'm pissed off that this is another HORRIBLE comic book movie to video game attempt that COULD 
 have been amazing, and yet here we are. Spider Man 3, The Hulk, EA's Dark Knight.... oh god Cat 
 Woman....*shudders*.
  
  Movie. Great
  Game. Crap
  
  Play the demo, do not rent this, do not buy it. You will hate your self for it if you do.
  
 
  Better yet, look at the screen shots of this game and imagine it was a better game. A magical 
 game where controls worked, game play wasn't repetitive and Iron Man didn't suck harder then a 
 fat kid with a Slurpee, on a hot summer day.
  
  Epic fail Marvel Games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingceacser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The psp version was almost too easy and boring to play. But the ps3 version was almost perfect. 
 Taking the mark III out for a spin in the massively open levels is a blast, (although it gets repetitive) , 
 and blasting enemies with your repulsers really makes you feel like a hero. Although the game gives 
 you options on which weapons to use, and you can upgrade weapons, the repulser rays are the most 
 effective, (although the most boring.) . Another great option in the game is the ability to completely 
 design a suit from the ground up. But, on the down side, if you haven't seen the movie (or you 
 are mentally retarded when it comes to electronics) you won't understand the system. I mean, they 
 could've made it more user friendly, all the talk about systems and weapons is really hard to understand. 
 But, once you get used to if, you find yourself changing options every level and constantly buying 
 upgrades. 
  When it comes to graphics, iron man is an A+. The air shimmers around your shiny suit, and textures 
 are all highly detailed. It's also amazing that, even flying at high speeds, while barrel rolling 
 and quickly dodging missiles and bullets, the frame rate is almost perfect.
  The sound is also very good. There are many sound effects and they all sound great. 
  The only 
 thing that could have made the game more fun would be more variety. Some levels feel the same and 
 sometimes get repetetive.
  I know the websites all gave the game a bad rating but take my word for it, they're wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old-Snake1
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Let's see where to start, there are so many bad places. just to in form you, i have not played 
 the full game, just the demo on the playstation network. first of all the graphics were horrible, 
 even for a ps3!!! In reality the only good graphics were in the cinematics and iron man himself. 
 some of the reactions you were able to perform I would have to admit, were somewhat good.
  
  Sega you have disapointed me... from an awesome sonic the hedgehog to an incredibly lame iron 
 man : ( I expected so much. first i saw the movie... it was FATASTIC!!!!!!!!!!! Then i played the 
 game... it was a rip off of anyones money. To all marvel gamers, if you were ever thinking of getting 
 iron man, dont, its a total ripoff to gamers everywhere. If you ever decide to waste $60 on a marvel 
 game... waste it on DC universe. Any other marvel game is bound to be better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Budwize
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on its release date and couldnt wait to play it. There werent any reviews on 
 it at the time but from the previews it looked fantastic.
  The game really is visually cool to look at. The graphics are clean and detailed, flying is cool 
 and the cut-scenes are visually good but not as good on the ears. I dont know what they pay movie 
 actors to do the voice-ins on video games, but for some reason they always sound so bored. Tony 
 Stark didnt come off as bored as he did robotic when in the suit. 
  Here is where the frustration set in for me. Flying in this game is almost compareable to flying 
 the jet in San Andreas. If you want to go vertically, you push one button, if you want to go horizontally 
 you push another button. I found myself wanting to go up but constantly going down. So I reset 
 the inversion options to reverse the controls. That helped alot. The other issue, the biggest one.... is 
 the length and difficulty of the missions. I can handle long missions but when you are constantly 
 being hit with enemy fire from 100 different enemies, your suit powers down and you lose a life. 
 A block button is assigned but its one of those timed blocks that if you dont hit the block button 
 just right, you take the hit. With all the bullets and rockets coming at you at once, its just 
 impossible to use the block feature.
  On some missions you may get through the easy part of taking out all the enemy support vehicles 
 but by the time you deal with the boss, you have maybe two lives left, and you will die. 10 minutes 
 into a mission and your done, have to start over and do it again..... including watching the mission 
 movie cut-scene which cannot be fast-forwarded. So you endure all that and the next try comes to 
 the same dreadful conclusion. I'm a pretty determined gamer and didnt give up too easy but after 
 staying up late night after night and not progressing very far, I traded it in before I bashed 
 my controller to oblivion.
  If you love Ironman, loved the movie and are ready for one heck of a challenge.... go for it. I 
 failed and while I hate admitting I gave up on a game, I think i am a pretty average gamer and 
 feel that many of you will do the same.
  This is definately a rent first, buy later game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Scrap iron
  The game doesn't even start you off well - Iron Man's graphics look their worst at ground level, 
 so introducing you to the game without the ability to fly is, while chronologically accurate, a 
 mistake. Besides, ground combat is worse than in the air, especially as Stark's initial weapon 
 is the least enjoyable flamethrower of any game ever - it can't even set cloth awnings alight.
 
  
  Once airborne, occasionally - through fast-changing objectives - you'll lose track of what you're 
 doing, and the game will just keep respawning enemies until you figure it out. But some levels 
 require you to withstand such an onslaught, so it's hard to know whether your enemies are meant 
 to be attacking in waves, or are just respawning because you've not triggered the next event. There's 
 no way to tell. The AI is poor too, often unable to move around obstacles. However, there is actually 
 some skill needed to succeed. Tactical play is possible, with the D-pad controlling various useful 
 abilities - re-routing power to your thrusters, life-support, weapons and melee attacks on the 
 fly. It does feel like you've got a state-of-the-art robo-suit at your command. But in the end, 
 success almost always comes down to trial, error and the 'restart mission' option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeDynasty777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  Iron Man- You'll play as the engineer who creates lots of good and strong weapons and all of bad 
 people (Let's just call them bad people, i dont know what to call them..) wants to stole it, But 
 that engineer is not gonna allow that! That's why he creates a suit and/to retreive his weapons 
 to those bad guys. Now let's talk about the game qualities. This game is an ok game. It's cool 
 because you can fly using Iron Man's armor, shoot bad soldiers and more cool features. The sound 
 is cool too. Iron Man got some cool cutscenes that the player will also enjoy! And about the graphics, 
 it's sucks. The graphics of this game is like Spider-Man or worser than Spider-Man. But don't worry 
 not all of the games have a perfect graphics. Just check and try this game. And then you'll see 
 what i'm talking about! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  iron man is a good game in my oppinion. it has fun game play, good graphics, superb sound, and 
 pretty good replay value. the story in this game is very interesting and cool. it helps the game 
 move along with some interesting cut scenes. people have complained about the controlls, but i 
 think the controlls are quite good. it takes some getting used to them, but once you have the hang 
 of things, the controlls are easy to use. i think critics and people are bad mouthing this game 
 because simply its a movie game and thus it automatically gets scrutinized because of it. if this 
 were not a movie game iron man would have gotten better reviews. people also complain about the 
 difficulty. that the game is too hard, but the game the incredible hulk ultimate destruction and 
 ninja gaiden were very hard games too, but they never got bad mouthed for being hard like iron 
 man did. if those two games were movie games like iron man than they too would have gotten worse 
 reviews. for iron man its simply not fair to be scrutinized because its a movie game. 
  I give 7 out of 10 for the game play. as i said it has good and fun gameplay.
  7 out of 10 for 
 the graphics. good graphics. 9 out of 10 for the sound. the sound effects are great, the music 
 suits a super hero game, and the voice acting is superb. 6 out of 10 for the value and replay value. 
 its fun to replay the levels and the one man army levels are quite fun. i've enjoyed unlocking 
 the various iron man suits. 7 out of 10 for the tilt. very good controlls.
  so overall i give this good game a 7 out of 10. just plain fun. you really do feel like iron man 
 in this game. this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 3
Date: May 31, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  man oh man. all i can say is dont even buy, dont even rent..... just download the demo and that 
 is pretty much how it is the entire game.. they tried to add some cool feautures that take from 
 those armored core games but it did not work out here. I love the movie..... THE MOVIE... the game 
 is not worth the time and effort and is often frustrating with the bad flying controls. on a positive 
 note you are iron man. you look cool even though you are extremely small on the screen. and you 
 can fly.... long pause... yay yay.. this game just flat out sucks. they finally put the voice of 
 the awsome robert downy jr. and this is what we get in the end result.. dont worry robert its not 
 your fault the game totally sucks, your actually what made the movie great. if the developers took 
 their greed time with this it would have been an instant classic, however that is not the case 
 here. with the lack of arsenal weaponry. annoying flying controls. there is no point wasting your 
 time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Fact: the movie, upon which this game is based on is surprisingly good. Infact it is better than 
 good it is pretty bloody awesome and alot better than the tripe that was Spider-Man 3 this time 
 last year.
  
  Another Fact: I'd rather sit down and watch continuous reruns of the ever so horrific cinematic 
 expereince that was Spidey 3, that play through this jerky and uncontrolable pile of nuts and bolts.
 
  
  Iron Man is the game based upon the film and what I am finding very hard to get is the massive 
 contrast in quality between the two. The movie is an action packed CGI gorge-fest that will leaving 
 you drooling out your popcorn into a puddle beneath your feet. It's incredible. The game on the 
 other hand is another fine example of shocking movie to game tie ins to rake in the cash from lil' 
 minor who nibble at mummy's kneecaps until she buys the little terror's this bile.
  
  From breif research into game design and production and stuff, I am led to believe polygons cost 
 when making a game. In that case Iron Man must have been on a budget tighter than Pamela Anderson's 
 assets in an elevator, because Iron Man does genuinely look pretty sweet and on par (ish) with his 
 movie counter part. The environments however don't. The look like brown turd smeared on a dirty 
 bog roll. They are very brown and very uneventful. There are weapons bases, a few helichopters, 
 cars and the odd pixelly minion on the ground and that's honestly about it.
  
  Talking of the bases, this is kind of what the entire game seems to revolve around. "Destroy 7 
 bases." again and again, it's very repetitive and dull. There could have been something incredible 
 to spice the entire game up, like the bases were bright green, and the game would be 100% more 
 enjoyable. If I was Iron Man I wouldn't be wasting my time destroying weapons bases, I'd have a 
 bit of fun like mow down some geese in the sky. jump on top of a Jumbo Jet and get accused of being 
 a terrorist or go and kill some real baddies not these fake blokes from the card board weapons 
 base.
  
  The acting is atroshous, incredibly laughable but equally irritating and grating, obviously been 
 taking tips from Haze then. Robert Downey Jnr. is a smooth talking, witty and funny actor in real 
 life, in Iron Man the game, it's hard to tell wether it is Downey Jnr. or not as his performance 
 is about as sophisticated as a tree of brocolli. It's uninspiring and nasty, and if it is Downey 
 Jnr. shame on you!
  
  The cut scenes look no better and more like something from Madame Thessauds if they hosted an open 
 gallery in a greenhouse. On par with the retina offending character models of Spider Man 3 last 
 year, Iron Man sees RDJnr's face made out of porridge and lacks any real emotion whatsoever.
  
  Being Iron Man should be totally empowering. Unsurprisingly, the game presents it as an utter 
 chore as you battle the schitzophrenic camera which constantly goes off on one and does whatever 
 the hell it pleases, making flying, the one thing that should be cool, absolutely disasterous, 
 often resulting with your head crashing into a massive poorly textured rock. His weapons are basic 
 and lack any sort of impact, the sounds accompnying them are weak and generic. Breaking wind sounds 
 more empowering than Iron Man's Photon Laser Beams.
  
  Overall, Iron Man has two mildly good points, the suit looks good and flying is alright, once stabilsed 
 and not shooting or aiming or coming into contact with anything at all. Environments are as bland 
 as the colour magnolia and the whole game simply crashes and burns. Big Time. Unluckly Iron Man 
 is fire proof so he could be back for more...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyhn
Rating: 5
Date: May 15, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  ironman is big waste of time so dont buy it. i have it demo. its so bad because every level you 
 play you will just do the same thing just the same fighting system. combat is not exciting. marvel 
 has wasted there time with this game. because it is bad. well i dont get it the film is 10. but the 
 is 5.0 .every game made about a film is bad. only games like hulk or jamesbond are nice but this 
 game is bad i repeat it is bad so dont say if the picture of the game is nice or the vedio is nice 
 just download it a demo and play but dont waste your time downloading it. the only thing that is 
 nice is flying only. so please dont waste your money buying this game .gamespot if you can let me 
 play metalgear4 i could make game better and ill tell you what is good and what is bad so just 
 contact me. it takes 5 hours to finish it and is too easy even in hard mode it is easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Venomz-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  You will play as Tony. He creates lot of weapons. But in the game you will start the game in the 
 prison. You'll use the first metal armor. This movie based allows the user to experienced being 
 Iron Man! And you will wish that you have Iron Man's armor. And there are some really cool stuffs 
 such as upgrading Iron Man's armor. The players will direct power to different parts of Iron Man's 
 Armor or suit. Creating a variety of unique attacks. Iron Man alone will fight armies of fighting 
 jets, military tanks, Armored super villains and more! And some players says that if you play this 
 game you will not die. My answer is maybe. When i play this game i don't know where is the health 
 bar i just kept fighting and fighting until i finished the game. Funny eh? And the really cool 
 thing about this game is you have the chance to fly! Using Iron Man's jetpack. I tell you this 
 is the reason why i played this game. It's really cool. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Bah, i was so eager for this game and movie aswell, turned out it was a dissapointemnent, though marvel 
 fans can enjoy it ,other guys might not really get some juice out of it ,and totaly lacks some 
 REAL challenge.
  Alright, first the good thing that the cuztomaztion thingy is kinda cool, you can change colour and 
 upgrade your armour, thats good, but the game is aimlessly short .
  
  The another thing also is annoying that is the camera, when you fly, rockets or bullets shoot at 
 you right, well, if there something behind you will just hit it and lose your balance, thats it, bad 
 camera, really gets annoying .And the flying, god ,that looks that its the only thing in thee game (sadly 
 it is, caus most of the time you would have to fly all alround, that gets seriously annoying) Also, aim 
 might not be so bad, but then again, its horrible, trying to from your guns or from your arms really 
 gets messed up.
  
  Flying gets way reppetive, but the enviroments and destroying things seriously can get fun, though 
 then again, this game is a failrure, with bad camera, bad aim, And the reppetive-ness from the flying 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobmb10
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  So i brought this game on may the 2nd and I entered the disc put on the first level and i totally 
 was amazed the game was stunning the flight system is good the fighting is great and im great lol.
 
  
  So when you start up the game there are a lot of options to choose from movies, one man army mode 
 which you unlock for completing the game (i havent completed it yet) , new game, options, continue 
 game and so on.
  When you start a new game the main character (you know who) is in a cave melting some metals for 
 his prototype of his fight suit which is silver. when the clip finished you find yourself as this 
 suit and you must destroy all these enemys.
  
  And if you havent buyed it yet thats all im saying. but if you want more buy the game your self 
 and dont blame me if you dont like it ok.
  
  Thanks for reading this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patch5129
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This isnt a horrible game, lets open with that. 
  It really isnt, sure its not a 9 point something, editors choice, but its not the utter trash that 
 was the Spider-Man 3 game. The voice acting was decent, the combat handled nicely, and the visuals 
 were probably the best we can get for movie-based. 
  However it does have its flaws, the camera is a bit irksome, seems to always be slightly to the 
 right, instead of directly behind you while running. Also the controls take some time to get used 
 to, while you are hovering, up on the analog stick moves you forwards, and down moves you back, 
 but when you switch from hover to fly, up is down, and down is up; which, yes I know is how a jet 
 or such would fly, just throws me off too much when switching from hover to fly, forgive bad wording, 
 on the fly.
  There is a tiny bit of what one could call micro managing. You need to reroute your energy from 
 weapons to thrusters or health, and so on. While I can see how that could annoy some people, I 
 kind of liked. Makes you feel like you have more controll of the suit, instead of everything being 
 automatic.
  Like I said, this game isnt going to win any awards, but its definatly not a bad game. This is 
 the example of movie-based, going in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAC05020907
Rating: 1
Date: May 2, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  seriously guys i pre-ordered this from game cos i thought from the screens that it looked pretty 
 sweet but it is quite possibly the worst game i have played every after the first five minutes 
 i wanted to trade it in. the sounds are pathetic, the control scheme blows and don't even get me 
 started on the camera it makes devil may cry look like the bloody lord of the rings. but yea save 
 you money an get yourself a few iron man graphic novels i guarantee you will enjoy it more than 
 this game
  
  p. s. my little immature brother didn't even bother playing it before he said that is was horrendous 
 and asked me to get rid of it. i rated it as hard because its just so difficult when catching rockets 
 you need to press O well in advance or you will get hit and the camera makes it very difficult 
 to see where your getting hit from or where you are
  
  
  
  AVOID 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
