-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kane & Lynch: Dead Men
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/kanelynchdeadmen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting multiplayer mode.
 You'll see a variety of different scenery as you play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Artificial intelligence is quite lacking.
 Weapons don't feel right.
 Characters and storyline do everything in their power to drive you away from the game.
 No online co-op mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 1,447 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Io Interactive
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kane & Lynch: Dead Men has a lot of promise, but nothing in this game works out nearly as well as 
 you'd hope. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Kane & Lynch: 
 Dead Men Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The Good            Interesting multiplayer 
 mode  &nbsp;      You'll see a variety of different scenery as you play.                The Bad 
            Artificial intelligence is quite lacking  &nbsp;      Weapons don't feel right  &nbsp; 
      Characters and storyline do everything in their power to drive you away from the game  &nbsp; 
      No online co-op mode.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Bonus Content    Posted: Nov 6, 2008 10:20 am PT      In April, a 
 free update known as "The Dope Bag" added four new maps titled Clean Cut, Hooker&apos; s Trail, 
 Flying High, and Hasta La Vista for use in the Fragile Alliance multiplayer mode. Five new achievements 
 worth a total of 250 Gamerscore points were also added on the Xbox 360. &nbsp;               

 
  Io Interactive is best known for its stealth-focused Hitman series, but there's nothing quiet 
 and sneaky about its latest release, Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men. This time around, the developer 
 put together a crime-themed shooter that starts out with a couple of simple, heist-like objectives 
 and then rapidly spins out of control until, without much warning, you're gunning down soldiers 
 in the middle of a foreign revolution. While the journey sounds interesting at first, and has a 
 few bright points, it's weighed down by bad storytelling, a real lack of character development, 
 and a host of gameplay-related issues. The end result is a game that squanders much of its potential 
 and just doesn't come together as well as it probably should have.  

           Kane and Lynch don't get along -- not in an especially interesting way either.      

 
  The story mode opens with you in the role of Kane, a death row inmate on his way to his execution, 
 apparently convicted of being a very savage criminal as part of a notorious gang called The7. You're 
 on your last ride with a quirky guy named Lynch who tells you to cover your head. After an explosion, 
 you're both busted out and on the run. That might sound great, but it's a fate worse than death. 
 The surviving members of The7 have busted you out to force you to recover something they think 
 you stole from them. They consider you a traitor and will kill Kane's family if he doesn't comply. 
 Lynch is sent along for the ride to watch over Kane and report in if anything weird happens. Circumstances 
 change over time and the back half plays out like a revenge tale, but it's a revenge tale where 
 you don't actually care if anyone actually gets their revenge. Every single person you play as 
 or encounter is despicable and wholly abrasive; thus, it'll probably be tough for you to find anyone 
 to latch onto and care about, even if you typically go for this sort of crime drama on TV or in 
 movies. You can play through this story alone or with a friend in co-op mode, though this mode 
 is only available locally and takes place on a vertically split screen that makes it difficult 
 to follow the action, even on a widescreen TV.  

  The core gameplay in Kane &amp; Lynch is your standard third-person shooter with cover elements 
 and a light dusting of squad tactics. You can fire from the hip, but it's somewhat more accurate 
 to fire while aiming. Unfortunately, even when you're aiming, hitting your targets is more difficult 
 than it should be because your automatic fire has a wide spread on it. Kane is supposedly a badass 
 arch-criminal; he should be able to hit his targets with short, controlled bursts. You're able 
 to get behind cover and either blindfire or pop out for aimed shots, but there's no easy way to 
 stick to walls. You don't press a button or anything; instead you sort of get up against a wall 
 and turn sideways. Then after jiggling the controls back and forth a bit, you'll eventually snap 
 into place to get behind cover. It's such a pain that you'll rarely want to use it, and it seems 
 like you're always snapping into cover behind something at the most inopportune times, making the 
 game quite frustrating. There's no health meter, but if you go down, you don't die immediately 
 either. You can be revived by one of your teammates with an adrenaline shot. If you get that shot 
 too frequently, you'll overdose and die. If your teammates don't reach you in time, you'll die 
 too. Also, if one of the guys on your crew gets dropped, you have to make sure he gets revived. 
 If he dies, the game ends. Between your poor accuracy, the enemy's sharp accuracy, and the boneheaded 
 AI from your squadmates, this all adds up to you keeping your squad on a very short leash.  

  When you've got a team with you, you can order team members around individually or order the 
 team all at once by telling it to regroup to your location, move to a specific spot, or attack 
 specific targets. Telling team members to move to locations is the most effective move because 
 you can keep them close and revive them when they get shot down. Sending them after targets results 
 in your squad running around aimlessly and trying to get too close to targets. That leads to them 
 getting dropped in the line of fire, where you probably won't be able to rescue them. So whether 
 you're doing the shooting yourself or hanging back and letting your men do the dirty work, the 
 game is a real disappointment, especially when you consider how well this same sort of stuff worked 
 in the developer's previous squad-based game, Freedom Fighters.  

  There's only one multiplayer mode in Kane &amp; Lynch, and it's a great idea. Unfortunately, the 
 idea doesn't translate into a great or long-lasting experience. It's called Fragile Alliance and 
 puts up to eight players in one team of criminals. Then, it sets the team off to steal money, cocaine, 
 and jewels from various locations seen in the single-player game. So you might start out in front 
 of a bank, run in, collect a bunch of cash, and then escape from in a van out back. The catch is 
 the way the money is split up among teammates. If you all work together, the money is split evenly. 
 But at any point, a player can go rogue and gun down one of his teammates. This brands you a traitor; 
 thus, any money you collect and escape with is yours to keep. Of course, this also means that other 
 players who are still part of the team will try to waste you before you escape with their hard-stolen 
 loot. So every round is a tentative affair where you always expect the worst -- you're just never 
 sure when someone's going to finally turn on you. When you die, whether it's from the AI that opposes 
 you or another player, you respawn on the other side of the heist. Now you need to stop the heist 
 by eliminating the other players and you earn money by collecting it before the criminals collect. 

  It's a bummer that the multiplayer is mucked up by a few different things. First, you're still 
 playing Kane &amp; Lynch, so all of the inaccurate firing issues and poor cover tactics from the 
 single-player still apply. But another problem is that you can see the names of the other players 
 over their heads from a distance and through walls, even if they're on the other side. While you 
 can run while crouched to make your name disappear, it's pretty weak that you can see the names 
 of the police team members as they head your way. There's no element of surprise. Also, there are 
 only a handful of different scenarios for this, and they play out the same way every single time. 
 The security guards are always in the same positions in the bank and the cops are always waiting 
 for you right outside, so it gets old fast.  

  While it might seem like a basic heist game, Kane &amp; Lynch does a good job of moving the action 
 around, and you'll see a variety of different environments and situations, ranging from banks, 
 to prison breaks, to full-scale conflicts in the middle of illicit poppy fields. It also has some 
 good-looking player models, with Kane and Lynch both looking appropriate as over-the-hill criminals. 
 And even though their faces don't animate much in-game, they still look good. Most of the animation 
 isn't so hot, though, and you'll see a few ugly textures here and there too. Some of it looks a 
 bit unfinished, like the way you see guys go through the motion of hitting you with an adrenaline 
 shot, but their hands are actually empty.  

           The multiplayer mode is a really cool idea that leaves you wondering who's going to turn 
 traitor on you, but it isn't strong enough to make you forget the game's other problems.      

 
  The soundtrack is probably the best part of the whole game, delivering some tense music when the 
 game calls for it. There's a lot of voice acting in the game. The voices are appropriate for the 
 characters, but the dialogue is hokey and filled with gratuitous cursing. The good ol' F word is 
 certainly appropriate, given the nature of what these guys are doing, but when it's every third 
 word out of every character's mouth, it comes across as a crutch that drags down the rest of the 
 game a bit. Lynch frequently responds to your squad-orders by just shouting "F*** you!" Things 
 like that just make the game feel purposely abrasive, and not in a "gritty" or "cool" sort of way. 

  The game is available on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 as of this writing, and the differences 
 between the two versions are minimal. Both games have occasional frame rate issues and the control 
 issues with finding cover and hitting targets are noticeable in both. The only real difference 
 is that the PlayStation 3 version doesn't seem to have voice chat support. The multiplayer mode 
 only really clicks when you can talk things out with other players and try to convince them that 
 you're not going to turn traitor -- only to turn traitor on them and then laugh about it. Without 
 that, the whole experience feels a little dry. The Xbox 360 version also has the standard set of 
 1,000 achievement points, a few of which reward you for specific moments in co-op, like having 
 the player controlling Lynch put a few cops out of their misery, rather than leaving them to writhe 
 on the ground.  

  Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men is a premise with promise, and if you've been waiting patiently for 
 a game to really dive into the whole "crew-based heist tale" concept, you might be able to look 
 past some of the story flaws. But when you consider the nearly ridiculous number of extremely high-quality 
 shooters available recently, there's not much room for something like Kane &amp; Lynch, even taking 
 into account the somewhat unique nature of its story. That said, the multiplayer is a smart idea 
 that's worth seeing, even if playing it makes you wish that it was used in another, better game. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men seems like it would be an really awesome game and one that you would really 
 enjoy also. Well that's what I though even though it had bad reviews I was still willing to give 
 it a try, I mean why not you can get the game for like 13 or 14 bucks. 
  
  The Good:
  The story is something that I have found myself to like, yes it isn't the best that you will be 
 able to find in a game. But at the same time it defiantly isn't the worse either, sometimes it 
 seems a little boring then other times it seems to get interesting.
  
  Graphics well I wouldn't really say that there good but they ain't bad there just really ok. Yes 
 sometimes there seems to be problems with it but for the most part they ain't nothing to complain 
 about. So if you hear someone saying there just plain horrible there not, there's a lot more games 
 that look much worse that this one does.
  
  The sound is basically normal just like any other game hearing shoots being fired and everything. 
 There isn't really any music at all. And you'll defiantly hear the F word a few times maybe to 
 many times for you but it didn't bother me. There prisoners so of course every words going to be 
 the f word.
  
  The Bad:
  The biggest complaint I got about the game and the thing that really brings it down is the Gameplay. 
 It's simply to frustrating and I really couldn't get used to it. And most likely you'll get frustrated 
 with it also it will get on your nerves. 
  
  Overall Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is just an ok game, it doesn't cost all that much either. If the 
 Gameplay was a lot better than I'd like the game so much more than I do. I heard there was going 
 to be a second one if there is I hope they improve it. But as far as this game well it's a story 
 game that's about it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLuckyKidd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece and is well organized to story line. The original had such a good story, 
 and I love the way it felt like you were in an action movie. I especially like the huge dance club 
 in Tokyo. Shooting bouncers across masses of dancers and having mass hysteria break out, and sometimes 
 accidentally shooting innocent people that just got caught up in the crossfire, with Lynch cussing 
 up a storm and playing mind games with you. It is the best visual level of the game. 
  They can still improve on the controls and have the guns feel more like the guns in "Call of Duty 
 4" or even "Rainbow 6 Vegas". The cover mechanism should also be improved. The next one should 
 involve Kane's daughter, she can be a trained mercenary who you can choose to play as. They should 
 have a level where you go to Vegas and you shoot up The Luxor and then have the fight follow you 
 as you make your way to the MGM diagonally across the street. Then the action can continue into 
 the Studio 54 and then all the way to the Garden Arena during a concert. They could also include 
 a Streets of San Francisco level where you shoot up the enemies from the back of a buddies van. 
 It would be pretty cool to see the hilly and curvy road behind you while the sun is setting as 
 you drive through the Bay Bridge or Golden Gate. They really have the potential to make this game 
 a Perfect 10. Only time will tell. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigofadown
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch 
  
  
  The annoying thing about high budget games is that everybody buys them wether they're good or not.
 
  
  Kane and Lynch barely makes it to average. 
  
  The story starts of with your character Kane (AKA Marcus Adams) , who is apparently a british citizen... 
 one of the british citizens who is in fact an American. 
  
  He's a mercenary, and he's so good at his job he starts the game in the back of a police van.
 
  
  Then theres Lynch, a crazy mental agressive psycopath that murders people.
  
  Well that's what I gathered from the back of the case but he's really not that bad, sure, Kane 
 kills 25 venezualan citizens and gets sentenced to death but he's just misunderstood. All lynch 
 did was kill his wife who was probably a complete idiot if she let him keep that mullet.
  
  Basically one's shadier than a ninja cowboy and the others a Looney.
  
  The game designer has 
 obviously looked at everything that makes a good action game. And decided that he's bunged it all 
 in and give it all the colour and appeal of a shovel.
  
  That's right, it has got good bits!
  
  Yeh I suppose the voice acting was okay and the gunfights 
 were sort of intense but when you compare that to the dark scenery and terrible AI all their really 
 doing is looking for any excuse to have a jungle mission.
  
  The characters are probably the most ungraceful, ugly creatures since night of the living dead 
 but at least it had a cool black guy, the only time you see racial minorities is in prison. Thats 
 right, you go back to prison in order to get three more characters to get in your way everytime 
 you want to get up a set of stairs.
  
  I believe the game tried to encapture black comedy somewhere but it was about as funny a a Bruce 
 Forsyth joke.
  
  But the fast paced action combined with some lovable characters makes for some solid gameplay which 
 will carry you through to the end, which sadly occurs within about 2 hours.
  
  It all seems like it would make a better film than a game, next thing you know they'll be releasing 
 a film about it starring Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton, oh wait, THEY ARE.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayoraldigital
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Hey this is just so great that they are making a sequel to this game. The original had such a good 
 story, and I love the way it felt like you were in an action movie. I especially like the huge 
 dance club in Tokyo. Shooting bouncers across masses of dancers and having mass hysteria break 
 out, and sometimes accidentally shooting innocent people that just got caught up in the crossfire, 
 with Lynch cussing up a storm and playing mind games with you. It is the best visual level of the 
 game. 
  They can still improve on the controls and have the guns feel more like the guns in "Call of Duty 
 4" or even "Rainbow 6 Vegas". The cover mechanism should also be improved. The next one should 
 involve Kane's daughter, she can be a trained mercenary who you can choose to play as. They should 
 have a level where you go to Vegas and you shoot up The Luxor and then have the fight follow you 
 as you make your way to the MGM diagonally across the street. Then the action can continue into 
 the Studio 54 and then all the way to the Garden Arena during a concert. They could also include 
 a Streets of San Francisco level where you shoot up the enemies from the back of a buddies van. 
 It would be pretty cool to see the hilly and curvy road behind you while the sun is setting as 
 you drive through the Bay Bridge or Golden Gate. They really have the potential to make this game 
 a Perfect 10. Only time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handsome-Dead
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so yes it's all-too-true that 'Kane & Lynch: Dead Men' has some rather obvious flaws that keep 
 it from ever being regarded by anyone as a 'Genre Defining Classic' or the like, but it does have 
 it's redeeming features.
  
  For me the campaign in single player mode lacks any charm, and is probably best avoided if possible, 
 however I will concede, that should you have a buddy with you, the campaign in co-operative mode 
 can be quite enjoyable. This was actually the reason I bought the game (used of course) , I had 
 noticed that my PS3 games collection lacked any titles that offered a local co-op experience, and 
 after searching several stores 'Kane & Lynch' was the only title to come up trumps.
  
  That night, my friend and I sat down in front of the TV with a few beers and the controllers at 
 hand and proceeded to break ourselves into the game.
  
  Admittedly the graphics are FAR from stunning, in fact the character models appear (to me me at 
 least) of Playstation 2 quality, and some of the environmental textures leave a lot to be desired. 
 That said, there are some good looking locations, one of the most impressive levels to my mind 
 is set in a very heavily populated night club, the number of characters on screen is surprising.
 
  
  Plot however is pretty weak, very basic and overly familiar, and certainly isn't the reason you're 
 playing the game. I won't go into it here, suffice it to say it follows a very tired revenge based 
 story, with our protagonist being the traditional anti-hero with troubled past.
  
  Despite all these negatives, the game itself is fun to play. There are copius amounts of joy to 
 be had in shooting mercenaries to the ground. I remember reading in the Gamespot review that the 
 'Duck-&-Cover' mechanic was difficult to use, and while it isn't done in the same way as games 
 like 'Uncharted' or the more recent 'Grand Theft Auto IV', it still works, and is fairly easy to 
 adjust to. In fact, the controls were responsive and easy to use after overcoming the initial learning 
 curve.
  
  Other than the obvious campaign mode, 'Kane & Lynch' also boasts an online multiplayer mode named 
 'Fragile Alliance'. This is the game's ONLY online option, it is quite an interesting mode to play. 
 The goal is to finish a several round match with the most money. Each round begins with all of 
 the players as armed, balaclava-clad robbers. Conflict is created with the presence of AI controlled 
 police officers and security guards. The round is won by having all surviving players escaping 
 to the getaway vehicle, where any money collected is split beteween the players. However the game 
 allows you to turn your back on your fellow team-mates, killing them to keep all the money for 
 your avaricious self. It's this moral option that keeps excitement present. However it's disappointing 
 that this is the only mode on offer, even a basic Deathmatch/Team Deathmatch/CTF would've been 
 nice.
  
  So in summary, even though the game does have problems, and is definately no classic, there IS 
 still fun to be found in the multiplayer options, but probably not enough to keep you playing for 
 more than a week. For most, this is probably more a rental title, however, search your local bargain 
 bins and used game stores, you'll probably find it at a reasonable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic0491
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  Kane and Lynch is one of the many games I believe gamers will run eyes over, but ultimately disregard 
 when it comes time to make a purchase. The only problem I believe plaguing Kane and Lynch is the 
 not-perfected control scheme. If your willing to ignore that, Kane and Lynch will be a epic adventure 
 for all shooter fans alike.
  
  STORY
  
  Kane is a retired mercenary on death row. On the way to his execution he is kidnapped by a group 
 called The Seven. This mob is making Kane recover something of immense value to the group, who 
 believe Kane stole and ran with after a failed heist. The Seven have his estranged wife and daughter 
 captive and he must recover the item for The Seven so at least his family will live i. e; Kane is 
 still a dead man. He is partnered with a medicated psychopath partner named Lynch. You will find 
 yourself traveling the globe to meet with contacts, partners, enemies and take part in heists, 
 kidnappings, breakouts and hunts to find a lead on the whereabouts of the important merchandise.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  There isn't much to say about the graphics in Kane and Lynch as they are a bit of a hit and miss. 
 There are many indoor and outdoor settings in the game and most reviews claim them to be look boring 
 or contain bad graphical scorches. Yes some of the walls and pillars look painfully under pixellated, 
 but to be honest, I believe they are just about standard. The graphics arn't cutting edge but they 
 certainly arn't anything to complain about. I believe color comes into the 'boring' look. As most 
 of the environments have few color changes. The night levels are mainly shrouded in dark blue and 
 the jungles a dense green. The office building, alley ways, subways and banks are mainly white 
 because of concrete texture. The only color differentials come from the enemies and other objects 
 in the environment, which there are few of. But overall it isn't as bad as other reviewers claim.
 
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  You will find yourself struggling with the controls at first. Not only do the controls feel either 
 floaty with a little bit of weight at some points, but the guns recoil as if Kane hasn't got much 
 of a grip. This means a lot of directly aimed shots will be missed. However it isn't all that bad, 
 I got used to them by about the third level of the game and adapted to the difficulty of the enemies, 
 who will have very accurate shots. Because of this you will need to take cover as often as you 
 can. There is nothing really wrong with the cover system, just not that everything piece of environment 
 uses the 'cover system' and you will just need to duck behind it with [R1] instead. There are many 
 different weapons to play around with but most have a similar result of bad recoil and an approximate 
 one in three shots finding their target, with exceptions of the sniper rifle. First starting with 
 Lynch, you will control a rag tag group of mercinaries you will break out from a maximum security 
 prison later in the game. You can control them with either attack, defend or follow (ripped from 
 Eidos other game 'Freedom Fighters'.) These goons are absolutely hopeless. They will often break 
 away from a fixed covered position you 'ordered' and into heavy fire to get shot down. This means 
 the player must go out and patch them up before they are killed, putting yourself at high risk. 
 This is the major annoyance of the game as they will make you repeat missions over, especially 
 in the level 'freedom fighters' where you are placed in the middle of a small war zone.
  
  SOUNDTRACK
  
  There is no soundtrack to speak of in Kane and Lynch and the only time you will 
 hear a sound related to that of a soundtrack will be after an important part of the mission, a 
 checkpoint, or at the loading screen behind flash-back dialogue. All of the characters of the game 
 seem to say the f-word at least one. Some reviewer's believe this is over the top, but players 
 must remember who these characters actually are. Other than that sounds are typical apart from 
 the heavy machine gun which sounds like a machine-dart gun.
  
  LONGETIVITY
  
  Kane and Lynch should last you about 10 hours if you are exceptional at adapting to the difficultly/flaws 
 of the game play. The online is as one gamer would expect from a game of this nature: buggy with 
 a pinch of lag. However this could be because Australian retailers are selling region 2 (American, 
 Canadian) versions for some strange reason. This meaning Australian players will need to connect 
 with American players.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Kane and Lynch will keep you gripped mainly because of the interesting story and back story of 
 the characters. The game play is broken, but not unplayable. If you can put up with the minor flaws 
 making it 'mediocre' you wont find it as bad as people make out. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  + Kane and Lynch 2 is in the works at Eidos. Personally I cannot wait to continue the great story 
 line. I just hope a few issues are addressed in the game-play.
  
  ++ Lions Gate films have announced the Kane and Lynch movie with Bruce Willis as Kane and Billy 
 Bob Thornton as Lynch. I believe the story is already so great they wont change it. This can only 
 mean the movie will be excellent. Especially with the talents of Mr. Willis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  to tell the truth i've never been a big fan of Hitman so when i heard that Eidos was working on 
 an other shooter i didn't really get hyped... one day one of my friend rented it and i've got to 
 be grateful because it's one of the best shooters i've played. this game as everything a shooter 
 fan can want in a game:
  
  1- each levels has a theme from different things you would expect different criminals to do ex: 
 a bank robbery, a prison break, a subway gunfight heck even a war)
  
  2-a great co op experience that makes this game worth playing with a friend
  
  3-a good storyline 
 that makes you want to play it over and over again
  
  4- a nice cover system
  
  5-good graphics
  
  the only bad thing about this shooter is that the is sometimes collison 
 bugs that makes the bullet just hit the wall your covering with instead of your target that and 
 to get more amo you have to go fetch it from your partners
  
  this shooter is one of the best and to choose between this one and army of two your way better 
 off picking this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -GoD-LiKe-
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought that Kane and Lynch seemed to be a good buy. The first mission grabbed my interest, 
 It set up interesting enigmas that i looked forward to discovering. The graphics were excellent 
 and the characters appeared interesting. 
  
  After playing three or four missions a pattern seemed to appear, kill kill kill and if you have 
 time kill again. There just seemed to be too many pointless gun fights for which took what seemed 
 liked forever because of the difficulty i found handling the weapon's recoil. I tried to play the 
 game 'Rambo style' and failed, miserably. It seems the game involves hiding behind walls and popping 
 out to shoot, taking as much time as you need, not really involving much in the way of skill. The 
 storyline was just another typical gangster based genre and did not really do much to surprise 
 or impress me. 
  
  Overall i thought something that could of been quite special just became another one of those games 
 amidst most others, made merely for the money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  When i heard about a Kane And Lynch, i was so excited. The screenshots looked amazing, the sypnoposis 
 seemed addictive and the characters looks great, but coming round to playing the game is a differant 
 story...
  
  I liked the fisrt 5 levels of gameplay, first you start off as a escaped prisoner, and fighting 
 cops. Then you rob banks, crash vans, rappel down tall buildings and infiltrate bases, but then 
 gameplay seems repeative. After the first 6 levels are so, you get bored and locations drop in 
 condition. The storyline is gripping, but boring, and gets tiring. Your character also gets boring, 
 and gets andry along the way about certain events, which is interesting.
  
  The gunplay and cover options are amazing, and using your guns are super. The only bad thing about 
 it is, when you run out of ammo, Lynch usually has some, and he is in the most arguble places ever! 
 Your teammates are also a bad asset to the game, always needing to be treated with a dose of medicine, 
 and if they all get hurt, you have no time to save them all.
  
  Overall, a good game, neat graphics, good characters, great gameplay and gun power, must see! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killmen21
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  The game Kane and Lynch was pretty good but it managed to leave quite alot to be desired. the overall 
 difficulty of this game wasnt very there were some difficult parts like the dump truck or when 
 you can find snipers but over all it was fairly easy. The ending of this game really pissed me 
 of i saw it and was like" why did i waste my time on this game???" this game also has some really 
 stupid parts like why the hell would you leave your hostage with an unstable phyco it makes no 
 sence. then theres still the missing parts of the story you only here of what happened before in 
 little segments so when the group of 7 showed up i was like "who are these guys? and why are they 
 trying to kill me? i so confused..." but i found that the shooting and intense game play made up 
 for the missing story, crappy ending, and stupid choices your guy makes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sluggo080
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing with the graphics and AI and everything. The co-op is perfect and the online 
 is superb. Why in the world would these PEOPLE give this game bad review? you just have to get 
 this game now don't wait go get it now. I mean dont listen to the other butt holes out there. You 
 go and get this game now ya hear me? GO GO GO GO GOGO GO GO GO GO GO GOG OG GO GO GO GO GO GO! 
 GOG GO BUY THIS GAME NOW! GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jablac
Rating: 2
Date: May 9, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch.... needless to say "HORRIBLE." I was a bit disappointed. I had hopes of playing 
 a decent 3rd person shooter and what I received in return was... well I think the GSP's that created 
 it refer to it as a "game", but what I got had to be a practical joke. Guess I should have listened 
 to the reviews... oh well lesson learned, time wasted, and money not well spent. If you like wasting 
 your life on meaningless trash this is just the "game" for you. I don't even know why I am wasting 
 my time writing this review. Way to dedicate yourselves to creating a GREAT "game" EIDOS  
 Jesus, really I have to continue to write more on this review. Ok... The game takes forever to install, 
 the graphics are very cartoony, when you shoot someone or get shot it looks like they/you have 
 been shot by a paintball gun, very unrealistic. This game had plenty of potential, but turned out 
 to be nothing but WEAK SAUCE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 9, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  It should be noted that I played the whole of Kane & Lynch in co-op a friend of mine had bought 
 the game at the same time he bought his PS3 so I'll give both our summaries. We were both anticipating 
 some Dead To Rights nostalgia of last gen instead we got this. Kane & Lynch was'nt bad per se it 
 was just poorly executed, The storyline was clear as mud (kill this guy find that guy who shot 
 this guy, kill him and so on) Kane who is a brutal mercenary and Lynch an over-medicated sociopath/psychopath 
 are disturbingly interesting but dissapointingly under-developed the game never fully explore's 
 what make these two who they are. The guns feel alittle funny and take some getting used to but 
 once you do each shot has this satisfying "pop" to it, although most missions consist of "kill 
 dozens of cops" which as ridiculous as it sounds left me feeling alittle sick and guilty. (I'am 
 coincidentally in school majoring in Criminal Justice) . As for sound the voice acting was great 
 the only problem we had was the constant cursing, the bickering between the two characters was 
 funny while it lasted but we ended up having to turn the volume down due to my friends 7 year old 
 nephew in the next room. altogether Dead men was'nt a bad game it just needed some more polish 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Based On Demo:
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Kane & Lynch: Dead Man, based on level Retomoto Tower, is an amazing fast-paced tactical shooter. 
 You will play as Kane with 4 partners, including Lynch. You will begin on the roof of Retomoto 
 Tower, where you will have no gun until you kill and take one. Later, Kane and his crew will rappel 
 down the building, place a bomb on the window, and breach in. You will battle through many guards 
 and later police officers, when escaping the building. Moreover, there are many weapons to use 
 and also if ever in need of ammo, your partners have you covered. When the meter showing the number 
 of bullets turns red, Kane will automatically call for ammo. Also, your partners can give you adrenaline 
 to heal you, however, to much adrenaline will sooner or later kill you. Furthermore, the graphics 
 are amazing, with great facial details and environment textures. The audio is incredible, especially 
 the voice overs. However, what I did not like, was the camera view, which many times got in the 
 way. Also, if a body part of an enemy is sticking out from a corner and you aim and directly hit 
 it, it usually does not go through. Overall, Kane & Lynch: Dead Man has its flaws, but still seems 
 like a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  i know alot of gamers of putting this game down badly, but i played the game , and yes the shooting 
 controlls are a liitle stiff and kinda crazy, but the game is pretty fun in its own right. ive 
 played worst shooter games. they could of made this game a little more interesting, but i have 
 nothing to complain about, because its really not as bad as people say, i think some gamers are 
 just spoiled to the other spot on games, would i pay $60.00 for the game ? NO! would i rent it 
 and play it until the finished ? YES!. this game is worth playing, i would nt call it great , but 
 its good . i dont think it s worth a 6.0 , go out and rent it first and see , because all gamerz 
 are different with different opinions. i m gonna to rate this a 7.0 because its worth at least 
 that. do not pay 60.00 for this game , because just no. but go ahead and enjoy it for a week. but 
 i agree they should of definitly perfected the shooting controls, because its pretty crapping, 
 and it s hard to actually shoot somethingor someone. thats about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Developer Io Interactive is capable of creating an immersing tone and feel to their games, as previously 
 seen with the Hitman series. Deep and twisted characters have always been an important factor. 
 Nobody has come close to Agent 47's love of killing. I'm willing to bet that Io's newest duo, Kane 
 and Lynch don't love killing as much, but they are just as sick and twisted.
  
  The best thing that Kane and Lynch has going for it is its well developed story. Kane and Lynch 
 have really deep, interesting back stories that are constantly referred to mysteriously, but are 
 never really touched down upon. The two are put in a deadly situation, and must do the impossible, 
 to stay alive themselves, and to save their loved ones.
  
  A warning: Do not play Kane and Lynch in the presence of any small children. I'm not exaggerating 
 here. Every fifth word is a profanity. Many people won't find it offensive at all, and me, at the 
 age I am, found it absolutely hilarious. Every character in the game says the F word at least once. 
 Even the smallest roles.
  
  What is expected out of something like that, is that Kane and Lynch develop a camaraderie and become 
 brothers. Kane and Lynch are the exact opposite of that. They hate each other more at the end of 
 the title, than they do at the start. This keeps the gritty style of the game, that you'll get 
 used to and hooked on.
  
  However, as great as the story is, Io Interactive made a game. That game is good, but doesn't live 
 up to the story that keeps it flowing. As a third person shooter, Kane and Lynch has plenty of 
 flaws. Enemy AI is questionable all the time. In several levels, enemies will just stand there, 
 waiting to get shot down instantly. Squad AI doesn't fair much better. The controls are often clunky 
 and slow, and it can make situations downright impossible to pull off. There were several times 
 where I felt like stopping right then, and give the game a 4.0.
  
  Of course, that wouldn't be fair to the game. Despite those huge flaws (Believe me, when I say 
 huge. Those are the only issues in the whole game. Only three flaws. However, all three are huge, 
 and effect gameplay in a big way, making some parts "really gay Kane and Lynch has a lot of merits 
 that deserve to be stated. The entire game runs at a real fast, kick ass, action move pace. Every 
 level just swarms you with enemies, hardly giving you time to think. All you can do is blast away 
 with anything you have available.
  
  The shooting is very competent. After playing Army of Two, and Dark Sector, both of which had slippery 
 shooting mechanics, it's a breath of fresh air to play a game with well working aiming and recoil. 
 The squad commands do work very well for the most part. You have the ability to tell your team 
 to hold back, go ahead, attack, or stay by you. This is great, but if you choose to ignore the 
 commands, your team will still get the job done, although occasionally they do go crazy.
  
  Kane and Lynch also has a great cover system. Just pressing up against a wall, and you'll easily 
 take cover on it. You can blind fire with surprising precision, and you can lean out and aim. Enemies 
 will also take cover, but they're often retarded and will lean out for wayyyyyyyyyyyy too long. 
 The cover system isn't as smooth working as in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, but it does work out, 
 and you will value it.
  
  Getting back to the issues I found with the game, the controls are just too slow and clunky to 
 make the game fun. Turning is awkward, character movements are slow, and animations are off. There 
 are more than a few times where you'll need precision to get through, and you'll end up retrying 
 parts over and over until you get it right.
  
  The enemy AI is just dumb. They don't have any techniques at all, and it's as if the bad guy found 
 their mercenaries in the Yellow Pages. What's really uneven, is although it's obvious that enemy 
 IQ is 17, they have insane marksmanship, and will constantly snipe you out with pistols and assault 
 rifles. You'll hate it.
  
  The campaign is only about 7 hours long, but the story's so great, it's worth doing twice, perhaps 
 with a split screen friend. What's really odd and unappreciated is the lack of online coop. This 
 would've been okay for a Ps2 or Xbox game, but it doesn't go by unnoticed in the next generation 
 of gaming. It's a shame.
  
  The one multiplayer mode, Fragile Alliance is really good. 8 players all start off on one team, 
 and try to rob a bank. Once the loot has been taken, you can try to take it all for yourself by 
 killing a team mate. Then, you are on your own, and our team has to take you out. It's really interesting, 
 and fits the mood of trust and betrayal well. It's no Call of Duty 4, but it is really fun, and 
 is the best part of the game.
  
  Kane and Lynch has poor graphics at a technical standpoint. Textures are bland, animations are 
 weak, there's lots of screen tearing, and framerate stutters. It doesn't look bad, but it definitely 
 doesn't look good. At least the art style is great, and the atmosphere and mood is even better.
 
  
  Dialogue is perfectly delivered, and the digital score is even better. There could've been more 
 variety, but overall the sound quality is top notch.
  
  So, that's it for my Kane and Lynch review. It isn't the best game out there, and it's fairly generic, 
 but the great story, characters, and well working shooting mechanics are all good. It's definitely 
 not the worst you can do for a 10 dollar rent. Fans of action will likely find something to like 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  For a game that's about revenge and shooting stuff and whether or not you can trust your team mates, 
 the story to Kane an d Lynch: Dead Men should be amazing, but it's as shallow as soap opera. For 
 a start you are busted out of a prison van along with your newly acquainted prison pal Lynch to 
 a street filled war zone. Once you are slapped about by your rescuers and shooting your way through 
 swat police. You're then taken to a organized crime ring known as the seven, which you only ever 
 seen four of them. Maybe "the seven" sounded better even though it adds to the ambiguous plot. 
 Your then told to go and retrieve "it" whatever "it" is, while under the watchful eye of Lynch. 
 From here it's a kind of rollercoaster ride of good levels and then bad ones.
  
  Some of these levels have you robbing banks and sneaking into nightclubs to kidnap the boss which 
 is what you would want from a kind of action crime game. But the second half of the game sees you 
 fighting civil wars in foreign countries, all thanks to the useless plot. Its almost as if the 
 writers got bored halfway through. Even though the minor characters are forgettable, and seeing 
 as most of them die within a few seconds of meeting them, Kane and Lynch are neatly characterized, 
 both with their flaws. Through Single player, you'll play as Kane, a man who wants his family back 
 and will do anything to get them back even turn his back on his pals. He's the kind of character 
 Bruce Willis could play, whereas Lynch is a psychopathic alleged wife beater who is on medication 
 and tend to blackout and trip halfway through bank jobs. They are the perfect characters to put 
 in the story, they swear every five seconds and all they do is argue, but the story is never really 
 stretched to give you a full idea on what's going on. Ironically the same can be said about the 
 gameplay.
  
  The game plays like any other third person shooter, except that you can't really lock on to targets, 
 and the idea of teamwork is practically non-existent to the AI which usually does its own thing. 
 Control in this game could do with a bit of tightening up, for a start, you can get cover behind 
 walls and things, but there's no button to do it, you kind of just wiggle yourself up to it and 
 then it automatically does it for you. Cover should work better, especially if you can still get 
 shot at. Although the controls in the game do feel a bit loose, overall it does have its merits, 
 switching weapons and throwing grenades do work right, and after getting used to shooting and aiming, 
 it's not so bad, and could be a lot worse. Grenades can be thrown back at the enemy and in close 
 quarters you can beat up the enemy. One thing that lets itself down however is the effects, firing 
 a gun should have a powerful feeling, but in Kane and Lynch, the machine guns just rattle and grenades 
 let out a pitiful pop, Guns should bang and grenades should explode. In Kane and Lynch you can 
 only carry one two handed weapon and one handgun, followed by two types of grenades, the frag and 
 the smoke grenades. So when your gunning someone down, you need to make a choice about whether 
 you want his shotgun or whether to keep hold of your AK47. A novelty that doesn't really keep itself 
 memorable is that you can swap weapons with Lynch, but in reality it doesn't really matter because 
 you won't feel the power differentiation between the machine guns and shotguns and the handguns 
 are simply a last resort.
  
  The best amount of fun really lies in both co-op story mode, and the single player online mode. 
 Co-op simply makes the story mode a lot easier and a bit more interesting as you'll have more of 
 a strategy with a friend than the computer. Online mode is actually a really interesting concept. 
 You are put in a team with up to five people in order to do a mission, which involves you robbing 
 a bank, a jewellers or a caf, the money you receive can go to buying better weapons for future 
 rounds, however if you get killed you end up on the police side in order to stop your old team 
 mates reaping all the rewards, but the best part is you can turn traitor and attempt to kill everyone 
 in order to get the rewards to yourself, the risk is everyone can see where you on the map. It 
 makes the gameplay a bit more thrilling as you can never tell what's going to happen and whether 
 you can trust your team.
  
  The Attention to detail has been primarily put on the graphics, as the different locations do look 
 impressive, from scaling tall buildings you can even see so far out to the city in 3D, and the 
 roads that make up the busy Tokyo streets have all kinds of detail. The characters themselves look 
 good at times, with deep detailed expressions and cool looking cut-scenes. It's just a shame that 
 they didn't put most of the attention on the controls and the gameplay, otherwise Kane and Lynch 
 would have been a much tighter game. But for 50 it's probably to rich for its quality, and better 
 left for a bargain buy second hand
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  They had a good idea when thinking this game but it was designed poorly a lot of issues killed 
 this game. I'm used to manually reloading my weapons so when I push the button I'm used to what 
 happened? I gave my crew members instructions. So besides the fact that the graphics in the playable 
 sections of the game were less than impressive. the only exceptions was the cut scenes than again 
 they always look good but you shouldn't base the game on Cut Scenes you should base them on how 
 the game plays. You play as Kane a member of a gang who is accused of stealing some goods from 
 the crew you worked for. So now they give you two weeks (if I remember correctly) to get it back 
 or Kane's Family will pay. to top it off you are paired with Lynch who is a freaking nut job. Who 
 suffers from blackouts also when he black outs he kills everyone who gets in his way. The story 
 is good but the fact the game is so poorly constructed it holds it back. I was having high hopes 
 for this game but for the issues with the game it only gets a 3 out of 5 it also gets a M for Violence/Language. 
 If you want to try and take a crack at this game go ahead.
  Pros:
  1. Great Places/Scenery
  
  Cons:
  1. Online isn't fun! not even with your friends.
  2. 
 shooting Is Horrible!
  3. A. I. is really stupid
  4. Story gets off track
  5. Hiding behind walls is really difficult
  6. The "F" word is used every 3 Seconds *Not and 
 exaggeration*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  good gameplay, decent story, a bit short, which hurts replay value. Aslo decent graphics. Anyone 
 who likes crime stories or even if you like just third person shooters, this is the game for you. 
 You want to get through it as fast as possible to see the story unfold. It's a good game that should 
 be at least rented by anyone who can play M games. It's hard to believe that people rate this soo 
 low, it's one of the most underated games out there, and the online helps the very decent and good 
 single player. The online combines teamwork and betrayl flawlessly. In single player co-op, player 
 2 plays as Lynch and just like single player, player 1 plays Kane. This is neat because then you 
 can learn Lynch's story. Altogether this is a game that should be rented first and will be liked 
 by crime junkies, even though it sucks twords the end. I downloaded the demo thinking it would 
 be dissapointing, and it was supprisingly good. Bottom line is at least rent this game if you have 
 the money and can play M games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Name: Kane & Lynch: Dead Men
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360/PC/PS3
  
 
  Platform that this game is being reviewed on: PS3
  
  Publisher: Eidos Interactive
  
  Developer: Io Interactive
  
  Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
  
  Difficulty: Just Right
 
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Number of Players: 2
  
  Online Players: 8
  
  Online Modes: Competitive
  
  Offline Modes: Cooperative/Story Mode
  
  Release Date: 11/13/2007
 
  
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  ESRB Description: Violence/Language
  
  Score: 3 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $31.00 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $59.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
 
  Is there a Game Guide Book Available: Yes
  Price Used: $1.19 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $16.49 (www. amazon. com)
  
  I couldn't finish this game not, because it was hard 
 or anything like that I couldn't finish the game because because the hit detection system was so 
 off. The level I gave up on was the level where I'm trying to kill a driver of a huge dump truck 
 I read at www. gamefaqs. com that you are spose to just shoo the window over and over I unloaded 
 several clips of my machine gun into the window and it didn't stop it every time I tried I kept 
 dying. So something is wrong with it. After my 10th time of trying I gave up. So I'm going to review 
 what I could do in the game. They had a good idea when thinking this game but it was designed poorly 
 a lot of issues killed this game. I'm used to manually reloading my weapons so when I push the 
 button I'm used to what happened? I gave my crew members instructions. So besides the fact that 
 the graphics in the playable sections of the game were less than impressive. the only exceptions 
 was the cut scenes than again they always look good but you shouldn't base the game on Cut Scenes 
 you should base them on how the game plays. You play as Kane a member of a gang who is accused 
 of stealing some goods from the crew you worked for. So now they give you two weeks (if I remember 
 correctly) to get it back or Kane's Family will pay. to top it off you are paired with Lynch who 
 is a freaking nut job. who suffers from blackouts also when he black outs he kills everyone who 
 gets in his way. The story is good but the fact the game is so poorly constructed it holds it back. 
 I was having high hopes for this game but for the issues with the game it only gets a 3 out of 
 5 it also gets a M for Violence/Language. If you want to try and take a crack at this game go ahead.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robicho6
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of hitman and freedom fighters. I saw both aspects of those games in this game but 
 i gave this game a 6.0 I was hoping the game had some road blocks or twists in it but there was 
 nothing the caught you off guard.
  
  The game was very short, i was able to complete it in about 2 days playing it on and off. The multi-player 
 had almost nobody online and i was not able to connect to the games server. I enjoyed the simple 
 squad controls. coop was pretty fun
  
  I found a couple glitches in the game. ,,,, in the start of the game I some how got stuck in a 
 tool case, hahha it was quite funny. Also when playing coop when lynch dies he isn't able to be 
 revived where if kane dies anyone can revive him. besides those two setbacks I loved the game. 
 I was the story would have told more about lynch, i think he did not even kill his wife. I think 
 the 7 killed his wife and framed him. 
  
  Once you get past that the creators of hitman made this game it isn't all that it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalkingshadows
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  As soon as you insert the disc into the machine you find out that Kane and Lynch is a very pretty 
 game. It provides the good lighting effects that you come to expect from a next-gen game. Couple 
 that with a engine that allows 100's of NPC's on the screen and at once this game becomes a good 
 game. Both the offline and online game feel strong. 
  The offline game is strong in both co-op and one player. Though my personal preference is the co-op 
 mode, as it is much more fun to have a perfectly coordinated flanking maneuver execute without 
 having to control every single squad member you are with.
  The online play is also very strong with scenarios that are both intuitive and fun. The concept 
 of the fragile alliance is very clever and results in tense moments where you plan the betrayal 
 of your comrades for extra monetary profit. 
  
  The good:
  
  -Good visuals
  -gripping storyline
  -Weapons all feel as you would expect
  
  The bad:
  
  -Cover system 
 takes time to get used to
  -Some cutscenes cannot be skipped before a hard "mini-boss" and therefore are extremely annoying
 
  
  
  Suffice to say that this game is a good game that is enjoyable on all levels, though the intense 
 gamer will fight through all difficulties in a relatively short amount of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Story: You play as a mercenary who just got out of prison ( escaped from death row. you stole some 
 money and the people want it back or they are gonna kill your family)
  
  Missions: There are 15 missions in the game. everything from breaking out of jail to hijacking 
 a plane.
  
  Controls: PS3 sixaxis.
  
  Features: Awesome story, huge gun selection, fun online.
  
  A. I.: very smart. they know how to 
 kill you and learn what you do.
  
  Loading Times: 25 seconds at the most. but there is part of the story going on while the game loads.
 
  
  Graphics: Great graphics and detailed enviroments. All vehicles looks realistic and are not blocky 
 at all. Enviroments look realistic and city are detailed down to the little bushes.
  
  Audio: good voice acting and ambient sounds. Voice acting is great and is acted out nicley. sounds 
 just like the charcter you think it would. They say the "F" word every sentence tho. kind of annoying.
 
  
  Multiplayer: hard to find people to actually play with but its ok when you do. you pretty much 
 kill people in a team deathmatch style gameplay.
  
  Requirements: PS3, xbox 360, PC
  
  The Good: A amazing story that keeps you wnting to play the game, good audio
  
  The Bad: graphics 
 are not as good as you would think
  
  The Ugly: Kane And Lynch
  
  Replay Ability: 2 endings. they are both pretty much the same.
  
  The Bottom Line: a very overhyped 
 shooter with a great story and audio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  When see the trailer of this game you just say : Wow it's so cool . But when you finish the game 
 there is still a little disapointement.
  So the good things in this game are: first i love the co-op play cause we searched for a longtime 
 a co-op game with my brother and a good one, then there are great graphism and it's very realistic, 
 the first difficulty is great cause it's a bit hard, and i love the guns and the gameplay.
  Now the things that i don't really like are: i don't like the story at all, and the way you heal 
 kane/Lynch its a bit weird cause the sound just goes low and the screen goes black and white and 
 also sometimes you hear voices, then when you wake up it goes so fast there all shooting at you.
 
  But still its a great game even one of my favorites.
  If you see this game in store don't ask any questions just buy it !!!!!!!!!!
  (-_-) ^ ^ (^_^)
 
  
  Leo-i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  We cant ignore the fact that alot of people love this game, and theres just as many who hates it. 
 However, Im one of those that love it. To be fair there are a few things that could be touched 
 on.
  When I first got the game and saw on the back "Cert. 18; Contains very strong violence". It was 
 not as violent as I thought, but still damn violent all the same. The camera viwe maybe way too 
 up close to the character that you play, and the aiming (depending on what weapon your using) can 
 be occassionally pretty bad, but this is something to get use to all the same. Thats pretty much 
 all the criticisms I can think of for Kane and Lynch: Dead men, so lets get onto the stuff that 
 makes it a good game. The gameplay can be pretty intense. Either your stealthing through the jungle 
 of Havana, or your all guns blazing against the entire Tokyo police department in the middle of 
 a street. So the gameplay does stay exciting and enjoyable, not only that, but its good story-telling.
 
  
  You play Kane, a flawed mercenary who was being transported to his execution. However, fellow death-row 
 prisoner, Lynch, gets them both out of the transport vehicle, with the help of unidentified soldiers. 
 Kane soon discovers that the soldiers were sent by 'the7', a top-secret mercenary group who Kane 
 use to work with, before Kane ran-off with the7's loot after a mission in Venezuela. Kane did this 
 because he thaught the rest of the7 were dead, turns out they werent, and their pissed off. They 
 see Kane as a traitor and give him three weeks to get the money back to them, or they will kill 
 his wife and daughter. The7 makes Lynch be a watdog for Kane to make sure he stays in line. However, 
 Lynch has a darker side to himself then hes letting on, which becomes very dangerouse which makes 
 Kanes job a whole lot harder.
  
  With Kane and Lynch hating each other every step of the way, its pretty amusing watching them both 
 bicker and **** at each other, especially whilst their trying to keep each other alive.
  
  I cant get over why there are so much criticisms over Kane and Lynch: Dead Men, Its a great game 
 and very worthy of your gaming collection. I mean, if its that bad, how come Eidos is already planning 
 to make a sequel, and Lionsgate is requesting the rights to make a movie based on the hard-headed 
 pair. Eidos has got so much faith in Kane and Lynch that theyve put more investment into them than 
 they ever did with any of the Lara Croft games. So to be fair, Kane and Lynch must be doin something 
 right. We just have to see if all of those haters turn into lovers in the near future. As far as 
 what is spread around, and how decent of a game this is, Kane and Lynch are certainly NOT dead 
 men. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_r_amazing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Seriously? Stop nitpicking at this games tiniest flaws! Like it's a pretty good game. WAAAAAY better 
 than what most people say. Yes, that includes you gamespot, the game DEFINATELY deserved better. 
 For one thing, this game is very taste oriented. If you don't like this specific genre of game, 
 then, you hate this game. To put it simply, the first thing you have to do to like this game is 
 broaden your horizons a little. That SHOULD go without saying, but it seems to be the one thing 
 all the Kane and Lynch haters are missing. Now, about your reasons for not liking it, the one that 
 struck me the most was when people said that they swear too much. Honestly, if you were a 40-something 
 ex-mercenary or a wife killer psychopath who should be dead but somehow arn't and are suddenly 
 thrust back into the action being forced to be put into horrible and dangerous situations by some 
 powerful gang who are threatening your family, well, if you don't swear a lot, there's something 
 wrong with you. Given their situation, i think that the MORE they swear, the more realistic the 
 game becomes, thus, the game becomes better. Other than that, most of review have been somewhat 
 fair, if not a little exaggerated. So yeah, the verdict is, Kane and Lynch is an ok game, hopefully 
 the sequels (if any) will take that extra push to be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch tries hard to be like a Box Office action movie, but ultimately falls short, and isn't 
 a very good game overall.
  
  The game doesn't waste time throwing you directly into the action. After breaking free from certain 
 imprisonment, a firefight occurs through the streets and you narrowly escape capture. Kane is a 
 former mercenary on death row awaiting execution, he is freed by a mysterious group called The7. 
 They want back what Kane stole from them, and if he doesn't comply they'll kill his beloved wife 
 and daughter. Lynch is a psychopath on heavy medication who has made a strained deal with The7 
 to stay with Kane and watch him until he gets what they want. The7 then plan to kill Kane, Lynch 
 will take his place, and Kane's family will be safe. The plan seems alright until the story begins 
 to unfold.
  
  What follows is a series of heists, chases, betrayals, and dramatic gun fights that dominate the 
 game's story. The story may seem exciting, but it struggles to find that effective balance of excitement 
 and drama, and none of the twists are shocking enough to really have much impact on you. Kane & 
 Lynch also does a poor job of making you care for the characters, you are bad people doing bad 
 things, making it hard to care what happens to any of the characters.
  
  In the singleplayer campaign mode you play only as Kane as you shoot your way through each level 
 in third person view. The aiming and damage models are messy and unpolished, and the cover system 
 is awkward and annoying at best. The AI is also pretty poor and your enemies are boring and generic 
 on the most part. The game can be easily played through by simply picking off enemies one at a 
 time before moving to the next segment. The last several levels can be pretty difficult, and not 
 in a good way, as enemies gain the ability to spray bullets at you at terrifying speed and accuracy.
 
  
  You also have the ability to command your squad. The benefits of this is that they can revive you 
 if you get shot down by giving you an adrenaline injection. The bad news is if any of them get 
 shot down you have to do the same for them or you lose, making it more of a chore than beneficial.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are also pretty poor. The character animations are stiff and unnatural 
 making the game feel unrealistic and bland. What is good about the game is the environmental destruction 
 the game has. Anything you shoot will be destroyed from large vases to pillars being shot to pieces.
 
  
  The game can be played on split screen co-op, with the second player as Lynch and you as Kane. 
 However there is no online co-op. Rather the only online mode is called Fragile Alliance. The idea 
 is that all players start as teammates in a heist, and the goal is to take out the guards, get 
 the money, and escape. The catch is that everyone who escapes get an equal share of the money, 
 and the winner is the one who banks the most at the end of the game. The idea is great, but when 
 put in practise, the rounds usually just end in an all out duel with everyone shooting each other 
 and bringing out the jerk in yourself.
  
  In a seasons of superb shooters, Kane & Lynch is a huge disappointment. The style of the game isn't 
 terribly impressive, and the game's substance is mediocre at best. Beyond a rental or cheap reduction 
 on the price the game should be avoided. A game that was expected to be the definitive action movie/game 
 turned out to be a C-List movie wannabe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emaeteetee
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why this game got such a poor review. First off, I didn't buy it. I borrowed it from 
 a friend, so my judgment is not biased because I spent my money on the game.
  
  This game is not for those who are offended by constant cursing, or extreme violence. If you offended 
 by these types of games, this is DEF not the one for you. This content is comparable to watching 
 Natural Born Killers, so if you don't like that, don't buy this, then give a crap ass rating for 
 the game.
  
  For those of us who can handle a little violence, this game is quite entertaining. It plays out 
 like a film... a violent film. We're not talking about Gladiator here. More like the afore mentioned 
 Natural Born Killers, or some crazy Tarentino flick. 
  
  The game play is great, with quick and easy maneuverability of NPC players who are teaming up with 
 you throughout the missions. They're helpful, and don't get in the way... but mostly they add a 
 lot to the story, and make things interesting with their remarks, and attitudes.
  
  I was never bored with this game once... EVER... i was glued to my seat for hours at a time. Yes 
 it's hard in some areas. Yes you have to replay a few scenes a number of times in order to pass 
 it, but I'm coming from way back.... NES baby. The games you never COULD beat. they just get harder 
 and faster, and you kept on clicking "CONTINUE" because that was how the games were. I'd say that's 
 my only bias for this review. Being stumped on a certain mission doesn't make the game flawed for 
 me. It's more challenging.
  
  Who the hell doesn't like jumping into DeNiro's shoes ( HEAT ) and blasting some Armored car guards? 
 Breaking into a prison and busting out crew members? Firefights w/ high-powered rifles in the street 
 after robbing a bank? common - those facts alone make this game unimaginably amazing. nobody has 
 done this stuff. whoever reviewed these so poorly is a damn noob that can't take the time to play 
 the game through because it's 'too hard' for them.
  
  the ONLY problem i have with this game is the fact I can't skip every cut scene (most commonly 
 just after u die) , but even then they are generally pretty short (less than 10 seconds) . This is 
 literally the only prob i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut450
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch is a game that i just RENTED (which is my reccondmendation) I have to say this game 
 is good in its own right but never great what I mean is this game had so much potential but just 
 seemed to fall short to the hype. Let me break it down Kane is a merc on his way to Death Row until 
 he is broken out by Lynch and a group called 
  the7 who accuse him of stealing something which he must recover. 
  
  The shooting system in 
 Kane and Lynch is not as bad as most people say but its not exactly helpfull because ur crosshairs 
 are . that small. The cover system although took much flameing from people works perfectly if used 
 correctly but sometimes causes a hassle. 
  
  The sound in this game I had no problem with the swearing in this game like most people but the 
 sound in this game is not really engageing like when driveing away from the bank and all the cops 
 are chaseing you it feels like only a few cars are really chaseing you. 
  
  The story was decent. the characters in this game are decent ,not too shabby, I like Kane the best 
 he seems to develope the best over the course of the game (should you make a choice) 
  
  Online is fun because of the nature of betrayal and revenge but due to it not haveing character 
 devolpeing, only 4 small maps and no mic system i say was a bit thrown on but fun for a while.
 
  
  Overall I say worth a rent but not a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedemon44
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow. F this and F that, and holy F, I cant take it any more. 
  
  Simply put, one of the worst games made in the last decade. 
  
  Do yourself a favor and purchase 
 Call of Duty 4. 
  
  When you aim your gun, you would think you just 'might' hit what you are aiming at. Right? RIGHT? 
 Haha, no. Not in this game. When I hit what I was aiming at, it was a relief i should not have 
 had to experience every time. 
  
  This game is the perfect example of why everyone should ALWAYS read the reviews before buying. 
 My roommate traded CoD4 for this, and I begged him to trade it back after trying to play it, until 
 it was too painful to contuinue. 
  
  I dont care about the story, I dont care about the game. If someone ever tells me they think this 
 game is good, I will belive they are imcompetent of making an intelligent decision. 
  
  With all the advertising money they spent, you might think some of the funds might have went into 
 producing something of quality. Not here. All budget went to advertising, and they are raking it 
 in, because people belive the hype. 
  
  Shame on you Eidos. Shame on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  K&L, with all its flaws is successful in the most important part of any videogame: its fun. A lot 
 of fun. 
  Let's get the bad out of the way. Yes, the graphics are not the best around. Still they are not 
 bad. They're just average, with a decent level of detail and competent character designs. The game 
 takes place in a multitude of scenarios, from jungles in Colombia to the busy streets of Tokyo, 
 to a prison and a bank. This keeps things interesting but I believe, also restricted the enhancement 
 of the graphics. If the game took place in just one or two places I'm sure things would look great. 
 This way, there's diversity and the graphics are always good enough. Instead of focusing on pretty 
 sights and nice water effects, the developer concentrated on giving the player rounds and rounds 
 of intense action, in different settings, with a careful level design, build specifically to enhance 
 the adrenaline and rush of brutal gun fights. 
  And the action really is brutal. Coming out of a bank, surrounded by most of the police in the 
 city, and entering a chase that ends in a subway station with SWAT on your back is as cool as you 
 get. Take the nightclub scene, clearly inspired by Collateral, where the Yakuza is hunting you 
 and people are running around in panic, with the music blasting away, and innocents getting caught 
 in the shooting! You don't see this level of chaos and pure violence in many games. 
  The game is extremely violent. There's blood, innocent victims, men and women and dozens of dead 
 police officers. Every character is seedy. When you play this game you're company to the worst. 
 Killers without regret or soul moved only by greed. The main characters are not better. Kane is 
 a cancer to everyone in his life. Lynch is a psycho, capable of the bloodiest violence. You don't 
 like them. You don't identify with them. Still they have a kind of charisma that pulls you in and 
 doesn't let go. You can't help but go along on this journey of mayhem. They have amazing chemistry 
 and most of all, they sound real. The dialogs feel true. The "F" word is used by people in the 
 real world. This is how I imagine that mercenaries talk. These people live in constant stress, 
 at the edge of death. They won't talk like a British butler, for God's sake. 
  The story could have used some work in the transitions but it's very interesting and has an aura 
 of mystery and uncertainty that keeps you watching. The music is some of the best I've heard in 
 a videogame. See the trailer; you'll know what I mean. 
  The gameplay could also have used more work and is easily the biggest flaw in the game. The cover 
 system is a mess. Why the game doesn't use a cover button is beyond me. Still, once you get used 
 to it, it doesn't matter that much. Same with the aiming. I finished the game on morphine, the 
 hardest difficulty and I'm not an expert gamer. The cover works most of the time once you get the 
 hang of it and the aiming actually feels realistic. 
  The game is fairly easy up until the middle. Then it becomes harder but still possible to complete 
 without much frustration for the casual gamer. Still I would've preferred more levels dealing with 
 heists instead of the civil war in Cuba which is without a doubt the hardest part of the game. 
 
  K&L is also fairly short, at about seven hours. However since many levels are so entertaining, 
 you will want to replay them again. Even so, it's a shame there isn't two or three more levels 
 to enjoy.
  To be honest, K&L is one of my favourite games ever. I experienced a rush playing it that's never 
 been matched by any other title, except CoD4. 
  The game is crude, vile even. When you play it, you get a sense of freedom, of a no holds barred 
 experience, where you get the chance to be savage and brutal without consequences. It's nihilistic, 
 corrupt, addictive and highly enjoyable. The characters are memorable and the action unforgettable. 
 
  The multiplayer online, called Fragile Alliance is also an amazing experience, where greed takes 
 over and betrayal is certain. Its paranoia at its best. Will they betray me? Should I betray them? 
 It's a heist where your team members can turn on you at any moment and keep all the money and where 
 you can do the same. I only wish there was more maps. 
  There is also a co-op option, to play with your friend. Unfortunately this is only possible offline, 
 which takes some interest away. Let's hope they change this in the sequel.
  The whole review controversy with Gamespot doesn't really interest me. I'll look at a game, objectively, 
 for what it is. It's about the game and nothing else. K&L is not for everyone. However, for its 
 target, it's a great game that the genre fans shouldn't miss. I loved it. Can't wait for the sequel. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I was kinda disappointed when I saw Jeff's review on this game.... But he was right. In fact, he 
 was too generous. This is total garbage; I only gave it a 1.5 instead of 1 cuz it's a 3PS. But, 
 man, does this suck.
  
  First of all, the camera controls are ridiculous. Sometimes it gets stuck in walls, it follows 
 the character from too close (this isn't Resident Evil, is it?) and the aiming, oh God, the aiming... 
 It's slow. Unprecise. Slow-paced. Inaccurate. And more. IT SUCKS. And another ridiculous flaw: 
 No melee attacks. Not from my discovering. Ok, a punch when you're unarmed? Haha don't make me 
 laugh.
  
  Another flaw... The biggest flaw. Why can't you know where the shooting is coming from? The game 
 doesn't show you from where you're being hit. Oh ok, to kane, being shot in the ass is the same 
 as being shot in the chest. What the... Ok Algren... Lets not overreact.
  
  Overall this is a worthless game. Rent it first if you're a die-hard 3PS fan like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game, as we all know, has been labeled as a horrible game. Do not believe that. It is actually 
 pretty exciting.
  You play as Kane (the dude without long hair) that supposedly works for a mercenary organization 
 called "The7" From what I understand, the company earned a lot of money, and he ran off and kept 
 it for himself. The company found him, and makes him retrieve the money or they will kill his family. 
 Its an ok storyline. And at any chapter, you can have a buddy come in and play as Lynch (long haired 
 dude) . 
  But, anyway, the controls are confusing and a little hard to remember, and about 50% of the scenes 
 are soo dark that its not even funny. There is a level in a Nightclub, where the screen was pitch 
 black except for some neon lights on the walls and floors. I couldnt see myself. My friend got 
 lost in the crowd. We ended up throwing grenades so we could find each other. 
  Not the best game, but I would recommend renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombradshaw
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  not great but has potential and not as bad as some people are making out. it is good to play with 
 a friend. a good game to rent as the story mode brings you to different environments and it has 
 a couple of very good missions when played with a friend. the multiplayer has a very good idea 
 but it is flawed because you can see where everyone is, there are not enough maps and there should 
 be more modes.
  this game has alot of smallish problems:
  there is no button for lying against walls and even though it does get easier as you go along there 
 needs to be a button.
  your A. I is OK until you start trying to control them.
  cover is dreadful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmd_Drake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I got Kane & Lynch Dead men as a christmas present, and before that i had been reading up on the 
 reviews it had gotten, to be honest i was abit shocked, and i was surprised at the amount of bad 
 reviews this game has gotten, if this is infact because it was bad or because people have a hard 
 time staying objective was not my place to say.
  
  But finally i got the game myself and i can with my own voice say that i should never ever listen 
 to reviews again, oohh sure it had its weak points, like the cover system that made you a bigger 
 target than not hiding behind anything, and the squad AI that will make the combine from HL2 seem 
 smart.
  
  Anyways onto game bashing, since this is what most people enjoy in a review. Kane & Lynch plays 
 as a mix of Hitman and Freedom fighters, which isn't weird since all three games are by the same 
 company, IO interactive.
  but where Hitman had its strenghts in stealth action and the satisfaction in a gory kill and Freedom 
 Fighters gave you the feeling of having a bunch of intellegent badass soldiers fighting at your 
 side, Kane & Lynch pretty lack both, instead giving you hardcore action with a small stealth section, 
 and a pretty weak squad control.
  
  The Graphics ins't revolutionary instead it is fine, though strangely enough it makes the PS 3 
 lack at certain areas. Nothing to scream in ecstasy over though. The graphichs department of K&L 
 is decent and helps to bring the game to life. You can't praise the Game for an interesting Art 
 direction either.
  
  The PS3 controls are somewhat weird and can take some time to get used to and they will never feel 
 quite natural i threw, on more than one occasion, a hand grenade straight into the wall only to 
 have myself realize my mistake and run away in dire panic before blowing myself to Narnia.
  
  The story follows Kane a family father turning mercenary after his son shoots himself with 
 a gun, and Lynch a maladjusted psychopath who may or may not have killed his wife.
  
  We start the story with Kane & Lynch on their way too death row, but soon the **** hits the fan 
 and the two merry buddies, are rescued by an enourmous group of people. After that the game goes 
 into HEAT style action which forces you to shoot at any person wearing a badge.
  This kind of action is actually fun, and is a nice break from most games where you are a good person 
 not killing civilians and helping the law.
  The game is pretty good when it is in its HEAT inspired corner, but suddenly the game shifts from 
 merciless terrorism and bankheists, to a more Commando esque style, where you have to assist in 
 overthrowing the government in Cuba. this was what pretty much ruined the game experience for me, 
 it was like i was watching a pretty deep and engaging thriller, then suddenly someone changes the 
 channel and im forced to relive some old Arnold flick where he is a badass commando.
  
  Not to say that i didn't like the story, its actually the highlight of the game, okay thats not 
 entirely true, the story and its characters are the highlights of the game, but sadly the two aspects 
 aren't used to their full potential.
  
  Another nice feature is the ability to play the ENTIRE singleplayer campaign in Coop which for 
 me and my brother, made the game extremely fun, even though there is no easier way to make two 
 brothers fight.
  
  Kane & Lynch brings nothing new to the table of Third person shooters and is at best a good game 
 and at worst an average game.
  and if you don't like TPS then this game surely wont give you an new look on them.
  Futher more 
 this game is best if you can play it as two persons the entire strech. In short summary: If you 
 like Hitman and if you like Freedom Fighters, and if you want a game that is morally rotten then 
 i heartilly recommend playing Kane & Lynch Dead men but if you don't, this game may not be you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I have bought this game for a weeks. But i am stuck at this stage where is have to kill the driver 
 to stop the truck to save jenny.
  
  I had been stuck at this stage for the longest time. No matter how much ammo i used, i will not 
 be able to kill him. I have kill all the shooters, but not able to kill the driver before he ran 
 over jenny.
  
  I had been looking for walk through for this game, however seems like no body is interested in 
 writing this walk through.
  
  Is there anybody that has played this game and get through this stage??
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeihaveadell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  not a must have. but a good game to play with a buddy the single player is good and fun but i have 
 to tell the truth the first level i was ready to break the game in half the first level is broken 
 bad and just plaining bad it looks bad and is bad but when i was robing the bank it was fun and 
 fast paced i have to admit the swearing f*ck this and f*ck that is bad but over all it is a good 
 game the ending is good u can pick the way u want to end it . the online is fun over all it is 
 not the best game out there it doesn't have amazing graphics or blow your mind away the story is 
 kind of stupid but if u like 3rd person shooters and want one to play and are over the age of 18 ( 
 its rated M) this is not a game to get up and buy in a sec but i say rent it first see if u like 
 it remember the first level sucks so play to the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my PS3 last month, thinking it would be pretty decent. How I was wrong. Although 
 I sat and played through this game fully, the whole time I felt kind of meh. Sometimes the game 
 had sparks of genius, such as certain set pieces in the game which helped create a damn fine atmosphere 
 to play in. The bank job and night club are good examples of this. Also the graphics can sometimes 
 be quite spectacular. However, most of the time the game is dreary in both gameplay and graphics. 
 Shooting is a bit of a chore as pretty much every weapon is inaccurate and the collision detection 
 is incredibly random, and the graphics are usually drab and low res. 
  You may be thinking yeah but the story looks great, and the violence looks sweet. Wrong. The story 
 is actually very basic, with revenge being the main theme, and the violence is nothing special 
 when you see games like The Darkness being released. Sure, the violence is a lot bleaker in Kane 
 and Lynch, but most of it is uncalled for and never is it smart. Theres a lot of swearing too, 
 but again theres nothing new or special here, and its not used in a convincing way. Story wise, 
 this game is a lot less mature than it would have you believe. 
  Still, if you are very interested in this game, as you probably should be, it is possibly worth 
 a rent. You probably will sit and play it through, even if you dont feel like youre enjoying yourself. 
 Do not buy this game however, as you will definetely regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok we all know of or have played Io Interactive's Hitman series and for the most part found it 
 pretty good for the most part, sticking with a similar Formula Io brings you Kane & Lynch a typical 
 third person shooter that is in its very inhumane world Unique. First the good points: Blood and 
 Gore: Although the core graphics are only acceptable to the Next Gen and especially the PS3's standards 
 the detail is defently shown when you shoot people up close and it splatters everywhere, Whether 
 or not the developers meant to do this I doubt it but it was pulled off pretty well. However, although 
 this part of the game is pretty good to look at, it dips a lot with the frame rate Issues and im 
 sure you all know which console it shows up the most on. That's right the PS3 version. Voice 
 Acting: For this part of the Game I'd say that around 80% of is it pretty Great especially for 
 the Main Cast of the game, like Kane & Lynch as Kane sounds like how he should ( A Man who hates 
 Lynch and just wants his life to end) and Lynch who also sounds like he should ( A man who thinks 
 he's all that) but with the good comes the bad and this game follows what a lot of games do and 
 has different AI that look exactly the same (Like the police or for the most part your Henchmen) 
 use the same voice or say the same Line every time you talk to then in game play. Co-Op: Ok When 
 I first brought this game I thought there would properly be online co-op as well most next Gen 
 games have however this is not true and according to Wikipedia there is no online Co-Op because 
 of time restrictions and release sates!!!! So yet Another game that was rushed out to meet deadlines, 
 but this isn't all bad as the offline Co-Op isn't all that terrible and its pretty much as you'd 
 expect. Ok Now the BAD: Online/Multi-player: I guess this can be classed as partly Co-Op as it 
 mainly requires teamwork and tactical work as the objective is to work as a team to do a list of 
 objectives through certain levels some levels may include bank robbing, Ransom, and killing rich 
 people for money without getting killed. The interesting thing is people can turn on you at any 
 time and kill you for your part of the money so you have to be on your toes at all time. Another 
 thing is when your team does turn on each other and lets say, you get killing you respawn as a 
 police officer to try and take down the '' Fragile Alliance ''. What you just read is how the 
 online is meant to work which would be all ''fine and dandy '' (sorry Forest Gump quote XD) if 
 it weren't the fact that as soon as you log in and start a mission instead of working together 
 to get the money then turn traitor people just shoot you until there one left and then the mission 
 ends I actually did this 5 times and used my watch to time how long the mission lasted and I counted 
 29 seconds. Make of this online mode as you will. Graphics: As I said previously the Graphics are 
 acceptable to next Gen standards so I could tolerate them for the most part except for the frequent 
 choppy frame rate that is seriously bad about 2 hours into the game. Frequent **** Reference: I 
 personally think using swearing is a good thing in video games as it makes the game more realistic 
 and more down to earth but in the beginning missions especially I think its used in every sentence 
 I mean hell you'd think these people would just shut up and let you play the god damn game. Basically 
 its over used which makes the game more laughable and perthetic than anything else. AI: Apart from 
 a few times in which the AI is actually good, the AI goes from Stupidly easy in some cases to Stupidly 
 Hard and character models for the AI is also in most cases practically detailed e. g. Police BUT 
 although being detailed its ONLY one character model and you'll find yourself killing the same 
 Police Officer over and over again. Overall Apart from an Interesting but Bad online experience 
 Kane & Lynch Dead men doesn't bring anything new to the Genre and sticks with what it knows which, 
 Believe me Isn't a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome mutilplayer, great story and presentation, lots of memorable moments.
  
  The Bad: Shooting has problems, worst cover system yet, not very long, just suddenlt ends...
 
  
  Kane & Lynch is created by the same guys who made the great Hitman series. This is the second time 
 IO Interactive has moved away from Hitman. Their first effort was Freedom Fighters, which was an 
 awesome game. Kane & Lynch has been expected, because it looked so great. But many games before 
 it, have looked great, but disappointed in the end. Just look at Assassins Creed. Does Kane & 
 Lynch end in that group, or does it make a diffirence?
  
  STORY
  
  You play as Kane. Former mercenary, husband and father, and now soon to be executed in prison. 
 But an unknown group attacks the prison transport, and breaks Kane out, and takes him to his old 
 group called The7, who has taken Kanes family hostage, and demands he gets a breifcase, or else 
 they die. While Kane does this, The7 has hired Lynch, to keep an eye on him. As the game progress, 
 we learn more about Kane & Lynch, and also see them argue. A lot. The story could have been movie 
 metarial, because its reminds a lot of Hollywood. Even suprising twists and shocking moments are 
 here. But it has a flaw. Suddenly its over. You dont get the feeling that your about to complete 
 the game. It suddenly just ends. But while the story goes on, there are many great moments, and 
 great cut-scenes, that are sured to be remembered. 9.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Kane & Lynch is a third person shooter, much like Gears Of War, and 24: The Game, with some simple 
 squad mechanics thrown in for good measue. You got your basic shooting mechanics, and a cover system. 
 The squad mechanics are a bit useless. You can order them around, and give them orders to attack 
 people, but its pretty pointless as your squad do well on their own, and they allready do the 
 things you can order them to do, without even ordering them to it. And yes there are more problems. 
 The shooting is solid, but it has its flaws. Aiming feels very loose, and its going to be hard, 
 to get precison aiming, as everytime you shoot, the recoil knocks your aiming upwards a bit. And 
 there is going to be a lot of times, where you have your enemys in sight, but you wont hit them. 
 The cover system is also the worst yet in a video game. Normally in games, you have to press a 
 button to take cover behind a wall or anything (unless your playing MGS but that works good) , but 
 here its done automaticly. You dont have any control whatsoever about cover. You just get to 
 a wall, or anything, walk right up to it, and then youll take cover. The problem is that sometimes 
 it wont take cover, and when you finally do, the collusion dection is off, and enemy hits you, 
 even though you are behind cover. Plus the slightst move on the left analong stick removes you 
 from cover. Oh an throwing grenades is a bit akward. If you die, your friends will revive you, 
 with shots of adrenaline, while youll hear Kanes flashbacks, which is a nice touch. But die too 
 much, and you will overdose. But it feels unbalanced. Sometimes, youll overdose after a single 
 shot, and sometimes, after 5. Surely there must be good things in this game right? Well of course 
 there are. There are many cool moments, and it contains a lot of action, so if you can get past 
 the flaws, and your a fan of action games. Then youll get much fun outta this. The flaws can be 
 looked past at, but in the end, it will affect what you think about the game. The campain can be 
 played in co-op, which is normal these days, and good since youll always play as Kane. But co-op 
 isnt online, so thats a bit of a sin. But then theres Fragile Alliance, the games online mode, 
 which is like a dream come true. In FA, you and up to 7 other players (8 players total) , either 
 rob a bank, or jewely shop, and then get away with the money. The player who escapes with most 
 money wins. Of course its not just a walk in the park. Police is there, and tries to take you 
 down. If you die, youll respawn as a police officer, and have to take your former friends down. 
 You can also decide to become greedy, and kill your friends so you can get away with all the money 
 yourself. The catch here is that, once you do that, everyone knows, so you have to plan it, and 
 wait for the perfect moment. Its a great concept thats greatly done. FA is one of the best things 
 in this game, and its something youll keep playing for a long time. 7.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are disappointing. It clearly runs on the Blood Money engine, which was made for 
 PS2, so its basicly Hitman Blood Money on PS2, with better character facial movements, and in 
 HD, but not much else. The true highlight of the graphics are the locations you play at. From a 
 bank, to prison, to jungles. The locations look great, but dosent have much detail in them, and 
 character animations could have been better. The frame rate has its hit sometimes, but not often. 
 7.0
  
  SOUND
  
  A highlight. Theres as always awesome music, composed by Jesper Kyd, who has went to the same 
 style as in Hitman Contracts, but not as dark. The voice acting is great, and its a real joy to 
 hear Kane and Lynch arguing, thanks to the voice acting, and the sharp dialog. The guns sound awesome, 
 and is a real treat with dolby suround. 9.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game is suprisingly short. 6-8 hours, with no replay value, but the mutilplayer makes sure, 
 that this is a game, you are going to play for weeks to come. 7.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Kane & Lynch is disappointing. The game has a great presentation, and sound effect, and an awesome 
 mutilplayer, but the rest of the game is full of flaws. The cover and shooting dosent feel right, 
 and has problems, that prevents it from being the great action festival you have expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daws07
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  not worth 50, this is a disgrace, the graphics are ps2 quality, the controls are terrible and annoying, campaign 
 team players have no AI and utter the same spanish word over and over again, kane and lynch are 
 boring and swear to much even their relationship is so dull you get to the point of not caring 
 after the 1st mission, Just promise me and eveyone else who hates this game, dont buy this! You can 
 pay someone for a kick in the crotch if you want a excrutiating few hours, thats money better spent. You 
 will find yourslef wishing you went and bought a decenty game like warhwark or rainbow 6 vegas, not 
 thiis pile of s*^t. Later in the game you will find yourself dying and then your moron will prqance 
 into the line of fire, die and then you do to, if you order your team somewhere, they will send 
 1 dude who will get mown down, then you and only you will have to jump from cover get shot and 
 die, repeat this process over and over again=not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Well Kane and Lynch are two criminals. So you get to go around blowing up guys and stuff like that? 
 Whoop de doo! Let's have fun blasting people's heads off. Let's use weapons that don't even work 
 well. Let's explore places that are no fun. Let's play a game that got you know who fired. Simply, 
 let's play a piece of trash! It's so awful, even Big Rigs isn't this bad. This is an ultimate disgrace 
 to gaming.
  
  Eidos lied about this in advertisements, and they let us down. Plus it got one beloved editor here 
 fired. It's a total waste of time and money. You'll basically pay $59.99 for a CD in a box that 
 has no purpose but to make your stack of video games taller. It's horrible. The gameplay and controlling 
 is bad, and the graphics are not much better. Terrible sound, and a horrible plot - of course this 
 game is going to be bad. And it's proven with a lack of online co-op mode and some awful weapons. 
 Avoid this game like the plague!! I promise, you will not come across any game more disastrous 
 and more insulting than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gflemm15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game is underestimated. Sure the cussing is a little overboard, but thegame is really good. 
 The gameplay in which you try to take out the 7. YOu get revenge on people. The multiplayer sucks 
 though. It is the perfect coop game, besides resistance. You really make the game sound stupid, 
 but it is not. I recommend the game to anyone. Awsome game. Good job Euidos. Although you should 
 make a second one. theyre are too many games wanting success like kane and lynch. Kane is a mercernary, 
 and Lynch is a Pychopath. Shooting, getting revenge, and protecting. guhh running out of stuff to 
 talk about. Anyway buy the game it is amazing. Never underestimate a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sepultura4ever
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Oh yeah. Kane & Lynch made a complete new genre: third person shooter. I played and it sucks. Fine, 
 you can shoot. Done, i said all the good things about this game. Time to criticize. Let's start 
 with the AI, or with a wannabe AI. cmon, a 3 years old kid is ALOT smarter than this AI. did you 
 guys played Star Wars Republic Commando? It had an amazing AI. Did you played freedom fighters? 
 good AI Also. Did you player Kane and Lynch? no AI. The graphics are medium. But the bigger problem: 
 i like to curse, everyone likes. But do you say: "Hey ******* friend, do you wanna ******* go to 
 the ******* mall with me, @@@@?"?. I don't think so. In this game, this is what you have: unnecessary 
 cursing. With a game with such media hype, it really disappointed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Almost every element of this game is love it or hate it. The story: If you like movies like Scarface, 
 Goodfellas, The Godfather Part II, and other movies like that you'll find a lot to enjoy, and if 
 you don't then you're going to hate the story. Gameplay is probably the biggest love it or hate 
 it feature of the game, though. The cover system forces you to move your charecter in order to 
 have him take cove. I never had much trubble with it, but there are some who do. In a world full 
 of games like GoW, and Halo it's hard to remember guns with recoil, and these guns got it. Some 
 people will be turned off by the amount of it, but i found no problem aming for the head and chest, 
 and killing an enemy in one or two shots. The guns also have range, so you can't kill snipers with 
 a pisol. Some people have trubble understandin, or enjoying this concept. I did not have these 
 problems.
  
  That said, there are a few features that are undiniably bad and good.
  
  The Bad: Collision detection, you will often find charecters glitching into eachother, and dead 
 people usually fall into the floor, but the problem doesn't affect the game much. The only big 
 problem i found in the game was the AI. If you would watch your team fight for a while you'll realize 
 that they can be bad shots at times. I have honestly watched my team shoot at enemies at almost 
 point blank range, and stil they weren't hitting eachother, but that said, this doesn't happen 
 very often, and usually the enemies and your team are very capable fighters.
  
  The Good: Split screen coop is extremely fun and interestng. If you have a friend there's no reason 
 for you to not play this game. The online game for it is also a must see, it is so interesting 
 and fun. The whole coop competitive system of fragile alliance. This is definately a must try for 
 anyone with online.
  
  So, even though i loved this game i have to say that it is probably best to rent it first... but 
 you should definately give it a try!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed765
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  this game has alot going for it especially the online but the game it self has some good story 
 to it, i was surprised on how popular the game was online with all the ads and tv, kand and lynch 
 dead men is definatly a pick up game it makes you wounder whats next..... i mean edios isnt an amazind 
 game maker but the have put out some good ones hitman freedomfighters, this game is good old fashon 
 fun with alot of F bombs in the mix and a game that isnt afraid throw an F in your face is game 
 for me be a reble not a retard get this game for some fun, fragile alliance, and for Fboming the 
 man lol it makes you think i mean ok it has some texture problems and its not perfect but ya know 
 that what i like about it its inperfection the game is just fun plain and simple fun to play fun 
 to watch the story is awsome , the game is awsome and it kinda reminessent of the movie HEAT but 
 hey you can please every one so i hope you at least try b4 you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balderk42
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  First off, the Game does take an interesting take on the whole co-op scene that has started to 
 rise up recently with your two characters at one point taking completely seperate paths and you 
 only really finding out what happens when playing the co-op mode. However this is nowhere near 
 utilised enough and as soon as this happens it is immediately never seen again.
  
  The combat system is quite standard but then again this type of combat is good and it is almost 
 refreshing to see it simplified down to just duck, cover and blind gun. However a good addition 
 would be to actually have a "get into cover" button since you spend a small portion of the game 
 moving little steps to try and get the avatar into cover, but this is merely a mild annoyance and 
 not one that ends in death.
  
  Your teammates, although relatively intelligent and good shots, have a complete death wish and 
 disregard for personal safety, but on top of this you have no real direct control over them making 
 it incredibly hard to do anything tactical, however you don't really need to so in fact the only 
 reason for the team system seems to be if someone gets stuck somewhere to call them back to the 
 group. At certain points your team will get more units to follow them, again quite pointless since 
 these men run forward die and even worse, take no-one with them!
  
  However there are some good sides, the first half of the game, based in urban environments are 
 very nice and well put together harping back to some of the original Hitman levels. These few levels 
 see you absailing (or "rappeling"?) down buildings, prison breaking and other such things. However 
 these good environments and fun moments are cut off far too soon by the need to go into the Jungle, 
 from here on the game plummetts, the combat that was fun becomes a chore, the environments are 
 not grasping even your characters look so much less comfortable and like they should out of their 
 suits or jumsuits and into camouflage.
  
  Another remote saving grace are the weapons, there's not much choice and you'll pretty much always 
 stick with the one you're given at the beginning of the level but Kane's main weapon is quite fun, 
 it's heavy, loud and painful, a very satisfying gun. Even Lynch's shotgun has it's moments and 
 the fact that the rest of your comrades carry more ammo makes you keep the weapon more. However, 
 other weapons (what few there are) are not so well made, the sniper rifle is quite frankly pathetic, 
 with barely a 2x zoom, you yourself are squinting to see the enemy (and thats on a 40" TV) . 
  
  On top of this your teamates die, quite frequently and although they can heal you with adrenaline 
 if you take too much you overdose, this does bring a good element of danger and the want not to 
 die into a pretty much danger free game. In fact the only mainc allenge is when your teamates die 
 since for some unknown reason the creators neglected to give them the abillity to heal each other 
 so you're stuck chasing around in crossfire after dead bodies who, if any one of them dies, it's 
 end game. Quite frustrating.
  
  Anyways, these are mostly the bad points but it is worth a play, much nmore worth a rent than anything 
 else and you will have fun in the first half, in the second, well there is an element of choice 
 but quite frankly it is just pointless and just prolongs the inevitable end. Conclusion: could 
 and should have been a lot better but their team system and choice of levels are the biggest let 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaster_DCX
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the worst who ever made this game needs to go bankrupt already. i don't know if this game 
 was made as a joke, but whatever was the case it was utterly despicable. I really don't feel like 
 putting it in my ps3 because who in the right mind would shove feces into a $600 gaming machine? 
 Usually a games creation is a long process in which many professional individuals make a worthy 
 product of the market. This game's creation was a one step phase...
  
  Defecation.
  
  As stated before this game joins the ranks of big rigs and superman 64 as the worst games ever. 
 I have more fun playing snake on my 1997 nokia phone, all around snake has better graphics, sound, 
 story, and gameplay. Do yourself a favor and never buy this game or even look at it. I can't believe 
 people allowed this game to ever be made. Quality assurance was definitely not doing their job 
 with this god awful game came down the drain. I cannot stress enough how bad this game is. When 
 you see a 1.0 from this many gamers it means something. Something along the lines of this game 
 doesn't deserve to be called a game, it deserves to be called fecal matter.
  
  If you have already played this game, fear not as there is a cure for the invading substance around 
 your eyes... toilet paper my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_hurt
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Well, let me start with the good. First, the music seems nice, and is effective at starting the 
 adrenaline in the beginning. But this slowly loses its feel later in the game - when the reality 
 of the gameplay sets in. Second, the co-op mode is "ok". IF YOU PLAY THIS GAME, PLAY IN CO-OP ONLY. 
 OK, I hope that the caps helped get my message across. :) However, no matter how you play, you 
 will not be having fun for long.
  
  The bad: First, gameplay is just comical. The funniest thing is seeing people trying to sneak up 
 on you.... It makes me laugh. Their names are like a huge warning beacon over their heads! And 
 you can see the names thru walls also, so it will just make you laugh. Second, it is hyped as a 
 game that feels like a movie. Well, if that movie was no fun to watch, then ok, it would be one 
 of those movies. I am a fan of Hitman, and I had high hopes for this game. Third, there seems to 
 be a lack of a real plot. I like running around and shooting things as much as the next guy, but 
 combine the lack of a good combat mechanic, and it just gets old. I have seen side-shooters that 
 have kept my attention longer.
  
  Summary: Boring, and yet funny. This NOT a game that I recommend you buy. In fact, I would not 
 even recommend that you rent it. But, renting is really the only option. I have a feeling that 
 the few people here that gave the game a good score would rather have rented it also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis94
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Could be better. 
  Its a bit slow, graphics ( blood and death animations are a bit rusty ) and sound effects are reasonable, 
 the cover system is VERY annoying to manage, as it is VERY unpleasent, but in fact, its not bad.
 
  Well, the story is well written ( you do need a story for a non-MMOFPS game )
  If you reallly want to play with ur friend shooting around buy this., although you will have to 
 be pacient, because alot of frustration awaits you.
  
  PS: Do not think that Eidos makes bad games, they made the Hitman series 
  ( check it ! On Gamespot 
 of course ) . wich in my opinion means that they are probably making a new Kane and Lynch, much 
 much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenchimp
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  . . . .. . . . . . ... . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . .crap beyond crap . . .. . . . .. . . .. . 
 . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . .. . . .. . 
 . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . peice of crap. . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . worst graphics ever.. 
 .. . . .. . . . . . .. . .. . .. i could make a better game. ... . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . . .. 
 . .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fusfurus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  i'll be brief. 
  Loved the game, been playing hours in a row for a few days straight. the co-op is very pleasing, 
 been killing cops and yaluza bosses with my brother since monday. the car chase scene reminds me 
 of the inicial scena from Robocop, so i guess its awsome!
  im really sorry about the scandal with the reporter that used to work at gamespot (i dont really 
 know the details so i wont take sides!) ... but, the game is quite good and you should give it a 
 try, if you dont wanna well, ok, fine by me!
  anyways, it's not 10 material but its not 1.0 material too so i guess we are even!
  
  grande 
 abrao
  j. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatonekid393
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game could not be more over-hyped and it most certainly could not be more of a let-down. You 
 would be better off buying several blocks of ice with your $60, as it would certainly be money 
 better-spent than if it went to the purchase of this game. The graphics are slightly shiny, but 
 the control scheme is a disaster in and of itself, and gameplay is the poorest example of "fun" 
 since Big Rigs. The controversial firing of Jeff Gerstmann over his honest review of this game 
 was brought on by the game's obviously deranged developers, who in turn fired him to solve the 
 problem. The 6.0 rating he awarded the game more than does it justice, it slaps a mask and perfume 
 on the thing and throws it into a flashing awards ceremony. This game is not deserving of being 
 stepped on, let alone played. Avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctakim
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is the absolute pits. For the details see Jeff Gerstmann's review on YouTube. Horrible, 
 rotten, skanky, stinks, pitiful, lame, pathetic, disappointing crud. The worst game imaginable. 
 Not worth the time, money or effort. Stay away from this poor excuse for a game. This game is the 
 absolute pits. For the details see Jeff Gerstmann's review on YouTube. Horrible, rotten, skanky, 
 stinks, pitiful, lame, pathetic, disappointing crud. The worst game imaginable. Not worth the time, 
 money or effort. Stay away!!!! The only thing lower than this piece of drek is Gamespot's journalistic 
 integrity.!!!! The only thing lower than this piece of drek is Gamespot's journalistic integrity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrcka
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Sad to say this was a horrid game. I rented it over the weekend and glad I rented it vs buying 
 it. The gameplay was nothing new, but thsi game "could" have been something special. Good concept 
 that was tragically implemented. Is this game a 1 rating? No, but I am giving it a 1 because the 
 game did suck, but also because the developer Eidos tried their best to lie about the game in their 
 advertisements. Seriously, more people buying XBOX360 and PS3 titles anymore are at least high 
 school age or older and we are sick of companies and all their PR campaigning to get us to buy 
 their sub par products. Game wise I would rate it around a 5.5-6 as some elements were fun but 
 overall the game was a real letdown. So to sum up a short review of a sad next gen title, Kane and 
 Lynch WILL dissapoint so please save your money for hopefully a MUCH improved sequel as the games 
 principal was okay just poorly executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScreenNameHere
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Bring back Jeff, gamespot, because gamespot sucks now. I hope this site goes down to the ground 
 and nobody ever goes to this site again, and I believe this will happen. You guys will lose all 
 your money and CnEt will regret everything that they have done. Go screw yourself gamespot!! and 
 oh ya, this game does suck! worst one i've ever played. Gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot 
 sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks screw gamespot screw gamespot screw gamespot 
 screw gamespot screw gamespot screw gamespot screw gamespot gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot 
 sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks gamespot sucks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obsidian
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is as bad as ManHunt 2 in terms of gameplay. Gamespot/CNET even fired a good man because 
 he went up against the company execs and gave this the official review it deserved. This game is 
 as bad as ManHunt 2 in terms of gameplay. Gamespot/CNET even fired a good man because he went up 
 against the company execs and gave this the official review it deserved. This game is as bad as 
 ManHunt 2 in terms of gameplay. Gamespot/CNET even fired a good man because he went up against 
 the company execs and gave this the official review it deserved. This game is as bad as ManHunt 
 2 in terms of gameplay. Gamespot/CNET even fired a good man because he went up against the company 
 execs and gave this the official review it deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafan255
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Get it off your christmas wish list, get it out of your mind! This game is bad bad bad. Ai sucks, 
 controls suck, character's personality suck, the game is just one big GIMICK. Damn developers need 
 to learn to make games GOOD, do not support them by buying this!
  
  Rent it if you must, or wait until it's cheaper. I would pay $30 just for the multiplayer which 
 is only part that is decent, but dont spend $60. You will regret it. There are so many better games 
 out there right now.
  
  But hey, if you like feeling ripped off and depressed about wasting money, then by all means go 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Kane & Lynch is a high paced action shooter that is ruthless, vicious and psychotic. Everything 
 for the hardcore killer in all of us.
  
  There is nothing I like more then being the bad guy in a video game. The best games have always 
 been the ones that let you chooce to be good or bad and I always picked bad. It was the one time 
 I could act out in violence and see what it would be like. Well now we have Kane & Lynch: Dead 
 Men, were you have no choice but to be the bad guy. I have to say it felt good being so chaotic 
 and careless. Something you never see in games. lo Interactive, the makers of the Hitman series 
 bring this game that is far on the otherside of the scale, far from sneaking around and quietly 
 killing off people.
  
  Kane & Lynch is a crime based shooter with bank robberies, prison breaks and leads to fighting 
 in another country's revolutionary war.
  You play as Kane, an ex-mercenary that is on death row and on his way to be executed. The game 
 starts whith Kane writing a letter to his daughter that he has not seen nor talked to in 14 years. 
 Telling all the bad thing he has done and how now he will pay for his crimes. The gameplay picks 
 right up in the middle of a gun fight after your prison bus turns over. You quickly learn the guy 
 in the bus with you named Lynch, was hired to help break you out by the savage mercenary group 
 which you used to work for called The7. The7 had Kane broken out, not to do him any favores, but 
 because they believe he has something that belongs to them and they want it back. Holding Kane's 
 family hostage they send him to get it and bring it back to them and Lynch is sent along to keep 
 an eye on Kane and make sure he does what they want. The story is basic, but still interesting 
 and keeps you wondering what will happen next with everything constantly having a case of "Murphy's 
 Law". Lynch is a psychopath that loses it at all the wrong times and goes on brutal violent trips 
 that he can never remember. Making it hard to have him as your partner in crime. Kane and Lynch 
 form a bond, not a good one though. Telling each other off and disrespecting one an other. although 
 not on an annoying level like sibiling rivalry. Every member you come across or join up with hates 
 one another and all are basicly very bad people, which makes it hard to care about them throughout 
 the game.
  
  When you have a team with you, you can order them around individually or order the team all at 
 once by telling it to regroup to your location, move to a specific spot, or attack specific targets. 
 The best thing to do is always keep your team together. Sending them alone can cause trouble, by 
 either them running off to kill a target and getting shot down or having no protection for yourself. 
 Seeing there is no health bar once you are down a teammate can revive you with an adrenalin shot. 
 Although too much and you will overdose and die. Also if you send your team off and you are alone 
 and get shot down then you are most likely dead and have to restart. So keeping them together and 
 close is the best bet for survival.
  
  The core gameplay in Kane & Lynch is your standard third-person shooter with cover elements and 
 squad tactics. You can fire from the hip, but it's somewhat more accurate to fire while aiming. 
 Though it can still be quite a problem hitting your target while aiming. The game seems to fire 
 the guns as if they were fire hoses no matter how you stand and aim. You're able to get behind 
 cover and either blindfire or pop out for aimed shots. The duck and cover in this game is the best 
 I have come across ever. All you do is run up to something and he sticks to it and if you want 
 to move away, you just move in any direction you wish. No extra button comminations have to be 
 done, it is that easy. When I am in the middle of a huge gun fight with twenty other people shooting 
 at me I just want to get behind cover, or move from one covered position to another and not have 
 to think about what buttons to push to move. I want to just move and this game gives that to me.
 
  
  The multiplayer of this game is horrible, it is everything hated about online shooters... Team 
 killing. It is a fresh and new idea, just badly put together. There is only one mode, called Fragile 
 Alliance. Everyone is on one team and the goal is to rob a place and get away with all the money. 
 However, everything gets split down the middle after words, unless you become a traitor and kill 
 everyone and steal their stash. Which then you get everything you stole from the other members 
 and they get to come back as police or security guards and try to get revenge. This is completely 
 annoying, you go about 5 minutes before someone blasts you in the back of the head and takes your 
 slice of the pie every single time. Sometimes you are lucky and they do it right as the game starts. 
 Basicly the multiplayer is one big chaotic mess that is no more fun then dealing with team killers 
 in any other shooter.
  
  Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is off with graphics, being not much better then you would see on the PS2, 
 but the action and gun fights are great and out weigh the poor graphics any day. If graphics are 
 the most important thing to you in a game then I am sorry for you and say pass on this. Otherwise 
 it is reckless fun for hours and hours. I never had so much fun being a bad guy while playing a 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshc23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of hitman, i was looking forward to this game, if you are in the same position as me, 
 I guarantee that you will feel slightly let down by this title. But thats not to say that this 
 is not a good game.
  Yes this game isnt exactly long, yes this game has a few bugs and issues, yes there are other games 
 out which execute certain aspects better than this game, but i have enjoyed the most of it as it 
 is and having known what i know would buy it again if i had to. I have played this game through 
 on HD settings and have also played it on standard tv settings, there is a big difference, as playing 
 it through on standard will leave u feeling as if uve just finnished an xbox 1 title, so being 
 lucky enough to play this game on hd settings makes a serious difference to the presentation. Gameplay 
 wise, it feels like your playing gears of war meets ghost recon and has a brief relationship with 
 hitman. health system is the same as most games are getting, no health bar but can only take a 
 certian ammount of damage before having to regenerate it (i think this way works best) , great feel 
 from the game when popping out of cover and unloading a shitfull of ammo into someone or runny 
 by a rain of bullets. soundtrack by jesper kyd top notch as usually and kicks in at the most hectic 
 and dramatic points of gameplay. I would be lying if i said i thought it was perfect, ive read 
 of people having issuse with the cover system and controls, personally i havent found any issues 
 in it and im used to playing fps. Since i put the disk into my ps3 I could not put this game down 
 (literally, unless you count barthroom and meals) , until i got to the havana mission (ill come 
 to that in a mo) , the voice acting is superb, imagine playing a game but feeling that your part 
 of a movie, story line is kick ass (film already planned 4 development director: michale bay, actor 
 as kane: bruce willis) , most bad ass characters in a game, without feeling like there showin off. 
 I can say that if you are a fan of films like resivior dogs or similar crime films and felt like 
 you couldnt play a decent enough game that nails that genre and atmosphere well enough, this is 
 the game for you!, the first 3/4 of the game got the game its brownie points id like to highlight 
 until it got to the havana mission (following mercs in a middle eastern country) , started to feel 
 like less of a crime and mob game and more like a tackey ghost recon cheese-off from this point 
 of the game onwards. its as linear as a game gets but ive found myself unable to stop revisiting 
 that cinematic trigger happy ass kicking 3/4 of the game over and over both on my own and with 
 a player on co-op (ads a bit more depth to the lynch character) . The multiplayer is fun and interesting 
 and is worth a try, its not something youll find yourself playing for any length of time but is 
 fun to pick up and play every so often and is a nice fresh idea. Overall i give this game an 8/10 
 people may critisize me of being generous, but this is my honest verdic of this game without being 
 biased and what i think most people who enjoy this game would rate it. as the saying goes, dont 
 knock it till u try it, a game youll either love or hate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: julias_luva
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  this could have better slickness. better aiming and more enjoyability. but other than that it was 
 the second best game iv ever played. just behind gears of war for tha 360. more of it plz. oh, 
 and just out ov curiosity, how many endings does this game have? i found the storyline to the game 
 really good aswell. u had something to follow, and it was easy to understand, unlike sum games 
 iv played, i got lost in the storyline so far into the game then i just didn't no wot was happenin. 
 im already lookin forward to the sequal of this if there is goin to be one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theJZA
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  I don't know what these little punks think they're gonna recieve, they want a video game to come 
 out of the screen and blow them. Kane & Lynch is awesome! SO the graphics aren't up to par with 
 the current technology, so what? IO already explained taht this was to be expected. With video 
 games, there needs to be a balance. There's gotta be a substantial amount of gameplay, graphics 
 and story. IO doesn't quite have the graphics (which isn't really anything to complain about) , 
 but the game makes up in gameplay and story. THe suckers that are hating, probably don't own the 
 game, haven't played enough of the story, or haven't even given K& L a chance... keep up the good 
 work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  My friend and i went out and bought this game expecting a good solid co-op shooter. What we got 
 was shoddy controls visuals that are not even close to next gen. Very few amusing area's frosted 
 with frustration. This game had alot of hype around and did not deliver. The storyline is promising 
 but never really delivers they hide how horrible this gaming experience is with vulgar language 
 and far to much screaming during gameplay its self. I feel this game had potential to be so much 
 more then what it is. Another very large flaw is the cover mechanic used on the game will often 
 times put you on the wrong side of something or won't let you cover at all. If they would of spent 
 a little more time on this and focused on the few flaws it does have they could have created something 
 great. But failed to do that in the end. I would have rather seen another hitman release then of 
 had to put up with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch: Dead Men is a third person action shooter created by Eidos Interactive (the same 
 makers of Hitman) . You play as Kane, a death row inmate in transit to be put to death after committing 
 a massive amount of murders with his gang called The 7. On the way you meet Lynch, another death 
 row inmate who was charged with killing his wife. The transport car loses control as an explosion 
 occurs, subsequently freeing Kane and Lynch. You play the initial scene after you hop out of the 
 truck and make you're way to freedom while alluding the police down allies. Soon after you make 
 it to safety, you quickly learn the reason for your release. Without giving any spoilers you begin 
 to complete all sorts of action packed scenes that instantly captures you within the moment. Kane 
 and Lynch: Dead Men uses squad based tactics as you can direct squad members to position themselves 
 in specified areas, shoot a specific target or reposition themselves around your location. The 
 game also uses a cover mechanic that works fairly well. You'll duck and hide while directing your 
 squad members to do the same as you make your way to your objective destination.
  
  The graphics are not the most spectacular for this generation of games, but the focus of the game 
 is on the gameplay moreso than the visuals (and the gameplay does not provide a dull moment) . The 
 audio holds its own, however, the voice dialog leaves a little more to be desired. Whoever wrote 
 the script did not put much thought into it as a numerous amount of F-Bombs can be heard throughout 
 the game. Sometimes it works, most of the time it seems a bit forced.
  
  The game has co-op and online multiplayer. The co-op mode splits the screen right down the middle 
 and does not provide an adequate amount of visuals as you'll easily get lost and yearn for a bigger 
 window to view all your surroundings. Also in the mode you get a little more insight in Lynch's 
 background. I have yet to play the online multiplayer mode, however, it does sound very interesting. 
 When I do give it a try I will update this review to incorporate my thoughts. 
  
  Kane and Lynch has alot of promise if the franchise is continued in the future, however, the developers 
 have to realize the minor flaws within the game. The action is top notched but the story is not 
 the best. If you're looking for a shooter high on action, Kane and Lynch will provide a good ride, 
 however, do not be disappointed with either of the two endings as they completely deflate you when 
 it's all said and done. Unless you're a hard core game collector, you should rent this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  OK We all know the hitman games right well the same company is now giving us kane and lynch dead 
 men a epic crime drame were 2 guys kane and lynch have to go through hell. Well u play as kane 
 an gang member on death row and in co op and lynch a medicated physco path you and lynch will have 
 to get this money to the gang the seven but later in the game a certain plot twist and u are getting 
 revenge on the 7. (HINT IT HAS TO DO WITH YOUR WIFE AND DAUGHTER) WELL the weapons are alright but 
 can be a little off recoil the voice acting rocks and very fitting for the characters. The story 
 is really goood with plottwist and lots of betrayl. Graphics are pretty decent the are sharp but 
 some the textures look bland. The ai is very iffy and is sometimes very weird. AND the most frustrating 
 part of this game is the coversystem its not that bad but it can be a hassle when u keep running 
 into a wall. I have yet to try the online but i hear great thing. Well In all you have a great 
 3rd person shooter that is a fun and crazy adventure. If you like crime movies or action flicks 
 buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colemanzilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Kane and Lynch! I had reserved Kane and Lynch from my local GameStop a little over a month ago, 
 because after watching countless videos, the idea of Fragile Alliance was way to awesome to pass 
 up. But I'm going to be honest I havn't even attempted the Multiplayer. The Campaign mode is (so 
 far) incredibly fun. The in-game dialog is Hysterical. Lynch is now one of my all-time favorite 
 fictional characters. For example, when Lynch is holding a Girl hostage (who your trying to use 
 for blackmail to get a briefcase from her father) and she starts to get squirmy, he thinks its 
 O. K. to try to calm her down by "shooting her in her legs", point blank, with his double-barreled 
 shotgun. Then claiming that her death was NOT entirely his fault... classic. Kane and Lynch is a 
 bloody good time. I could go on and on about the innovative gameplay features that Eidos was able 
 to cook up, like "Snipers Eye" and the "Teammate Re-stocking your ammo" but its a cool experience 
 finding out on your own. May not be worth the 60 bucks to own (even though im quite pleased with 
 my buy) . Without a doubt this Fucked Up duo is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donald212066
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  If you've even heard of the unlawful action title Kane and Lynch, you probably know that the title 
 characters are a violent couple of guys with questionable histories. If you're familiar with the 
 Hitman series, you know that the developers at IO Interactive are capable of doing shocking things 
 as well. Their latest stab at a gritty, blood-soaked crime drama definitely hits the mark with 
 a Hollywood-caliber story and a high body count.
  
  Other than the wholesale slaughter of anyone who gets in your way, trust and betrayal are the main 
 themes. Fittingly, the main characters aren't your typical straightforward heroes  or even anti-heroes 
  and they bring plenty of dysfunctional baggage to the table. Kane, who you'll directly control, 
 is a family man turned mercenary with a laundry list of unsavory acts on his "to do" list during 
 his quest to save his daughter. Lynch is a medicated psychopath who may or may not have killed 
 his wife, but has definitely killed a number of other people.
  
  The two men have a genuinely interesting journey that fits in well with an overall game design 
 that focuses on heists, break-ins, and escalates to all-out war. If you have objections to profanity 
 and violence, you may want to take a pass on this one, but considering the themes everything is 
 right on target.
  
  In a lot of ways, Kane and Lynch isn't so different from other third-person shooters. You have 
 guns, you have grenades, and you can kill people up close and personal if you have to. You also 
 have just about everything else you'd want or need in a third-person shooter, including regenerating 
 health, simple squad commands, a cover-system that lets you blind fire from behind cover and precision 
 aiming when you hold down the left trigger. In the action department, the game manages to set itself 
 apart with crowd scenes: notably a Tokyo nightclub scene and a chaotic prison-break sequence. Check 
 the full review on
  http://www. gametrailers. com/gamereview. php? id=3206 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  There are two things good about Kane & Lynch: Dead Men. The music is one. The premise for the rest 
 is the other. Oh and multiplayer isn't great... but it's less horrible than the rest of the game. 
 
  
  I for one was excited for this game the more i learned about it and the more i read/saw. and boy 
 was i in for a letdown. the theory was good but the execution not. from glitchy/unresponsive gameplay 
 to pointless attempts at TRYING to make an engaging story... this game just doesn't pull off any 
 of what it tried to do very well. 
  
  it actually looks pretty good and the music is cool too. but there's never really any part of the 
 story that makes you care about finishing the game or the characters. then throw in the fact that 
 there's more pointless cursing than a south park movie and it all gets pretty annoying.
  
  the multiplayer is a bright spot among shadows but that alone isn't worth $60 bucks. if you're 
 like me and want to find out for yourself then rent it... don't buy it. you'll be glad that you 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnateEnigma
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I was excited for this game as I had lots of fun with the Hitman series. I played this game for 
 about 4 hours before concluding that Agent 47 could do an easy hit on these two blindfolded and 
 very drunk.
  
  It is not Kane and Lynch's fault... they have a compelling story and the levels look like they 
 would be uber fun to play if the controls and aiming worked decent.
  
  The controls scheme is clumsy at best. It is very uncomfortable and frustrating.
  
  Aiming 
 even after adjusting the various speed levels is broken and inaccurate.
  
  Cover is a complete joke and you end up taking more damage trying to take it then if you just try 
 and blast them. 
  
  The best thing the AI have going for them in this game is that they are so stupid otherwise they 
 would easily own you. Sometimes they take cover, but oftentimes they just rush you , sometimes 
 they try to circle you which doesn't always work for them because they will face the wrong way 
 and shoot at invisible ghosts before deciding to insta aim at you.
  
  In summary combat is broken, and only challenging because the mechanics are so lame, not because 
 of intense combat.
  
  I am disappointed I bought this. I would highly recommend renting it before deciding to buy it 
 or going by reviews.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtonow
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this one... my biggest complaint is the horrible AI. I find it 
 easier to not even bother issueing comands to my crew, as it usually is just a waste of time when 
 i could be capping people myself. And the controls that just don't feel tight engouh... Along with 
 this the aiming seems to be off, and i often wonder what it takes to get a head shot... 
  
  However, the muliplayer is SOOOO much fun. However i wish their was a few other modes, and a couple 
 more bords. It's also hard to set up a room to play with friends. I think the lobby needs more 
 bells and wistles, allthough i rather enjoy the access to friends list. 
  
  The single player plot is actually half interesting (so what if the main characters are horrible 
 people..?) . The graphics are good, and thier are a highlights in the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  A mercenary and a psychopath are join together has one to get what belongs to Lynch's organization 
 and other to save is daughter. You will be playing as Kane and if you play with a friend Lynch. 
 You are on a way to be put to death when the car you're riding on is intercepted by the organization 
 known as The7 who Lynch works for. You are force to join up with Lynch and you will have to get 
 The7 money back so that you'll be able to save Kane's daughter. 
  
  The graphics in this game are not the greatest but they aren't bad either. The character models 
 look decent and the levels designs in the game look pretty good. The controls in the game are a 
 little uncomfortable to use and feel a little clunky. You will only have to different types of 
 layouts and you'll just have to adjust yourself with the shooting and aiming in 3rd person. They 
 don't feel as natural as they should on the PS3 controller. I just wish they had more options on 
 the button layouts.
  
  This game is has a decent length not the best 3rd person action game out but not bad either. If 
 you're into movies like Heat and Heist you would be interested in playing this game. You'll get 
 a sense of deja vu in some of the scenes in this game to some of the action movies you've seen. 
 The game also has muIti player which will add some length. If you're not too sure about it then 
 you should still check it out this game and rent it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InFurnace
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The combat aspect of this game plays very similarly to the well known Hitman games. The cover system 
 does have some problems, but they are not nearly as bad as some "reviewers" have made them out 
 to be. I did have to adjust the control options to be happy with the aim and look speeds. I've 
 only got an hour in, and I still feel like I am learning how best to use the game mechanics.
  
  I've found that the ai for your teammates works fine, but will admit that some of the cop ai 
 seems dumb. The soundtrack is good and the audio quality is as well. The graphics are nothing special, 
 but I have no complaints. I did not think that the game was "ugly", or that the characters were 
 "ugly". It is what it is supposed to be. Bad people doing bad things. I did not think that the 
 cursing was excessive. I've spent years working around convicts, and found the language to be representative 
 of their ilk, and it was certainly not over the top.
  
  If you are a Hitman: Blood Money fan, you will probably like this game. There is little stealth 
 to be had, but the mechanics are very similar, and the story is great so far.
  
  I would rate the game 7.5 - 8.0. While this game is not in the class of CoD4, it is a good game, 
 and I'm a fan of 3rd person shooters, so I may end up liking this more.
  
  I'll post more when I have a chance to play more.
  
  -InFurnace 
  -SgtPage
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
