-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Killzone 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/killzone2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-paced campaign keeps you in the thick of action.
 Great online play constantly rewards you.
 Intricate, balanced multiplayer maps.
 Weapons are beefy and fun to shoot.
 Visually stunning, both technically and artistically.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Forgettable story and characters.
 Tacked-on motion controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 26, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.1, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 4,718 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Guerrilla
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Feb 27, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Killzone 2 boasts amazing visuals, an intense campaign, and extraordinary online play that will 
 keep you coming back for more. 

  No one could have suspected that the sequel to 2004's Killzone would be this good. Killzone 2 is 
 a tremendous package, offering an exciting campaign and terrific competitive online play, neither 
 of which create new paradigms for first-person shooters, but rather set new standards in subtle 
 but significant ways. From groundbreaking visuals to well-crafted multiplayer maps, most of Killzone 
 2's individual elements stand out in a crowded genre, making its meager attempts at storytelling 
 easy to ignore. PlayStation 3 owners looking for a shooter to keep them busy for the rest of 2009 
 and beyond need look no further: The fierce action will keep you glued to your television screen 
 for some time to come.  

           The M82: Is there nothing it can't do?      

  What makes Killzone 2's single-player campaign so much fun? First and foremost, the weapons are 
 a lot of fun to shoot, even the standard assault rifles that form the core of your loadout. The 
 M82's effective scope makes zooming in on your target a breeze, yet this rifle is effective at 
 close range as well, establishing itself from the beginning as a formidable firearm. The LS13 shotgun 
 is also powerful and rewarding to fire; though you may only shoot off a foe's helmet with other 
 weapons, you'll watch entire heads explode with a single blast from this close-range powerhouse. 
 The bolt gun is another favorite, skewering enemy soldiers onto surfaces and exploding a short 
 moment later. Though you're traversing a sci-fi setting, your weapons are decidedly modern-day, 
 from the sniper rifle to the vicious flamethrower, with one exception: the lightning gun. This 
 mighty instrument showers enemies with overpowering jolts of electricity, and though it's not available 
 for long, it makes short work of robotic and humanoid foes. Each of these weapons feels just right; 
 fantastic spurts of blood, outstanding animations, exquisitely detailed weapon models, and explosive 
 sound effects fuse seamlessly and give a satisfying sense of impact every time you land a shot. 

  Although there's a great variety of weaponry, you won't encounter that many different kinds of 
 enemies as you fight your way across the war-torn landscapes of the planet Helghan. As in the original 
 Killzone, your enemies consist largely of Helghast soldiers, yet though this limited selection 
 led to monotony in the past, an assortment of factors in the sequel hold tedium at bay. The action 
 is constantly pushing forward, leading you from one quality scripted event to the next and pitting 
 you against bright AI opponents that have a remarkable grasp of battlefield tactics. These soldiers 
 put up a fight and exhibit authentic behavior as you rain bullets on them. If you set your sights 
 on a soldier peeking from behind cover and fire off a few rounds in that direction, he'll patiently 
 wait until all signs of fire have vanished. Helghast will flank you and shoot blindly from behind 
 cover, and should you toss a grenade in their direction, they'll quickly scatter. You'll normally 
 be fighting alongside a computer-controlled teammate or even entire squads of fellow infantry. 
 Enemy AI is just as concerned with your comrades as it is with you, so you'll never feel as if 
 you have a bull's-eye plastered on your forehead, as is common with many other team-based shooters. 
 As a result, Killzone 2's thrilling large-scale battles unfold dynamically and offer a legitimate 
 challenge while rarely feeling unfair -- a frustrating rocket-heavy final battle serving as the only 
 exception.  

  Some excellent turret sequences and other segments also provide welcome variations on the shooting 
 theme. At one point, you'll climb into a robotic shell and mow down infantry and tanks with machine 
 gun fire and rockets. The way your transparent protective shield exhibits cracks as you take damage 
 and the remarkable fire and smoke effects that light up the screen add to the excitement of the 
 level. In another fun and visually stunning sequence, you'll use an antiaircraft turret to take 
 down squadrons of enemy fighters. Even operating a standard turret is more appealing than you would 
 expect, which is a result of great map design and well-scripted enemy entrances. If you're just 
 using your standard arsenal, missions are diverse and engaging. You'll take aim at tanks (and in 
 one boss fight, a hovering aircraft) using Killzone 2's potent rocket launcher, and you'll fight 
 your way through a besieged air base in which winding corridors and intersecting passages have 
 you battling multiple enemies on multiple levels.  

  Most levels take their cue from the usual first-person shooter formulas, and though it takes place 
 in the spacefaring future, Killzone 2 feels more akin to a modern-day day FPS by way of its standard 
 weapons and mostly humanoid enemies. It's an interesting blend of two disparate sensibilities that 
 works far better than in the original, and it's further ripened by gameplay touches that feel authentic 
 within that framework. Movement and turning speeds have a real feeling of weight, which is appropriate 
 considering the heavy armor burdening you. This can make the controls feel somewhat sluggish at 
 first, given that you take a moment to gather momentum. It doesn't take long to get accustomed 
 to this sense of overall bulkiness, though, and it's consistently delivered across multiple mechanics. 
 For example, when you jump, the way that you bend into the leap and cushion the landing with another 
 slight crouch feels surprisingly realistic. That weight also informs movement in and out of cover. 
 Killzone 2's cover system is solid, and it never removes you from a first-person viewpoint. Though 
 some objects can obscure your view if you try to take potshots from behind them, sticking to cover 
 and leaning out from behind walls is generally effective and intuitive.  

           This armored suit is the ultimate death machine.      

  Whether you go for a pop-and-shoot 
 approach or just gun your way through, the mission design keeps you constantly moving from one 
 objective to the next. The quick pace is one of Killzone 2's finest facets; battles don't wear 
 on too long, and they aren't so brief as to be anticlimactic. Like many other shooters, mission 
 objectives often involve turning a crank or pushing a button. In Killzone 2, this may mean rotating 
 the controller to simulate the onscreen activity. These moments feel unnecessary and ironically 
 disrupt the sense of immersion, but as tacked-on as they are, the actions are too brief to be especially 
 annoying. You'll also use your gamepad's motion sensitivity to stabilize the sniper rifle, though 
 the implementation here is subtle and therefore relatively harmless.  

  It's a real pity that there is so little context for the exceptional action. If you're familiar 
 with the original Killzone, you'll at least have an idea why the ISA (International Strategic Alliance) 
 is attacking the Helghast homeworld; if not, it's clear that as Thomas Sevchenko, you are on the 
 side of the good guys -- just not clear why they  are  the good guys. The dialogue is rudimentary 
 (a discussion regarding sandwiches jumps immediately to mind) , the characters forgettable, and 
 the plot serves purely as a thin framework to move you from one environment to the next. Yet the 
 cutscenes are top-notch, and unlike their counterparts in fellow PS3 shooter Haze, there's nothing 
 intrinsically offensive or wearisome about the fist-pumping grunts at the core of the story. The 
 story isn't deep or involving -- it's just  there , neither enhancing nor diminishing Killzone 2's 
 action.     

   

  That action is enhanced by groundbreaking visuals that elevate Killzone 2 to the head of its class. 
 Both technically and artistically, this is a real stunner. You'll first notice the obvious expressions 
 of its technical prowess: environments jam-packed with objects and textured architectural details, 
 pipes and crumbling rebar jutting from dilapidated buildings, and gorgeous lighting that drenches 
 market squares and sandy battlefields with an incandescent glow. As you peel away the visual layers, 
 your appreciation will only grow. Soldier animations are the best in the genre: Enemies move so 
 fluidly during battle, and shift from cover to firing stance so smoothly, it's clear that meticulous 
 attention was given to making each limb move authentically. Even the smallest details are striking. 
 Raging fires react to the wind as it blows through the level, lightning flashes across the gloomy 
 skies, and billows of smoke so thick you could choke on them cloud your view -- but never so much 
 as to be a gameplay annoyance.  

           The environments are dripping with grim ambience.      

  These visuals coalesce beautifully 
 to give Killzone 2 a cohesive look that relies as much on its art design as it does on its technology. 
 A subtle grain filter, a good amount of motion blur, and deep color saturation give most levels 
 a dank, overcast ambience, and asymmetrical architecture and other small stylistic touches make 
 Helghan feel more like a grim alternate-universe Earth than a completely foreign world. The sound 
 design offers an equally intense palette. Explosions are obnoxiously loud, and the din of gunfire 
 spreads across the map. The largest battles, such as one that rages across a decrepit bridge, sound 
 intensely chaotic, and the crack of lightning bolts on Blood Gracht may cause you to jump out of 
 your seat. The stormy soundtrack rages at all the right moments but gets a bit overwrought, which 
 befits the hammy voice acting more than it does the layered sound effects.  

  Although the campaign is over in eight or nine hours, many levels are eminently replayable thanks 
 to tough enemy AI and multiple difficulty levels, and the game makes it easy to revisit specific 
 sequences within its mission menu. But what gives this shooter legs is its fantastic online play, 
 a fun and competitive extravaganza that issues a constant stream of benefits. Like the most recent 
 Call of Duty games, Killzone 2 rewards you with bonuses as you play, which in this case can mean 
 new weapons, extra grenades awarded upon respawning, and most intriguingly, entire classes. This 
 is done not only via a leveling system that pushes you ever closer to the next reward, but also 
 with ribbons earned by completing specific tasks, such as getting a certain percentage of your 
 team's kills. These bonuses are earned separately from leveling, which makes for two layers of 
 online play enhancements to keep you ever addicted.  

  These dividends flow in a seemingly endless current, though they aren't the only facet of online 
 play that will keep you gripping your controller; the team-based gameplay itself is outstanding, 
 which serves as reason enough to stick with Killzone 2. The modes themselves offer few surprises, 
 what with variants on Team Deathmatch (Bodycount) , Conquest (Capture and Hold) , and Capture the 
 Flag (Search and Retrieve) , among others. Rather, matches are unique because these modes are strung 
 seamlessly together, forcing teams to move from one objective to the next with barely a breather 
 in-between. Up to five modes mesh into a single game, which keeps teams on their toes and spreads 
 hotbeds of action about the maps. In a single match, you're likely to band with teammates in an 
 exposed courtyard, navigate tight walkways as battles rage in the artificial gulley just beyond, 
 and defend an objective in a claustrophobic alcove. It's unlikely that you'll have trouble finding 
 players online to join you in one of Killzone 2's 32-player engagements, but should you be so inclined, 
 you can fill out the games that you host with up to 15 AI-controlled bots. You can even practice 
 offline in one-off matches with those same bots if you prefer.  

  The eight maps included are exceptional, largely because they are flexible enough to make every 
 mode feel like a natural fit for the precise layouts. Aspects such as the varying spawn points 
 of the propaganda speaker in Search and Retrieve, and the vulnerable locations of capture points 
 in Capture and Hold, provide focused hot spots and send you to every nook and cranny of the maps. 
 Be prepared to think vertically because the pathways wind up stairwells, through hidden tunnels, 
 and across balconied walkways. The addition of techniques available to each of Killzone 2's seven 
 classes makes the ensuing action even more dynamic. An engineer's turrets can make Pyrrhus Rise's 
 natural chokepoints even more treacherous, whereas a cloaked enemy may pounce on you as you navigate 
 Tharsis Depot's constricted walkways. All the while, visual flourishes such as floating embers 
 on Visari Hammer and distant artillery fire on Salamun Market keep the mood oppressive.  

           Online play offers an embarrassment of rewards.      

  Additional features flesh out 
 the robust online play. You can join other teammates in a squad, a la Battlefield 2 and Enemy Territory, 
 a feature that lets you coordinate attacks with ease. Full support for clans and clan challenges 
 should make Killzone 2 a natural destination for competitive teams, and you can use killzone. com 
 to schedule clan matches and tournaments. But whether you're a lone wolf or a clan enthusiast, 
 you'll be happy to find a mostly smooth online experience, with only rare and short bouts of visual 
 slowdown and online lag. In light of this extraordinary suite of online options, it's a pity that 
 there is no cooperative play, and the single-player campaign seems ripe for such an addition, given 
 that you're usually accompanied by an AI teammate.  

  You'll have to look to the inevitable Killzone 3 to find out if developer Guerilla can dig any 
 diamonds out of this series' rough narrative. Otherwise, Killzone 2 is an exceptional first-person 
 shooter, not because it does anything particularly new, but because it does everything extraordinarily 
 well. There's certainly no doubting its graphical superiority, but though its moody visuals invite 
 incessant superlatives, it's the tight, electric action that will make this an off- and online 
 haven.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (376 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Patatopan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, Killzone 2 puts you into the boots of an ISA soldier named Sev who is part of a large scale 
 invasion of the planet Helghan. The game picks up from the last game where it's mainly about how 
 the Helghast came and invaded an ISA held planet called Vekta and how the Helghast got their asses 
 kicked back off. You actually don't need to know much about the last game other than that the Helghast 
 we're some meanies who didn't agree with everything going on Earth, so they moved onto their own 
 planet which deformed them and made them evil or something. I'm not very sure. Trust me, though, 
 you wouldn't really play Killzone 2 for it's plot. To put it bluntly, this game is pure awesomeness. 
 If awesome could some how materialize itself as an inanimate object, Killzone 2 would be it. There 
 is just so much about this game that makes it awesome, ranging from little, unnoticeable details 
 to large ones that define most of the game. I mean, I've come very far with great FPS experiences, 
 like experiencing Halo for the first time, but Killzone 2 reintroduces that feeling of playing 
 something incredible. Let me explain why. First off, and I really should mention this first to 
 drive this point, the game is BEAUTIFUL! Not in the old sense of the word, such as pretty flowers 
 and what not, but just how well designed the graphics are. People may say something like that gameplay 
 should always be considered over graphics. This is not the case. In fact, that is never the case 
 since graphics are what gives a game it's atmosphere so that when playing other games, you get 
 a different feeling of atmosphere than that of other games. Hopefully that makes sense. The graphics 
 define this game's gameplay; it gives the gameplay shape and depth. Technically, they're outstanding. 
 There is so many things processing at once, it's really hard for me to look at it and say, Oh 
 well they used some parallax mapping here and some bloom there", you really can't point all that 
 out. The only thing that you can point out is that it looks like a painting in motion. There. A 
 really dark and muddy painting. This game was going for an all out, gritty war look and it's probably 
 the only game to ever nail it down perfectly. The sky is angry and roiling with its dark black 
 clouds, the ground it littered with bullet casings and blood, lightning fills the sky with blinding 
 light and strikes down at the ground with such force. The look of the game is visceral intensity. 
 It's not just straight gray and black or anything, though, there are interesting color choices 
 that mix the game's look up a bit. Such is the enemies and how they're masks have red glowing eyes 
 that penetrate the darkness, or how in some levels there is this overall pallet of orange and blue. 
 I don't know, It must be a mixture of the lights or something. Really though, this game's graphics 
 are interesting enough that I have to point them out. The only, and I mean the ONLY, minor annoyance 
 I have with the graphics is that some textures can be real low resolution, almost to the point 
 of like a Playstation 2 game, but this is just nitpicking as you will be too sucked into the games 
 overall intensity to ever really care about something as minuscule as a bad texture or two. Also, 
 one other thing to add; this game has some of the best gun models I have ever seen. Second, the 
 gameplay is awesome. Enemies flood the screen, doing everything they possibly can within their 
 power to stop you. The enemy ai is well, normal. They aren't the Einsteins of video games, but 
 they move about freely, taking cover when appropriate and all the like; they never just stand there 
 out in the open and shoot in short bursts or anything. The enemies are somewhat varied, mainly 
 just different costumes, but there are some different branches of them such as ones that specialize 
 in assaulting you head on, some specialize in sniping, and some are actually flying robots. The 
 mini bosses you fight through the game, Heavies I think they're called, aren't even worth being 
 called mini. They are so darn easy, it's not even funny so don't worry about these dudes, they 
 won't do much. In all, I think are only about 3 bosses, but that's pretty good for an FPS. You 
 have a boss that takes certain patterns to beat, one that can be either really easy to beat or 
 really hard, and of course, a really hard last boss. The thing about the enemies is probably the 
 sheer number of them you see all at once. You can also get a lot of buddies with you at once too, 
 so there is a large amount of onscreen "dudes" you can have with you and against you that help 
 add that sense of visceral war, something that the graphics help bolster along with too.
  
  The Singleplayer campaign has probably been one of the funnest, unfortunately shorter, action filled 
 campaigns i have ever played in an FPS. The game starts out sort of keeping you from the action 
 at first, and the whole time you're like "Just shut the hell up, I just want to go kill some Helghast 
 bastards" and all the doodah in between leading up to the main gameplay gets you interested. Then, 
 when you finally hit the main gameplay, you're like" HOLY **** totally not expecting what you see. 
 This game has a great first level. Everything just builds up from there, especially the landing 
 scene in the second level which is probably one of the most detailed, intense scenes ever in a 
 video game. Yet again, the excellent graphics help make this out. The levels range from large open 
 areas, to long corridor filled levels, but keeping you interested and enjoyed the entire time. 
 The shooting action itself is great. They put this elaborate death system for the enemies that 
 give you a sense that you just literally "killed" someone. The enemy deaths are life like. One 
 thing that sucks, though, is that if you shoot them in the are or leg, they don't react at all 
 almost. They don't even get a limp or anything, so thats discouraging. The guns themselves sound 
 great and have this real intense feeling to them. The only thing I don't like about the guns is 
 how for some of them, the muzzle flash looks real fake and paperish. They don't even look like 
 they're coming from the gun. One thing that this game may confuse people is its controls. They're 
 not mapped where you would expect them to be. The right analog button is to aim, the L1 button 
 is to melee, and the L2 acts as both an crouch and covering button. Mainly the controls are there 
 for a reason and you become quickly familiar with them. Unfortunately, the aiming won't. It's strange, 
 the aiming is sort of out of sync with the controller movement, like some sort of input lag. You'll 
 be trying to precisely aim your gun just a centimeter to the left, and you'll end up accidentally 
 throwing your gun way to the far left of the screen. You will later become somewhat use to it, 
 but not entirely. I heard there was suppose to be some sort of patch that fixes this problem, but 
 I have yet to see it fixed. Multiplayer is, try and guess, awesome too. It's by far the funnest 
 multiplayer experience I have had on my ps3. The action gets so nuts at time, I'll start laughing. 
 All that intensity of the singleplayer carries over to the multiplayer so you get that same sense 
 of all out war. The maps vary greatly, with some being good for sniping and long range fighting, 
 with some that pit you against each others faces. Both situations call for great online fireifights. 
 The leveling system is also interesting, it's real similar to Call of Duty. you have certain ranks 
 that you achieve after so many points you've earned from getting kills and completing challenges 
 such as getting a number of headshots or healing a certain amount of people as a medic. That's 
 something else you can obtain while branching levels is unlocking different classes. They're your 
 usual engineer, medic, soldier, and sniper and such, but one of them left you send out a flying 
 robot. Cool huh? Thats really all I have to say about the multilayer, other than it would make 
 the game 1000 times more awesome if it had both online and off co-op. All well, beggars can't be 
 choosers.
  
  So in the end, this game is like a masterpiece in terms of video games. It achieves that visceral 
 and intense feeling so well that you can literally feel it. I know, I got simulation sickness while 
 playing since its so intense. You can't really say that this game is like many other FPS's out 
 there because its not, it absolutely isn't. It gives you this certain experience that you can only 
 so rarely find in a game, an incredible experience. This game is great, both it's singleplayer 
 and multiplayer is awesome, it's community interaction is great (Forgot to mention you can go to 
 killzone. com from the main menu itself and interact with other users) , it's stable and playable 
 unlike that last one, and overall, is a meaty package well worth anyone's sixty bucks. On the Jesse's 
 scale of awesomness, it goes off the charts, ringing every single possible awesome alarm in it's 
 wake which then produces itself into this Huge, depth defying force of Holy **** And thats that.
 
  
  p. s. Don't let the last game affect your judgment of Killzone 2 at all, they are nearly nonidentical 
 in terms of, well, everything. I must say, though, I loved the last one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ooskulloo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I am a huge fan of shooters, especially FPS. The thing is that after 
 playing all the Halo games no shooter felt right anymore, they all felt dull and just not entertaining. 
 I thought Kilzone2 would be just another over-hyped game. But I couldn't be more wrong!!! 
  
  This game sucks you into it's world and puts you on the battlefield with guns blazing! This 
 game is a rush to play, it's innovative and unique. I love the style of everything and the feel 
 of the whole game. The whole environment feels perfect for the scenarios that you are put into. 
 The guns just feel right. And there is one really powerful gun that just makes you feel like... lets 
 just say... GOD! You can waste hordes of enemies with it, and you will snicker at just how evily 
 tasteful it is.
  
  This game is an EASY 10/10. GET THIS GAME, IT IS WORTH EVERY PENNY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  My policy, in general, is that if it doesn't take place in World War 2, an FPS is not worth the 
 money. They're all just too generic and similar for me. Resistance, Gears and Halo all bored me, 
 but Killzone 2 truly was a pleasant surprise.
  The game really is like a futuristic WW2 game. The Helghast are clearly modeled after the Nazis 
 and Scolar Visari reminds of Hitler. Even the Helghast symbol looks like an altered swastika. The 
 story is also very interesting for an FPS. It's all cohesive and the characters all have plenty 
 of personality. Most reviewers complained about the excessively foul language, but I don't think 
 it took away from the game at all. 
  There's nothing I could write about the sound or visuals that hasn't been said already. Killzone 
 2 is a treat to the eyes and ears. No FPS I've ever played creates such an intense, believable 
 atmosphere. The textures and colors are obviously all believable, but the way the levels were designed 
 and laid out is truly astounding. Claustrophobic hallways drip with water and feature swaying light 
 fixtures, dust whirls and flags blow in the wind... It's something that needs to be seen to be 
 appreciated. The music is absolutely epic, and the sound effects are loud and vicious. A+ for presentation, 
 without a doubt.
  The game plays very uniquely, which I love. Those of you who are familiar with games like Halo 
 or Call of Duty will need to adjust to the clunkier, weightier controls. Bottom line: it's more 
 realistic, and I love it. Killing enemies is more of a challenge but is more satisfying as well. 
 The guns all feel great, and there are three in particular that are not very believable, but feel 
 awesome. 
  On top of the very impressive single player campaign, the multiplayer is truly an achievement for 
 Guerilla Games. The Warzone mode is highly involving and intense, and the maps are varied and fun 
 to play on. On top of that, Killzone. com tracks an insane amount of stats from both your single 
 player and multiplayer modes, and it can be loads of fun just perusing your stats online and chatting 
 with other players. Overall, Killzone 2 is a highly polished and extremely fun experience. One 
 of the few games to live up to a mind-boggling amount of hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flameducky
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  E3 2005.
  The lights dim.
  People watch awe and shock as the first trailer for Killzone 2.
  PS3 loyalists say this will 
 be the ultimate FPS. 
  Fanboys respond by saying it's pre-rendered footage. 
  
  4 years later we finally get our hands on it. AMAZING! The game is brutal and strategic. Don't 
 think you'll be able to run right into the field and kill everyone. You won't last long. Even on 
 the easiest settings. The detail is perfection, the story will cause immersion, (That's a good 
 thing) the AI is so smart that it's scary, and the online is addictive as hell. Don't listen to 
 the fanboys. This game is better then Halo. Only 3 problems with it though:
  
  1. This game has the potential for 4 player co-op. (3 after Garza dies) 
  
  2. Minor hitches 
 while auto saving, loading a new checkpoint, or when changing the lighting. Freezes occur, but 
 they're rare. 
  
  3. Sometimes in assassination missions, the target will still be counted as alive even after you 
 kill him during a mortality wound. 
  
  A must have for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeverTheSame
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is not for everybody, in the sense of the sentence, that it is NOT a call of duty, it 
 is not a steriotypical type of shooter. . . It is a bit of call of duty and nothing more! But that 
 is it really "bit of" it has a lot of "bits of" other games, and it doesnt bring much new to the 
 first person shooter genre! (gameplay wise)
  
  The bits it has from other games are fantastic!!! 
  It only takes the good parts, like the excellent 
 cover system from gears of war ( a little different though) , some weapons allow a "aim down sight 
 view" (Call of duty) which immerses you more in the game and the graphics are on a level of its 
 own, but onto that later...
  
  The gameplay isn't as fast paced as call of duty, but that is because it is NOT call of duty, and 
 it doesnt even try to be call of duty (thank god) because it may copy (not steal) bits from other 
 games, but it doesnt just copy it, it improves upon the sturdy foundation set by other games!
 
  
  The gameplay itself though isnt a fast game . . . it is actually quite slow thanks to the weight 
 system (best appreciated with a projector or 37+ inch tv) but this immerses you much, much, but 
 for many others who are obsessed with call of duty (just a example) will find it a huge nuisance...
 
  What the weight system does is make the aiming and movement slower, and more rugged, making it 
 a slower experiance in total, but while making you slower, it does not make you feel like a impossible-to-defeat 
 titan, it makes you feel like a pawn in the long and brutal game of war!
  
  The difficulty of the game is brutal (on expert or hard) if you are used to running and gunning 
 because as mentioned before, it is a slow game . . . You have a cover system which you will NEED 
 to use, otherwise it will be goodnight to your character (sev) ...
  
  What deserves a special mention is multiplayer!!!
  The multiplayer is fantastic . . . enough 
 said, it beats call of duty in every way (apart from length) and it is truly fantastic Class-based 
 combat with special abilities just combines so well and will have you hooked for weeks!
  
  Finally is the story.
  It does not deserve a special mention because it is average stuff, average 
 BORING stuff... the only bits which i watched was when people died (its a shooter, there is death) 
 so average rubbish to be honest (would have said ****)
  
  Graphics ( i forgot about this)
  Spectacular, You will have seen screenshots by now, so no need 
 to go in depth but it is on a level of its own!
  
  
  Graphics=10
  gameplay=8
  story=7
  multiplayer = 10
  singleplayer = 10
  replay value = 9
  
  
  
  Overall
  
 A fantastic game which warrants your purchase so...
  SEE YOU ON THE FIELD SOLDIER!!!
  
  add me on Assassin_Naruto on ps3 and tell me if you liked the review!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:03 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a great game , here is my review
  
  Graphics:10/10 : Visually stunning and one of the best looking games i have ever see since crysis.
 
  
  Gameplay:9/10 : Gameplay looks great and feels great , however sluggish , slow controls can make 
 u not use to this game at first , but u will soon get use to it and enjoy it. it a short amount 
 of time
  
  Multiplayer 11/10!!! : Best multiplayer i have ever played in the ps3 after call of duty 4 . 32 
 players with smooth online killing each other and many weapon classes , ranks , ribbons for u to 
 unlock. even in the multiplayer , the visuals are still stunning and they can make your eyes bleed 
 . Nice class upgrade too.
  
  Overall this game is one of the best FPS on the Ps3 , thanks to Guerrilla making this awesome game 
 , to me in my opinion it has surpassed Call Of Duty 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  wow, just wow.
  
  about the time this game was first announced, I was still playing Need for Speed Underground 2 
 on my PS2 and had never played a shooter in my life. But now, with my Playstation 3 and all these 
 great shooters i bought Killzone 2 about 2 weeks after it came out and i've been playing it non-stop 
 ever since.
  
  Storyline:
  
  From the first cutscene down to the last boss battle, this game has surprised me in everyway possible 
 aspect of story telling and action-based cutscenes that are around every corner of this games great 
 story. This campaign is based around an invasion on the planet Helghan by the ISA government to 
 finally defeat the Helghast leader Visari for once and for all. Without giving to much away, the 
 cutscenes are great and the twist in the story is quite exciting and makes for some great story 
 telling.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Everybody knows Killzone 2 has great graphics... but how great are they? AMAZING!!!! The glare on 
 the screen from the sun and the blood splatter on the screen when you get shot is just magnificent. 
 the only complaint i have with the graphics is the blood when you shoot one of the helghast soldiers..... it's 
 kind of well.... cartoonish and fake looking but other than that these graphics are the best i have 
 ever seen and probably the best graphics is video game history. The only other game that MIGHT 
 be up to par with Killzone 2 in the graphics section is Crysis.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I've heard so many people complaing about how heavy the player feels in Killzone 2 because it's 
 not like Call of Duty or something. What fun would shooter be if they were all the same? When I 
 see reviews of mediocre shooters saying that it's just another shooter that feels the same and 
 it gets maybe a 6 or 7 out of 10 i thinkwow that's good, we need something differentand then 
 Killzone 2 comes out and it's different and awesome and realistic and bloody and heavy and gritty 
 and the critics love it but when i read some of the player reviews saying "ugh i just hate the 
 controls and it doesn't feel like call of duty and it's to heavy and hard to get used to"...... I 
 think gamers just don't know what they want but Killzone 2 has finally come and is amazing. Probably 
 the best aspect of the gameplay is the heavy feeling of your character, the amazing first-person 
 cover system and realistic recoil of your weapons. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The multiplayer aspect of Killzone 2 is simply the funnest I have ever played. Using these heavy 
 weapons on the online battlefield is the most satisfying feeling ever. Instead of the visual scoring 
 when you kill someone like in Call of Duty or in Resistance 2, it makes a very distinct sound which 
 i think is better an less distracting in an online game. the ranking system is great and the weapons 
 feel amazing especially the shotgun.....
  
  Overall: Great story with funny and memorable characters, The best graphics i have ever seen and 
 an amazing multiplayer component make this the best shooter I have ever played!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nny3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome sequel to a very good game. A lot has changed since Killzone, particularly the 
 fact that you can't choose your character in campaign like you could in Killzone. However, you'll 
 soon forget about that the second your ship lands into a warzone with the Helghast just pounding 
 on the ISA, troops burning alive, and people being blown to the other side of the galaxy. I guess 
 the point I'm trying to make here is that the game is freaking intense the second the battle starts. 
 
  
  You play as Sev this time around. Templar is now a commander, and Rico is your squad leader. I 
 actually have no clue what happened to Luger, because I didn't play Liberation. I don't think ANYONE 
 knows what happened to Hakha. Anyway, being restricted to one character is kind of annoying, because 
 I missed the special abilities your other characters had in Killzone, but the gameplay more than 
 makes up for it. It acts as any normal first person shooter, except you can't shoot AND jump, and 
 you can take cover in first person view, which, I gotta say, is pretty freaking sweet. You do this 
 by holding L2 (I believe) near a suitable cover, and you can peek up, or around that cover. This 
 can be quite a life saver, especially on the harder difficulties. 
  
  The multiplayer is really addicting, as well. Don't get me wrong, I had my fair share of the campaign 
 (in fact, it's one of my favorite campaigns in a FPS) but I keep coming back to the multiplayer 
 because of how addicting it is just to rank up, or even to play. Hell, one game ended up being 
 three hours long because it was a stalemate, and let me tell you, that was an awesome game. The 
 game modes in KZ2's multiplayer are Bodycount (Team Deathmatch) Search and Destroy (one team defends, 
 the other assaults and plants bombs) Assassination (one target is picked on one of the teams, and 
 he must survive and must be defended at all costs) Capture and Hold (grabbing territories) and 
 Search and Retrieve (a propaganda speaker is randomly generated in the middle are of a map, and 
 one team must grab it and plant it in the opposite teams base) 
  
  The matches flow fluidly between each gametype (meaning you can have Bodycount, Search and Destroy, 
 Search and Retrieve, Assassination, and Capture and Hold in the same game without the game ending 
 and loading a new round) It's very cool how this works, and it will keep you interested.
  
  When you rank up, you gain more weapons, or even more classes which you can choose when you respawn 
 or when you enter the game. You can also combine some badges you've unlocked with other classes 
 (once certain conditions are met, of course) 
  
  Well, that's all I have to say. This game is my pick for game of the year, and it is one the most 
 intense games I have ever played. If you liked Killzone 1, chances are, you'll love Killzone 2.
 
  
  9.5/10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grungeman91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 5:27 am PT
Review:  Story - 8.0 - It has a great war driven story with a good pace and a lot of action, but still it's 
 the same story with all first person shooters, some cool set pieces and really cool good guys and 
 baddies.
  
  Graphics - 9.0 - It's got the best graphics I've ever seen on a console, the scale in this game 
 is downright amazing, but the designs could be just a bit better.
  
  Sound - 8.0 - it has great sound and it's a lot better if you have surround sound system to hear 
 the bullets fly around you. 
  
  Gameplay - 8.5 - The single player is fun to play with lots of stuff going on, the multiplayer 
 on the other hand is fun to play, it's just that it's the same online shooter as any other game.
 
  
  Enjoyment - 8.0 - While the single player is one hell of a ride and also the fun to play multiplayer, 
 you will get hours of enjoyment out of this game.
  
  Final Score - 9.5 - It's got game of the year quality written all over it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 1:17 am PT
Review:  Oh, man, where do I start? This game lived up to its hype and surpassed all my own expectations 
 by far. This is the most beautiful, best looking game on any system ever. Its the single best FPS 
 I've ever played on a console (Crysis is hard to beat) . The multiplayer is phenomenal and endless 
 fun. There's so much going on here its hard to believe you're on the planet Earth all this time. 
 Every weapon, enemy, boss, environment, and character are unique in their own ways and detailed 
 enough to suck you right off your couch....
  
  I really cannot fathom why some people have said that this game is too short and has no plot. WTF?? 
 I've spent well over eight hours in the single-player campaign and that's far more than a lot of 
 titles offer these days. Even Metal Gear Solid 4 can be played through in less than 5 hours. Its 
 all in how you play the game, I guess. Sure, you can run guns blazing and rip right through the 
 opposition and game itself if you're lucky enough not to get blow to shreds, but I personally played 
 it cool and stuck back under cover until I found a good moment to flank and advance. If you play 
 the way its meant to be played this game can last longer than you want it to. If you sit back and 
 return fire the Helghans will only continue to spawn endlessly. You HAVE to advance to end the 
 battle. So, you could just sit back and pick off "red-eyes" til your thumbs bleed. 
  
  As for the story, this game plays out better than a lot of movies of the same genre. I admit, its 
 a pretty simple one, but its a FPS, right? Not really known for epic odysseys and such. Basically, 
 after being under attack by the Helghan army on your home planet the ISA have decided to bring 
 the fight to their terf. You land right in the middle of the action, you and different squad-mates 
 split off at different moments, you lose some people, you get vengeful, you go after the b@stards 
 who have terrorized you for all these years. Simple, sure, but with the killer graphics and cinematic 
 splendor it plays out so so so beautifully. The ending is great. Even the closing credits are freakin' 
 cool to watch. I just can't say enough about how well the developers did on the story and cinematics. 
 Its all great!!!
  
  This game does come with a couple flaws, though. Nothing big, but definately noticable: When you're 
 entering a new area on the playing field the game has to load the next area. When this happens 
 the game freezes for like half a second. Its very infrequent, but its there. YOu'll notice it, 
 and it does kind of boot you out of your zone. There's nothing that bugs me more than being immersed 
 in the action when all of a sudden a d@mn load screen appears, so this is quite a compromise. I'd 
 take a little studder over a whole new screen anyday. The other thing is that this game is HARD!!!! 
 Seriously, I've always considered myself a veteran, but this game gave me a run for my money. I 
 played it on Trooper (the normal setting) and kept getting blown away in areas where the Helghans 
 literally surround you. They are on all sides at all levels. They shoot from below and above; front 
 and back. They advance as soon as you try to take cover and reload. You can duck to recover from 
 a gunshot wound and suddenly get flanked at your cover. These guys are merciless!!!! Another beef 
 I have is no co-op campaign. But screw it, the online multiplayer is so much fun I don't have time 
 to do anything else. Sad really. 
  
  This game has raised the bar so incredibly high. Its rediculous, really. This is what the PS3 was 
 meant to do. This is the kind of game PS3 owners are supposed to be playing, and hopefully we'll 
 get more of this quality work from Guerilla themselves. I'm pretty positive we will. I know you've 
 heard it a billion times, but the graphics are just stunning. The atmosphere is perfect for the 
 story. You feel like you're on Mars or something. The lighting is just right; dark and brooding. 
 The ememies are smart and rutheless. The friendlies don't really offer much support, but they're 
 all cool in their own ways. The guns all have their own feel and are fun to shoot. Some of the 
 guns are REALLY fun to shoot (electrogun, you're my baby!!) , though they are hard to come by. i 
 really hope they offer some DLC that lets you use more of the cooler guns on more levels. I'd pawn 
 this game. Anyway, the vehicles and planted weapons are great and powerful ways to mow down some 
 helghans. The mech scene is my personal fave. Usually, when they throw something like that in it 
 feels like I get pulled from the game, but it really fits. Mech = Bad@ssery. They also do a great 
 job utilizing the sixaxis motion control. Not many games have, but they did and did it well. Basically, 
 you'll use it to either turn valves or plant charges. Though, the GS reviewer says it feels tacked 
 on (and it sort of does) it really makes you feel like you're getting your hands dirty. I felt 
 like a charge-setting super hero after the first few. It really enhanced the experience for me, 
 no doubt. 
  
  Anyway, I just want to encourage everyone to ignore the total BS about lacking story and play time 
 and go by this game!!!! This is what your PS3 was made for!!! If you've ever ever enjoyed a FPS 
 then you need this game in your collection. Its literally the best one ever made for a console 
 and the best looking one in existence. Period. Alpha -- Out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beowulf0987
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  Every aspect of this game is awesome the graphics are spectacular, the story line it magnifiecent 
 and best of all the online experience is unmatched. 
  
  Im guessing you all can name about 50 games that have cutscenes that have really good graphics. 
 Well in KZ2 you can barely tell the difference between the cutscenes and the actual gameplay. If 
 you think im bragging then get the game or the demo off PSN and see for yourselves.
  
  Now for the online. The graphics do not change at all online. Its pretty awesome because nothing 
 changes really its the same experience that youd see in the campaign but 50 times more the killing. 
 Im only a Lieutenant-Colonel but ive played it enough to know that this game is one of the best 
 sci-fi shooters of all time. 
  
  I meen wat more can u ask for it has stunning visuals, a great storyline and an highly addictive 
 online. If ur a first person shooter fan this is one game that u do not want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godfather_01
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Great single player game had lots of fun playing through the storyline, online multiplayer action 
 satisfying however I am extremely dissapointed that they did not include off-line multiplayer facilities 
 like they had in killzone 1, which in my opinion was the best part of the original game, I recall 
 countless afternoons spent playing killzone with friends at home, which is why I bought #2, however 
 online play for me is to laggy and generally to hard to organise with my closer friends (doesnt 
 help when most of them dont have access to broadband connections lol.) Great graphics and excellent 
 storyline which could of been a bit longer in my opinion as it didnt take too long to finish the 
 single player element of the game but for the most part it lived up to the hype.
  All in all a good game but missing what I loved about the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Amsterdam-based Guerrilla Games first released Killzone in 2004. This game was meant to be a hit 
 for PlayStation 2 owners, but unfortunately was met with slightly above average review scores. 
 A good game overall, Killzone however lacked a punch it needed to shine in the shooter genre. Just 
 under two years later, a PSP exclusive title, Killzone: Liberation was released. This game warmed 
 up to much better views, ditching first-person views for its methodical, and strategic isometric 
 views. Two years later, the proper sequel for Killzone has arrived, and with thunderous accord.
 
  
  In 2005, a trailer for Killzone 2 was unleashed upon the world. It blew the media away, and thus 
 the Killzone 2 watch began. While originally thought to be game footage, the controversial trailer 
 was actually a computer generated trailer. When true footage was released, any doubt of the games 
 graphics evaporated there. Arguably even better than the 2005 trailer, Killzone's groundbreaking 
 visuals are a sight to behold.
  
  Considerably darker and more gritty than the controversial trailer, Killzone 2 uses a thoroughly 
 gray and brown palette. Lighting and environmental effects are brilliant. Planet Helghan is heavily 
 affected by its climate. Violent winds beat at the walls of the buildings and tear cloth coverings 
 by the seams. Worse still, is the constant and beautiful lightning storms that quake the ground. 
 Heavily textured architectural details are everywhere, and the lighting pierces market squares 
 and sandy fields with a fervent glow. To say that Helghan is gorgeous and gritty is an understatement. 
 Helghan has had a large effect on its residents as well. Character models are exquisite, with incredibly 
 realistic movement and facial features. The Doom trooper-esque Helghast are appropriately menacing. 
 Their trademark glowing red eyes sear through the landscape. 
  
  As a shooter, Killzone 2 has players engaging in vicious combat. So intense is this combat, one 
 rarely has enough time to stop by and see the sights in Helghan; a beautiful realized, but brutal 
 planet. Gun animation and graphics is undoubtedly the greatest in any game to date. Lens flare 
 is perfect, and the reactions are fluid as can be. Arterial spray covers the screen with a well 
 placed shot. A large variety of weapons are available to choose from, from the standard ISA M82 
 assault rifle and the Helghast StA-52 assault rifles to the rocket launcher and lightning gun; 
 one of the most powerful weapons ever seen in a shooter. These weapons are extremely satisfying 
 to use, adding a massive amount of fun to the singleplayer and multiplayer components. Only one 
 of these may be used at one time however, with a handgun sidearm and combat knife always at your 
 hip.
  
  Killzone 2 offers a well-paced campaign that keeps players in the thick of the ISA and Helghan 
 conflict. Jan Templar, hero of the first two Killzone games, has been promoted to a position of 
 giving orders upon an ISA cruiser ship. This introduces a new protagonist to the mixture; Sergeant 
 Tomas Sevchenko. As member of Alpha Squad, "Sev" is on the front line assault force as the ISA 
 takes the fight to the Helghast home planet of Helghan. Joined by squad mates Garza, Natko and 
 squad leader Rico, (whose unquenchable bloodlust has no bounds) . From the get-go, Sev and his team 
 are thrown into a cluster of conflict. 
  
  Unfortunately like in the first Killzone, there is some left to be desired in the storytelling. 
 While the plot background is actually pretty good, it's rather tedious to need to read up on websites 
 to get the extent of the narrative, (something that should really be in the game) . Throughout the 
 game, character conflict and interaction is mostly left to profanity and how to get from point 
 A to point B. Later in the game, Guerrilla tries to make players care about the characters, but 
 it falls a little flat. While the storytelling may lack in depth, the campaign's action is anything 
 but. In about eight-to-ten hours, Killzone 2 pacts an insurmountable amount of action.
  
  The thrilling firefights are perfectly done. There is a certain feel of "heaviness" to the gameplay. 
 A small amount of controller lag makes Killzone 2 feel realistic, with each step feeling like it 
 hits the ground. This takes a while to get used to twitch-shooter players, but works very well 
 once you get used to it. Bullets affect enemies like never before. Yes, it obviously still drains 
 the Helghast of their blood, but a bullet collision system has been implemented. The force of a 
 round will propel an enemy in the given direction. A cover-based system similar to Quantum of Solace 
 or Rainbow Six Vegas is present, with one distinct difference. Instead of changing to third-person 
 perspective upon cover, Sev stays in first person view at all times. This greatly assists difficulty 
 and the illusion that the player is in Sevchenko's shoes. Helghast intelligence is vast; they utilize 
 cover as much as Sev does, and in groups will attempt to flank him and move him into the open. 
 Killzone 2 uses a regenerative system in single-player similar to that of the Call of Duty games. 
 
  
  This along with the brilliant Helghast AI forces players to use cover well, and take accurate pot-shots. 
 Friendly AI is noticeably not as advanced as the enemies. They may run into Sev's line of fire 
 and use cover poorly from time to time. However they're far from dumb; you never get the feeling 
 that they're useless and you're fighting the war by yourself. They certainly help in fighting back 
 the Helghast march, and in many cases you'd be lost without them. Mini-boss battles, like the several 
 variations of 'heavies' is one of them. These heavily steel armored behemoths are unphased by bullets, 
 and require special tactics to take down. They also provide cover fire in the most dire of places.
 
  
  Killzone 2 action-packed campaign offers a few set pieces to mix up the action. Turret sequences, 
 a tank and a mech battle are used in a few occasions to change the course of battle. They never 
 feel out of place, are well designed and most importantly, make players feel like they are heavily 
 directing the flow of battle. The Mech fight in particular, feels incredibly authentic. Enemy fire 
 that hits gradually damages the vehicles shields, and peppers the sights with bullet holes. These 
 fights are very well done, and will make you thirst for more. 
  
  To accompany regular action and special sequences in the campaign are great boss battles. Battles 
 against powerful Helghast vehicles and petrusite wielders to Colonel Radec, a Helghast champion 
 second to Scolar Visari (voiced brilliantly by Brain Cox) , leader of the Helghast people. The Radec 
 fight in particular, is one of the most difficult and time consuming fights in recent memory, (you 
 get a trophy for defeating him in less than twenty minutes!) . In an epic uphill battle to Visari's 
 palace, a fight reminiscent to the storming of the German parliament in World War II, Sev will 
 need to utilize his cover, movement, strategy and shooting skills to the max. 
  
  To tag along with the great single-player, Killzone 2 comes with an awesome multi-player to boot. 
 Easily the greatest class-based multi-player since Battlefield 2, players must work on a team to 
 win the wars. This adds a heavy dynamic to the game, an overall mix of the best qualities from 
 Battlefield 2, Team Fortress and Call of Duty. The regenerative health and cover system are removed. 
 This is where the classes come in. Seven are available, from a simple solider to a medic and sniper 
 class, there are plenty forms tailored to a specific type of play. Soldier is available from the 
 start, while the others as well as additional weapons are unlocked through rank advancement.
  
  Full squad and clan support is available, with heavily interactive clan betting systems. Despite 
 this, the most memorable part of Killzone 2's multi-player is the system used. Teams are split 
 on eight exceptional maps. They are flexible enough to tailor to any size of warfare, up to 32 
 players. Well guarded, fix-spawn points virtually eliminate spawn camping issues that are present 
 in other games, such as Call of Duty. The multi-player modes themselves offer surprises with the 
 standard modes of Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Capture and Hold. Up to five modes are 
 available in one game, and the transition is unbelievably seamless. With little breathing room 
 in between, an accomplished or failed objective will change on the fly, giving a chance to increase 
 the lead, or even out the fight. All this is done with minimal online lag and issues.
  
  Additional features flesh out the experience, the squad support helps coordinate attacks with ease, 
 and the clan support lets clans challenge each other for a said amount of points. It easily allows 
 team to set up matches or tournaments. And the well integrated match-making system will never pit 
 a newbie clan against a hardcore one. Solo matches will also pit players of equal rank against 
 one another, so newer players down the line may have an easier time to attune their skills. For 
 lone-wolf's, or entire clans, Killzone 2 is an ideal place for a smooth and brutal online experience.
 
  
  Killzone 2 is easily the most improved sequel in recent memory. What Killzone wanted tried to accomplish 
 and failed, Killzone 2 excelled. You will have to wait for a theoretical Killzone 3 to wrap up 
 the narrative however. Killzone 2's visuals are some of the best to be seen yet, but it is no slouch 
 by any means in terms of action. The tense, frantic and especially fun single-player and multi-player 
 modes are a wonderful justification of that 2005 trailer. Together with Insomniac Games, Guerrilla's 
 Killzone 2 Insomniac's Resistance 2 now form a huge one-two shooter punch for the PlayStation 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that this is a brilliant game... but minor tweaks force me to give it a 8.0 
 score. Visually the game is beautiful. Magnificent backdrops, shadow and smoke effects really lend 
 to the feeling that your actually there. Sound for the most part is top notch and enemy A. I. is 
 also extraordinary. There's alot in this game to keep you involved and immersed in the action. 
 With a graphic engine that clearly boasts new technology at its finest there are a few games out 
 there that are as visually stunning. 
  
  Heres where my issue is with this game; and a mild one at that but its very annoying. Aiming seems 
 to be a pain. The auto aim feature here is non existent; I'm not asking for the game to aim and 
 kill the bad guys for me people but a small help in that area would help geatly. Running and shooting 
 is almost a death wish and its was like this game was meant to be played with a mouse. Also, when 
 you turn with a weapon regular 1st person view it moves with the same velocity as if you were zoomed 
 in with your weapon making it frustratingly difficult to aim and shoot an enemy while zooming in. 
 This game would have been perfect if they had tweaked that. Killing is the essence of what a first 
 person game like this is and this small detail is extremely annoying. But by far its still a good 
 game worth your collection. Let me know your thoughts... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingoli2003
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  So here we have another futuristic FPS. Boasting great graphics and gameplay makes this game rank 
 up there with the likes of COD or Resistance. But it just seems too much like the same old shooter. 
 spoonfed missions, ordinary enemies and a small selection of firearms. The online multiplayer is 
 fun but gets very repetative and i can only play it for 2 hours at the most before loosing interest. 
 The ranking system and weapons are quite full but i think character customisation should be alot 
 more detailed. the multiplayer missions seem very fun to the run and gun type of player but not 
 much strategy is involved. simply blow the enemy to smitherines before taking an object or disarming 
 something. 
  
  If you are looking for a bit of fast paced shoot em up then this is for you. however if you exppect 
 a strategical game where weapon loadout and tactics are essential. you have come to the wrong place. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  where to begin, oh yes the single player campaign. i got killzone 2 with the ps3 bundle 2 weeks 
 ago, and i had little hands on with FPS on the playstation systems (the last being black a few 
 years ago) i thought i would have a bit of difficulty to get used to. as you start you go through 
 a very brief tutorial on movement and controls before leaving the Vekta cruise ship. as you hit 
 land you are straight in the action with on screen directions on how to shoot change weapons etc. 
 you will find throughout the game, teamates will be helpful at the wrong times and no where to 
 be seen at the right times. the cover mechanic is well implemented and used by you, your team and 
 the enemy which gives it an added challenge. the enemy also are smarter in that when you throw 
 a grenade early they will move, they will move and take cover and also close in for a melee attack 
 if you are not careful. this makes players be vigilant and be aware of surroundings and enemy as 
 well. there isnt much of a story line but cutscenes are still fantastic. trophies also require 
 the player to put some skill into what they do i. e. 3 revolver headshots with the same clip, kill 
 every type of solider with a knife melee. which adds replay value to singleplayer. the ending is 
 good and leaves the question on what happens next, with Radec and Visari dead, 3 characters dead 
 and the looming helghast ships hovering over head.
  
  multiplayer
  multiplayer is simply one of the best online experiences i have ever had. theres a filter that 
 lets you choose games within you region and also play against people similarly skilled as you. 
 32 players can be online on the game at once with little experience of lag or issues which stops 
 the frustation of people lag jumping everywhere or shooting and totally missing. classes are also 
 available in game with the choice of riflemen, medic, engineer, tactician, saboteur and scout. 
 each have an additional and secondary ability which you unlock after getting 5 of the skill in 
 8 games. its good to mix and match to get a stratergy in you team to win. medals are for many skills 
 shown in game besides classes like doing certain things in game types like getting 10 kills in 
 TDM, good conduct and sniper and melee kills. so far ive put 40 hours into online and have 2 medals 
 left to obtain. it isnt really required but headsets will come in handy if you are in clan competitions, 
 theres nothing worse than being the assassination target and you need a medic and no one is around.
 
  
  
  in summary 
  pros
  -graphics=AWESOME
  -weapons
  -challenging AI
  -skills for trophies
  -multiplayer
  -replay value
  
  cons
  -not much of a story plot
 
  -people not acting smart online
  
  
  
  this game is a must get for any FPS fan, it will blow you away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:18 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a great game. There are no two ways about it. 
  
  Everyone has gone ape about the graphics of the game since before it was even released, and after 
 playing it twice and finding only a single low res texture to complain about, i can see why. This 
 game is gorgeous. 
  
  A lot of comments about the controls have been made as well, and it really is a case of either 
 you will love them or you will hate them. I suppose when you have played a lot of FPS' on a console 
 before hand you get used to the loose, fast moving twitchery that is movement. But this game really 
 does it's best to put the gun in your hand and make sure you feel every shot hitting it's target. 
 I have no complaints. 
  
  The sound is stunning and immersive and really adds to the visuals in the best way possible. 
 
  
  I've given this game a 10, not because it is without a single flaw, but because it is perfect in 
 what it does. It gives a viscerally stunning, visually jawdropping and completely immersive game 
 that wraps you in it's cocoon of war and spits you out at the end begging for more. 
  
  And thats where the multiplayer comes in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdw0908
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 was originally one of the slated launch games for the PS3. A sequel to what was received 
 as a mediocre game that tried to do too much on the PS2. However, the delays and movie shown before 
 the game was released was highly criticized and many said the game could not look like the movie. 
 
  
  They were wrong... the game as it stands actually looks better (IMO) than the movie was 2 or 3 
 years ago (I don't recall the actual release) . The game looks great, and it plays more realistic 
 (weapon weight, bullet flight, environmental damage, etc.) than any other shooter I have played. 
 
  
  The campaign leaves a bit to be desired, but the last fight is downright epic. Those people who 
 claimed the enemies don't give you much variety may be right in terms of the actual appearance, 
 but they 'fight' differently and much more realistically during the campaign. I think this accomplishes 
 what the developers were trying to - which appears to be to create a 'realistic' war between two 
 'human' or 'near human' factions. In the end, the campaign seems too brief, and the story is very 
 shallow. The twist at the end is kind of nice and refreshing, but too little in a bland storyline 
 which kind of drags on (especially in the early stages) . 
  
  The multiplayer however, is where this game shines. I have not logged excessive amounts of time 
 in it, but it is very impressive. Give the game a play through on whatever difficulty you choose 
 in campaign and get to the M/P quickly. The variety of games to be played and the execution of 
 it are near flawless and very balanced if your search criteria are correct. The balance feels right, 
 and when you get into it there are not very many games that can match the overall experience on 
 a console. 
  
  The game is definitely a must have for online playing, but if you are only concerned about the 
 campaign - I wouldn't expect too much. It really left me wanting more, which I found after venturing 
 into the online realm and really putting it to the test for a few hours and getting my bearings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperYeti22
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever! There are so many great things to say about this game! The first thing 
 you will notice about this game are the visuals. From character models, to environments, everything 
 looks great. The sound effects sound great, the music will get you involved, and the voice acting 
 is what you'd expect in battle: Loud, and full of cursing. The story is pretty good, and the characters 
 are unique. The backstory is where the ISA pursued the Helghast to their home planet to take out 
 their emperor: Visari. But graphics, sound, story, etc. are 1 thing. The gameplay is outstanding. 
 Each gun is unique and so much fun. But nowhere near as fun as the electricity gun, that electrocutes 
 your enemies with a devastating arc wave. The only with the electricity gun is that you can only 
 get it in one of the missions. The gameplay is squad-based and tactical. You can attach to cover 
 like you can in Gears of War, but does something no game did before. When you attach to cover, 
 you retain a FPS view, that makes things more tactical. The most fun aspect of the game, is the 
 multiplayer. It's class-based, tactical, and so much fun. As you gain ranks, you gain classes. 
 You can form clans. And you can form squads in gameplay to get a tactical advantage. You can track 
 squad-mates' health, class abilities, and when the squad leader's alive, you can spawn on his/her 
 location. Each class has unique abilities. A medic can revive downed team-mates, a tactician can 
 create spawn points, an engineer can create robot-turrets. There are so many great things about 
 this game. You must get this game, before the Helghast get YOU! MWUHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game was easily one of the most hyped games for the PS3. And yes, it has delivered. By far 
 the best looking game to date on any console (On par with MGS4) . The only thing that surpasses 
 this currently is Crysis for the PC on a major high end system.
  
  I have read complaints that the game loads to much and hitches. Well, of course it does. It's a 
 console shooter. Halo 3 and other shooters are no different. This game is pushing visuals beyond 
 any other console shooter on the market. I am impressed that the developers got it all to work 
 as well as they did. They truly understand what they are doing on the PS3.
  
  Graphics aside, K2 also delivers on game play in both single and multi-player. Many reviews that 
 I have read complain about the lack of a story and how tidbits are discussed but not further developed. 
 That's because this is a continuing series and there is much to be told in the future games. The 
 game ends brilliantly and leaves a sense of discouragement and sorrow, an ending that few games 
 risk to take in order to appeal to popular demand. 
  
  I look forward to developing the story in Killzone series as I am excited about where it will lead. 
 Scholar Visari's speech at the end says it all and is very reminiscent of what happened to Rome 
 after Julius Cesar was killed. 
  
  The single player campaign is incredibly intense and never let's go. Some complain that the game 
 "forces" the player to advance because in some instances enemies will constantly re-spawn if the 
 player does not forge ahead. The only time I witnessed this was in the final run on the palace. 
 And in all honestly, that was the reason it was so intense. I couldn't just sit back and pick off 
 enemies until they were depleted. This was the Helghast stronghold and naturally their should be 
 waves upon waves of enemies. If people want to just sit back and fire, then go play Halo, GoW, 
 or Call of Duty. 
  
  The multi-player covers a variety of maps with two new maps already on their way for download as 
 additional content. Killzone has a strong following among multi-player much like Resistance has 
 been able to gather. With a strong multi-player community Killzone has a ton of replay value in 
 that perspective. The Single player offers replay value in multiple difficulty settings and numerous 
 trophies to earn. All in all, Killzone 2 is a fantastic package worthy of all the hype it was given. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrixx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 was the game I wanted to get right after I finished Metal Gear Solid 4. With all the 
 reviews and positive feed back I got, the game did not meet my expectations, but still managed 
 to be solid and enjoyable.
  
  The game is about a war in outer space between two factions, the bad guys and the good guys, you 
 are the good guy. The story wasn't attractive at all so to be honest I didn't pay attention why 
 they were fighting in the first place. But I didn't care much for lack of story since the action 
 keeps you going.
  
  The game relays, to a point, on the cover system. You need to keep the L2 button down as long as 
 you need a cover which can be a pain in the neck when you are in a long fight, but you will need 
 to keep moving and changing covers most of the time so it is not a big deal.
  
  Effects in general are beautiful. The Blood shooting out of enemies, hearing them scream when they 
 get shot, and watching your opponents squirm in pain when they get a non-fatal shot is just so 
 much fun. What even makes it more fun is the variety of guns. They all look realistic, have different 
 functions, and amazing sound effects.
  
  Multiplayer is awesome. I didn't get so much time to try it, but it seems very comprable to what 
 Call Of Duty 4 had to offer. When you score a kill or a kill assist you get experience points, 
 once you hit a certain amount of points you unlock new weapons. It just keeps you demanding for 
 more.
  
  In general, killzone 2 is awesome. Good single player and perfect multiplayer are enough reason 
 to get the game as soon as possible.
  
  Hope that help :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1994_soldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:14 pm PT
Review:  the day before i bought this game some people told me it has "slow gun reactions" well i think 
 the gun reactions are really good but the aiming system is kinda heavy but thats ok i got used 
 to it in no time but one thing that i didnt like is that its only one player. it has a "not bad" 
 storyline but the action and intensity are just great i mean all this lightning in the dark sky 
 and all those helghast eyes shining miles away from were you are all the explosions and shouting. 
 the sound are great and most importantly the online multiplayer really nice and exiting once you 
 picked up that controller your in for hours of gaming without getting bored the award system is 
 great.
  so overall killzone 2 is a great game with a very good campaign and an excellent online multiplayer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrobe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun playing this game and looked forward to playing it at the end of the day. It's 
 not too hard and gives really good visuals. I'm tempted to go get the first one so I know the story 
 better considering that I know how this one ends. The FPS controls are great, not too many problems; 
 though I wish it had a sniper rifle closer to that of Resistance 2. You can figure out the course 
 of direction fairly well, and the weapons they give you are pretty cool. My personal fav was the 
 shotgun, though I wish they let you upgrade them while you use them. The extra items that you get 
 to use on the way were pretty cool, though I felt there wasn't enough challenges. I was disappointed 
 that you could only carry two weapons with you at all times, you really do need to be close to 
 the inventory locations to be able to switch out when appropriate or you'll find yourself dead.
 
  The other thing I was disappointed in was that weapons you find between levels don't carry through. 
 Other than that, the story was great up until the ending, which was a HUGE letdown.
  I was like "what the frack is that ending all about?!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev909
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  well this is my first review and i couldn't think of a better game to do it on. First off this 
 game looks like a movie in so many parts, from the animation and graphics, to the sounds and music. 
 The single player is nice but the bulk of the fun is from the multiplayer mode "Warzone". The story 
 is really fun and it's really challenging to collect all the intel and shoot down the helghast 
 symbols. It's also a challenge to collect Killzone's trophies which arn't super easy that it becomes 
 a Trophy farm (Burnout paradise anyone??) but not painstakingly hard (Pain?!?) that you get pissed 
 off and flick down the controller. Somehow it seems that Killzone manages to keep the game a challenge 
 and fun at the same time. The AI is amazing in this game. You shoot at some higs behind cover and 
 they duck back in, only to pop back out and shoot at you when your reloading. You chuck a grenade 
 at a group of them and they run or dive away. They try to flank you, suppress you, give cover fire 
 to retreating higs, and more such as shooting at a explosive barrel next to your or your squad 
 members. And thats another thing, they don't just focus on you like other FPS's, but they try to 
 take down every other member own your team. The game also flicks out confrontations with helghast 
 that arn't super long and super hard but not so easy that you runs and guns it. The environments 
 are super realistic from the gritty sadistic Corinth Shacks to the bright barren deserts of Helgan 
 with details from the giant arc towers shooting off in the distance to the small creatures that 
 blows up after you melee them. Single player allows you to drive 2 different vehicles and a turret 
 from a ISA spaceship under attack. You get to drive a tank, and a EXO skeleton. These vehicle scences 
 are absolutly amazing. Although the single player has only 10 missions, its fun to collect everything 
 in the levels. Now onto the multiplayer. With 8 levels, 12 ranks, 32 players per match, 64 people 
 clans, and 6 classes, and a in-game mission selecter, Warzone is absolutely amazing. You start 
 off with the default class with only a M82 Rifle, and a STa Rifle. You then gain experience by 
 kills, headshots, and completing mission objectives. You get a 1.5x multiplier for winning games. 
 you advance up the 12 ranks with this experience which unlocks new classes and abilitiys. You play 
 on 8 beautiful maps from small allys and buildings to half a dessert. Playing with 31 other players 
 on the smallest maps are a amazing way to get points, while playing on the large maps are just 
 plain fun for sniper duels. After you reach a certain rank you can create a clan which allows you 
 to recruit players, set up matches and tournaments, manage your clan, create news and more. every 
 clan can have up to 64 people and every clan gets "Valor points" which is betting currency for 
 moving up leaderboards. The classes are well though out and are highly flexible with the class 
 badges. Wanna be a medic that revives wounded players, while be able to call in air support drones?? 
 Or a engineer that can place automated turrets and spot and mark enemy players that are cloaked, 
 disguised, drones and turrets?? Well you can do this in killzone. Warzone also adds the medal reward 
 system. you do a certain action from getting 10 headshots per game, to defusing the bomb 3 times, 
 or to kill 10 enemys while cloaked can earn you a ribbon. Earn 8 of the same ribbons can get you 
 a medal which unlocks a class second ability for class medals, more ammo and grenades for general 
 medals, to more points per headshots, melee kills for combat medals, to more points for objective 
 completions for mission medals. If you wanna practice your skills for warzone, or dont got a internet 
 connection you can play skirmish which is a offline warzone with bots. You just pick the map, how 
 many bots, and bot diffucalty and you start playing. It has all the great things of warzone, but 
 you only get the rewards from online. Example is if you only got medic class and a engineer class, 
 with the M4 revolver online, thats the only options for classes and pistol selection for Skirmish. 
 You need to play online to unlock all the classes and bonuses. The medal system doesn't work for 
 offline either.
  
  All in all Killzone 2 is definalty a game no PS3 owner should miss out for both the multiplayer 
 and single player. The only thing this game needs is co-op (online or offline doesn't really matter) 
 and some DLC to apper soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  To begin with i am a big KILLIZONE FAN, that docent affect this review. 
  
  I played the original and the PSP version countless times, i could probaly name all the locations 
 and things in those games
  
  KILLZONE has too much hype, it was like the PS3 but not really u see KILLZONE was announced back 
 in 05 and people were going FREAKING CRAZY THEN the game stayed hidden for like months and then 
 2 years until in 07 they finally showed something that made people go nuts.
  
  The the game comes out and here we are playing the heck out of it, first the grapichs are SUPER 
 SWEET i think they surpass MGS4 in some ways.... The animation is stellar and the combined character 
 action and voices make this game a freaking movie not to miss
  The action is probably the second best things, shotting weapons, vehicles, granades and all the 
 tools of destrction you have are super fun to play with they make this game an action packed super 
 game.
  
  The story is basic, i dont like how people complain about it just because there is no Solid Snake/Big 
 Boss twist on it. Its a simple and good story i liked it, it makes you want to keep goging just 
 right.
  
  I wish there was a co-op thing on it becuse i woud love co-op and you always have a buddy so why 
 no maybe the game focuses on a single player and two people would kill the experience, but its 
 a must buy and i love it BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYrockinlegend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 takes off right where the first Killzone finished in the story. 
  
  In-game, it doesn't tell you why the ISA are going to attack Helghan, so unless you've read the 
 game description elsewhere, or read up on the story on killzone. com, you'd kinda assume that the 
 ISA are attacking just for power. The rest of the story is action-filled, but overall weak in plot 
 elements. Nevertheless, it can be one of the most thrilling FPS experiences to date, even rivaling 
 that of PC FPS's. You always feel you're a part of the action; that's where the immersion comes 
 in. In terms of immersion, this game really makes you involved with a large-scale battle fighting 
 a desperate war against the Helghast, and you feel the weight of your weapon and armor as movement 
 is slowed and kind of "clumsy". Aiming is tricky as well, but overall, the controls are fine. They 
 are a good fit for this FPS and it's good that it tried unique controls from other FPS's. It's 
 always a struggle to get to cover to save yourself and shoot down the helghast. You will also need 
 to learn to master aiming, because there is much less aim assist or auto-aim in this game than 
 any other FPS. 
  
  The campaign is difficult, making you have to struggle for your life as you try to reach cover. 
 You die quickly, much like any other FPS, so cover is crucial to regenerate health. The AI of the 
 enemies is of the most intelligence in any FPS, so they're difficult to kill without dying. Defeating 
 the Helghast, the story enemies, will require you to use several tactics including making use of 
 cover, sprinting to "calm" areas, making careful use of your weapon's ammo, avoiding enemy fire 
 and grenades when thrown toward you, and more. The Helghast make good use of cover, and don't stay 
 out in the line of fire for long. Some will try to run up to you with lightning speed and knife 
 you, others will try to destroy you with rockets, use turrets to gun you and your allies down, 
 and some may even sneak up on you and melee you. The enemies are a great challenge, and are even 
 more difficult on higher difficulty levels as the AI intelligence increases, and it's noticeable. 
 For instance, Helghast soldiers may let up on Recruit difficulty, but they won't give you a chance 
 of survival on Elite difficulty!
  
  The immersive feeling is what gives most of the thrill to the campaign, though. With top-notch 
 visuals, booming sound effects, great animations of explosions and other effects, this game is 
 just a thrill to play through. It feels like an interactive action war movie of some sort, and 
 it's very fun to play through. The music is also a great arrangement for the gameplay and always 
 keeps you as a part of the action. Basically, this is the reason why the game is a blast to play; 
 it keeps you as a part of the action, and you feel what it's like to be in an ISA soldier's position. 
 The feelings the game creates are real, and that's where this game truly shines. 
  
  The graphics are presented exceptionally in some areas, though weaker in a few other areas. Yes, 
 the flash is very nice, and CGI the game uses is beautiful. Though there are some noticeable low-detail 
 structures and low-resolution areas. The environments look great, but there are objects that pale 
 in comparison. Nevertheless, they are amazing graphics, though not the proclaimed "graphics king" 
 everyone thinks it is (IMO, I don't think there's a "graphics king") . But the graphical presentation 
 does handle the game nicely, and adds to the immersion experience of the campaign.
  
  The sound effects are great, but the voice acting is horrendous. Too much cuss words make the characters 
 just seem like a bunch of ****'s and really tone down any story involvement in the campaign. 
 
  
  The story is alright for what is there, but it's missing a lot of crucial points, including why 
 you're fighting the Helghast on Helghan in the first place. The rest of the story is not particularly 
 powerful and less involving than the original Killzone. The characters you fight alongside are 
 jerks who need reviving every few seconds when engaged in heavy combat. The Helghast are menacing 
 enemies, which adds to the suspense in this shooter when they are too close to you. 
  
  The weapons are standard issue for FPS's, though there's no customization, and there are a few 
 weapons that are different.
  
  The game is a thrill to play through from start to finish, though it can be frustrating. The controls, 
 though fine, are a burden to adapt to. There's nothing wrong with adapting to new things, but the 
 punishing difficulty may keep players on the game longer than the supposed length of the game. 
 
  
  As for replay value to this mode, there's picking up all the intel, achieving the trophies, and 
 destroying helghast symbols throughout the game. 
  
  MUTIPLAYER:
  
  The game's multiplayer is an absolute blast despite a few shortcomings. Many will chose to play 
 it as a run n' gun game with no attention to tactics at all. Though there are those who will play 
 it the way it's intended, and the community is overall strong. Great use of ranking system encourages 
 players to top out on the leaderboards. 
  Also, what makes the multiplayer different from most other shooters is the use of classes. This 
 spices up variety in the multiplayer game, and through unlocking content, you can take the role 
 of several different classes. Everyone starts as the rifleman, the base player in many other shooters, 
 but in this game, you can be a medic and heal fallen players as well as restore health with med 
 packs to your dying teammates, build a turret to defend or strike on the enemy base, decide spawn 
 points through careful placing of spawn grenades, cloak yourself and snipe the other team, and 
 more. 
  
  The other thing the multiplayer does great are the objective modes. There's a good variety here, 
 and they can all be mixed in to one match. The objectives are fun to complete, and you get awarded 
 mission points for each objective you complete. There is a good set of options and it's possible 
 to customize your own ranked matches. It's difficult to hook up with friends, though, as it only 
 allows the "join friend" option, and no party system. The game has only 8 maps, and the ranking 
 up process is short, so the game does get kind of old after a while.
  
  As for DLC, there is the promise by GG for this content very soon. I can only await the arrival 
 of this content, including co-op and more maps and features. 
  For an FPS, this has to be a game to look towards. It utilizes the best of FPS features in terms 
 of gameplay and immersion. If you're an FPS fan, this is definitely a great game to look towards. 
 Do not look past this game. It would be a regret to dismiss this game as "just another shooter", 
 because what it does well is just too much to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTXXXEDGE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  but ohhh man was i wrong everyone thinks this game is basically just good for its looks but there 
 is so much more to it the game does look just down right beautiful to every single aspect, it does 
 have its occasional glitches but what game doesn't? the campaign can be beaten kinda quickly depending 
 on what difficulty you play it it apparently takes a good 8 9 hours and has tons of replay value 
 because of trophies and an unlockable difficulty level. the weapons are all amazing there is 17 
 weapons in total including grenades every time you pick up a new one it will be hard to let go 
 of it until you find a new gun, im still playing the campaign but so far i love it the AI is just 
 awesome especially in a harder difficulty level they will flank you as soon as they see an opening 
 and rush like mad men there's a lot of extra stuff in campaign like shooting 5 Helghast symbols 
 per level or finding 2 Intel suitcases per level as well eventually leading to some trophies of 
 course the campaign also takes very good advantage of the ps3's six axis function there is a bunch 
 of different controller settings for those of you who don't like the controls the game comes with. 
 (like me) the game has an awesome mode called "Skirmish" where you play games against up to 15 
 bots playing on difficulties like "elite" makes it feel like your playing against real people another 
 example of the fantastic AI also very good for online practice. the main shining point of this 
 game though is the main Multiplayer mode mostly relying on objective games which might i add are 
 a freaking blast you'll be playing "body count" "assassination" "search and destroy" "capture and 
 hold" and search and retrieve the objective is basically in the name apart from the awesome game 
 modes the game has you unlock all 7 classes but don't worry its not like you wont have fun while 
 you do it each class has a very unique look and play style it reminds me of team fortress a little 
 bit having you switch class for strategy or whatever you have in mind there is only there is 11 
 ranks the last one being a 3 star general, each one rewarding you with a weapon or new class, even 
 after you unlock all the ranks you still have a bunch of medals or ribbons you have to get by getting 
 a certain amount of kills with an engineer or getting a certain amount of head shots there is also 
 a couple of i guess i can call perks that you have to unlock in the same manner i have a feeling 
 ill be playing this multiplayer for a whilee and im sure you will too as soon as you get your hands 
 on a couple kills the game is incredibly addicting and you will not regret spending your hard earned 
 60 bucks on it i know my review is crappy but this game is deff a winner and all ps3's owners should 
 be happy this is on the ps3 exclusive library deff go out and buy this as soon as you can like 
 i said you will not regret it
  
  bottom line
  AMAZING GAME if you have a ps3 stop waiting and go buy it
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  When it was announced at E3 2005, many people were amazed over the graphics, but were left wondering 
 if it was all pre-rendered, like most tech demos that year. What followed was a 2 years silence 
 from Guerrilla Games, the game resurfaced at E3 2007, where people still wondered whenever or not 
 the graphics were pre-rendered. Now the game is finally released, but does it live up to the E3 
 2005 trailer?
  
  Story
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 game takes place after Killzone and Killzone: Liberation. Two years after the Helgast invasion 
 on the planet Vekta, an Interplanetary Strategic Alliance (ISA) colony, the ISA invades the Helgast's 
 home planet Helgan and is set to capture the Helgast leader Scolar Visari. 
  
  There's nothing special about the story, though it does have it's moments and it does a good job 
 of showing an invasion and chaos, and Visari's speech in the game's intro are impressive. The characters 
 however are your typical marines who feel the need to comment everything and swear at every chance 
 they get, it doesn't damage the game's story, but it can feel a bit misplaced sometimes.
  
  7.5
  
  Gameplay
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game is, a first person shooter, you got all your standard first person elements, including 
 a cover system, which works like the one in Gears of War, except the game always keeps you in first 
 person, so you can't blind fire or see over your cover, so you have to pop out to see what's going 
 on. It's more realistic and it does add more suspense to the shoot outs in the game. There's also 
 a section where you control a drone in the game, and it works pretty good actually.
  
  Beyond that there's not a whole lot to say though, other than it's small problems. The controls 
 takes a while to take used to and while you can customize it, you can't do it to your heart's content. 
 There are also some commands that requires the Sixaxis, but these feels tagged on and doesn't really 
 work well. The campaign starts out a bit slow and only really get's intersting by the second half 
 of the game.
  
  There's also multiplayer, where you got your usual modes of Capture the Flag (Dubbed Search and 
 Retrieve) , Deathmatch (dubbed Body Count) , Search and Destroy and Assassination, where up to 32 
 players can compete. The multiplayer is class based and while nothing new, it does the job really 
 well. There's also clan support, which is a big focus online and the matches themselves are actually 
 score based. It's almost like a soccer match, if one of the teams wins a round of Body Count (for 
 example) , the team gains a point and the game moves on to the next round, with a whole new game 
 mode. What's surprising is, that it changes game modes during the match, with no loading times, 
 it's very impressive.
  
  The campaign takes 6 hours to complete, which is rather short, replay value is mostly based on 
 specials marks that needs to be shot and briefcases that needs to be collected, and the creative 
 trophies does insure you some replay value, if you care about trophies. The multiplayer is fun 
 and varied and can become addicting, so that's where most of your time will be spent. Though disappointingly, 
 there's no co-op option.
  
  9.0
  
  Graphics
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Killzone 
 1's graphics looked amazing on screenshots, but the final game was plagued by graphical glitches 
 and bugs. Killzone 2 however doesn't fall for this, the frame-rate never goes down and there are 
 no graphical glitches and bugs. The game is also very beautiful, one of the most beautiful games 
 ever made for a console game, I've been saying this to a few games, but this is the best looking 
 game that's released. The graphics lives up to the E3 2005 trailer and then some, it's technical 
 achievement in console gaming history. Everything from the environment, the character design, enemy 
 design that makes them looks scary, and the animation is just amazing. 
  
  10
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The sound design is good too, with some great sound effects, supported by surround speakers, some 
 great voice acting, by everyone and especially Brian Cox, as Visari. The music is epic and fits 
 right with the game. There's support for custom soundtrack, though it only works in multiplayer 
 for some strange reason.
  
  10
  
  Overall
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Killzone 
 2 lives up to the hype, both graphically and gameplay wise. While it doesn't do anything new for 
 the genre (with the exception for the in-game mode switching) , it does it well and with the addicting 
 multiplayer, that's fits the rival quality for Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3, you have a game that 
 you'll return to for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyeoh
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 11, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  After waiting with great anticipation for this game, I have to say I was really disappointed. The 
 original Killzone had some excellent elements that made it interesting and gave it great replay 
 value, particularly the ability to play through each mission as a different character with different 
 weapon types. Killzone 2 has none of that - it is very contrived and pushes you in a highly linear 
 manner through a relatively boring single player campaign. Don't get me wrong, the graphics are 
 impressive, but the story and the gameplay leave a lot to be desired and add nothing that hasn't 
 already been done before, and done better. The lack of coop campaign is criminal - many of the 
 levels seem like they were designed for coop yet this feature has been omitted in a game that has 
 been in development for over 4 years.
  
  I will be honest and say I haven't played the adversarial multiplayer - this isn't my thing so 
 I won't comment. But if you are looking for an interesting and original FPS for the single player 
 campaign I would suggest looking elsewhere. There are plenty of other recent FPS that do it better 
 and will continue to hold your interest with good gameplay long after the eye candy of Killzone 
 2's fantastic graphics wear off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  killzone 2 review
  
  Graphics: OMG... they look even better than call of duty. even better than grand theft auto. completley 
 3d enviroments, with highly detailed textures, and the best effects seen in a game to date. lets 
 not forget how realistic the characters look :) . the graphics are more or less the only thing that 
 makes this game worth buying, it makes you feel your actual in a war.
  
  Gameplay: whilst the controls are original they can still be incredibly tricky. and the missions 
 are boring you will only identiy them through the amazing visuals seen. you will look at a mission 
 and say oh thats that mission with the awesome explosion. and the characters are brilliantly presented 
 and act smooth in the game they are still forgettable, you only just remember your squad mates 
 names. oh and MORE VARIETY IN WEAPONS THEY ARE SO PLAIN.
  
  Multiplayer: its ok but there is no strategy behind it, all it is, is rush die respawn rush and 
 die again.
  the best idea in that game is probably the idea of mission objectives changin every 5 minutes in 
 the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Just plain stupid fun but very fun. May not be longest game but its online is probly beter than 
 anythink on 360 can almost bet you that. I've beatan this game almost 3 times and I still can't 
 get over it sure it has a weak story ( not that it is weak it is just that its not deep) the ending 
 is probly the best part of the story it gives you the strange fealing. Now for the online it is 
 just amazing lving up systeam fun online play and cool ribon systeam makes this game unforgetuble. 
 If u have a 360 and still do not have a ps3 u must realy not like sony or it is just you have no 
 time for both systeams but this game makes the systeam must get. Now it is true the e3 2005 comercial 
 was true and real the hype was not fake the devolepers did not lie it is that good it is a must 
 have game. Helgaste will have there reavange in killzone 3 can't wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:20 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a simple but enjoyable shooter. With addicting multiplayer and a pretty fun single 
 player campain, this game should go beyond the standards of your average shooting game. For starters, 
 the graphics are excellent. This is the product of working hard for several years. The scenes of 
 floating ships high in the atmosphere as well as the dark and gloomy Hellghast cities make a great 
 atmosphere. Weapons, characters, buildings, and most other objects are well detailed.
  
  The singleplayer campain is mostly you walking around running and gunning. When times get tough, 
 you can find cover with a realatively reliable cover system which works most of the time with a 
 little practice. The weapons you are equiped with are mostly ballanced and enjoyable to use. If 
 you get bored with that assult rifle, go for another gun. In most levels you are usually given 
 a variety of four weapons within fourty feet. The weapons though, are like any other shooting game. 
 You have the assault rifle, sub-machine gun, sniper rifle, pistol, knife (fun) , shotgun, and a 
 few others. My favorite weapon can only be used for half of a single level though wich is my first 
 complaint.
  
  Multiplayer is great because the community is well populated for now. You can usually choose a 
 quick game. There are pistol only games, games with only 'body count' ,and games containing all 
 modes. 'Body count' is the game's version of death match. There is also assasination, search and 
 destroy, and capture and hold. They are all fun to play. To add choices to the game, you are given 
 the option of choosing several different classes. Unfortunatlly, you must unluck them. It does 
 not take long though to get some great unlocks but I wish you could just get everything at the 
 begining. You can really customize your battles to a extent and still have your games ranked.
 
  
  Your classes include medic (revive and heal) , engineer (drop defensive turrents and repair strategic 
 objects) , Tactician (drop spawn gernade) , assault (better armor) , and a few others. One has the 
 ability to cloak and use stealth while the other has the ability to disguise itself as an enemy. 
 It may take a week or two to unlock everything and you only have to rank about ten times. This 
 is quicker than other games.
  
  The storyline in the whole killzone universe is not the most interesting one and they try not too 
 hard to teach you it. The designers just want you to play for the most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tealc1111
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:58 am PT
Review:  killzone 2 is a pretty fun game lots of action nvr get a rest none stop action good bosses. good 
 selction of guns only thing i dont like about it is the skirmish part u have to play online to 
 get the ranks to play with all the guns in skirmish yad think that you would be able to use all 
 guns and be able to rank up separate to the online part i have to scavnge for the good guns i barely 
 get the gun i wont i usally like to use the sniper and just today i got it and i got 30 kills and 
 no deaths and in skirmish its 5 mins and cant change it wich suks and u cant choose wat kind of 
 type you want u have to play them all but other than that its an awsome and who evr likes fps and 
 has a ps3 this is a must get game radec is the hardest person to kill evr hes so fast and he can 
 kill one shot with his knife it took me 17 minutes to kill him wish i could zap any where i want 
 to go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point
  
  THE GOOD
  -Great graphics for consoles.
  -Excellent execution on all fronts.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THE BAD.
  -Forgettable story and shallow characters.
  -Unlockables are unbalanced.
  -Over-use of coarse language in the game feels silly and fake.
  -No Co op.
  -Average controls 
 and steep learning curve.
  -Enviroments feel repetive and dull.
  
  CONCLUSION
  It is OK for a console FPS but as FPS in general it is nothing really great. The single player 
 part is average and there is nothing memorable about it once you finished it.
  The Multiplayer part if fun but it is nothing revolutionary and after a while you start to get 
 bored with it.
  The most powerful aspect of this game is the graphics. For Consoles this kind of graphics are great 
 but in general it is still way inferior from Crysis....
  
  FINAL SCORE =7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravyTable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has such amazing graphics and sound along with an addictive intensity; it really pulls 
 you into the Killzone and fully involves you. The multiplayer aspect is exceptional as well, with 
 the graphical intensity not being diminished at all. I also like what they've done with the Killzone 
 website, the Killzone Command Center in particular. In general, I'm not usually into First Person 
 Shooters, but this game's exquisite attention to detail and polished finish makes it hard for me 
 to not consider it one of the top ten best games I've ever played. I do have a few complaints though. 
 One is regarding the sluggishness with aiming and moving in general. It definitely took some getting 
 used to. My other protest is the lack of an auto hide feature in multiplayer. Granted, I haven't 
 played many First Person Shooters to begin with and I'm not sure if that's par for the course or 
 not. Either way, I thought it would have been a nice feature in multiplayer. All in all, this is 
 an amazing game that will be in my now playing list for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonstop-Madness
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  GAMERS Rating System - 
  
  Gameplay - Shooting is difficult to pick up at first but you get used to it, although its still 
 not perfect. Its different, unique and a bit frustrating. Shooting in KZ2 feels much more satisfying 
 than COD4 or Halo 3. The guns feel, death animations and special effects make shooting fun. Its 
 fairly linear like most FPS's. A few awesome parts mixed in changes the gameplay up here and there. 
 The cover system works good enough to be useful. The last boss is probably the hardest boss in 
 any game since Mike Tyson Boxing. 
  
  Audio - Very Good Soundtrack. Guns and Environments sound very good. 
  
  Multiplayer - Fun, 
 Frustrating and Unique. Badge's aren't like Perks because they don't make you advantages over someone 
 but it effects the way you play. Badges don't work as perfect as Perks but future patches will 
 fix this. It is frustrating at times but its easy to just forget it. There are a good amount of 
 guns. No customization is good because it doesn't make anyone automatically better than you. You 
 can get to a General Rank really fast, hopefully they put some sort of Prestige or something. Although 
 you will be busy getting medals and ribbons.
  
  Replayability- Multiplayer is very repayable. Single player has just enough to go back a few times 
 here and there. 
  
  Final Comments - KZ2 doesn't do much to change gameplay but it goes raise the bar on presentation 
 and atmosphere. It might be worth a rent then a buy just due to the difficulty in shooting but 
 if you can get over that, its a buy. I actually liked single player, it had good moments throughout 
 the game but it was hollow. Its not a hollow storyline because killzone. com has a huge amount of 
 storyline you can explore. 
  
  PS - If you have any questions just message me. Im unbiased.
  
  Score - 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacj53647
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:53 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has smooth graphics and a good gameplay. I was even amazed by the graphic. However it 
 lacks a good story. The story is not strong. Almost all levels feels the same. Player is given 
 the same objectives and the enemies are always similar. The difficulty of the missions are just 
 right and AI level is just right. Sadly, there is almost no suspense moments or exciting moments. 
 Missions can get boring sometimes. The selection of weapons are limited. Most of them feels the 
 same when the player shoots. Movements and animations in this game is just great. The game feels 
 really realistic and everything just runs so smooth. This game also lack one of the most important 
 things: co-operative mode and offline competitive mode. It could have been better if Guerilla had 
 included these features and created a stronger story. The game took about 8 hours to finish. Killzone 
 2 is a pretty good game, it is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRey69
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome in all the sense of the word because this time is not like other shooter, 
 go and kill everything that moves, you actually have to make some strategy to beat the enemy cuz 
 the wont only curse at you. The will fill your behind with bullets if you give them the opportunity 
 hahahaha, like all games this one has its pros and cons, the twos cons that at least i didn't liked 
 were the fact that u must carry the stupid revolver and cant be swapped for any other weapon, just 
 the primary one and the aiming, for gods sake u must be kissing the guy in order to get a clear 
 shoot since the zoom mess it all up cuz is not automatic and u have to be pressing the button to 
 take it off and put it back (something that doesn't work with the chain guns) so don't even try 
 shooting with that otherwise u will end like cheese full of holes lol. Other than that the game 
 and the weapons are awesomely designed as well as the story, is a good game that i would recommend 
 to anyone that likes some shooter that puts resistance and doesn't have a bunch of dummies running 
 around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonrider617
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I love FPS games so i excited but skeptical when i first heard about Killzone 2. This game did 
 not fail to amaze me! With incredible graphics, challenging campain, and very very addicting online, 
 Killzone 2 is easily the best FPS for the PS3. People complain about the controls but they should 
 take 5 min tops to get used to, and the button lag in my opinion is genius. It makes the game so 
 much more realistic. The campain throws you right in the action in maore ways than one. With awesome 
 guns that are very entertaining to very creative ways to crush your Helgast foes, it will leave 
 you breathless. The online is set up up in such a great way even begginers wont struggle. Also 
 with so many different classes to choose from each with their own distinct abilities youll never 
 get bored. The graphics are definetly the best ive seen in a shooter. The visuals make you feel 
 like your in the game and it dosnt get much better than that. All i can say is buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of hype around this game. "It's the best game ever", "game of the year", "a must 
 have", etc. This hype thing gets pretty old and these are nothing, but opinions, so following that 
 note I said I must play this game so I can have an opinion. I knew from the get go that their was 
 really no story, but actually their is a story and when it is flushed out, it is presented beautifully 
 and dramatically. I love a game with a story and though this game disappoints a little, it provides 
 enough material to help everything going on during battle make sense. So those who really want 
 a good story, the game provides enough to follow. The acting though is pretty lousy in my opinion. 
 Everyone, except Visari, sound like they are forcing the issue especially my annoying friend Rico. 
 Rico is annoying because he talks/speaks and looks annoying too.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is classic because you actually feel like you are in a battle for you life. 
 Environments look real and enemies A. I. movements and response are realistic. The controls are 
 a little if, but if you find a control setting that fits you style, the gameplay becomes more friendly. 
 One thing I really did not like about the game was the aiming system. The aiming to me was slow 
 and inaccurate at time which cause cheap deaths. But the issue gets old fast when you are in battle 
 so this obstacle can be overcome. And yes, battles are intense and every move feels risky. Every 
 moment is full with intensity and suspense because you do not know what is around the next corner. 
 The graphics are the s*** too. I thought I had seen is all then I played this. 
  
  Overall, the game is worth playing. One of the memorable experiences lucky PS3 owners will get 
 to enjoy. If you are concerned about the story it is there. And if it is not all the great, the 
 story is fun and simple, but this dramatic and mature. And also if we had too much story, games 
 like MGS 4, Uncharted, and even GTA IV wouldn't even feel as special. The gameplay is intense, 
 and it is just fun fun fun. I am not a big FPS fan, but everytime I pick one up, it is fun. This 
 one is no exception. I do wish however that you could hold more than one gun at a time. Besides 
 that, it is a great game that is worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nino1911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  so hows Killzone 2 its amazing. Its hard to believe that the original Killzone led to this game. The 
 game looks great im sure you already know that thought, i do have two complains thought one is they 
 should have coop on it it would have made the campaign so much better in my opinion there are time 
 when i wish i had a friend with me helping me out especially since you usually are with one of 
 you're squad mates. The story is not horrible it's no mgs4 but the characters are forgettable it 
 might sound cold but i felt no attachment to any of them especially when one of them died. The multiplayer 
 is fun i am currently a... actually i forgot what its called i have two stars and just unlocked 
 the saboteur. sometimes the matches are long i had to play about an hour and half but it was great 
 i came in third place. The fact that you have to unlock you're secondary ability is well thought 
 off. In all the game is amazing great graphics, strong multiplayer, fun campaign and, oh yea the 
 weapons are just great too the bolt gun was my favorite weapon. the games no masterpiece but its 
 damn close great star for Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggerbug
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:36 am PT
Review:  while it does, nt have all the fancy wepons, it does bring alot of defferant stuff to enjoy. it 
 takes a time to get used to the controls it makes for a more realistic style of playing. the graprs. 
 are great, the action is fast and furious., so your ass better be ready for those dam helgast which 
 come at you from all sides., and they ain, t exactly stupid either. the way the a. i. plays makes 
 it all the better. when you set down to play it .. it, s hard to stop. i had the most fun with the 
 flametrower cause you can squrt just a little juice on them and listen to them squal like little 
 babies as they burn in extreme pain. it really gives alot of joy hearing them suffer so.... thats 
 kinda sick though, but o well, i like it. they beg for mercy and beg, but hell it, s just a game 
 so i burn them even more. ha ha .anyway they dont show you any mercyas they try an kill you so 
 f em. you will ,i repeat will enjoy this game so get your ass to the store and buy it allready. trust 
 me..... i, m sure you heard that before... huh... but no **** it is a good game and worth the cash 
 that your parents will give you to buy it. well later and enjoy...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  At first when you play Killzone 2, the game seems very fun and is all it is said to be. But there 
 is a problem there. The game isn't all it is said to be. The story mode is not really all that 
 bad but it can be annoying at times when it is very easy to die. This isn't the whole game though. 
 So once you get to the multiplayer online, the game seems good again. But the problem is that it's 
 too easy. You can reach the highest rank on the game in about 12 hours of playing time. Pretty 
 much once you get there, there's not that much left to do besides getting these ribbons. I would 
 say that if someone was to rent the game, they could do everything in the game like beat the story 
 mode, and reach the highest rank online. I would have to say that Killzone 2 did not fill into 
 the hype that everybody says it is going to be. People just think it's a great game because they 
 overlook it and don't go in and think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squiggle_JAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  OK, first of all my xbox 360 broke for the 3rd time. I was also told that I would have to pay $199 
 to fix it. I said no. I took all my games into EB Games for a incredible $1364, with that money 
 I bought a PS3, the best thing I have ever done. Then buying Killzone 2 & Call of duty 4: Modern 
 Warfare to play. THE GOOD THINGS ARE: Very Impressive Graphics, Great range of guns, Awsome looking 
 enemys, Feel right to walk shoot & aim, Great cover system, basiclly everything is good. There 
 are a few problems like getting used to the limited hud, Most areas are a bit dark, ect. 
  
  I must say Killzone has some of the best characters in game, they aren't ever mentally retarded 
 AI, althought the military scheme feels slightly less then in COD 4. Another really cool feature 
 is planting bombs make you use SIXAXIZ to light up the C4, move the controller left and right to 
 plant a bomb in other words. 
  
  The enemys look really cool, with their glowing gas masks and flak jackets they look like guys 
 you don't want to start a war with but you do so thats that.
  The new gun veriety outshines the first game Assault rifles, SMGs, Shotguns, RPGs, Grenade launchers, 
 Snipers you name it, it will probably be in there. The campain isn't short lived either, and if 
 you think it doesw go online for endless and LAGLESS fun, yes thats right LAGLESS.
  
  Most of all if you get a PS3 you really must get Killzone 2, it is the HALO of PS3. Worth every 
 penny.
  
  Yours 
  Squiggle JAG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Many people consider Killzone 2 to be one of the best fps games ever. Me? It just.... an fps.
  The story mode is very mediocre. It felt like a Call Of Duty 4 storyline.... not very involved in 
 the story, its very easy, and it ends quickly. Basically, it all gets VERY repetitive.
  I will admit, though, that the toughest difficulty level is quite a challenge. Also, the graphics 
 and animations are stunning.... you will be in awe after every cutscene. Other than that, its stuff 
 we have all seen before, shoot em up, cutscene, new gun, repeat.
  
  HOWEVER, when you play online, you start to see why everyone loves it. With several clever and 
 lengthy game modes, you will quickly find yourself using the amazingly designed maps to utilize 
 your tactility and dominate, hoping to unlock a new gun, ribbon, medal, or trophy. 
  Online, imo, saved the game. Once you play it, you will not be able to stop, especially with the 
 amazing custom soundtrack on top of the other features.
  
  In my quick summary, I think you should buy Killzone 2, if you like first person shooters. Its 
 nothing in the game that will turn you away, and you will get your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is the first Killzone game I have bought and I thoroughly enjoyed romping through it. 
 There are a huge number of positives about this game and minimal negatives, so I will start by 
 wading through the good points.
  Firstly, you can't talk about KZ2 without mentioning the fantastic graphics made possible by the 
 power of the PlayStation 3. Everything from lighting, to dust and smoke looks absolutely top-notch 
 and really gives the game a great sense of realism. Character models (including facial animations) 
 are brilliant and the weaponary looks and fires great too. All of the environments are also very 
 well built, however this doesn't disguise the fact that the levels are very linear for a next gen 
 game.
  The next big plus point is the physics and motion in the game. The Helghast enemies die very realistically 
 - often clutching at leg / arm wounds. The spin round when you shoot at them from close range due 
 to the force, but simply slump forward or fall back when shot at long range due to the decreased 
 force (as would happen in real life) . Vehicles also move very realistically, rather than gliding 
 over the ground they seem to really stick to the surface - and the airborne vehicles fly well too. 
 All this adds to the hyper-realistic feel of the FPS. 
  Another good thing I found when playing the game is the limited HUD. Often in next-gen games it 
 is thought of as being extremely fun and modern to clutter the screen with mini-maps, maxi-maps, 
 weapon status, health meters, mission objectives etc. etc. However, in Killzone 2 there is only 
 ever ammo and grenade level in the botton right corner and a mini-map in the bottom left corner 
 (with your health indicated using the good next-gen feature of "screen blur" and blood blocking 
 your view - found in COD games) . 
  When reading this you have probably realised that I am a huge fan of realism in next-gen games 
 - which is why you may be surprised to find that I thoroughly enjoy playing the mad and often silly 
 world of online KZ2 (i. e. people killing other players from a metre away with a rocket launcher) . 
 Despite slightly unrealistic elements, the online mode offers a variety of different modes with 
 just the right amount of maps - although more would be better and I'm sure this issue will be dealt 
 with following the release of some DLC on the PSN.
  Bad points coming up in a quick paragraph (as the game is generally excellent) . Firstly, next-gen 
 games should be much more open than KZ2 is during the campaign - linear, run and gun missions being 
 the order of the day (although a variety of mission objectives does keep the campaign flowing despite 
 this tedious gameplay) . Secondly, the script for the game does begin to grind due to the inclusion 
 of not remotely funny humour (i. e. copious amounts of jokes related to intimate relations with 
 each others mothers shared between the characters) . I understand the macho men from the ISA (which 
 unsurprisingly is comprised of nothing but American soliders) are tough alpha males but does this 
 mean the script needs to be so predictable and at times silly? No, it does not. Lastly, having 
 played many hours of COD over the past few years, I was surprised when I started to play KZ2 and 
 my character (Sev) seemed to be running so slowly it felt as though his pants had dropped to his 
 ankles and he could not in fact move his legs (which could quite possible be made of lead) . It 
 made moving from A to B quite tedious - even the "sprint mode" isn't that useful as it takes so 
 long for Sev to point his gun back up at the enemy after sprinting that your are likely to die 
 very quickly in the higher difficulty levels if you sprint a lot.
  Overall, despite the aforementioned niggles (which probably only get on my nerves as I am very 
 particular about realism and FPSs in general) Killzone 2 is an amazing game which should be part 
 of every PS3 owners collection. It really showcases what the PS3 can do - believe me when I say 
 the graphics and physics are brilliant - and is also just very fun to play. If you've never been 
 particularly fond of FPSs, Killzone 2 will convert you and you'll love it! If you are fond of FPSs, 
 I don't think I need to tell you that you'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  After many years of waiting Killzone 2 is finally here and it is an amazing game! Whether you played 
 the first game or not you'll definitely get much enjoyment out of Killzone 2. 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  When you first start playing the game an see the opening cut scene you 
 will immediately see how amazing the graphics are and how beautiful the Killzone 2 world looks 
 like. The characters look very real in cut scenes and even gameplay. From the beautiful ships of 
 the ISA to the Hell-like planet of Helghan, the world and atmosphere of Killzone 2 is stunning. 
 The graphics never glitch and the tiny details like shadows and what not are all there and beautiful.
 
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  
  Killzone 2 is very different then most shooters and will take some getting used to. The game focuses 
 more on the hip firing aspect like Resistance did. The game also fits a small detail called "supressing 
 fire" where when you fire at an enemy, they seek cover an stay down till a few seconds after you 
 stop firing. This is a great realistic element added to the game and can be used in strategy as 
 well. This also shows how great the Enemy AI is. When you move around to look/aim you will feel 
 almost a sense of heaviness to the movement or a sense of delayed movement this to will take you 
 no time to get used to and you wont even notice it after a while. Killzone 2's weapon on the screen 
 moves and sways as you walk, this to may take getting used to but it gives a great realistic element 
 to the game as if you are really the character walking down this immersive world. The stunning 
 graphics make this game really fun to play and you wont get bored. The best part of Killzone 2 
 is that once you finish the campaign you have a Multiplayer world to look forward too. But once 
 you get it down Killzone 2 is the best and most fun multiplayer experience you can get. The game 
 also features an offline version of multiplayer called Skirmish, which is the same except you play 
 against the computer. The Ai in this works great and you'll hardly realize that its a bot playing.
 
  
  Storyline - 7/10
  
  Like most FPS's Killzone 2's story is slightly bland. The story will give you some interest but 
 its nothing special. One thing is that the great gameplay will keep more interest in playing and 
 shooting then worrying about whats going on
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  The game sounds great. From voice actors, to gun sounds and music, Killzone 2 delivers in sound. 
 All the weapons sound good, all the voices fit there characters well, and the music is good enough 
 since most people don't even realize it
  
  Controls - 9/10
  
  I find this a pointless review topic, but many people complained about Killzone 2's controls so 
 I put it here. Sure the R1 with the aim is a little weird at first but you do get used to it and 
 it fits well.
  
  Replayability - 10/10
  
  The game will give you a good 8-10 hours of playtime in the campaign. This can be doubled or even 
 tripled if you play it thru on harder difficulties. Collecting all the Intel in the game, unlocking 
 all the trophies for both the campaign and multiplayer will keep you occupied as well. But where 
 most of your time will be spent is multiplayer. Ranking up to the highest level; getting all the 
 trophies; Unlocking all the ribbons; getting all the ribbons 8 times to get a medal; and just having 
 fun will keep you occupied for days and even months of playtime in Killzone 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  Just finally beat the ridiculously hard end-boss and finished the game. Not a good way to end your 
 game to get me to like it.
  
  The game starts out pretty meh, and I really wasn't getting into it. I just wasn't having any fun 
 being rushed from one fight to the next, trying to figure out what's going on and why. This definitely 
 is not my kind of gameplay style.
  
  Technically everything was looking and sounding great, but I just wasn't getting into it. I really 
 did not like my character or the people around him.
  
  But somewhere 1/2 way thru I started to have some enjoyable times as they let you try out vehicles 
 and gun-emplacements, but those were few and far between.
  
  I was doing pretty good game-wise, dying once in a while on the normal setting, but not complaining.
 
  
  But then, and I really hate games that do this, they throw a super hard final boss, as well as 
 a whole procedure to get to that final boss, that was just ridiculously hard and felt really cheap.
 
  
  After 2 hours of trying over and over, I finally finished and felt like I just wasted 2 hours of 
 my life rather than had fun.
  
  In Summary: There are some really good moments in this game, but nothing very memorable except 
 for the horrible final boss fight that I hope to forget about soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingsterX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:52 am PT
Review:  A really great game for anybody and the best for FPS lovers which includes me. I loved everything 
 in the game apart from the story which had nothing really special in it but everything else from 
 the characters to the graphics to the gameplay is just outstanding.
  A decent player can finish the game in about 8 hrs or less , I finished it in about 8 hrs 45 mins. 
 Something I really liked about the very macho looking weapons is that every weapon is different 
 and has different uses, for eg; Its not like if you have the most powerful weapon which is the 
 bolt gun you are invincible the weapon has its weaknesses.
  one thing I really wish the game had is co-op. its just more fun to play the game with a friend..... oh 
 well.
  OK, this was the story mode, whats left?..... the ONLINE MULTIPLAYER.
  It has a really interesting format it actually chains different missions for us to do in a single 
 game which is really fun.
  what I can say in the end is that 'Its amazing and atleast give it a try"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LetMeGetSniper
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start this review off by saying. This game is unbelievable. The story is about 
 humans desperate to survive after raging wars on earth. With focus on getting Earth more habitable 
 humans become able to travel between planets and some move to a planet by the name of Helghan. 
 So there are humans living on the planets of Earth, Vetka, and Helghan. When the humans on Helghan 
 start to evolve to become stronger because they have higher gravity and they become nearly hairless. 
 They have evolved because of the terribly harsh conditions on Helghan. They start to have small 
 conflicts with Earth and Earth relies on the Helghast for resources after they had sucked the earth 
 dry. The Helghast then cut off earths resources, and invade it (events of Killzone 1) ; Then Earth 
 takes the fight back to them on their planet (events of Killzone 2) . It is really a unique story 
 but is fairly complicated. The graphics in this game are spectacular. The audio (with a little 
 editing) can sound like you're on a battlefield. I edited the audio so the voices you can barely 
 hear, music is really low, and the sound effects are all the way the way up. It makes a realistic 
 war experience that I won't soon forget. The weapon selection is just amazing, it has everything 
 you could want (unless you're a hardcore gears veteran, and you want to chainsaw some people) . 
 In all seriousness this game has bolt guns that shoot explosive bolts and they pin your enemy to 
 the wall then blow up a few seconds later. The sniper uses the six-axis to keep your aim steady. 
 Plenty of machine guns, a cool sub-machine gun, a single shot rifle, a flame thrower, a voltage 
 gun, your well supply of explosives and 2 sweet pistols for when the big guns lose their punch. 
 The grenades are also very tactical where to get the best effect you must cook it for a good amount 
 of time and try to get it to blow up right above the enemy's head. Another cool feature is the 
 lights on the side of the grenade which alert you how long you have until is explodes. This game 
 is no doubt better than any other FPS I have ever played (and I have played A LOT) . The only problem 
 is that the characters to me were pretty forgettable, lacked character, and really had no back 
 story. Other than that I loved this game and I will look forward for future installments in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adel4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I just got a PS3. I heard good things about this game. Right when i started playing i saw why everyone 
 was so obsessed about this game. First thing i saw, the graphics. The graphics are superb. The 
 background, guns, weapons, people, all look very realistic and well done. When you kill someone, 
 you get the satisfaction, watching blood, sometimes organs just pop out. The cover system is great 
 and easy to use as well as the weapons. Each weapon with its own upper hand and advantage. As well 
 as the usual machine guns, snipers (this game with optional motion control) , pistol, you get a 
 useful blade, and you can get really cool weapons like the Electric gun which just destroys anyone 
 from close and far range, Flamethrower where instead bullets you reload gas and burn you enemies 
 that looks awesome. The story though has forgettable characters and gets boring. However you can 
 skip cutscenes so its no big deal. The story is about these 2 groups. Sort of like bad guys good 
 guys type of thing. The good dudes are the ones just protecting their nation. The guys in the mask 
 are the ones who want to own that land because they use to own it. They want revenge from what 
 the "good guys" ancestors did to them. Anyway the game has huge places perfect for multiplayer. 
 This game is awesome in almost every form. But it is somewhat of a downfall if you don't have online 
 access. There is no offline Multiplayer in which you and your friend can play split screen. You 
 can play games similar to online play except with less people (bots) . This mode is pretty fun and 
 will help you prepare for the real thing (online) . I don't have online access and not that many 
 of my friends have a PS3 which is why it is somewhat of a downfall. However this game is still 
 fun to take turns regardless if there is multiplayer or not. I recommend this game to anyone who 
 has a PS3 because both offline and online is amazing, and is really the game PS3 needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. When it comes down to it, it really delivers. The gameplay is what you'd 
 expect from a first person shooter. The movement though i find is sort of like Halos. For sure 
 not as fast as call of duty witch is why it took some time for me to get used to it. But once you've 
 played for a couple of hours you get really into it. You just really want to unlock the next character 
 specialty. The sound is perfect and theirs a voice that will talk in the back round witch makes 
 the game all that more immersive. Sound is perfect. Weapons are great even though there aren't 
 many weapons, each one is very different. Like you'll have two different assault rifles but both 
 of them control very differently. The sniper takes a bit of getting used to probably more than 
 the other guns i'd have to say because it moves quite fast once you have it in scope. Now for the 
 graphics. My God. If you have a crappy run down little tv i will pray for you. Cause this game 
 needs hdmi. If you can get this game on even just 720p, you'll be amazed. It looks like a movie 
 on 1080p. Great game, get it, play it, enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing from the first cutscene to the last, which includes every single firefight 
 that occurred in between. 
  
  Just look at the game's introduction when you first look at it. The face of Visari looks real, 
 even if you don't own an HD tv. 
  
  The storyline of the game is actually quite good. I don't know what GameSpot was thinking, to be 
 honest. It has depressing parts, and a lot of human nature as a theme in the story. You play as 
 Tomas Sevchenko (the other allies will all call you "Sev") , who is a soldier that apparently has 
 a lot of potential. The main character of the first game (Templar) is your commander, and he will 
 stay back on the HQ ship. You have a best friend named Garza, and a squad leader named Rico. That's 
 mainly it for the most important characters. Oh, Visari is the "emperor" of the opposing force, 
 he's basically the one you want to arrest/kill throughout the whole game.
  
  Onto gameplay. Holy hell, it's smooth. The game honestly reminds me of Gears of War's smooth gameplay, 
 but put into First-person. Its graphics are amazing, and it's more than just looks, you get into 
 the game, and feel immersed in it. There are times when you have to spin the controller like you 
 are spinning a valve, which is actually sometimes fun to do, rather than annoying. Movement is 
 more realistic, when you jump it's pretty delayed, so that you can get the momentum to jump high 
 enough. And there's no life bar. Blood spatters appear around the screen wherever you get shot, 
 and get bigger and bigger as you get hit without taking a rest to help you heal. If you take too 
 many hits, you'll start seeing black and white, and that's usually your cue to take cover and stay 
 away for a while. You'll recover after a while of not getting shot. 
  
  Seriously though, I played this game on the 2nd easiest difficulty, out of 4 or 5, I don't remember. 
 And it was pretty damn hard. I'm not terrible at FPSs, but this caused me a lot of trouble throughout 
 the game. Especially the last boss. Don't get me started. It is actually an achievement to kill 
 him under 20 minutes. Which isn't hard, it'll just take you like 15 game overs.
  
  Well, that's that. Killzone 2 is an amazing game which you MUST OWN if you have a PlayStation 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Killzone 2. The game starts with a speech from the game's antagonist, Scholar Visari. His 
 words, his speeches makes the game's level of voice acting go WAY up.
  But story isn't a factor in this game. Because this stimulates the life of a soldier who is just 
 doing as he is told. He has no grasp on the situation as he is told only what he is needed to know, for 
 the successful completion of his mission.
  It's the gameplay which bakes this cake. It's not like CoD or Resistance. It's the most realistic 
 shooter i have played. You can actually see the enemies feel the pain when you shoot them. Shoot 
 'em in the knee, they hop. Shoot 'em in the back, they react like an old man getting a muscle cramp 
 on his back.
  Also the factor of recoil plays a major roll in this game, so you will have to fire in burst, but 
 the weapons feel solid and nice.
  As for the campaign mode, it's hard. Enemies are damn near inhuman, etc. But it is the difficulty that 
 makes the victory so sweet. This game was directed at the hardened vets of FPSing, while the A. I 
 in this game is smarter than the average idiot player on an Online FPS.
  As for multi-player, it's well-designed you can see that the levels have been well designed and 
 the classes have been balanced but in the begining you may feel underpowered to the rocketeers 
 but not to worry, everything can be beaten, as each player is a man, and that man bleeds like you 
 bleed. But the true spirit comes out when there is utter chaos on the battlefield, In this chaos 
 you will feel your adrenaline pumping, your shotgun will be dumping, into an endless sea of players 
 who are just there ripe for the picking. You can actually turn the tide of battle, You are capable 
 to do such with good tactics. Also, a headset is a must for this game as you will need to plan with 
 your team.
  As for Sound, it sound good. Very Sharp, Very Smooth noises which will be music to your ears while 
 you play. You may play your custom tunes while online. Death Metal is a great combo with this game.
 
  The bottomline is that this game is epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  I'm firstly going to speak about how polished this game is. The best graphics on any console I've 
 ever seen (except for Gran Turismo 5, obviously) , this game is very good. It has an intellligent 
 cover system that works very well, and have I mentioned that the graphics are incredible? They're 
 so good it's just Disrespectful to other games Anyway, yeah. The grenades are also inteligent. 
 A great grenade system, that shows when the grenade is going to explode, and where it has gone, 
 with a little bright thing.
  
  Then there's the variety of guns Which is kinda cool, by what I've seen so far. I only downloaded 
 the demo of the game. The physics are also great. When you shoot the guy, he contorts in pain, 
 depending on where you shot him. The realism of the game is good, although you still feel as you're 
 playing a game, not watching a movie.
  
  Now let's get to the stupid flaws. The aiming. Yeah, the aiming. It just PISSES ME OFF SO MUCH. 
 It's not the same aiming as Resistance 2, Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 or any other shooter I've ever known 
 in first person. BUT WAIT! KILLZONE 2 IS INNOVATIVE! IT HAS TO HAVE SOMETHING DIFFERENT! Sure, 
 it had enough innovations up till this point. But then they put such a crappy aiming system Like, 
 when you look around, the weapon takes a year to catch up with your vision. And when you push the 
 right stick fully to whatever side you want to aim at, it starts moving slowly for about 1.5 seconds 
 (enough time for you to die) THEN the crosshair starts moving at a considerable speed. THAT IS 
 ANNOYING. Why can't I myself move the crosshair slowly when I see fit? ME. IM THE ONE PLAYING THE 
 GAME.
  
  There's also the problem with the enemy's resistance to bullets. You have to shoot them not one, 
 not two, but THREE times with a .44 revolver (a futuristic, cool-looking one) . What the hell is 
 up with that? Not even those bigass guys in Resistance need that much to die. Plus, if you shoot 
 a guy with any gun in the head, they dont even take damage, unless they dont have their helmet 
 on. And to TAKE their helmet off, you need to shoot it. So they need 2 bullets to the head to die. 
 And what kind of gun doesn't pierce a war helmet? C'mon.
  
  Though the game has a lot of ambition, and it gathered the love of many players, including myself. 
 But what keeps this game from getting a higher score is the aiming, the enemies, and also, the 
 fact that you have to toggle your sprinting mode on and off. BUT the crouching, you don't. What 
 the hel is wrong with Guerrila? Just Can't they make the game better? They want to innovate soo 
 much that they end up screwing up. They've done their job, a good shooter, but still Flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Somehow, Killzone got a large enough fan-base to warrant a sequel, but I must say I'm very happy 
 so many people bought a bad game, because now, we get a truly excellent one. Let's face it, the 
 first Killzone was bad, and was nowhere near the "Halo-Killer" title it received before its disappointing 
 release. But if you were to compare Killzone 2 to Halo 3, Killzone 2 blows it out of the water. 
 Killzone 2 is the best FPS to come out in a long, long time.
  
  The story in Killzone 2 is unfortunately fairly basic, but the tidbits you get about the backstory 
 are really great. You play as Sev as he and his squad go into the Helghast home planet, surprisingly 
 named Helghan. Your mission, take down the evil emperor Visari, and his right hand man Radec. One 
 thing I think is worth noting is that the developers made two really great villains out of Visari, 
 and especially Radec, and it's a shame they couldn't put that kind of attention on their protagonists. 
 The story also raises some interesting questions toward the end (which I won't spoil) , but the 
 plot in this game is still overall very basic, and really just gives you an excuse to go from location 
 to location killing things.
  
  Fortunately, going from location to location killing things is quite awesome in this game. This 
 isn't your normal run and gun FPS, the game has a fully featured cover system that, while not as 
 fleshed out as say Gears of War, adds a whole new dimension to the combat, especially since this 
 is the only FPS with a real cover system. The weapons are also quite fun to use, you get the standard 
 arsenal of assault rifles, and shotguns, but you'll also discover some fun weaponry like the bolt 
 gun, which will pin your enemies to the closest surface. Killzone 2 provides some of the best, 
 most interesting changes to consoles FPS's since Halo.
  There's also a good amount of variety in KZ2. There's a segment in a mech which is quite awesome, 
 you'll jump in a tank at one point early on, and there's a pretty great turret sequence toward 
 the end. It's nothing that will truly occupy you for a long period of time, but it's all still 
 a fun breath of fresh air.
  The multiplayer in Killzone 2 is also exceptional. The main gametype is Warzone, where to teams 
 of 16 square off to finish objectives within 5 minutes. The different objectives thrown at you 
 range from deathmatch, to bomb planting scenarios. The fact that Warzone keeps changing things 
 up, and keeps you on your feet is really awesome, and I'd like for this mode to be incorporate 
 in other games as well. 
  
  The graphics are impeccable; these are the best console graphics period. Everything from the beautiful 
 environments, right down characters' facial expressions is astounding, and there's not one slowdown 
 or glitch in sight.
  
  The sound department is also quite good. Killzone 2 features a good score, and pretty good voice 
 acting, especially with the help of Brian Cox, who plays Visari. There's nothing truly standout 
 in the sound design, but it still gets the job done.
  
  Killzone 2's story mode isn't very long, it will run you between 8 to 10 hours, but this is a game 
 you'll want to play more than once, not to mention Warzone will keep you coming back, as it features 
 an XP/level up system similar to that revolutionized by Call of Duty 4.
  
  Killzone 2 is an all around amazing package. From the great production values, to the fact that 
 they made the basic shooting gameplay so fresh and fun, this game is really a must buy. The only 
 real negative side to the game is its story, but even then, it's pretty damn good. Killzone 2 is 
 one of the best shooters ever made. If you have a PS3, go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 4:15 am PT
Review:  Seeing as I'm "Killzone_Gamer" I think I should clarify that I have been waiting for this game 
 for quite some time. In fact, I've been waiting for this game since I first saw that now legendary 
 trailer back in 2005. 
  
  Once I had watched that video about 15 times, I watched it another 15 times; on a normal CRT TV 
 using a DVD I got free from a PS2 magazine. From there I was hooked. I knew that I was going to 
 buy the game, no matter what it got reviewed. 
  
  Well, at an average of 9.1 on Gamespot and 92 on Metacritic, I had kind of figured out that it 
 was half decent by now and, having played for over 40 hours on this true masterpiece I can happily 
 say that I'm thoroughly impressed. So much so that it is actually my favourite game ever. My favourite 
 genre is generally shooters, and this is my favourite shooter. I love the weight. I love the aiming. 
 I love everything about this game, including the things that other people moan about on here. The 
 aiming? Its way more realistic is the way that it takes a bit longer to turn. The way crouching 
 and standing up from crouching is actually enough to jog your weapon around, and unlike the supermen 
 in nigh-on every other shooter, the characters here have to both bend their knee's to jump, and 
 cannot fire accurately while mid air! 
  Now let's start on the basics, shall we?
  
  The story. I love the story. It's an epic battle, a struggle between men and once-men, and you're 
 not only invited, but thrown straight into the middle of this war as Sergeant Thomas Sevchenko, 
 or Sev for short. You begin each level with the trusty and damn-right brilliant M82-G Interplanetary 
 Strategic Alliance Assault Rifle, a 32-round per clip, Reflex sighted badass. I love this gun, 
 and it carries you through the story comfortably. Of course, this wouldn't be an FPS if there weren't 
 numerous weapons on offer here, but more on those later.
  
  Between you, Sergeant Rico Velasquez, Garza and Natko, you are Alpha Squad, one of the finest in 
 the ISA. Even though you can (and trust me, WILL) change weapon throughout the game, your teammates 
 don't. Rico sticks with his M224 LMG, Natko has his lovely to use LS13 Shotgun and Garza uses the 
 same M82-G AR as you. 
  
  The friendly AI is very good, with only a few minor glitches. Occasionally Garza won't move through 
 a door, or he gets in your way, but coming within a certain radius of him generally gets the desired 
 "Move please" message through to him. In fire fights, however, they are much handier. I have often 
 been caught out by a Helghast soldier coming right near to me only to hear the crack of Natko's 
 Shotgun beheading my enemy. They use cover effectively, and take pot-shots and accurate bursts, 
 as well as making sure they don't get flanked. Unlike your character, your team can blind fire 
 from cover, which they use when they are pinned down. Overall, the friendly AI is smart enough 
 to keep with you and they are generally very intelligent and good to have around.
  
  Throughout the 10 Hour campaign, more so on Veteran and about twice as much on Elite, a stern challenge 
 to anyone who plays games, and sadly an incredibly hard task for me  you will face a variety of 
 enemies and four boss battles. All of these are memorable, and seeing as there is a trophy for 
 completing the last one in less than 20 minutes, that might put the scale of the challenge ahead 
 into perspective. 
  
  ***THERE ARE SPOILERS FROM HERE ON IN***
  
  Although the first level is a "Welcome to Killzone 2" level, it's still very fun, and a good introduction 
 to the game, which is really quite a change from other FPS'. You also get your first taste of the 
 very cleverly implemented sixaxis features, which in this case is opening a valve. L1 is your left 
 hand and R1 is your right, and turning the controller changes where your hands are positioned on 
 the valve. Then pressing R1 & L1 together grips the valve and you twist the controller around to 
 turn it. It sounds complicated written down but it's really not. 
  
  It's on the second level, however, that you'll face the first boss, the "Heavy". It is a massive, 
 tank-like warrior that commands a huge Chaingun with an under slung Grenade Launcher. It sounds 
 as mean as it is, although it's surprisingly easy to defeat, even on Elite. It doesn't take many 
 rounds for it to kill you however, so be careful. 
  
  In my opinion, the best levels are the Suljeva Village and the Tharis Refinery level, the 6th and 
 7th respectively. Between them, they bring the two best weapons and a massive variety in objectives, 
 storyline and environments. Suljeva Village is a windswept, dusty, barren wasteland full of rubbish, 
 industrialised to within an inch of its life. It is teeming with Helghast and it's the level where 
 you first meet the incredible VC-21 Boltgun, the second coolest gun in the game, and incidentally 
 my second favourite FPS weapon of all time. The massive nails fire out of the gun and hit the Helghast, 
 sending them flying backwards, and if there is a wall within 15 feet of where they are standing, 
 they'll be pinned to it, squirming and screaming in pain until (here's why it's so damn cool) the 
 Bolt pinning them to the wall explodes. The environment with dust swirling and bullets affecting 
 the stream of dust is frankly mind boggling, and this is lesser of the levels. The radio chatter 
 gets pretty intense when you're Scientist Lady being protected by Natko and Garza get ambushed 
 and captured, and you and Rico head back through waves of the red-eyed fascists to help.
  
  This is where the second of the brilliant levels comes into play. Tharis Refinery is brilliant 
 for a number of reasons. Taking a cue from Gears of War, it begins on a moving train, but in comparison 
 with Gears' Devil Batman thing there is "merely" a tank and about 30 Helghast to deal with. However, 
 the way the physics and the lighting, the motion blur and weapons all affect everything is this 
 levels real party piece. Running towards the way your going is slowed by the wind. Yup, the freaking 
 wind. This train is one of my favourite set-pieces of the game, and the rest of the level that 
 follows is even more fun. Once you and Rico arrive at this vast Refinery, you split up to try and 
 find where they have taken Evelyn, Natko and Garza. This is where another Boss comes into play. 
 Called the Arc Trooper, he carries a vast Electricity Gun, which is a man portable version of their 
 fearsome Arc Towers, capable of wiping out air support. Like with the Blood Meridian Heavy, you 
 have to daze him so you can damage his fuel (in this case coolant) tanks on his back. The battle 
 for me (on Trooper) was over (on the third try for fun, I finished it first go, obviously) in 17 
 seconds. 
  
  Having completed this Boss fight, I walked up to the body of the Arc Trooper on my first go, to 
 do what I had with the Heavy the first time I had killed him  teabag it. Unlike with the Heavy 
 however, I was shocked, excited, and damn right orgasmic to discover that I could PICK UP THE ARC 
 GUN. Called the VC-5, it is my favourite weapon ever, and if I could magic anything out of a game, 
 it would be that, or the girls out of God of War, but that's a whole other story!
  
  Ripping apart anything that gets in its beam of lightning in seconds, the VC-5 is easily the most 
 powerful weapon in the game. It turns a group of three or even more evil Helghast into a pile of 
 convulsing, shrieking mess. It gives me a feeling of power when through my 5.1 Surround Sound system 
 (More on the truly magnificent audio later) come the screams of pain as they are thrown clear of 
 the walkway they are trying to traverse. There just isn't quite the word to describe the way this 
 gun makes the player feel, so I shall no longer try to.
  The final Boss Fight against Colonel Radec is one of the hardest gaming moments I've had. Although 
 I haven't got to the appropriate place on my Elite game save to try it, I know that it will truly 
 be next to impossible. There are waves and waves of soldiers poured out into the arena like place 
 you enter. Missile Launcher wielding big boys sit at the opposite end of the coliseum like death 
 room, while  guys flank and sprint at you. This is 
 generally scary, as you have to avoid the rockets, the Assault Rifle fire while trying to get rid 
 of the crazed bastard running at you with pace. Once these waves have been defeated the final showdown 
 with Radec himself is made harder by his sniper like Cloaking armour, except his still works for 
 a while even if he runs. I'll leave the tactics of the fight for you to figure out/think about 
 again, but it's certainly a good fight. 
  
  Going to more general points now, the graphics, gameplay, sound and longevity of the game.
  
 
  Graphics
  
  The graphics and overall visuals of the game are easily the best I've ever seen on a game. It is 
 simply the best looking console game to date, and no-one can really, genuinely argue with that. 
 The detail on everything is frankly incredible, and the gun models are the best I've ever seen. 
 They look real. The VC-5 Arc Gun, for example, when you press square to reload you see one of the 
 best looking animations in the game. The way the crankshaft thing is revealed and you can see it 
 spin. The light blue glow that builds at the actual end of the gun, it's just incredible. Lighting 
 is one of the most important things in graphical representation of games. Most games have 8-10 
 actual sources of light in a level; Killzone 2 has over 200 on average in each level. A light source 
 counts as something that can make shadows, and can light up parts of the level. The Helghast's 
 eyes are light sources, if you kill one near a wall you'll see the wall illuminated by the eyes 
 as they slowly collapse to the floor. Of course Muzzle Flash is a source as well, casting shadows 
 and giving your foes a perfectly illuminated death. The level design is fantastic, and the environments 
 are the most details I've seen, not to mention the fact that they are destructible. A grenade explodes 
 against a pillar and the cladding goes everywhere, revealing the metal supports underneath. The 
 Helghast taking cover there will realise that they are exposed and will turn and run, laying down 
 suppressing fire as they go. All of this, with the light and the wind and the sounds create the 
 most atmospheric game I've ever played. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game plays brilliantly. It doesn't play better than CoD4, it plays differently than CoD4. 
 Whereas CoD4 is quick to turn, it is also unrealistically quick, and after playing Killzone 2, 
 CoD plays like an arcade game. The way every movement makes your gun move in your hands looks like 
 the team at Guerrilla Games have spent ages in a Motion Capture studio studying how soldiers weighed 
 down would move. When you crouch your gun slaps solidly down in your grasp again, and when you 
 rise back up the muzzle looks to the ground momentarily as Sev heaves it back up again. Everything 
 just seems right. Turning and firing is accurate, but as per real life once more standing still 
  even better crouching  gives a much more accurate shot, as does burst firing. Good old "Spray 
 & Pray" doesn't really apply to this game, at medium range with an SMG or an LMG burst fire is 
 the only way to go. Each weapon has a very different feel to it, with its own characteristics which 
 you'll soon adapt to. The STa-14, for example is an 8 round per clip single shot rifle that would 
 feel right in a WW2 shooter, but somehow it fits here, and as a Helghast weapon it reminds you 
 of their lack of resources. It's a basic weapon, but it is ever so accurate, and it just feels 
 right here. Jumping works well as well, and not being able to shoot while airborne is a godsend 
 in many ways, as CoD4 online was getting a little irritating with all that jumping off of a building 
 to "pwnsnype" someone...
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in Killzone 2 is one of the things which really makes the game. I am lucky enough to 
 own a Bose 5.1 Surround Sound system, and this game sounds like no other as well. The rattle of 
 automatic gunfire, with orders being fired off (mostly from Narville) and the shouts of help and 
 "Reloading, cover me!" from the ISA buddies. The Helghast shout rather more crude cries, such as 
 "Leave none of them alive!" This can be somewhat disheartening, but the best noise is the constipated 
 groan of a Helghan troop as he is about to melee you. A world-first is in this game as well, as 
 long as you have a surround sound system. If you are facing directly at a Helghast turret, say, 
 you'll hear the GPMG alike from your centre speaker mainly, and from the front left and right partially. 
 However, as you turn your character, where the sound comes from changes in proportion, so if you 
 are facing directly away from him it'll erupt from the rear speakers. This can actually be used 
 as a tactic to find out where the enemies are, but it seems to be quite hard! 
  
  Lifespan
  
  The game seems to me as it will take a long time to get everything. Not only are 
 there hundreds of things to collect online, but there are also 20 pieces of Intel scattered around 
 the game, there are also 32 of the Helghast Icon's to shoot the hell out of. Trophies too add a 
 level of longevity, and they are still endlessly fun for me, I love them! The campaign is easily 
 good enough to warrant 5 or 6 playthroughs, and then there is the main thing why someone would 
 stay with the game...
  
  The Warzone. Warzone has become one of the most awesome words in video gaming for me, solely because 
 of Killzone 2's INCREDIBLE online campaign. With 8 maps on offer (Phrryus Rise, Corinth Crossing, 
 Tharis Depot, Radec Academy, Saluman Market, Helghast Industries, Visari Hammer and Blood Gracht) 
 and with more on the way, they all are of varying size and environment. My favourite map is the 
 biggest  Phrryus Rise, which is an absolutely fantastic piece of design. Every little alley, path 
 and room is just seemingly perfect, with a vast line of site perfect for sniping  one of the other 
 joys of Killzone 2. There just isn't a fault with this map in my opinion. Both of the starting 
 spawn points are given good cover and decent sniping positions close to them, as well as two main 
 corridors. For the ISA spawn it's the choice of 3 (or just the main) bridge (s) , whereas the Helghast 
 have the joys of the massive northern road which stretches almost longer than the line of sight, 
 with dust being whipped across it by the very strong winds. Phrryus Rise was just my favourite, 
 but I could write that much about each map, they are all so individual and completely change the 
 way you play from map to map. 
  
  One of the other jaw dropping features of Warzone is the badges. I love the badges. Enabling you 
 to combine cl@sses together to make one ideal combination for you is genius. Thinking that you're 
 not going to like the sniping because you can't use claymores? Wrong. Sort of... The Saboteur cl@ss 
 starts with the ability to, at the press of left on the d-pad, look identical to a member of the 
 opposite team. This ability is very clever, but at close range if an enemy aims at you your true 
 identity is revealed. If you get 5 kills while disguised as a member of the opposite team you get 
 a ribbon. If you get eight of these ribbons, then you get a medal, and that in turn unlocks the 
 Saboteur's secondary ability, which is to lay proximity mines. These are very weak individually, 
 but grouped together they provide a near invaluable insta-kill if put in the right place. It is 
 rare anyone will get this spot on though. Now, getting 5 kills a game with the proximity mines 
 also gets you a ribbon, and get eight of these and you can combine the proximity mines with another 
 cl@ss that has its secondary ability unlocked. It sounds complicated to read, but it couldn't be 
 much simpler really. So if you have the eight ribbons to unlock the secondary cl@ss of two cl@sses, 
 and you also have the eight ribbons for the secondary cl@sses of these two you could make say an 
 engineer who could plant proximity mines and a Saboteur who can repair turrets. Simple in the game, 
 confusing to understand here. 
  
  Yet another brilliant feature is the Killzone. com website. Holding well over 100 statistics about 
 each player's online performance, ranging from how many of the badge abilities they have used to 
 bodycount, search and retrieve etc points they've got, a "weapons cloud" showing (indicated by 
 a larger image of that weapon) which gun they use most, an entire page showing all of their ribbons 
 and medals  its vast, and encompasses most of the stats any, and I mean any, stat freak could 
 ever want. I should know this because I am a stat freak in hibernation from a certain few PC games 
 which allow me to see nearly unlimited stats on me and other players! But no, it's not WoW (shudders) .
 
  
  Here is the really big pull of Killzone 2 online. Although you can search for a game using, say 
 Bodycount mode (team deathmatch) if you don't specify any then you join a game which is potentially 
 about 30 minutes long. This game will cycle through all five modes throughout the game, on the 
 current map, and then move on to do the same on the next map. These are arguably the best type 
 of games, because you are constantly switching gears to keep with the action. Say Bodycount comes 
 up on a large map; you might want to use your sniper cl@ss. That's great for Bodycount, but by 
 the end of Bodycount Search and Destroy might come up. Hmm. You not exactly going to make a close 
 range assault with a Sniper Rifle now are you? So you swap to Saboteur cl@ss and whip out your 
 trusty SMG to kick some ass at close range  or better yet, the Engineer with his LS13 Shotgun! 
 
  
  Then after your team have succeeded/failed at destroying their stuff, the next mode might be Search 
 and Destroy again but this time with you defending. Do you stick with the Engineer and plant some 
 sentry turrets around the base or do you change class to the Tactician, plant a spawn point for 
 your team to help defending and call for a bit of air support? Then again the Saboteur could help 
 with his Proximity mines. And the Assault cl@ss can bring some serious firepower with either a 
 Grenade Launcher or choice of two (The ISA M80 being the superior one) Rocket Launchers. Because 
 the game offers you so much choice at every step it's hard to find one class which fits the bill 
 perfectly for every occasion, but that's why it's great, because even without any organisation 
 your team will seemingly cover every base cl@ss wise, and between you can bring hell down on your 
 opponents. The debate about which cl@ss and gun, as well as the combination of badges, is the best 
 for any given mode is one that could go on forever, so I won't properly begin that. 
  
  In Conclusion, then. Killzone 2 is the best looking game ever made for any console, and comes knocking 
 at Crysis' door whatever some people say. The lighting is also the best ever seen on a console, 
 the sound almost the same with its incredible 7:1 Surround Sound support. The way the enemies "move" 
 around you with Surround Sound is one innovation that I won't be forgetting in a hurry either. 
 Everything about this game got a good budget it seems, but this is no Grand Theft Auto IV  massive 
 budget, good review scores but seemingly deserted by the actual fans. The game will be played for 
 months and months more by the masses, and the Leaderboard information on the website shows this. 
 The story will leave most of you shocked  and very much awed  by its dramatic ending. "In a way 
 I wonder where the game will go from here" I was thinking as I neared the end of the game, but 
 the ending couldn't have spelled out S-E-Q-U-E-L any more clearly. The VC5 Electricity Gun is still 
 my favourite weapon ever, and the VC-21 Boltgun is still my second favourite weapon ever. So that 
 wraps it up really, I'm sorry that this review is a little slow at getting to all of you, but I'm 
 sure you can figure out why. (It's a tad long...)
  
  I hope some of you have read this review and decided to give the game a try it you haven't already, 
 because for me it's the best game ever  from any genre. I can't see much else coming along to 
 beat it this year, either. So there we have it. Killzone 2. Your favourite game ever? Buy it and 
 find out.
  
  NOTE: Thank you all very much for reading and sorry about swapping the "a" from c (ass to a "@", 
 but without the word that part of the review wouldn't have made sense. Thanks again, Matt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting on this title for a long time now and the ending results I have to say was 
 worth the price. It is very difficult to say if the game is a system seller but it delivers great 
 visuals, sound and multiplayer action that should keep you coming back for more. There is a couple 
 minor frame rate issues I saw and a couple building demolitions that made me pause for a sec and 
 shake my head hoping for a perfect game that needed nothing to make it a better score, sorry it 
 didn't happen. As everyone knows this game would have been close to perfect with a Co-Op run through 
 in the story and maybe a single player death match to give a little bit for people that play a 
 lot of that on other games. Last but not least is the aiming.... just a little improvement on shifting 
 left to right with out overkill on the slow to fast movement would have been cool too...... That 
 is the few knocks I throw at this game but I can admit the full price of the game in general was 
 fair. The story is right where it should be and the surroundings make the game great. It is hard 
 not to suggest a purchase if you like first person shooters... this one sticks out as a solid purchase 
 and will make you happy you bought this game. There is more positive than negative to it... so just 
 buy it and enjoy a PS3 game that shows the potential of where the system can go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billsco
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I'll never forget my first real pang of disappointment with KILLZONE on the Playstation 2. The 
 scene was set, the first level loaded... the gunfire blazed around my head in flashes of red and 
 yellow. Enemies swarmed in on me, I pulled up my trusty assault rifle and...
  
  "Wait... there's no jump button?"
  
  Needless to say, the rest of the game followed suit. And 
 when I first heard of the sequel in development, I waited with baited breath for KILLZONE 2. However, 
 I am happy to say that KILLZONE 2 makes up for the flaws in it's predecessor and leaves the player 
 wanting more... online or off.
  
  It would be reckless of me to begin this review without talking about KILLZONE 2's amazing visuals. 
 The game looks better than any other shooter ever made (take that, CRYSIS!) . Gunfire sparks and 
 smokes, explosions burst and flame, reflection textures are something to truly behold and the environments 
 and player models are extraordinarily detailed. Everything in the game looks like it was tended 
 to with loving care for detail by the design team. It all fits together to make a fabulous atmosphere. 
 Dark clouds soar overhead, thunder and lightning crackle through the landscape and all that makes 
 for truly exciting and intense firefights.
  
  The sound design follows suit. I tried to find reoccuring sounds during gameplay and only found 
 two or three that repeated. Every gunshot, hit and explosion sound completely unique depending 
 on your location, position and enemy you choose to fill with your chosen boomstick. The voice acting 
 is also superb. Everything from groans of pain to your comrades screaming for you to "stop f*&cking 
 around!", KILLZONE 2's sound design grabs you and never lets go.
  
  That said, let's move on to the more crucial elements...
  
  The game's story is fairly easy 
 to follow... in the fact that it really doesn't have one. It's simply a mission based shooter with 
 small bits of plot interwoven throughout to make a cohesive plot. It's a little simple, but it 
 allows for you to never overanalyze what's going on and an excuse to kill a lot of enemies. There's 
 nothing worse than a game that makes me sympathize with the bad guys. You play as a new character 
 to the franchise, known as Sev. You join Alpa Squad and make your way to the enemies main fortress 
 to topple their dictator and win the war. Pretty simple, but effective nonetheless.
  
  The gameplay in KILLZONE 2 is a bit of a mixed bag in terms of a shooter. All of the weapons (the 
 bolt gun is particularly fun) are well realized and easy to control, however the axis sensitivity 
 is EXCRUCIATINGLY heavy and makes for slow turning and response time when fighting a large number 
 of enemies. It also doesn't help that your enemies happen to be super-intelligent. They throw frags 
 when you take cover with pinpoint accuracy. They hide behind cover for minutes on end so you wait 
 for the perfect shot (the longest I got was 5 minutes) and they're incredibly aggressive in close 
 combat (think "Big Daddies") , however it does give a very realistic translation of what real combat 
 would be like. It's not a cakewalk, it's hard stuff. So, in truth, it pulls you further into the 
 game's world and makes you want to get that much better and play it more.
  
  The online component for KILLZONE 2 is where the game truly excels. Your standard match types are 
 all present and accounted for (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag etc.) with the inclusion 
 of WARZONE, a new type of online match that changes rules during play. You may start the match 
 in Capture the Flag rules, but after five minutes, the rules change to DEATHMATCH. It's a great 
 change of pace, because it allows you to never get comfortable and gamers that prefer different 
 match types have to rise to excel in matches they might not be so good at. It's an excellent addition.
 
  
  KILLZONE 2 is THE shooter to own on the PS3. If you're looking for a "Halo Killer" you may need 
 to wait a bit more, but for those of you lacking a 360 and wanting an amazing FPS war-combat shooter... look 
 no further. Buy this Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak_Napier
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2, has been the long anticipated and long awaited first person shooter for the PS3 that 
 will deliver not only amazing graphics and stunning visuals, but a hardcore solid gameplay first 
 person shooter exclusive that Sony has been long overdue for.
  
  For starters, Killzone 2 continues the story from its previous PS2 platformed game based on the 
 same title "Killzone". I would rather not give away any major plots or key information on any of 
 the characters or the story, but if your looking for a game with a nice lengthy story that will 
 captivate you. Then you shouldnt expecting an oscar winning performance here. Its decent, its simply 
 what you would expect from the next first person shooter. 
  
  With that being said what Killzone 2 lacks, it simply makes up for in the gameplay and excellent 
 voice acting talents. 
  
  Killzone 2's gameplay is one that may be shrugged at and may be regarded as something thats been 
 seen before in say the Call of Duty series, or say in Halo. Well your wrong. Killzone 2 has an 
 interesting take on the controls and style of gameplay. Although it seems pretty straight forward, 
 as a simple shoot em' up style/ duck and cover style of gameplay it offers a new "fresh" feel that'll 
 make gamers want more. It has such unique things like realistic senses, an example would be say 
 when you move around while your aiming your weapon, it seems kind of slow and as if you are weighted 
 down. You are correct! it is your armor in fact that is weighing you down, just like your enemies, 
 so dont feel like your at a disadvantage here. You'll get used to it. Another thing is the use 
 of the SIXAXIS motion sensing controls. An example of this is when you use your sniper, it just 
 moves so fluently to zoom in and out, move left and right. it just works.
  
  Two more things that cannot be left out are the Online capabilites and the graphics. to sum it 
 up, A. Online is amazing, and its free! and B. You'll have to witness the pure beauty and awe of 
 the game. 
  
  In a nut shell, Killzone 2 is an innovative first person shooter that certainly gives you more 
 bang for your buck. Simply, if you own a Playstation 3, or are considering one, check out Killzone 
 2, for rental or for purchase. See for yourself what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  When I got my PS3, I was excited to play Resistance and I was very much pleased with that game. 
 It has sweet weapons, a good story, easy to play, and great on the multiplayer front. However, 
 we now get the game that has been hyped up more than any other game PS3 game to date, Killzone 
 2. I played the original Killzone for PS2 a long time ago and I found an FPS that wasn't bad, just 
 really dull and lacking any kind of uniqueness, hell even the title of the game is quite generic. 
 Killzone 2, I have to say, is a much better game than its predecessor. It's one of the best looking 
 games on the market and the sounds/voice acting are great too. But the game's story is forgettable, 
 characters are uninteresting, and the weapons, while cool, are also nothing captivating. I don't 
 know what it is about this game, but when I play it I don't feel like I have full control and it 
 seems that aiming is harder than it necessarily needs to be. If you own a PS3 and absolutely need 
 a shooter fix, then by all means get this game because the multiplayer alone will keep you playing 
 for a long time. But if you are like me and have played several games in this genre and are not 
 easily amused, then rent it and see for yourself whether its worth shelling 60 bucks for!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polymetalalloy1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the first Killzone was not exactly amazing, but it was a stylish, violent romp that clearly 
 demanded more of the ps2 than it was able to give. 2009 heralds the arrival of the much-hyped Killzone 
 2 and my god does it deliver. The campaign mode uses a cover system to add a fresh twist to gunning 
 away the glowing eyes of the Helghast. The planet Helghan is dripping with visual style and a moody, 
 sombre atmosphere that fuels the violence. The plot may be a bit lame but that's fine because the 
 characters are rarely annoying and its a small price to pay. The campaign is darn god fu but this 
 game really comes alive online. 
  
  Online multiplayer is feverish and intense and there are a seemingly neverending stream of unlockables 
 to award skillful play. Different classes keep the action fresh even after five hours of gunning 
 down other bluetooth-headset wielding lunatics. Finally Sony has delivered an addictive and stunning 
 masterpiece that gives XBOX360 users a reason to think twice. Bravo Sony!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brummydude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  The single player is an enjoyable experience with some great set pieces and level design. There 
 is much fun to be had with the bolt and the electricity gun and using the robot on the last level 
 is a blast. It is rather short but there is reasons to replay for trophies and hidden items.
  
  The graphics are excellent with special notice going to the lighting and guns.
  
  The audio 
 of the game is top notch also. Guns are loud as are explosions just as they should be and makes 
 a very realistic war experience in earlier levels.
  
  Warning, you will need to get used to controls. So dont stick the game straight away on ebay after 
 a few frustrating hours. At first movement and aiming feels heavy with many people complaining 
 when first released. But I am now used to the feel of Killzones controls and have grown to love 
 them.
  
  What makes killzone 2 a must buy however is the multiplayer. THIS IS BETTER THAN CODs multiplayer. 
 Its much easier for beginners with a great learning curve with early rank games having no classes 
 while gradually introducing new ones. 
  Kills and points are distributed evenly between veterans and players just joining the community.
 
  The different classes make each game different allowing you to either create turrets, make spawn 
 points, disguise yourself as the enemy and more. Playing is very rewarding as you'll gain ribbons 
 which will lead to badges which will lead to easier points or new skills
  Teamwork will be needed to win matches as kills are not everything; healing others, setting up 
 turrets and fixing ammo crates all gain you points.
  Killzone has a great clan set up for competitive gaming allowing you to gamble currency and prove 
 your skills as a team.
  
  There are a few problems with the multiplayer though which include no party mode and no auto matching. 
 This means you will have to search for and join a game which can take time. Search criteria for 
 games isnt large enough either.
  
  
  Overall though Killzone 2 is a must buy for PS3 owners and multiplayer will take over your life 
 as you try to gain all badges and all trophies but never becomes a chore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKELETOR555
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't play the first Killzone for the PS2 don't worry, it doesn't matter. This game is 
 awesome. I haven't beaten the campaign mode, I have been hooked on playing online. Thats what I 
 think makes this game worth it. Its great to play with some buddies and cause some destruction. 
 This game has very good graphics, great sound and awesome environments. You will not get bored 
 anytime soon.
  
  (Warning may contain Spoilers) 
  
  The more You play online the better rank you recieve, and of course, the better you get to dominate 
 the competition. You get better guns to choose from, different characters to choose from and a 
 whole lot more. It takes a little while but hey thats why we buy games in the first place to unlock 
 there full potential.
  
  (End of Spoilers)
  
  
  To sum it up, get this game don't rent it buy it. Trust me. You will get hooked in no time. If 
 you are looking for a great multi-player/online game this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squanto273443
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly one of the best FPS ever played in a long while since COD. This is possibly the 
 most realistic vision of advance warfare in the distant future. It gives you a sense of a realism, 
 a sence that your there on the front line with all the explosions and bullets flying everywhere. 
 When you think your done with the campaign, you keep going unexpectectly. i though the credits 
 were gonna roll at one point, but no you keep going. I think this is what makes the game so unique 
 and diffrent. The game may not have a strong plot, but why do you need to know whats going on if 
 your a soilder on the frontline. why are you attacking? why are you sent to do certain things? 
 your a soldier on the forntline with basically no commanding power or connection to the higher 
 commanders so your not gonna know much about the affairs between the enemy. There are some emotinal 
 scenes that give it a nice toch to the plot, if any.
  My only truly complaint is the motion sensor operations, luckly, there are so few that its not 
 annoying, but it can be a bit stressful at points. The range of weapon, side arms, and other extras, 
 is very small i wish there were more weapons to play around with and juggle of diffrent opo nets 
 would be nice. never the less aside with these minor flaws, it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is probably the most hyped up game to ever be realesed exclusivly to the PS3. And in 
 my opinion lives up to the hype.
  
  Campaigne- You will be finding yourself on the planet helghan fighting of the increadable looking 
 helghast soldier. The graphics throught the game are simply astonashing and realy boost the atmospher 
 throught the story. It takes about 6-7 hours on the easiest difficulty and it could take up to 
 about 10 on elite there is deffinatley enough to keep you going.
  
  Online- In the online play you have a choice of a wide range of weapons and different people witch 
 all bring something different to the gameplay. Unlike call of duty you wont find yourself playing 
 for hours trying to get to the highest level of general it took me about 20 hours or so. There 
 are a good range of maps large in small and there is a good clan system were you can join friends 
 and look at other clans statistics.
  
  This game is a must have game for 2009 and in my opinion no other spf comes close to its graphics 
 and in depth online gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Pinbot_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype surrounding Killzone 2 and all the overly positive reviews I thought it would 
 be a console FPS that I might fall in love with. Sadly, the number of standard features left out 
 of the game make it no better than an average shooter. 
  The main focus of the hype for KZ2 are the amazing graphics that it possesses, and in this case 
 it does deliver. For a console game, the graphics are easily in top ranking with other beautiful 
 games like Gears of War and Resident Evil 5. There are some blurry textures and little graphical 
 bugs but like the other games I mentioned, they are only noticeable if you go out of your way to 
 look for them. My only complaint is that everything is either grey, white, black, or something 
 in between. While this does help develop a certain atmosphere, adding some more colour in would 
 have made the game look a great deal more realistic than it already does. The animations are fluent 
 and the explosions look nice but cause a drop in frame-rate quite often which is really disappointing 
 to me.
  Since I am not a big fan of the PS3 controller for various reasons, I will not count this into 
 my rating as it would be biased, but they are still worth a mention. There is a significant and 
 noticeable delay between when a button is pressed and when the command is executed. This is not 
 acceptable at all, but is easily corrected by a patch. The button layout is pretty good and seems 
 to work well. The motion sensing doesn't play a huge roll in the overall control of the game with 
 some subtle features like holding the control still while aiming to keep the gun still. While some 
 may like this feature, I personally found it to be annoying at times and didn't add very much to 
 the gameplay. Overall the controls for the game are decent, but the actual controller in you hand 
 is not.
  The gameplay for KZ2 is that of almost any other standard shooter and does nothing to try to innovate 
 too much. The cover system in the single player mode is decent, but it seems to be a little bit 
 too sticky at times resulting in an unwanted death because you could not get out of cover fast 
 enough. The weapons have some "weight" to them, which is a nice change from other shooters, but 
 move far too slow even when the control sensitivity is moved up. Killzone 2 is and plays like almost 
 any other standard shooter.
  The single player campaign is only 8-10 hours in length which is much to short for a game that 
 spent 4 years in development and is released on a current generation console. It is done in a flash 
 and does not leave the player with a feeling of satisfaction or accomplishment. The characters 
 are not well developed and the story was not interesting in the least.
  But Killzone 2 was really supposed to shine in the multiplayer. A quality multiplayer game will 
 have 2 parts, online and offline. Sadly, Killzone 2 has no offline multiplayer mode at all. That 
 right there ruined the game for me becuase it is more fun to be playing 4 player splitscreen with 
 all the players in the room than it is to play online. Goldeneye, Halo, and Perfect Dark all proved 
 this to be true and are instant classics for their multiplayer. I docked a full 2 points from the 
 original 10 becuase of this important feature that was left right out.
  The online multiplayer is decent but very uninspiring. I have played around 5 hours of it and I 
 cannot get into the game at all. The multiplayer has the ability to be amazing with all the features 
 it has but the core gameplay is a major let down. The game is slow and meant to be played in a 
 strategic manner, but most people treat it as a run and gun which ruins how the game was meant 
 to be played. Plus the removal of the cover system for multiplayer was also a disappointment since 
 it was one of the better parts of the single player.
  Overall, KZ2 has the ability to be one of the greatest games of all time, but the lack of basic 
 features like co-op and splitscreen multiplayer make it an average game at best. Final score 7.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunzyMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Well a quick review.
  
  Took them 5 years to create killzone2 and took me 6hrs 42mins to complete the story.
  Was boring, 
 short and repetitive.
  
  For a FPS I found it hard to aim, seems the controls are the same as the cod game, iron sights, 
 running, melee attack, all on the same buttons as default and the aiming is sluggish.
  
  The original games weapons I think are better, there are more of them, more functions with double 
 triggers, under barrel shotguns, mini guns all this type of stuff.
  
  The levels were all a like, metal and dusty was pretty boring to look at, nothing really stood 
 out, seemed like an old idea in a new world.
  
  Multiplayer is ok, 32 slots is nice for a console game and its better once you rank up and get 
 different weapons, there are some nice maps and modes but it's let down by the crappy slow aiming 
 system.
  
  This is not something I would say is worth buying PS3 just to own killzone2, seems the same as 
 any other FPS, is nothing that sets this apart from any other average fps.
  
  Big let down, who cares about graphics when the game play is so slow and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2w-sephiroth
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  Note, I give a 8.8 instead of a 9. I know that the difference is almost insignificant but... its 
 what I think this game deserves.
  
  I am going to make it short and give out the big things that make this game so amazing and the 
 things that stopped this game from obtaining a close to perfect score.
  
  I personally dont play many FPS my self as I enjoy other genres better, but after the big hype 
 that sony developed I decided to borrow the game from a friend to have a good look on it.
  
  I played it for a little bit and woah, I could not stop playing it, the graphics are breathtaking 
 (must be played on a HD screen with dolby surrond) and finished the game in two days of non-stop 
 playing.
  
  I personally think, if you are a FPS lover and crave for a new game to enjoy,,, stop reading reviews 
 or checking around. If you have a PS3 and feel like playing a good shooting game this is it. Stop 
 looking and buy it straight away as it is going to take you for an awesome ride. The animation 
 is very fluid, The concept art of the landscape and enemies are very stylish. Sound is very inmersive 
 and very well put. Enviroment design was very original and captivating. Action no stop and superb 
 AI intelligence that does not bore you. Voice acting was very good, specially from the enemies 
 and bosses... I have to say that the voices of the Alpha team was a little bit anoying do, overusing 
 swear words for no reason giving a "uneducated" feel to the characters.
  
  And the characters... well I think most creative studios in games they take a really strong effort 
 for the player to feel a connection with the character. This gives importance to the player on 
 the emotions the character feels, what objectives they have, what problems they have and what solutions 
 they want to continue to story. Imagine Final Fantasy series or Metal Gear Solid with a crap story 
 and characters... it would be useless. In other words, both the story is very dry and the characters 
 of the "good guys" are easy forguettable. I dont know or care what their names are, I could not 
 give a damn honestly because they look so vage, like they need a new paint of colour or a re-sketch. 
 Next time Guerilla should concentrate in giving the character more importance and some story between 
 characters and their surrounding. Is Sam (is that his name?) a father? he misses his homeland? 
 he likes war? what its his favorite colour?... ok that is going too far but we know nothing of 
 this people! Would be funny do if one of them said "well I like pink, I think its a nice colour...."
 
  
  Everything is very good in this game and would give a 10 easy if this small flaws were corrected: 
 Give characters life, even if it means adding a couple of cutscenes there and there and small talk 
 between them to know them better and give them life. Offering a story with a couple of little twists 
 and something interesting to follow would inmerge the player more deeply and give stronger reason 
 to continue and finish the game (what is going to happen next? I cant wait to see the ending!) 
 More bosses, I thought it needed a couple more of bosses and enemy characters to give it more spice. 
 And a couple more levels, I thought the game was going to longer until I found out that the game 
 finished. I understand it is short because its such an intense full on awesome game. But adding 
 a couple of levels would have hit the spot.
  
  I recommend at least... if you decide not to buy the game for any reason, to at least rent and 
 give it a long session (if you have the PS3) because it is the best graphics I have seen both technically 
 and artistically easy since Metal Gear Solid 4. And if you like FPS a lot I completely recommend 
 to buy it as it does the best in all the other departments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanisk89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  This game boasts perhaps the most stellar graphics I've seen on a console to date. From the explosions 
 to the really great animated/ragdoll physics where the enemies are clutching what was just blasted 
 away as they fall to the ground screaming. All this is perfectly molded into amazing character 
 detail and really realistic yet futuristic weapon models and textures.
  
  The sound design also is very amazing with a very heavy feel to all the sounds in the game. It 
 really feels real when every pound of your foot feels deliberate and has depth. The weapon sounds 
 and explosions are very awesome giving a real feeling you're in a combat zone. I love how everything 
 has the correct volume too... I mean you can't hear a word people are saying when explosions and 
 gunfire and stuff is blowing up all around you, as it should be. Definitely have a nice sound system 
 before trying this game.
  
  The major gripe however is lets face it........ what has this game done that other shooters haven't? 
 Lets see:
  
  "Take that tank out with a rocket launcher!" ... seen it
  
  "OH NO THERE'S A BIG GUY! Shoot him in the face! Good, he's turned around! NOW SHOOT HIM IN THE 
 BACK!" .... Seen it
  
  "Take them out with the sniper rifle!" ..... been there, done that
  
  "Ohhh headshot (the helgast head pops) " .... It's not even the fact that it's a headshot it's 
 just how horridly un-eventful they are. Half the time I only knew i did a headshot because one 
 of the guys next to me exclaims that i did. Infact the only thing that makes their heads pop is 
 the sniper rifle (and the unscoped version) and the shotgun for the most part. Which is just a 
 lame disappearing of the head. I honestly didn't even realize their head was gone till I looked 
 down. (or heard the "squish"... which by the way was a recycled sound from WAAAAAAAY back... i believe 
 the old marathon series used that)
  
  To continue however, of course the story is completely forgettable. The main character is a complete 
 idiot... could not connect to him at all and half the time I'm actually hoping the hellgast just 
 win everything and the next game be about playing them. From Radec to the opening speech, those 
 guys seem awesome and full of real courage to look death in the eye and still fight back. Sure 
 they're pretty horrible and imperialistic bastards but really....
  Are their ways really any different than the horrible representation the developers gave the main 
 faction you play, the ISA. Both factions seemed to be just a bunch of grunting cavemen not liking 
 the other to have their way. When will developers step away from these cliche shooter stories and 
 actually get some serious writers in there?
  
  I would also get into the whole control system but honestly what's the point? The game already 
 has glaring flaws and honestly if the game were more fun or more ground-breaking I think I'd easily 
 just get used to the controls.
  
  So, once again a big name title gets a ton of "praise" for being amazing yet it's so lackluster 
 that I wish reviewers would finally just put these games in their place. These aren't new, these 
 aren't fresh and we need developers to know this.
  
  The graphical prowess impresses however and I won't fault the game on that as well as the sound 
 design which only seems to improve with each game put out... however as those things improve, the 
 general gameplay hasn't.... and forget about story apparently....
  
  To be honest if you're looking for an amazing shooter with stunning graphics and sound design and 
 an amazing story go play Metal Gear Solid 4. Sure it's not an FPS but man.... play a game like that 
 and I assure you that everything else will be missing something after that. Not to mention it has 
 a really amazing multiplayer that's both fresh and action packed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2... one of the most hyped games for the ps3... well... ever. A hyped up sequel for a hyped 
 up ps2 title that didn't deliver. Now don't get me wrong... the game has alot going for it and by 
 no means is it bad... its actually great... but mixed with other great shooters of our time it is 
 hard for me to recommend this titled over some others.
  
  Visuals:
  An absolutely beautiful game! The effects that you see on screen are some of the best ever... though 
 not as good as some will make you believe. The environmental effects do alot to make this stand 
 out and seem to be the "best" visual game out. Actual character models and and textures are on 
 par with other great graphical games of this generation but the way the lights play over the world 
 and explosions flare give this an absolutely amazing spark to it. Character models fit and are 
 designed well but at the same time are quite boring and have been seen before.
  
  Sound: 
  A fantastic sound design. A great orchestral sound track with booming chaotic warfare 
 echoing around you does a ton to pull you in. Voice acting is good in a way but at the same time 
 feels over done and forced leaving it feeling awkward at best.
  
  Story:
  Nothing... absolutely nothing. Where the first Killzone actually had character development and a 
 sense of urgency in its plot line; Killzone 2 has nothing. It is basically an excuse to jump out 
 of your hovercraft and blast enemies away. If you could, you could turn off the entire dialogue 
 and cutscenes and it wouldn't change this game in the least. Characters are forgettable, most of 
 all yours, and at times you wish they would just die so you won't have to hear them talk anymore. 
 A story would have went a long way in this title and frankly.... if there was a notable plotline 
 then i would have given it a higher rating. No characters to remember and love nor enemies for 
 that matter and that hurts quite a bit for a game which is in combat with so many other great shooters 
 that are out now and were release in the past few years.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Alright, here is the real problem. Never once have I felt accurate while playing this game. I don't 
 mind a slow moving character since it does make sense, seeing as how a person wearing pounds and 
 pounds of armor really can't run all that fast anyways. But when your aiming reticule seems sluggish 
 and lazy then that just totally kills the playability for me. To me it was like stepping back in 
 time to when fps games on consoles just didn't work all to well. You would think that with all 
 the great shooters out there that KZ2 would have taken a cue from them on the aiming side of things 
 but sadly they didn't. Aiming the right analog stick seems to swing sluggishly as if it takes a 
 half a second for the reticule to catch up to where your mind's eye thinks it should be judging 
 by how hard you push the analog stick. And even then, when you stop pushing the stick, it feels 
 as if the reticule "slides" past the point where you stopped. This will be forgiven by others who 
 think this game is manna from heaven but it totally killed the experience for me. It was as if 
 the game had stepped back to the stone age of console fps titles.... and that isn't good at all.
 
  
  Multiplayer: 
  A fantastic suite of options and unlockables although not as extensive as COD4. It has some new 
 elements not seen in games in the past and the maps are laid out and designed very nicely. But 
 i'm still waiting on those great players that utilize the tacticle efficiency that the developers 
 obviously want the players to utilize. At heart (and this is mostly because of the players that 
 i have played with) it is still just a "point and shoot the other enemies and run around while 
 doing so" experience. But if you are lucky enough to find those players who play smart and as a 
 team then you will have a very rewarding experience and it will keep you coming back for more.
 
  
  
  All in all Killzone 2 is a superb package but my predictions is that it will lose its flare rather 
 quickly if it hasn't already. There are too many fps titles out there that do it better and no 
 matter how you look at it.... visuals alone cannot sell a game... or maybe it can? If you have a 
 ps3 and are looking for a good FPS then you should at least consider KZ2. But don't let the hype 
 sell it to you... it isn't perfect.
  
  But isn't bad either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockjawjak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a great game. The graphics are really good. The singleplayer design of the map 
 was carefully detailed. Also your NPC teammate actually does some damage instead of just being 
 dead weight. Also the Singleplayer is really challenging and is no walk in the park even on easy 
 settings, so you always gotta play smart which I like. They have a good story about the tides of 
 war and how quickly it can change when you thought you just won. Now for the Multiplayer, it was 
 very well designed. There are no technical issues, I mean you get a nice, smooth connection all 
 the time, no lag at all. Also, during the game, it changes objectives while you are playing which 
 keeps you interested in the match the whole time. The online aspect is very rewarding and is always 
 giving you the want to rank up so you can have better guns and such. Also all the rooms are balanced 
 out evenly skill wise, so only sometimes you'll get in a one-sided match. So all in all, I want 
 to give this game a superb score, because of it's design and graphics. Also the trophy system makes 
 trying to get in singleplayer really fun and worthy to get. And the multiplayer trophies can easily 
 be obtained with a little dedication to the game for awhile. They have balanced the trophy and 
 entire killzone 2 system out perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 in almost every respect is a damn fine game, but it has a few flaws that not only frustrate, 
 but also border on being cheap.
  It is a stunning looking game, gritty, grimy and so believable in is visuals and setting. The visuals 
 border on perfect although it does kind of fall into the monochrome world that is common in FPS 
 of late. All the weapons and the environment are well textured.
  Game play wise the controls may take a little while to get used to, the holding iron sights were 
 a little cumbersome, for me and people used to 'pop-up' iron sights may fine it a little disconcerting. 
 Other than this the game play is solid with enough variation to keep it interesting. The fire fights 
 are frantic, although at time it seems that the amounts of enemies are there only to artificially 
 extend the experience. Enemy AI is excellent with them always changing their tactics based on what 
 you are doing although there are a couple of issues like them hiding behind cover with their backsides 
 showing allowing them to be shot quite easily.
  Unfortunately there is another death knell for SIXAXIS controls with the opening of grates and 
 arming of mines, using it and it works average at best.
  Story wise, it's easy to comment on the lack of it but really, you are invading a planet, there 
 are bad guys that are trying to shoot you and you are trying to survive, so there is no real problem 
 there. Sure the dialogue is a little forced, vulgar for no real reason (although you try and get 
 trough a war with out swearing) .
  Sound is good although not spectacular. The score is mostly understated and does a serviceable 
 job, guns sound powerful enough, but there is not anything that wows you.
  Boss fights are interesting, although I would have love to have seen a few more harder bosses. 
 That being said the final boss borders on being cheap, with wave and waves of enemies coming at 
 you and only you, with only two checkpoints. Radec himself is worthy of a boss fight, but not overly 
 difficult himself.
  Multiplayer is not my strong suit I'll freely admit that but it seems fun and I could see myself 
 heading back to it from time to time. The maps are interesting and the changing objectives will 
 (mostly) eliminate camping.
  Sure it's not perfect but it is a great game nether the less and a worthy FPS, let alone a worth 
 console FPS. Any PS3 owner should consider this game for their collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubrules
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Good: Highly Polished, Best visuals on any console and arguably the best visuals of any game to 
 date, intense game play, hard hitting weapons, excellent enemy AI, great presentation.
  
  Bad: Lack of Co-op, some frustrating design choices, friendly AI can leave alot to be desired.
 
  
  Im going to try and make this short.
  
  The graphical nuances of Killzone 2 are seriously spectacular, from the things you notice to the 
 things you don't notice, it is absolutely fantastic. 
  
  Killzone 2 draws alot from other shooters, but it does everything so well and in many ways in it's 
 own way that it really stands out among other shooters. The weapons in killzone 2 are really awesome 
 too, packing serious punch and excellent sounds, compared to most shooters, this game's firepower 
 really knows how to give it to the enemy. The first person cover system in many ways made this 
 game, first off it looks awesome (especially peeking around left watching the casings fly past 
 the screen) and second it works incredibly well. Killzone 2's single player campaign is a great 
 experience that should not be missed. 
  
  The multiplayer in killzone 2 is also really good, boasting call of duty style ranking and a myriad 
 choices to further the experience. All in all the multiplayer works well and there arent any problems 
 community wise or server wise to harm the experience
  
  
  The enemy AI in the game is very impressive, but unfortunately your squad mates can look fairly 
 dumb in comparison. They will occasionally stand in the way of incoming fire, fail to recognize 
 where a threat is coming from, fail to take cover, and can get killed at the worst possible moments. 
 
  
  Some design choices in the game can be frustrating, like the lack of a damage indicator while in 
 a turret (aa or mounted) , unreasonably difficult sequences, like the tank part on the train, i 
 played the whole game up to this point on veteran without frustration, but suddenly hit a wall 
 with this part. The game just throws too much at you where it get's unreasonable, and hey, that's 
 war, but this IS a video game after all. 
  
  The lack of co-op is a real shame and my biggest complaint, it would be a hell of a time playing 
 this with a friend, it would also make that coveted Elite completion a much more rewarding experience 
 to do it with a friend.
  
  
  Still, in spite of these flaws, Killzone 2 is not worth missing for shooter fans looking for the 
 next big fps to own on their ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregjblair
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about this game at first because of the first killzone not being a superb game. 
 But after playing this game and becoming immersed into it i began to love it. 
  
  Story
  The story is pretty well done and the characters are a very close to making it believable.
  
 
  Visuals
  The visuals in this game blew me away, especially the cinematics. The very real world that the 
 game provides is full of detail and the characters are very lifelike.
  
  Controls
  Although i perfer the trigger buttons for shooting and aiming down the sight, these controls are 
 very good and they work well with the game
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is slightly varied with some vehicle driving and some level interaction. The game 
 has a decent cover system that works well with the first person view.
  
  Sound
  The sound is great with a immersive score that helps the mood.
  
  Overall 
  This game is 
 fantastic all around and deserves to be played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tevez-32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:18 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is one of those games when you think you just bout had enough playing for the day but 
 you feel you wanna come back for more.
  
  I had bought this game recently and i only finished about 2 stages because the online sucked me 
 in. Killzone has excellent visuals, great single player and a even better multiplayer. On the killzone 
 website there is a "command centre" where all of ur online and campaign stats are recorded which 
 i think is really coool!. killzone's online is the best ps3 online play i have seen. When you play 
 online it barely ever lags even if im playing worldwide. Killzone's AI is great which is good and 
 bad in some ways, good because your team mates help you take down those pesky helghasts and bad 
 because the enemy is really smart which can create problems towards you.
  
  Overall killzone is THE best fps out and it is recommended that you buy this.
  
  VISUALS: 9.5/10
 
  SOUNDS: 9/10
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  ONLINE: 10/10
  
  MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Todd_Lang
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  They say this game is the biggest game on the PS3. Believe it too, because it is!
  
  Singleplayer Campaign:
  
  Length - 8 - 10 hours. This took me exactly 8 hours and 8 minutes 
 to finish on easy.
  
  Difficulty - Hard. Not impossible, but keeps you shooting for ages in firefights, and you will 
 be dying a fair amount of times.
  
  Ok... well, AMAZING. I loved the campaign. You play as Sev and are the sergeant in Alpha Squad. 
 Your job sounds simple, but turns out to be hell. Your squad needs to capture the Helghast leader, 
 Visari, in his palace of doom! Getting there is the easy bit... because once your there, your in 
 for a surprise! Animations and cinematics really push the campaign to beyond anything that has 
 ever been done before.
  
  Singleplayer Skirmish:
  
  Heaps of fun. In each match you have to do certain things like "Kill a certain enemy" and all your 
 troops try to kill this certain player while they are defended, or "Body count" where you just 
 go out and kill as many enemies as you can.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Well, I haven't got my PlayStation hooked up to the net yet, so I can't comment on this yet, but 
 I will soon.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you want a FPS, or own a PS3, then Killzone 2 is a simply "Must have"!
  
  Hope you enjoyed 
 the review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about Killzone 2 are the gorgeous visuals. Killzone ues the best 
 lighting effects, and graphics I have seen in a game. Everything is so realistic you almost forget 
 you're playing a game. The environment is very detailed, from lighting and weather effects to the 
 destruction. Don't get me wrong C. o. D. 4 is awesome but I have never seen graphics like this everything 
 is crisp. Now about the gameplay, it's great. Like Halo or C. o. D. 4 but has a bit different feel. 
 To where it feels a bit more if you were there. What I mean is it feels a bit slow at first but 
 its there to bring more life to the game, you do get used to it after a while. It has a crisp story 
 line, don't want to spoil anything, but actually quite well. Now the A. I. its actually not too 
 bad, a couple times you will need to push them out of the way, but they actualy give you a hand 
 in combat, which is nice. Last but not least, multiplayer is sweet. Lots of great game play here. 
 Killzone 2 kicks ass, if you have a PS3 buy this you will love it. If you don't own one, GET ONE!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLYEboi50
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Killzone 2 is by far one of the best FPS out there. Just for the PS3, Killzone 
 2 has similar aspects of Resistance and Call of Duty combined to make the best gaming experience 
 around. The game does have its own uniqueness but you can clearly see the similarities in this 
 game compared to others.
  
  Though I haven't played Killzone of the PS2, Killzone 2 sure did change everyone's respect for 
 the game. The story, last I've heard, of Killzone is that the Helghast invaded the home planet 
 of the ISA. The story of Killzone 2 is just opposite of that. You take the fight to the planet 
 Helghan. The story's "forgettable characters" aren't that really forgettable. I mean really there's 
 only like 4 or 5 people. Hard to see how anyone can forget 4 names. But besides that it's like 
 a pretty simple war story. The most dramatic part always happens at the end.
  
  Killzone 2's gameplay has the most realistic FPS mechanics known to man. Whether you're blasting 
 away a Helghast or slightly adjusting your shot for the perfect head shot with the SixAxis, Killzone 
 2 won't leave you not only satisfied but in awe.
  
  The graphics of Killzone 2 are comparable to the best such as Dead Space and Flower. Unloading 
 the clip of your M82 into the chest of a Helghast never looked so realistic. Every bullet counts. 
 Blood will pop out of every entry wound brought upon an enemy. The setting has just as much graphical 
 pros as in-game graphics. As you look into the desolate yet ambient backgrounds of the planet Helghan, 
 Killzone 2 will drop your jaw many times.
  
  The sound effects & voice acting, again are comparable to games such as Dead Space and Bioshock. 
 Killzone 2 fits right in with the group of games that it clearly dominates over. Crash landing 
 on the planet, guns blazing, rockets being fired, nukes bringing oblivion, and all sound completely 
 different. All the events of Killzone 2 made me ask myself: How can such destruction sound so beautiful?
 
  
  War has been perfected. The online of Killzone 2 puts players right in the middle of what war really 
 is. Warzone is the online component of Killzone 2 that thrusts players into changing game types 
 during a match. Just like a real war with never ending missions, the online part to Killzone 2 
 will have you by the neck. This huge step into the online universe changed everything for me. Rather 
 than having to play one game type then go to the next, Killzone 2 has simplified this horrible 
 cycle.
  
  Killzone 2 is a must own for people who own a PS3. War has been perfected here. And the DLC hasn't 
 even been announced a date yet. But yes, please get Killzone 2. You will get more than your money's 
 worth & enjoy one of the best FPS experiences out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennis12master
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after hearing a few friends talking about it, saying it's a great game. Also, 
 a few of my buddies here at GS helped me with the decision, thanks guys :D 
  But I'm really glad I bought this game. What's not to love? You get kickass guns, pretty cool characters 
 (even though they use swear words way too often) and a nice, refreshing environment that seperates 
 itself from the plethora of WWII shooters out there. Now don't get me wrong, this is DEFINITELY 
 NOT a WWII shooter at all. Nope. My description of it would be... probably a mix between Gears 
 of War and Halo. This game utilizes the cover system, somewhat similar to Gears, and the story 
 seems like it would be fit for Halo somehow. Don't ask :P 
  
  So, moving on. Graphics. Absolutely phenomenal. Microsoft's best efforts to make the 360 the graphics 
 powerhouse of the generation, fail. This game has proved that the PS3 has greatest graphics. But 
 graphics are not everything, obviouslly. The fact that this game has amazing graphics, and near-perfect 
 gameplay controls, shows that some people know how to make an astounding PS3 game. Taking cover 
 in this game is not tough at all. You just attach yourself to almost any surface and press L2 (Default) 
 when near it, and you will stick yourself to that cover point. The campaign I found was relatively 
 short, but can be difficult. Which is great for players looking for a challenge, like I was. 
 
  
  Now onto Multiplayer. At first, all of you COD4 or 5 online aficionados might be asking yourselves, 
 "What the hell is this?" But rest assured, the online multiplayer is good, and addicting. The online 
 multiplayer has many different (But usual) game types, including body count (standard team deathmatch) , 
 capture and hold, Assasination, and so on. The ranking system is much like COD's, with you scoring 
 points depending on how well you did in-game. I myself have only played a few matches online, but 
 I like it already. It's quite addicting and fun. 
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS: 
  Overall, this game is what I expected it to be. Fun, immersive game experience that doesn't do 
 very much out of the ordinary, but is still a ton of fun, with great online multiplayer to boot. 
 Oh yeah, and did I mention this game has the greatest graphics I've ever seen thus far? 
  
  -Tennis12master 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prydes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:30 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since it was announced, and I had no idea how good it would be. 
 How good? You really want to know my friend?
  
  Well, let's start with explosions, I recorded the explosions on my DvR, because they're SO good, 
 that I keep replaying them, that's how amazing the explosions look in this game, it kept me entertained 
 for 36 hours, watching them, now imagine the REST of the game? How amazing it would be?
  
  To put it bluntly, Killzone 2 will keep you entertained for eternity, I have not stopped playing 
 it since I have gotten it, literally, I'm playing it right now, I play it in my sleep, I play it 
 while I eat, I play it while I'm in the bathroom. I play it everywhere, God help me if something 
 happens to my copy of Killzone 2.
  
  I really don't know how I was gaming before this game came out, the gameplay is beyond what your 
 mind can comprehend. The multiplayer is a blast, it's so greatly put together, how it has all the 
 modes put together at once, and the game also still looks amazing during the multiplayer. The graphics 
 are the best, ever. Period. When I saw the graphics in this game, I blew a load in my pants, literally, 
 I had to change right away, while still playing the game of course :) .
  
  The gunplay feels really good, everytime you gun someone down it feels so satisfying, it's almost 
 like when you're starving, and you have your favorite thing to eat, and you feel it going down 
 into your stomach and you're all like "MMM DAT WUZ GUUUUUUUD". That's what EVERY kill feels like.
 
  
  
  The single player has the greatest story in history. Not in gaming, but best story ever made up. 
 I've never been so sucked in by characters, and the way it interacts with the mission, my personal 
 favorite is when it starts off on the boat that's rocking back and forth with your comrades on 
 it, a very cool intro!
  
  Killzone 2 brings in what matters most in a game: Hype, graphics, and hype. It makes Killzone 2 
 is the greatest masterpiece ever made by humankind, or maybe... It wasn't made by humans at all... 
 That is the question.
  
  It's easily the reason why the PS3 is now the greatest console in history, because it has the greatest 
 game in history.
  
  It's totally worth your money and beyond, it's so good, it's a sin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  How this game doesn't get a 10, baffles me. On top of that, GTA4, with the technical issues it 
 had, got a 10, and this didn't, completely puzzles me. This game arguably has the best graphics 
 for any game ever. The only things that come close is RE5, MGS4, and GT5, maybe uncharted. Sony 
 has proven now that their first party library games officially blows Xbox out of the water. Microsoft 
 has nothing. Halo 3 bombed, and Gears is now the flagship for them. It would have been smart for 
 MS to make RE5 exclusive, but they blew that. Anyways, the original controls were perfect for KZ2, 
 til they patched them. People said they didn't notice a difference. I had to turn my sensitivity 
 down. "Oh the controls aren't like COD4..." Well go play COD4 then. The story in this is game is 
 good. It tends to make you feel emotion towards characters, but some people probably won't care. 
 Rico is a dick. Radec is an awesome enemy. The AI in this game is possibly the best ever, especially 
 for a FPS. My only con, and it comes with most FPS, in single player, the farther you get, you 
 have to unload so much more bullets into enemies before they go down, and then end up getting back 
 up. The boss battles are great the first time through, but it would have been nice to have more 
 than just the Big Guys for most boss battles. Multiplayer is where this game shines. Clans online, 
 tournaments, and classes. You have to earn your badges to be leet in this game. The level up process 
 is unique, especially for consoles. It's almost like a mix of Team Fortress put into it. But the 
 ability to do custom classes later on, plus all the stat tracking is addicting as hell and makes 
 you put hours and hours into this game. I have friends that hate FPS's or hate Sony that bought 
 a system just to play this game. The only reason I don't think this is the best game Sony has is 
 because there are so many FPS out there, they are a dime a dozen. MGS4 is unique and any other 
 game like it doesn't compare. This game is worth a system purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theru8543
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  The game is great, i think it has lived up to all the hype surrounding it. The graphics are amazing. 
 Of course there were some fanboys knocking them, saying they werent that good. I think they're 
 being ignorant. The game is def fun. As soon as you start the game you are immersed in a hectic 
 combat zone that is almost overwhelming the first time you play the game. Thats the kind of game 
 the excites me most. so must actiong you dont know where to start! The levels i would say are above 
 average but not amazing. The details in the surroundings and the gameplay graphics are unmatched 
 for FPS for the PS3. The Gun controls are different but they are def. addicting. A little bit of 
 varitey is good in a world where most FPS controls are the same. A couple of downsides to the game 
 is that you cannot carry more than one assault rifle at a time, and your sidearm is less than sufficient. 
 The use of the knife is lagging and a pain when you are in close combat situations. Even though 
 the levels are nice to look at, i wish i could look at them a little bit longer because the levels 
 are a little bit short. Also i thought there could have been more levels and a deeper story. I 
 dont want to spoil the game but when you are attacked by the Helghast on your ship the game seems 
 like a skips alot of potential story when if brings you right to the palace to fight Radec. I think 
 they should have put at least a couple more levels in between there to kinda of put things together. 
 Now my favorite part of the game is the online play. Very addicting play and endless gameplay, 
 it makes me want to stay for for days straight trying to level up and join clans to dominate. The 
 ability to create a quick little squad during a level is great because then you can be revived 
 when you are killed. Also leveling up is great too. I also like the diversity in the online play 
 with the missions that take place during the gameplay. Protecting one of your team members, assassinating 
 an enemy, planting explosives, delivering packages, Killzone 2 def. brings some diversity to a 
 world of less than average online experiences with most FPS. In the end Killzone 2 does not get 
 a 9.0 from me online because i wanted more from the game. I guess that is kind of selfish to rate 
 a game an 8.5 because i wanted more gameplay but i think the developer should have realized the 
 game is too short. They also should have made the weapons a little bit more diverse and tried to 
 explain the story a little better. I actually was interested in the story but found i was rushed 
 through the last few missions. All in all great game and i def recommend buying not renting and 
 it will def. be in your collection for some time to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostfaceL94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  - hard missions 
  - eye-popping graphics
  - great sounds effects
  - addicting multiplayer
  
  Cons
  - controls
  - nothing to do after you reach General in 
 MP
  
  I've played many many FPS and all their missions are easy unless its the hardest mode. But the 
 thing that makes Killzone the hardest mission is that the AI are top notch. They are one of the 
 smartest AIs I've seen in years, they flank you like crazy, they cover alot, and they hide when 
 they get shot. The graphics, amazing. The multiplayer, it will take you around 10-20 hours to reach 
 General and after that there's basically nothing to do. The controls are pretty different from 
 another generic shooters. Call of Duty players might feel a bit weird with the controls at first 
 but if you play the game more you'll get use to it. 
  
  Overall this game was worth the wait. Truly amazing and everyone should own this game, oh wait 
 its just for Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bukem00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very solid FPS, however, it is a bit over-hyped with a pretty big letdown.
  
  .The campaign was great but FAR to short. I was disappointing with the online in roughly a 
 week. This game really doesn't bring anything new to the FPS table.. really, it doesn't Some ppl 
 rave graphics graphics graphics.. and yes they are pristine. 
  
  But it's all flash and no substance. Its like buying a Brand New Ferrari - Flashy and New.. but 
 when you open the hood all you got is a Pinto Engine.. it's been around for years ....
  
  Same thing happened with Halo 2 & 3... which were horrible IMO.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the 
 PS3 is a great system and games that live up to the hype Metal Gear 4, Street Fighter IV, Dead 
 Space, and Bioshock. Bioshock and Dead Space are original.. not KZ2
  
  Skip this and get one of the above if you haven't already.. your money will be better spent. 
 
  
  A technically proficient game.. perhaps the best graphics on PS3.. with absolutely no substance... 
 
  
  I still give it a 7.5 out of 10. But that's a generous score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  Even those who hesitate to recognise the beauty of the graphics in killzone 2 will change their 
 mind when they see that it is the most amazing game which has ever been produced.
  
  The game starts with an incredible intro movie. The ISO soldiers reach the planet Helgahn where 
 they trying to kill it's residents Helghast. The effects are amazing. When you play the game you 
 are completly addicted. The wonderfull move of the soldiers and the perfect graphics would make 
 a lot of people cry.
  
  Even if the images are brilliant you can't understand you realistic the movement is. In the game 
 you will admire the light effects the thunders or the shadows , the detailed presented sandstorms 
 or the frightening explosions that destroy everything. In the game there is also a huge variety 
 of terrains that act differently when you shoot or walk on them. All in all everything acts like 
 in real life. While playing you will find many times yourself gazing around while trying to see 
 the majesty of the battlefield.
  
  Moreover the guns that you use are updated and not old that doesn't fit with the whole game. Apart 
 from them you have very odd guns (like one that throws knives that blow up) . In the battles you can 
 use only two guns. That is going to bother you some times especially if you haven't a lot of ammo 
 left. The only bad is the sniper rifle. You just don't need it. The battles are so fatal that if you 
 use this it is like trying to kill an elefant with a pin.
  
  Another good thing in K2 is that the AI is perfect. The enemies don't shoot continously but they 
 stay in cover , organize counter attacks and you will see some soldiers that are worried only about 
 their lives and are going to run away if they realize that they can't do anything against you. The 
 Helghast that cary snipers are going to make you run to them. oOn the contrary the others with 
 machine guns are going to shoot at you when they find the right moment. And for you is the cover 
 essential.
  
  In K2 the team is very important. You are going to have a relation with you team members. They are 
 going to help you when you get hurt or cover you if run in the battlefield.
  
  As for online there is only one thing i can say: PERFECT!!!!! Just to mention that the mode you have 
 selected changes while playing.
  
  The only bad for K2 is the end and the cover system. Besides the plot isn't what expected.
  
 
  Graphics:10
  Gameplay:9.5
  Sound:10
  Lasting appeal:9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francyx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I think alot of people had there hopes up playing this game, hey maybe they even sold it back, 
 they said the aiming sucks but sometimes we have to think are u playing the game or is the game 
 playing you, i enjoyed playing every second of killzone II it was well designed alot of fun and 
 the time they spent making it was worth it, not because its a ps3 game, its cause its flat out 
 a good game, i think you really have to sit down and relax to play killzone.
  
  its worth me going and actually reviewing the game
  good jobs guys and thanks for a great game 
 :)
  
  the story was great, and fun cant wait till the add vehicles online the 65 dollars i spent on this 
 game are well worth it and you can bet this title will sit with me for a long time.
  
  cant wait till KILLZONE III on lol
  
  you cant compare a game like this to halo... when it 
 comes down to it they are both good games, better is a tricky word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  With such high-profile, hard-hitting exclusive titles such as Gears, Gears 2, and Halo 3 available 
 for Microsoft's Xbox 360, Sony needed something huge to help level the playing field. They also 
 needed something to help show off Playstation 3's muscle, as so few titles seem to truly push the 
 system. 
  
  Amazingly, the title they were looking for came from the most unexpected place: Killzone 2, the 
 sequel to one of the worst shooters in history. No one could have guessed that it would not only 
 live up to its expectations, but actually exceed them in many ways. Graphics? Amazing. Sound? Perfect. 
 Level design of both the campaign and online maps? Creative. Controls? Tight. A. I. of both enemies 
 and allies? Intelligent. Gameplay? Intense, fast, and furious. Name any technical aspect you want, 
 including the online, and it's near perfect in every way.
  
  Any issues you experience will pretty much blow right by you without a care thanks to some careful 
 planning on the part of the game's developer, Guerrilla. Frame-rate dips are frequent during saving 
 and loading, but it only saves and loads when there's literally no action on-screen to be interrupted. 
 Parts of the game are on the frustrating side, but the checkpoints are close enough together. If 
 you die it doesn't kick your keister so far back you start pulling your hair out. The quirks never 
 hold the game back from reaching its full potential.
  
  But for all of its technical glory, there's still something missing. When Guerrilla was pouring 
 all of this hard work and creativity into the title, they somehow missed the mark on setting the 
 game apart from other Shooters. It's as if they baked the perfect cake but only used plain vanilla 
 frosting.
  
  First it shows the storyline, which is almost as forgettable as the characters in it. Soldiers 
 will go into a rage and you won't know why. One of the main characters seems to have an impulse 
 problem that just comes out of nowhere. There's a Colonel in the Helghast (enemy) army that wants 
 to slaughter every last human soldier he sees. None of it is ever explained, so you simply end 
 up not giving a care about any of it. You just go through the game killing everything, and you 
 never really understand why. 
  
  It also shows in is the in-game mechanics, which are the same conventions that have been repeatedly 
 used in many shooters this generation. Grenade-spamming enemy A. I., the way you take cover, slowly 
 regenerating health, and a screen that glows red with blood when you're injured and turns black 
 and white when you're close to death are just a few of common conventions you'll see used in the 
 game. You'll lose track of whether this is Gears of War, World at War, or actually Killzone 2 during 
 gameplay. 
  
  Your arsenal is just as common. You have two basic types of sub-machine guns, a bigger machine 
 gun, a railgun, a shotgun, a sniper-rifle, a flame-thrower, an RPG, a grenade-launcher, and an 
 electricity gun. See anything in that list that hasn't been used recently in other titles? Neither 
 do I. 
  
  Don't get me wrong. Nothing I have mentioned in the last few paragraphs completely ruins the game. 
 Far from it, actually. But after you're done licking your screen and rocking out to the sound effects, 
 it boils down to be nothing more than another capable shooter in a sea of capable shooters. You 
 walk away feeling a sense of disconnection from the game, as if you've done it all before, and 
 that's sad given the obvious amount of work that went into this title.
  
  It's pretty easy to recommend this title to anyone looking for a good FPS and online play. Killzone 
 2 offers a lot of value, especially to those whole love take their vengeance out on others online. 
 Just be warned: If you've played a lot of shooters this generation, there's absolutely nothing 
 new here outside of some technical achievements. Be aware of what to expect out of this title before 
 picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewgart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  I'll keep the review simple and give you the pros and cons.
  
  Pros;
  -Amazing Graphics
  -Guns feel good to shoot
  -Intense and Addictive 32 player online
  -Incredibly 
 smart enemy AI
  -Intuitive cover system
  
  Cons;
  -No co-op
  -Lackluster storyline
  
  Killzone 2 is one of the best shooters I've played this generation of consoles. What keeps 
 this game from being perfect is the story. It's hard to feel any emotion for the characters and 
 they can even be quite irritating... i'm looking in your direction Rico... 
  
  The game is very tactical and the enemy will have you ducking in and out of cover using a cover 
 system unlike any other FPS. There are some very cool weapons like the lightning gun but you will 
 learn to love your trusted assualt rifle whilst popping helmets off of the helghasts heads. This 
 is an epic game that will keep you hooked in the online multiplayer until Modern Warfare 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idkxaboutxname
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The first game in the series ,killzone, didn't really impress me. When i first heard about it hey 
 were saying it was a halo killer i was interested, but it didn't meet the hype in my opinion. I 
 could they did some things right but it didn't have really immersive campaign and with the ps2's 
 lack of good online play it didn't get much play time from me. This could'nt be more of a shocker 
 to me. When i first saw the game back when they showed that first video i could tell it was a movie 
 even though they said it was gameplay. So i suspected it was going to be decent after more and 
 more news was coming out for it. When it finally did, man did i forget about everything they did 
 wrong in the first one. The graphics in this game are jaw dropping, as an understatement. From 
 the movement of the characters, to the lighting and great combination of colors, it does everything 
 greatly. The guns are fun to use and they put plenty of enemies on screen to shoot at.
  The controls are a lot like rainbow six vegas but still took a minute get use to for me, and the 
 only thing thats stops me from giving this a 9 or 10 is the controls. They cover system fairly 
 good but when you play the harder difficulties it reqiures you to use it alot more and it seemed 
 some things you can take cover on but not other objects that are similiar. That and for me i popped 
 off of cover a lot cuz i couldn't keep my finger on the L2 button and it got me killed alot. It 
 seems they should have used the gears cover system of just hitting a button to latch on to a cover. 
 Besides that little things like not having a map and your partner AI not being able to keep up 
 kept me from giving a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  Netherlands-based developer Guerrilla Games has no doubt had an unbearable weight on their shoulders 
 for the past few years. The first Killzone game on the PS2 was unfortunately hyped up by the gaming 
 media as the PS2's answer to the Xbox's flagship first-person-shooter, Halo, which was far from 
 what Guerrilla was trying to achieve at the time. It met with average reviews, but it wasn't a 
 complete failure critically or financially, and a lot of people, like me, saw promise in the unique 
 setting portrayed in the game. Despite the controversy of the 2005 CGI target render trailer that 
 announced Killzone 2's existence, I didn't once doubt Guerrilla's ability to create a vastly superior 
 sequel for PS3, because Killzone was most certainly not the result of developer carelessness or 
 ineptitude. Aside from the already promising Killzone universe they created which just begged to 
 be expanded upon, there were many clear signs that Killzone 2 would be the "Halo-killer" everyone 
 was once again expecting: Killzone: Liberation was a great game on the PSP, Sony gave Guerrilla 
 a huge budget and tripled the size of their development team, and more obviously than anything 
 else, the first in-game trailers and gameplay movies that showed up in 2007 were insane looking. 
 I had a load of questions on my mind after reading all of the early reviews that came out, like, 
 "Is the campaign THAT exciting and well paced? Is the multiplayer THAT expansive and addictive? 
 Are the graphics THAT spectacular and atmospheric? Is the AI THAT intelligent and realistic?" To 
 my relief, Killzone 2 simply delivered on all of my expectations.
  
  Now, I know I say it met all of my expectations, but that also includes my one and only concern: 
 that the story wouldn't be very good. The Killzone universe has a backstory that's pretty impressive, 
 and I recommend anyone should read it if they wish to properly enjoy Killzone 2 the way it was 
 meant to be. Guerrilla obviously put just as much effort into creating a surprisingly believable 
 game world as they did everything else. The first Killzone's story was rife with political intrigue 
 and treachery, and plagued by some unlikable characters, but it was a good bit deeper and gave 
 one much better insight into the game world you were in than the two games in the franchise that 
 followed it. I'll refrain from making a summary of the Killzone universe for the sake of keeping 
 this review flowing, so I urge anyone who's still interested to read the actual storyline on the 
 official website, because having a knowledge and appreciation of a game's history enhances one's 
 enjoyment of the game ten-fold.
  
  You play as a new protagonist named Tomas Sevchenko (yes, I'm aware that this is probably spelled 
 wrong, but I can't find his named written out ANYWHERE) , nick-named Sev by his allies, a sergeant 
 of the Interplanetary Strategic Alliance (ISA) that's currently interlocked in the second war against 
 the Helghast, a fascist and blatantly Nazi-like ex-human military dictatorship intent on bringing 
 down the outside governments that they claim oppressed and unfairly treated their people of the 
 planet Helghan for generations, under the supreme command of Scholar and self-proclaimed Emperor 
 Visari. Following the events after Killzone: Liberation, the Helghast occupation of the ISA-controlled 
 planet Vekta was turned on its head by the original series protagonist Cpt. Jan Templar, and now 
 the ISA is returning the favor by attacking Helghan and attempting to capture Visari, thinking 
 that the disarrayed Helghast forces would put up no resistance. Templar is now a Colonel and put 
 in command of his own ship in the invasion fleet, Rico Velasquez makes yet another appearance as 
 the leader of Sev's squad of four, and Evelyn Batton returns from Killzone: Liberation to assist 
 in researching Helghast technology. The story here is actually very simple and accessible, but 
 its no motivator. Sev and crew are grunts on the frontlines, partaking in the usual round of military 
 objectives, which is contrary to the first Killzone's emphasis on working behind the scenes in 
 order to throw a wrench in the Helghast's plans. Every event that occurs in the story is predictable 
 to a fault, and the quality of the dialogue ranges from brilliant and terrifying speeches from 
 Emperor Visari, to the dull tough-guy attitude and snide remarks from your squad mates. It's also 
 worth mentioning that the pre-rendered intro cinematic is suitably epic, and it lives up to the 
 chilling intro move of the first game. Overall the storyline isn't anything too special, but its 
 still of the level of cinematic quality as a grade-A action movie, like Starship Troopers or something, 
 which is saying a lot. On the bright side, it's great that the plot doesn't interfere with the 
 action, and instead keeps everything moving at a very brisk pace, but a well thought-out backstory 
 won't save Killzone 2's plot from feeling like you made very little progress throughout the whole 
 thing.
  
  It's unlikely that the slowly unraveling story will keep you glued to your seat, so I'm happy to 
 say that the gameplay is easily some the best the first-person-shooter genre has to offer. The 
 singleplayer campaign has excellent pacing and balancing. The action is fluid, and streams together 
 set pieces without giving you a single moment of down time. You can tell each battle was carefully 
 crafted to be challenging and gratifying, but never cheap or drawn out for too long... with the 
 exception of the final battle, mind. Enemy placement, numbers, and strength are very reasonable 
 and won't strain your patience by infinitely respawning, and you're always provided with the right 
 weaponry whenever the time comes. Your teammates that'll be fighting along side you most of the 
 time can handle themselves, but they can be downed should they take one too many hits, so you'll 
 have to help them to their feet occasionally if you want them to stay useful. There's a commendable 
 amount of variety with your typical, but very enjoyable tank, anti-air turret, and mech sequences 
 spaced evenly apart with standard on-foot action and to-the-point cutscenes, as well as four quick 
 and wholly unremarkable boss encounters. Killzone 2's campaign lasts roughly 6-7 hours, but it's 
 a shining example of how to do entertaining singleplayer gameplay as close to perfect as you're 
 ever likely to achieve, with a pace that keeps the player in constant intense combat, and design 
 that miraculously avoids frustrating the decent player, while still putting their skills to the 
 test. Other than just wanting to experience the frantic action again, there's even incentive to 
 replay the campaign to collect Helghast intel and destroy Helghast symbols thoroughly hidden in 
 all of the levels for unlockable story content on the Killzone website.
  
  If there's one tiny flaw in the overall singleplayer gameplay, it's the inclusion of a few tacked-on 
 elements. The first one that comes to mind, other than the boss battles that I mentioned, is the 
 SIXAXIS implementation for setting explosive charges and turning valves several times in the campaign. 
 They don't really hurt the flow of the gameplay, there's nothing wrong about them being there, 
 and they're not a hassle or time-sensitive to perform, but they feel exactly like one would expect 
 them to: thrown in there simply to give the SIXAXIS some use. They could have just made them a 
 one button deal like all the other interactive objects in the game, but they decided to give the 
 player that greater amount of input, which seems nice on the surface, but is really just unnecessary. 
 There's also about three separate places in just a single level that you encounter laser trip mines 
 (without the slightest bit of warning, I might add) , and about the same number of doors spread 
 across several levels that require you to shoot an electrical panel to open them. Both are weak 
 attempts to add more variety to the game, and end up feeling like they were included for the sole 
 purpose of cramming in as much substance into the campaign as possible. I was tempted to say that 
 the spider-like enemies that attack you in a couple of levels are the same deal, but they're actually 
 interesting adversaries. Influenced by the spidermines in Killzone: Liberation, they blend in extremely 
 well with the very dark environment and the gigantic bugs indigenous to the Helghan planet, and 
 it's almost too easy for them to startle you should you not notice them. In reality, there isn't 
 any other game of the same genre that I've played that hasn't had the same sort of flaw with tacked-on 
 features, but these things in Killzone 2 that I've listed here are all obstacles you have to deal 
 with to progress, not just a gimmicky weapon or ability that you have no effective use for.
  
  One of the main gameplay hooks in Killzone 2 is the cover system that remains entirely in the 
 first-person perspective, not zooming the camera out to third-person when in use, like the hybrid 
 Rainbow Six Vegas. It's a fundamental and necessary part of the combat as one can imagine, and 
 keeping it all in first-person takes that extra step to immerse the player into the experience, 
 as does the very smooth and weighty feeling of movement (to those curious about the supposed controller 
 input delay, there isn't any) . It's worth noting that you can't blind fire in the same manner you 
 would other games. You can either shoot normally, which leans you out of the cover regardless, 
 or lean out manually to aim and shoot, all while holding on to the L2 button that pins you to the 
 cover, which also happens to be the crouch button. The cover system is a little clunky at times, 
 your character could learn to duck is head lower or tuck his arms in tighter in some places, and 
 you can't move around while attached to cover and reload your weapon at the same time, all of which 
 are minor kinks that can cause some problems when you least need it. Killzone 2's gameplay is still 
 much more comparable to Call of Duty than Gears of War in the end, even though its cover system 
 requires a more significant use of tactics and such, but without feeling like you're stuck in a 
 stalemate every fight.
  
  Like I said, you'll be using the cover system whether you like it or not, especially since you're 
 faced against such competent AI opposition. You know how in just about every military shooter game 
 known to man, you always here the order "Covering fire!" tossed about with no reasoning behind 
 it? This is possibly the ONLY game that the use of this real life tactic actually works in any 
 noticeable and meaningful way; not even the static and scripting-heavy Brothers in Arms series 
 can compare. Your Helghast enemies and ISA allies react with amazingly lifelike and intelligent 
 behavior to whatever the situation is. They take cover immediately when anyone is shooting near 
 them, wait patiently for the right opportunity to return fire, toss grenades if they have an enemy 
 trapped behind cover, charge at you should you approach them, and move dynamically from cover to 
 cover without hesitation to in order to avoid being attacked from a flank. Heck, even the tiny 
 number of snipers you have to fight at one point go so far as to move to a new position after every 
 shot they make, making it appropriately difficult to draw a bead on them. Even better is the fact 
 that the AI doesn't just focus on you all the damn time, which is something you can really take 
 advantage of. I was genuinely impressed with the AI in Killzone 2, because it doesn't sacrifice 
 either intelligence or realism for the other, and instead executes both with flying colors. It 
 seriously made me look back at the AI in other current generation games like Gears of War, Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter, Rainbow Six Vegas, and basically everything besides F. E. A. R. where I 
 couldn't help but get exasperated with how it was governed by the flip of a coin, if you catch 
 my meaning.
  
  The weapons in Killzone 2 are as potent and satisfying as they're ever gonna get. The ones that 
 made the cut have all had complete makeovers from their original counterparts, keeping their very 
 distinct Helghast and ISA styles, but removing the alternative fire modes that gave the weapons 
 in the first Killzone a little more versatility. You're also restricted to carrying only one other 
 weapon besides your sidearm, grenades, and deadly combat knife, so you'll have to be constantly 
 planning for the road ahead. The Helghast pistol and assault rifle are particularly weaker and 
 less accurate than the ISA ones, but with a higher rate of fire and larger magazine capacity. It's 
 ironic that the two factions' light machine guns are the complete opposite of this in terms of 
 damage. There's a shotgun, the only weapon with a flashlight in the game, and a deadly Helghast 
 submachine gun and semi-automatic rifle. The Helghast sniper rifle can lop an enemy's head off 
 if you're a good shot, and you can even adjust the position of the scope using the SIXAXIS functionality, 
 or hold it steady for the best accuracy. Yeah, adjusting your aim with the SIXAXIS doesn't work 
 very good, but its a novel attempt at giving the unimpressive motion sensing function a purpose 
 beyond quicktime events, and you're never forced to use it anyway. There's also two rocket launchers, 
 a revolving grenade launcher, a nasty flamethrower, and the bolt gun that can pin baddies to the 
 walls with exploding bolts to whet your appetite for sheer power. The most impressive weapon of 
 all, though, is the electricity weapon that you get in only one level of the game, and its a BEAST. 
 I hadn't used a good electricity weapon since the days of Quake, so this was a very fresh departure 
 from the usual selection of military hardware, and it fits perfectly with the theme of the Helghast 
 weaponizing electrical power derived from a naturally occurring ore on the Helghan planet.
  
  Trying to create a video game with graphics that meet the standards of a pre-rendered CGI video 
 is a seemingly outrageous goal, but Guerrilla obviously knew that coming up any less spectacular 
 than that would disappoint the millions of gamers looking up to them to raise the bar of console 
 graphics capability before Crytek jumps into the market. The fact that they've already done what 
 they've done here with Killzone 2 is mind-boggling. The depth of field, motion blur, lens flare, 
 and lighting are just flabbergasting to behold, not because they're new technologies, but because 
 they're all done so well. They're soft, subtle, and deathly realistic, and the bright and saturated 
 color of the volumetric lighting is a brilliant and striking contrast to the rest of the dark, 
 bleak, but extremely detailed industrial environment. It's all of these post-processing effects 
 that go beyond simply high-poly models and sharp textures to make a game look not just great, but 
 amazing. While the facial animation isn't going to unseat the likes of Uncharted in that department, 
 the rest of the character animation in both gameplay and cinematics hold a candle to the best of 
 the best. It's actually quite disturbing to watch Helghast soldiers helmets pop off as their bodies 
 jerk and flail about so realistically from every individual piece of shrapnel that hits them, and 
 every object in the environment they come in contact with. The amount of effort Guerrilla has put 
 into just the combination of motion capture animation and accurate ragdoll physics is astounding, 
 and the effect adds so much more to the experience of shooting a virtual humanoid target than I 
 ever expected it to... I think I should talk to a psychologist about that. The best part of it 
 all is that it's all used to render a creative, inspired, and well designed art style and futuristic 
 world that, amazingly, manages to remain grounded to reality, seemingly entirely plausible in our 
 lifetime. The Helghast are unquestionably the most badass villains every conceived, and Helghan 
 is the most beautiful grayish-brown planet you will ever lay your eyes upon this generation. Crytek 
 and id Software need to step it up if they wish to remain seven steps ahead of the competition 
 in interactive computer graphics technology like they always have.
  
  Even the sound design received the royal treatment. There isn't very much one can say about explosion 
 and gunfire sound effects in a game, other than they're good or they're bad, and they are most 
 definitely good in Killzone 2. No low quality or overly-common stock sounds to be heard here. The 
 familiar Killzone theme music is ever present, accommodated by a tasteful selection of other orchestral 
 scores to compliment the action. The voice acting is gruff and works fine in context, being that 
 the story is standard action movie flare, but Brian Cox does a fantastic job as the new voice of 
 the malevolent Emperor Visari, even if he has so few lines to say. The Helghast still have the 
 menacing British ascents that define their vicious personality, muffled by their face masks, as 
 well as some wildly overdone death screams that border on being comical. The members of your ISA 
 squad also swear constantly, which is no surprise with the seasoned soldier Rico being one of them. 
 It's a little out of place sometimes without bordering on the tasteless, what with the mood alternating 
 between war drama and silly exchanges of banter not terribly unlike Gears of War, but it's a case 
 of "it wouldn't be the same" were it not there at all.
  
  Killzone 2 is a quality singleplayer game in its own rights, but it has now come time to discuss 
 the competitive multiplayer. First of all, the cover system is removed in exchange for what I can 
 only describe as gameplay that's fairer and probably better off without it. Second, it features 
 an experience-based progression system. You start with just the standard rifleman class, or badge 
 as they're called here, with access to only the two assault rifles, but as you achieve higher military 
 ranks by reaching specific amounts of experience earned in-game you unlock new weapons for that 
 badge, as well as six other very unique badges. Along with ranks there's also ribbons that you 
 earn for performing specific feats in-game, and earning eight of a certain ribbon grants you a 
 medal proudly displayed on your statistic screen, as well as even more unlockables like the secondary 
 abilities of each badge, twice the starting ammo and grenades, more points earned from completing 
 objectives, and much more. This strong emphasis on progression really motivates one to keep playing 
 and work harder to reach your next goal, further expanding your capabilities on the battlefield 
 with each new item obtained. If you're looking for the next Call of Duty 4-like multiplayer experience, 
 Killzone 2 is the answer for you.
  
  The real winner is not just the experience system and rewards, but its combination with team oriented 
 gameplay, as the extensive use of classes shows. The starter rifleman badge has no abilities, other 
 than having the widest selection of primary weapons available; the medic can revive downed teammates 
 and pass out med packs to heal friendlies; the engineer can erect automated turrets to defend areas, 
 as well as repair ammo caches and stationary machine gun turrets for his team to use; the tactician 
 can create a spawn point anywhere on the map that any allies can spawn at, and he can call in support 
 from a friendly airborne drone; the saboteur can become disguised as an enemy saboteur, and lay 
 down proximity mines for a trap; the assault badge is the only class that can use the deadly grenade 
 launcher, and he's generally tougher to kill than the other classes, but he can also activate a 
 temporary extreme boost to speed; finally, the scout can use the sniper rifle and can become almost 
 completely invisible when remaining motionless, but also has the ability to scan the entire area 
 within his field of view and mark every enemy in it, even through the environment. What's even 
 cooler is that the second abilities of each badge can be combined with the main abilities of other 
 badges if you have the required medal, so the system even allows for a level of customization within 
 the choice of badges.
  
  The actual multiplayer game itself is assembled in a previously unheard of way, with up to five 
 different game modes formed into one complete match. When one game mode finishes and the winner 
 of that round is declared, the game just continues as a new objective is randomly selected automatically, 
 and the ultimate victor determined by whoever won the most rounds. The five game modes consist 
 of bodycount, assassination, search and retrieve, search and destroy, and capture and hold (not 
 gonna go into detail) , the second and fourth ones played twice to give each team a chance to defend 
 and attack a target. Streaming the objectives together in a single game like so results in very 
 frantic multiplayer gameplay that's extremely engaging, the constantly changing game mode keeping 
 you on the edge of your seat the whole time, and allowing players with a preference towards variety 
 to play exactly what they want: everything all at once. The entire multiplayer gameplay revolves 
 around the ISA team versus the Helghast team with no free-for-all options, and thankfully the Helghast's 
 give away glowing eyes aren't a handicap, because the ISA are fitted with equally obvious blue 
 lights on the torso of their uniforms; Guerrilla has obviously thought of everything in regerd 
 to the multiplayer. Killzone 2 features an incredible clan system too, enabling competitive players 
 to form clans and set up tournaments against other clans with ease. There's even a slick squad 
 system in-game, where players in a single squad are provided with a private voice chat channel 
 and useful information about other squad members, and are able to respawn with their squad leader 
 if he/she is still alive. The only thing that's missing is sudden death, so disappointing draws 
 are inevitable. Outside of the gameplay, there's a serious lack of visible game information when 
 browsing through servers, so it's impossible to know anything about a game server outside of the 
 server's name, how many players are in it, and what game modes are being played. You have filter 
 options for a few things like maps, game modes, and password protection, but nothing for friendly 
 fire, something I'm sure most people would prefer to know about beforehand.
  
  To my pleasant surprise, the eight multiplayer maps in Killzone 2 are simply the best it has even 
 been my fortune to play. Not only are they generally designed so well, but they're varied and incredibly 
 complex. All of them feature a strong vertical element, multiple paths filled with hot spots and 
 choke points, and intelligently placed objectives that strike an even balance for both teams, with 
 even the smaller maps able to successfully house 32 players at the cost of overly-hectic close 
 quarters combat. Best of all, they look just as fantastic and maintain the same gloomy atmosphere 
 as the singleplayer campaign does, thanks to a heaping helping of environmental effects and details 
 you never normally see in a multiplayer game. Lastly, I'd like to mention that there's an offline 
 multiplayer mode that lets you play against up to 15 computer controlled bots, complete with choice 
 of difficulty, on any map in a bout of all five game modes with completely default settings. This 
 is a really great way to learn the ropes, practice with opponents with roughly the skill level 
 of your choosing, and allows for people without an internet connection to their PS3 to play the 
 multiplayer to an extent. The only problem is that the bots have access to all of the badges and 
 abilities, and because you start without any, you kinda get the short end of the deal compared 
 to the bots, but that doesn't mean a skilled hand with the assault rifles isn't useless, a good 
 example of how well balanced Killzone 2's multiplayer is. You don't earn any experience playing 
 in this offline skirmish mode, but any unlockables you get online become available here. I'm even 
 impressed with the bots' AI, because they display a level of intelligence and judgment comparable 
 to real human players. Not only do they know how to use all their badge abilities right and complete 
 objectives, but they know how to back out of a fight to regenerate health, toss grenades into rooms 
 and around corners to flush out enemies, navigate through anywhere in the complicated maps, and 
 take up smart defensive positions based on the weapon/badge they use. So, they put up a real good 
 fight; I almost have more fun playing against them than I do real people, seriously...
  
  Bringing myself to stop playing Killzone 2 long enough to write a good review about it was tougher 
 than I ever imagined it could be, but I prevailed through sheer will power, lots of caffeine, and... 
 agh, forget it. Killzone 2 had astronomical hype from beginning to end, way more than any game 
 should ever be subjected to, because such unreasonable expectations can ruin a game's reputation 
 no matter how perfect it turns out to be (a title like Halo-killer is really pushing it too far) . 
 Other than that though, KiIlzone 2 still managed to be better than I expected, a first-person-shooter 
 that's both 100% style and 100% substance. The singleplayer campaign was exhilarating, the multiplayer 
 is deep, the graphics set a new visual standard for consoles, and the AI makes the Replica soldier 
 in F. E. A. R. look like a bunch of greenhorns. I don't believe I've exaggerated any of the points 
 I've made in this review, and I exerted all of my effort in order not to, so that I could write 
 a fair and informative review that I hope was worth reading. This score, while possibly the least 
 important part of a review, I believe does not go undeserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbeanz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  Not a big online FSP guy. Loved the campaign on COD4! Played the online MP and sucked at it! But 
 I figured I would try KZ2 out. Played the demo maybe 3 times and hated the aiming. Just like everyone 
 else from what I see! Jumped right into the MP when I got the game and got the hang of the aiming 
 after 2 rounds! Went from 11 kills to 26! It does have a sense of realism since you cant just push 
 the aim button and be right on target. I havent played much but so far its nice. I can see the 
 online taking up a nice amount of my time! If your a FPS fan and havent picked this up because 
 you played the demo or read all the other reviews about the aiming just get it and you be the judge. 
 The aiming actually feels a little more accurate over the demo. Just a little! But after a few 
 games you will get the hang of it and be glad you picked it up! If I got the hang of it you will, 
 BELIEVE ME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone2_09
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2's story is a simple one: Humanity has decided to strike back at the Helghast by invading 
 their home planet Helghan. But that's just the backdrop for a stunning mixture of intense combat 
 and jaw-dropping visuals that will last for 8-12 hours in single-player. Joining you in battle 
 are the other members of Alpha squad. It would of been legendary if it had co-op to play freandswith 
 friends ,and your squad mates are walking stereotypes ,but their playful and delightfully vulgar 
 banter serves as a respite from the dark urban environments early in the game. over all this game 
 is fantastic i reconmend it to all ps3 players but if you like fps game this is the game for you 
 :) FPS GAMES RULE 
  
  
  
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome EXCLUSIVE TO PS3 suck xbox naghh
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this 
 game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 
 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 2)
  this game is awsome (killzone 
 2)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 11:43 pm PT
Review:  "In and out within a month, they said. Their weapons no match for our military might. Predicted 
 moderate to low resistance. Enemy morale at an all-time low. They couldn't have been more wrong... 
 Welcome to Helghan." - Sev
  
  A sequel to the 2004 FPS for PS2, Killzone 2 follows the original (which was a hit-and-miss among 
 many gamers alike) and makes right everything that was wrong. Although the story is still a tad 
 uninteresting and the characters are at times bland, it has a very Star Wars-like feel to it that 
 many will recognize and probably enjoy. 
  
  The gameplay is fantastically composed. At times it may feel clunky, and saying it's "realistic" 
 may be a pathetic excuse, but all-in-all it really makes you feel like you're right there in the 
 action; heavy battle armor and all. Guns feel powerful and the accuracy is slick once you figure 
 things out. These include an M8 Assault Rifle, Shotgun, Submachine, Grenade Launcher, Pistol, and 
 my personal favorite, the Lighting Canon. Computer Ai is quite good and I found myself regularly 
 relying on my team to cover me when my health got low; However, I believe this was a great opportunity 
 for awesome co-op play that was sadly missed. Enemy Ai is very good as well. They put up a very 
 good fight, but I found that you can actually run through the majority of the game by running up 
 to enemies and using your knife. Kind of simple.
  
  Graphics are... wow. Spectacular. Animations are fluent. Textures are very vibrant. It's too bad 
 the color palate is so brown, but it definitely allows you to realize how dark and desolate Helghan 
 is.
  
  Sound is very good. Effects are brutal (the Helghast screams as you slice them open with your combat 
 knife is my personal favorite) . The orchestral score is amazing. I wish there were more songs, 
 but the ones that are there are intense and memorable. Get surround sound for this one!
  
  Multiplayer is where most of the games re-playability will last. It consists of a ranking system 
 where you level your character up through scoring points (getting kills) and winning matches. However, 
 the best part about it that makes it different from most other online shooters is the way matches 
 take place. There are five different match types: Kill, Assassination, Capture, Destroy, and Propaganda 
 Capture. Rather than having each match do just one, matches will do all five, but switch up after 
 each win or loss. It's an amazing technique and it keeps loading minimal and fun, shooting action 
 at an all time high.
  
  Overall, an amazing game and a fantastic package. The single player has good replayability (although 
 co-op would have been nice) , the multiplayer is amazing (you have to experience it for yourself) , 
 and the production values are through the roof. If you are an FPS fan or just want to experience 
 an amazing game, you need to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InN3rChi011
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  KZ2 is a fun game and is must have if u love tactic FPS instead of run and gun shooters like COD4. 
 It has great graphics and is an example of a ps3 exclusive. It is a great game but not a perfect 
 game because of the limited amounts of guns, for example u only have 2 pistols and u must have 
 one assault and one pistol throughout the game. There are about under 10 assault guns which takes 
 this game from being perfect. The story mode isn't entertaining if u don't have online because 
 the story is boring. Online is what this game is all about because u can do team work with others 
 to accomplish a certain objective ex: bomb this place or protect it for a limited amount of time 
 and when u finish u have 1 win and the other 0 and keep doing different objective to a certain 
 amount of wins for the game to be over. The game makes u do team work to accomplish those missions 
 because protecting the bomb needs team work and bombing that certain place needs team mates also. 
 Overall this game is a must have but is a rental if u are really in the run and gun type of FPS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickgasm
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that Killzone 2 was coming out, I was very skeptical. One of my friends was 
 really looking forward to it but I was more interested in Resistance 2. I am into class-based multiplayer 
 online games, and I thought Resistance 2 was the peak of that type of game until I played Killzone 
 2.
  
  I like that you rank up when playing online and that as you play you unlock classes, abilities, 
 weapons, etc. It reminds me a little of an RPG in that you can level up and kind of customize your 
 character, even during a game. 
  
  Another brilliant innovation is that game types switch during play, without kicking you out and 
 loading a new map. This keeps the game interesting and fun, and if you don't like a certain game 
 type you don't have to quit and join a new room. 
  
  The ribbons and medals are great, much better than those of WarHawk in my opinion. The increases 
 in starting ammo, grenades, health, etc are not as complicated as the bonuses in MGS4, but are 
 still fun and they give you something to shoot for.
  
  The in game play difficulty ranges from "my girlfriend could play this" to "... i quit". Awesome 
 levels. One thing I found very annoying was the IA's on your team. They frequently get in the way 
 and are hard to get past when in tight spaces. 
  
  Killzone 2 is familiar enough as a FPS, making it easy to get used to the gameplay and controls 
 (the control options are incredible. one of the available preset options is even COD4 controls (or 
 waaay close to it) ) , yet far different than the shooters I am used to (in a good way) .
  
  Killzone 2 is quickly becoming one of my favorite games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartmart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for a good 20 hours now and feel embedded well enough to pass my somewhat 
 insignificant judgement on it. The game is technically a marvel. when you get one of those rare 
 moments to gaze around and look at everything, Helghast looks beautiful, even if it is a polluted 
 ramshakel dump. A few reviews reckon that the odd texture looks ropey, but that's just nitpicking 
 and they don't mention that the other 98% of the textures are truly jaw dropping. The animation 
 is great and the way Helghast soldiers react in conjunction with the AI leaves Gears of War way 
 behind. Then there's the sound. No-one and I mean NO-ONE can honestly find fault with it. If they 
 reckon they can then I want evidence that there is another FPS out there that is better.
  
  So why rate it 8.5 and not 10? Well it's the lack of story for one thing. In a nutshell, the plot 
 is "GO GO GO!" I'm sure the developers have done this to make the player feel totally immersed 
 in the world of the game, but plenty of other titles have been able to do this, and give you plot 
 twists and character development so that you care about what happens. Secondly, and understand 
 I'm no prude by any means, but the swearing is just gratuitous. Swearing for swearing's sake is 
 purile and dumb. That's why the 50 cent games are crap and MSG4 is stupendous. If I could turn 
 off the swearing like you can in other games then it would have gotten another .5 point. add a 
 little more story and it get's the full 10. Till then, MGS4 rules the roost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darx17
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 has a quality line-up of hits including COD4, Dead Space, Resistance, and MGS4, and Killzone 
 2 is the next game to be added to that list. Quite frankly i havent had a gaming experience this 
 intense and enjoyable since MGS4, and that was last summer. Killzone's cover mechanic make it a 
 very different experience from your typical run and gun shooter. The clever AI are not too difficult, 
 but they are skilled enough to leave you feeling satisfied after every large encounter. KZ2 immediately 
 teaches you to keep your head down, but the lack of blind fire keeps you constantly peeking, adjusting, 
 and shooting in bursts to provide an intense and thrilling combat experience throughout the campaign. 
 Not to mention the amazing turret and vehicular sections, while sometimes rather short, are memorable 
 and will keep you coming back for more. In general the controls just feel right, not over-sensitive, 
 but still sharp. Also the environments and enemies look great, and explosions are amazing to view. 
 The multiplayer is by far one of the best online experiences to date. 16v16 on varied map sizes 
 keeps the pace changing, and mission objectives that switch in game lead teams to use constant 
 communication and team work. While there is no online cover the lack of makes the experience that 
 much more thrilling and tense. Basically Killzone has to be experienced, so go out and buy it. 
 Trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I have completed this game a few minutes ago... I just want to say.... This game is amazing... 
 The best shooter game I've ever played... I am glad for that because I have been waiting this game 
 since 2005 so that I did not want to be dissapointed.
  
  The graphics are awesome.... I do not know if this is best looking game or it is MGS4... I think 
 Killzone 2 wins sometimes and MGS4 in other.
  
  The sound is pretty impresive. You should need a good sound system to take advantage of the sound...
 
  
  The story is not outstanding but it is pretty good....
  
  The IA is the best...
  
  
  If you own a PS3, please, buy this game... I assure you this game is not going to let you leave 
 the controller since you had finished it.
  
  I completed this game in 2 days. I am pretty sure I am going to finish this game again...
  
 
  My only complein is that this game should have been a bit longer.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer mode yet, but I have seen it and it is incredible as well...
 
  
  It worths every cent of the USD 59,99 it costs.
  
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vik800i
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  2 Main reasons why this game did not get a 10/10 rating. 
  
  1. The words the characters speak does not resemble in their mouths. eg. if they say "attack", 
 it looks like they are saying "WOW".
  
  2. No freedom to move much in the single player mode. Follows a particular path like COD series. 
 U cant even jump down stairs or fence. 
  
  The amount of time and hardwork spent could have been shown in a much better way. They could have 
 done a lot more work.
  
  Multiplayer gives an extra boost with speedy and clear servers.
  
  ALL in all i am a bit dissapointed with the game, i expected much much more from this game, 
 more than MGS4. But it was a let down. 
  
  Graphics are excellent and environment makes you to play this game. If you like FPS and real dynamics 
 and superb shooting realism then this is the game for you. Otherwise its waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  When Killzone 2 was announced i have to say i was little impressed, due to my feelings with the 
 first game. The first game was an overrated shooter that they called a "Halo beater" so OPSM2 said 
 anyway, it was actually a bulky slow average shooter that looked good in screen shots but when 
 you saw it in motion chuged like a beast.
  So i got Killzone 2 for my birthday not expecting alot because my mates said it was pretty average. 
 What do they know?! its amazing! its everything the first game wasn't. They got rid of the three 
 playable characters from the first (middle class, stealth, heavy) and now you just play as one character 
 named Sev. It feels great when your blowing off helgast heads, all the guns you collect over the 
 course of the game all feel diffrent in there own way. And the range of guns this time round is 
 wide and vast, from machine guns to flame throwers, theres not alot they haven't put in it.
  The story this time round is alot better too, the original chracters from the first game make an 
 appearence as well which will make fan boys happy. The pace of the game is fast and the diffrent 
 enviroments keep you happy from start to finish.
  
  Graphics: Stunning, while it is gritty black and grey it doesn't stop it from look amazing. 10.
 
  
  Sound: Great voice acting and sound FX. 9.
  
  Gameplay: Fast, frantic with a great overall feeling of the game. 9.
  
  **** Box: Too Short 
 on single player, Can be hard every now and then.
  
  Overall: They sorted out all that was wrong with the first and made it a 100X better. If your a 
 fan of the first or a FPS fan get it bought. 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:44 pm PT
Review:  The expectations surrounding the original Killzone in 2004 were immense to say the least; after 
 all, the game was hailed to be the PS2's answer to the Halo series. Needless to say, the game was 
 largely a disappointment, however what it managed to do was create the bare bones of a gritty wartime 
 environment. Understandably, Guerrilla was limited by the relatively weak technology of the PS2, 
 and the result was a game riddled with technical hitches. Five years later, Guerrilla is back, 
 only this time they have much more powerful hardware to work with, the result is one of the more 
 impressive shooters on the PS3. 
  
  The story itself takes place long after the original Killzone, and players of the first game will 
 be able to pick up on the story fairly quickly. Killzone 2 plants you in the middle of an offensive 
 assault on the Helghast, and you definitely get that feeling of progression. The fight never stops, 
 you're always moving from one battle to another, the world gets darker, and the battles get more 
 intense with every level. The storyline is progressed with some well put-together cinematics and 
 in-game sequences. Two characters from the original game make an appearance here, although Rico 
 is still as annoying as ever, and its hard to find some attachment to the new characters in your 
 squad. However, it has to be said that the ending is not at all as satisfying as you'd like it 
 to be, it is quite obvious that a sequel is in the works.
  
  The gameplay is not entirely innovative, but it does a lot of things well. Much of the problems 
 that plagued the first game were fixed; there is now a jump button, a melee button, and the sniper 
 rifle no longer has that ridiculous aiming mechanics that it used to. Also, the game is played 
 through the eyes of one character instead of four, which makes things a lot less confusing than 
 the first game. Shooting and aiming is standard fare by now, and the single player can be completed 
 in the course of a weekend. You have a variety of weapons to select from, but you're limited to 
 a main weapon and a sidearm. The ISA revolver is definitely a disappointment when compared to the 
 pistol from the first game, but the inclusion of the electric gun and the flamethrower was a nice 
 surprise. There are some things that I thought didn't necessarily work too well, in particular, 
 the cover system wasn't quite as useful as I'd hoped, and it seems like it served only to keep 
 the game from being a run-and-gun shooter. The motion controls also felt out of place, it seemed 
 quite odd having to twist the controller to open randomly placed valves.
  
  The online is fully functional, with clan support, ranks, a play list system, and a 32 player count 
 (double the original) . The ranking system, while nothing new, is done well, and will allow you 
 to unlock more weapons and more classes for you to choose from. Keep in mind though, that as you 
 choose certain classes you are limited to certain weapons, for example, a medic is limited to standard 
 assault rifles, and won't wield machine guns or SMG's. Online play feels unbelievably balanced, 
 every weapon and class has its advantages and drawbacks. Everybody will find something to like 
 about the online experience. On a sour note, there isn't any co-op element or split-screen support, 
 which is a disappointment for fans who were hoping to experience the squad element of Killzone 
 2 with human players.
  
  Of course, Killzone 2 wouldn't be the same without the amazing technology behind all the solid 
 game play. Simply put, the game looks and sounds fantastic. Everything from the environments, to 
 the character models, and especially the lighting was done well. The technical aspect of Killzone 
 2 seems like what the original Killzone aspired to be, but couldn't because of hardware limitations. 
 The effects and techniques used in Killzone 2's graphics aren't anything new or groundbreaking, 
 but were done so well; not a lot of shooters come close to creating the same atmosphere. The audio 
 has also been refined, with an epic soundtrack, good voice acting, and gunfire that would make 
 your eardrums burst.
  
  Killzone 2 is by no means perfect, or innovative for that matter, but the things that it does do, 
 although borrowing from other shooters, is simply done well. It is a well-rounded shooter, but 
 without a lot of glaring weaknesses. And while graphics may not make most games, Killzone 2 is 
 an example of presentation and production values complementing already solid gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:54 am PT
Review:  
  
  I have been hearing people talk bad about Kill zone 2. To those people I say stop hating and start 
 congratulating. Sony keeps cranking out the hits and as far as I'm concerned they made good on 
 their promises about this game. The graphics are stellar; the game play is top notch, and the sounds 
 engrossing. 
  
  Story -- Here is the deal the helghast have been driven back, but they aren't about to give up. 
 You play as Sergeant First Class Sev who with his squad mates: Rico, Garza, and a few others decide 
 to take the fight to the home planet of Helghan. From the time you hit the ground you are sourrounded 
 by all out war. From town sqaure to sewers and back you will fight what seems to be the good fight. 
 After what seems to be a never ending battle things go from bad to worse for Alpha Team. In some 
 cases worst than one might imagine. The mission is to Capture Visari who seems to be some sort 
 of dictator that drives his Helghan Army into battle .
  
  Graphics -- Kill zone 2 is on par with the graphics found in MGS 4. As a matter of fact these are 
 the two best looking games found on any system including PC. You will notice things going on in 
 the back ground as you fight towards your goal. The lighting is superb, and never mind that the 
 in game engine looks as though it's CG the whole time. The helghast Soldiers are as fearsome as 
 they were before with those red glowing eyes. The environments are no worse than those found in 
 any shooter so I don't know what people complain. I give this a 10 all around in this area no question.
 
  
  Sound -- Who cares when you are in so much action. I could barely even notice what's going on while 
 I'm fighting for my life. If you don't like the music they play though good news Sony went all 
 out for Kill zone 2 and lets you input your own music. The voice acting is great two and gets you 
 pumped up to do battle. I feel like a real Soldier charging into battle after hearing all the speeches 
 and battle jargon. I ought to know I am a Soldier LMAO!! 
  
  Game play -- I read somewhere that they think the game play is repetitive. Shoot, move, rinse, and 
 repeat. Well this is a shooter that is what you do in SHOOTERS. You don't do puzzles while in combat!! 
 Besides that fact there aren't many other shooters where you don't do that. Halo 3, Gears of War 
 1 & 2, Resistance 1 & 2, Half-life, and other shooters all do the same thing. If you want puzzles 
 go play a plat former or a RPG. Back to the game play though; you can take cover, SHOOT, and move 
 with ease although I will agree that the PS3 controller is not made for FPS'. Takes some getting 
 used to but hey it is not that hard. You also have some elements where you have to use the SIXAXIS 
 controls to either emplace bombs or turn valves. The relentless waves of Helghast seem to never 
 end. They are a tricky bunch and will duck and cover with the best of them. Although some of their 
 Soldiers will charge you and when they have you down tend to be a bit personal and finish you with 
 a knife. They arent a forgiving bunch lets just say that.
  
  Online -- This is a part I have not tried yet, but I hear all good things about it. So I won't go 
 into it. Let's cover replay value: You can collect the trophies, find and destroy secret plaques, 
 and a few other things. The online from what I'm hearing will keep you coming back and back. 
 
  
  The fact is that Sony said something with this game and they came through. The belly aching by 
 other gamers and all the doubters should now shut their traps and marvel at yet another awesome 
 exclusive from Sony. If you don't own a PS3 you should have gone out and got one by now. This game 
 is more than a reason, too. In my opinion this is the BEST FPS to date bar NONE!!! I will back 
 that any day of the week. Wish I could say PEACE on this one, but then there would be no war, and 
 how could Kill zone 2 perfect it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The original Killzone was undoubtedly one of the most memorable chagrins to hit the industry in 
 the past decade, and while Killzone 2 is certainly much more satisfying than its predecessor, I 
 can't help but feel it is an average PS3 experience. Sony's most recent console FPS is an unsurprisingly 
 familiar game that's both delightful in its beauty and conventional style of play; with that said, 
 it does absolutely nothing new, and what it does do has been done better by the very games it was 
 inspired by.
  
  Guerilla Games' affection for the genre -- especially the popular Call of Duty franchise -- is 
 obvious from the moment the game starts, and I'm not entirely sure whether their love is a positive 
 influence on Killzone 2 or not. Guerilla Games has not only played more recent entries in the Call 
 of Duty franchise, they took Call of Duty, gave it a visual upgrade and got rid of what made it 
 so popular in the first place.
  
  For instance, they seem to be big believers in the idea that shooters don't need decent narratives. 
 The game opens with the ISA (the player) attacking the world of Helghan, who attacked the ISA in 
 the first game; sadly, the uninteresting concept is the strongest point of the game's truly lamentable 
 writing. Dialogue between characters is laughable at best, frustratingly awful at other times; 
 character development is entirely nonexistent, and all the player knows about the protagonists 
 is that they're big burly men who like to throw around profanity far too frequently. 
  
  The rubbish writing is one of the most frustrating issues of Killzone 2, as it would have been 
 so easy to remedy. Get a high schooler off the streets to write your games, Sony; they'd do a better 
 job than whoever's doing it now. With games like Shadow of the Colossus and God of War I had began 
 to see games as an art form; artistically deprived messes like this have begun to obliterate that 
 perspective.
  
  The depressingly poor writing can easily be skipped over during the campaign, but it really is 
 detrimental to the experience and a lost opportunity. Worst of all, the visual design gives plenty 
 of potential for a decent tale; character designs, especially the Helghan, are nothing short of 
 fantastic and are extremely memorable.
  
  If you are one of the people that feels shooters don't need stories, however, Killzone 2's campaign 
 is otherwise an enjoyable one and should keep most players interested throughout its relatively 
 short length.
  
  As I said before, the game plays very much like the Call of Duty franchise; zooming, sprinting, 
 melee attacks, etc. are all handled exactly like they are in Call of Duty. The same strategy of 
 shoot, duck, shoot, duck, etc. is present here, and if the player tries to run out guns ablaze 
 they'll meet with Death within seconds. Unlike Call of Duty, Killzone 2 boasts a cover system that 
 works well and shows off the game's exemplary textures up close. Level design is solid, and the 
 game's chaotic battles are shown off with big explosions and the occasional push-over -- I mean, 
 boss.
  
  There are a few problems, however. Your partner's AI is questionable at times; he does not seem 
 to understand the strategy required, and will just go off and get himself killed frequently (especially 
 in levels where the Helghast are in possession of turrets) . Killzone 2's arsenal is decidedly lacking 
 in originality and diversity, despite the potential for creative sci-fi weaponry; you've used all 
 of Killzone 2's weapons before in other FPSes. Enemy variety is also severely lacking; there are 
 only a couple different enemy types in the game, which is a major letdown.
  
  But then, the genre's boost in popularity was thanks to multiplayer, not single player. For most 
 people, Killzone 2's selling point is the 32-player online; unfortunately, this failed to impress 
 me.
  
  As usual with a competitive PSN game, the community is lackluster. Even the small amount of people 
 that use mics abuse the privilege, yelling profanity or whining about how ____ must be cheating. 
 It's a bit of a disappointment that in 2009 so few PS3-owners own mics (or those that do shouldn't) , 
 but depressingly I can't say I'm surprised.
  
  Quibbles about PSN aside, Killzone 2's online is initially admirable. It manages to treat the player 
 to the same jaw-dropping visuals as they get in the single player, but with up to 31 other players 
 and not a hint of slow-down. There are numerous modes of play with varying goals, and a ranking 
 system similar to that of recent Call of Duties is here. What could have made this game soar is 
 the class system, which is home to a few varied classes (which you have to unlock, arbitrarily) . 
 On paper, it all works magnificently; during the execution all the little pieces of potential fall 
 apart.
  
  The leveling-up in Killzone 2 is obnoxious. Starter weapons are poor and simply can't win in a 
 fight against later guns (unless you get a headshot, but good luck aiming well with a Dualshock) . 
 Similarly, the starting class simply reeks of inadequacy; it's a generic soldier unit with poor 
 weapons. No one will want to play as this guy for a few hours before unlocking superior classes, 
 but it's required.
  
  If you can suffer past the first few hours of inevitable losses, it is much greener on the experienced 
 side of Killzone 2's online; but that isn't to say it is a perfect experience. The game really 
 should have a killcam -- waiting around twiddling your thumbs for 10 seconds after dying is a harsh 
 punishment. In reality, the delay before actually playing the game is even longer than 10 seconds 
 -- depending on the map, it could take anywhere from a few seconds to a minute to spot an enemy 
 again (spawn points that are far from the action will really get on the player's nerves) . Those 
 who despise load times (like I do) will get frustrated at this design choice.
  
  Another issue I had is that whenever the game issues orders or proclaims victory (delivered by 
 voice acting that gets old fast) , it's impossible to hear grenades, which has killed me more than 
 once. It's not too big of a deal, but it is definitely a problem I would love to see solved with 
 a quick patch. 
  
  Online also suffers from problems that plagued the single player, such as genericism, which is 
 especially noticeable in Killzone 2's arsenal. The sci-fi setting and awesome alien designs are 
 begging for unique weapon design, but Killzone 2 disappoints. Lethargic controls and unnecessary 
 weapon weight will take awhile getting used to. There's no co-op mode online or off.
  
  Despite all my *****ing about the game's flaws, Killzone 2 is an enjoyable game, but it never convinced 
 me it was a good example of the genre. I realize I am in the minority when I say Killzone 2 is 
 not an impressive game, but that doesn't change my recommendation. If you can appreciate yet another 
 Call of Duty clone, are a big fan of FPSes or are in the market for a game that shows off the PS3's 
 power, Killzone 2 will not disappoint; I can't bring myself to recommend it to anyone else though. 
 Terrible narrative, uninspired gameplay and an obnoxious online hierarchy have persuaded me there 
 are much better FPSes out there, regardless of the platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  One of the most hyped games this year was Killzone 2. Almost everyday, there was a new article 
 about this game. Everyone was going gaga over it even before it could be released. The trailers 
 were breathtaking, and according to the previews, this was one of the best FPS's ever. But is Killzone 
 2 really worth the hype? Does it stand up to the expectations? Does it overshadow the disappointment 
 of Killzone and Killzone Liberation? The answer is an emphatic yes.
  
  Gone are the days when a Helghast just stood before you, shouting 'Die!' or other stupid things, 
 staring you in the face and doing nothing but waiting for you to shoot it. Gone are the days when 
 the game felt more like an aftermath of the battle rather than a real battle. Killzone 2 has arrived, 
 and with it, it has set new standards for other games to come will follow. Killzone 2 is a game 
 that will always be enshrined as one of the best games ever created.
  
  I would like to start with the best thing: the graphics. I can tell you one thing: the E3 trailer 
 is not disappointing at all. Guerilla have surpassed that trailer. They have outdone themselves. 
 There is no difference at all between the cutscenes and the gameplay screens. In fact, there was 
 this moment when I just stood stupidly, staring at the screen, waiting for the cutscene to end. 
 I got frustrated because the cutscene was showing nothing but ourselves standing there, along with 
 our squad and all tha could be heard was the chaos of the battle. It was after five minutes that 
 I realized that the cutscene is over and the gameplay has begun. 
  
  The particle effects are too good. Whenever you shoot and a shell drops to the ground, there is 
 a small cloud of dust and dirt that rises from the ground. Whenever you shoot an enemy, the impact 
 of the bullets is shown as the enemy shakes violently and finally falls to the ground. When it 
 does fall to the ground, there is a cloud of dirt and dust that blurs your vision for some moments. 
 When pillars, or balconies of buildings or several other things which can be destroyed are shattered, 
 the visuals are very awe-striking.
  
  The blood is shown spectacularly. Each and every drop of blood is shown very realistically. The 
 way the bloos sprays out of an enemy when it is shot, the way the blood flows on the ground when 
 an enemy is lying dead on the ground.
  
  When anything on fire, like clothes, it is shown spectacularly, how they burn and slowly turn into 
 ash and wisps of fabric still float in the air. The lighting effects too are really brilliant in 
 Killzone 2. We can safely say that this is the best looking game on the PS3 till date. With highly 
 detailed graphics, spectacular particle and lighting effects, great animations, the graphics of 
 this game can beat the heck out of even Metal Gear Solid 4. 
  
  Moving on, the presentation of the game is spectacularly done too. Right from the beginning of 
 the game to the very end, you feel like you've been thrown into the warzone. The presentation is 
 so immersive that it involves you so much that you feel as if you're IN the game, not playing it. 
 The game really feels like a movie, in the cutscenes and the gameplay parts. Throughout, you feel 
 as if you've been dragged into a warzone. The chaotic sense that is all around you all the time 
 is augmented by the beginning of every mission, which shows you a dramatic crash or an explosion 
 or something right moments before you're given control of the game.
  
  The game is very atmospheric. All the time, ther is a feeling of darkness and chaos in your heart. 
 The game feels very chaotic and feels like a real war game. All the time, there are shrieks of 
 the wounded, sound of weapons, explosions, warriors and vehicles and air fighters are to be seen... 
 The game is way atmospheric. 
  
  The story of the game is great too. Even though it isn't its strong point, it is quite good and 
 involving. There are twists, deaths, fights, successes, failures and everything that you would 
 basically want from a story to pull you in. It isn't as bad as it's made out to be, seriously. 
 I will not reveal anything of the story, not even the characters (even though most of you know 
 about them) , as that would ruin much of the fun.
  
  The gameplay is one of the strongest points of the game. It is really spectacular. Even though 
 it isn't very different from the other FPS's you can get on your PS3 or your Xbox 360, it is very 
 involving, addictive and chaotic. The teammates of the Alpha Squad are really helpful and intelligent. 
 When you are driving forward to attack your enemies, your teammates automatically start pushing 
 forward and help you with the fighting. When you are being repelled by an enemy and are retreating, 
 your teammates automatically take cover and shoot from behind their cover.
  
  The game has certain turret and vehicle sections, which are great. But there could have been more 
 of them.
  
  The AI is not only good for the good guys. The baddies are astonishingly smart, unlike the first 
 two games. They take cover, throw grenades to distract you, and use many spectacularly planned 
 out tactics to trap you and kill you. There was a time when two or three Helghast started throwing 
 grenades at me. I moved back, but I found out that it was just a plan. A Helghast crept up from 
 behind me and stabbed me. I turned around frantically, but it was too late. Helghast from all sides 
 started shooting at me. The AI is great and makes the difficulty levels very high. 
  
  The motion controls are great. You can use your motion controls to open locks, hack doors, create 
 or fuse bombs and many other things. For once, the motion sensing doesn't feel gimmicky. In fact, 
 it's quite responsive. One great use of the motion control is for the sniper rifle. To shoot properly, 
 you just don't have to aim properly, but you have to keep your hand perfectly steady and then shoot, 
 to get maximum accuracy. If there is an explosion or you are shot or something like that, the aim 
 gets bad and it starts wriggling fiercely. 
  
  One very important aspect of the game is cover. You've gotta take cover if you want to win a fight. 
 Taking cover is very important. if you take cover behind solid objects like pillars and walls, 
 it's fine for some time. But if you take cover behind a box or something, it can be dangerous, 
 as they can be destroyed And no cover mean death for most of the game. If you have no cover, most 
 of the enemies will concentrate on killing you as you will have no cover to protect yourself and 
 you'll be 'Gone in 60 Seconds.' Okay, solid covers like pillars and walls can be destroyed by a 
 lot of grenades but it takes some time to bring them down.
  
  The sound of the game is great too. The voice acting is great. Dialogue delivery is good too. The 
 sound track is cool and always there are sound of explosion and gunshots, and yells and screams 
 that add to the chaotic feeling of the game even more. 
  
  Ultimately, it boils down to this. Killzone 2 is a great game, probably the best FPS I've ever 
 played and the second best game on the PS3. It is up there on my top ten list and will always be. 
 KZ2 will forever be enshrined as a well rounded, polished game and an epic masterpiece. It has 
 set the standard for the shooters to come. If you own a Playstation 3, then you HAVE to get your 
 hands on this game. NOW!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattcarlo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a science fiction first-person shooter developed by Guerrilla Games, and published 
 by Sony Computer Entertainment. It follows the events of its predecessors, Killzone, and Killzone: 
 Liberation. It takes place on the planet Helghan, the home-world of the Helghast, who invaded an 
 Interplanetary Strategic Alliance (ISA) colony. Two years after the Helghast assault on Vekta, 
 the ISA launched an assault on the enemy's homeworld of Helghan. However, they soon came to the 
 realization that the Helghast are a more formidable enemy on their own home planet. Not only that, 
 but they have harnessed the power of the freakish lightning storms that always occur on Helghan.
 
  
  At the Electronic Entertainment Exposition in 2005, Killzone 2 was announced, ever since then, 
 and due to its outstanding visuals, Killzone 2 was overwhelmed with high expectations. Now, don't 
 mistake it for just another pretty face, because Killzone 2 offers more than you might imagine. 
 With epic, put an emphasis on epic, battles, depressing ambient environments, and astounding music, 
 you're left with the sense that you're in the middle of a warzone. Now, while that may obviously 
 be true, all you have to do is read the title, Killzone 2, does that not say it all? That just 
 sounds like chaos and death. The campaign is terrific, even though the story is a bit unappealing. 
 There are four difficulties, one of which has to be unlocked and as I said, the epic battles keep 
 the story alive and ongoing. It helps that there is a great variety of weapons at your disposal, 
 all of which have their advantages and disadvantages. Some are close range, such as the shotgun, 
 some are far range, such as the sniper rifle and some, such as the flamethrower gun, are unique, 
 to say the least.
  
  The environments are the most gorgeous and at the same time filthy, grimy, environments I have 
 ever seen. To be honest, it almost reminds me of Gears of War, in the sense that the game has a 
 very dark feel to it. As for the characters, and weapons, they both look terrific, especially the 
 reloading animations. Another aspect that adds to the chaotic battles, is the suspenseful soundtrack, 
 also known as the background music. Regardless of what you call it, in Killzone 2, it's without 
 a doubt top notch. In Killzone 2, the weapons have the feeling of heaviness, so what is that? The 
 easiest way to put it is, the reaction time for shooting is slowed down, so trying to hit an enemy 
 as soon as you turn may seem the utmost impossible. It is, however, only temporarily, and will 
 recoil in no more than a second. The health system works well, but it's nothing you won't see in 
 today's shooters. This brings me to the cover system, it works wonderfully. You simply walk up 
 to cover, press down on L2, and there you have it, you're on cover.
  
  Multiplayer, easily the greatest attribute of Killzone 2. First and foremost, if you are not able 
 to play online for whatever the reason may be, Killzone 2 offers offline play with bots. As for 
 the online multiplayer, this is where "it" is at. It's team based and can reach up to 32 players. 
 There are several game types, however, unlike most games where you choose a game type to play on, 
 in Killzone 2, all of the game types are mushed into one match. So they first game type might be 
 a team deathmatch, once it is over, whether by the time running out or the desired amount of kills 
 is reached, the game will go into down time where players have the opportunity to refuel, and after 
 about 20 seconds, the next game type will begin. The other game types consist of capture the flag, 
 defend points, take control of a certain position, assassination, and so on. At the end, which 
 ever team won the most game types, win the match. It keeps things fluid and it's refreshing to 
 see that something is done differently than the tradition continued by other video games.
  
  The other main part of the online multiplayer is the player advancement. When you first start 
 out, you will only have two different assault rifles to choose from, as for your class, your options 
 are very limited. But as you progress, you will unlock weapons, upgrades, and classes. The classes 
 are somewhat similar to The Orange Box, and they work very well in this case. For instance, the 
 team Medic, they are limited to only being able to wield an assault rifle, but they are the only 
 ones that can revive downed teammates. Another may be the Saboteur, which is granted the ability 
 to disguise themselves. You can earn ribbons, and badges that reward your player with additional 
 abilities. There are eight maps, and all of them are really awesome to say the least. Each and 
 everyone of them has something noticeably unique about them.
  
  Killzone 2 does not really do anything different from any of the other first-person shooters, it 
 just perfects every aspect of the first-person shooter genre. If you are a first-person shooter 
 fan, a fan of the Killzone series, or someone who just loves playing video games, Killzone 2 is 
 a must have and is a great reason to buy a PlayStation 3. It is without a question worth $60.00, 
 so go out and buy it, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:38 am PT
Review:  i have a message for microsoft simply don't mess with Sony PlayStation 3 the storm is coming YAKUZA 
 3 / GOD OF WAR 3 / infirmes / GT5 / Demon's Souls / AND MOORE ON THE WAY :P
  
  
  I play a lot of Resistance 2 and COD4 & COD: WAW. Resistance for its massive battles & COD for the 
 great graphics and super tight play. Killzone 2 is a great blend of each.
  
  There are a lot of complaints about the controls, but none from me. The guns are weighted and recoil 
 as you would expect. The characters move like heavily armored soldiers carrying heavy artillary 
 might. I could see it as an issue if it wasn't equal, but everyone is playing at the same speed 
 and after a very short amount of time, I can say without fail that I am pretty quick with the M82 
 and plenty of online players that are far superior to me will light you up as quick as any game 
 of Halo or COD.
  
  As far as the graphics, online there is no dropoff compared to the single player. This is the best 
 looking game I can remember playing. I had a difficult time going back to Resistance because it 
 looked terrible after KZ2.
  
  The single player game is ... about like every other signle player FPS that I can remember. Follow 
 a line shoot guys, etc. I only played for a couple of hours to get familiar with the controls before 
 playing online so I can't really speak as an authority on the single player.
  
  The online game has all of the usual suspects as far as game modes go. The new exception is being 
 able to string any of the five together that plays as single game. If you have a squad that you 
 enjoy playing with, this is great. If you jump into a 25 minute game and get stuck with a team 
 of half-tards, prepare to be frustrated that you have to wait 25 minutes to get credited with your 
 experience. It's also worth noting that KZ2 has a similiar level up / xp system that unlocks various 
 items like COD 4. It's about what you'd expect. The battles are awesome and where KZ2 really takes 
 the cake for me is the whole package with 30 people at a time. My biggest complaint with COD4 is 
 12 player battles on medium sized maps. It is too easy for people to camp and the middle of the 
 screen remain empty for extended periods - especially in hardcore modes where you are playing 1 
 shot kills.
  
  Killzone 2 doesn't reinvent the wheel and doesn't really offer anything new in terms of gameplay. 
 A similiar thing has happened with the fighter genre. You can only "play guns" in so many different 
 ways, so the next logical step is perfecting the genre, and right now, Killzone 2 is at the top 
 of the heap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 12:27 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a hard game to review. On the one hand, the game is absolutely gorgeous and it possesses 
 a great, engaging universe in which the subject matter is drawn from, but on the other hand the 
 actual shooting mechanics of this game are bizarre. One can almost go so far to say, that had this 
 game not looked as beautiful as it did it would not only not have three quarters of the player 
 population it does now, but it also would be looked upon by most people as a catastrophic failure. 
 Furthermore, this game was in production so long the hype surrounding it was almost impossible 
 to achieve regardless of how developer Guerilla went about making Killzone 2; someone was bound 
 to be disappointed because they expected this game to redefine the shooter genre and make the Playstation 
 3 tower over the other consoles. Simply put, Killzone 2 lacks many of the features that benchmark 
 shooters like the recent Call of Duty titles among others have ingrained as commonplace in the 
 shooter genre, yet what Killzone 2 does have is enough to make it a solid game in its own right. 
 
  
  
  AN OUTSTANDING SINGLE PLAYER EXPERIENCE:
  
  The single player portion of this game is fantastic. The story, while following many poor action 
 movie cliches, is set in an engaging universe that references our real world in many ways to the 
 point that all of its short comings are easily overlooked by the player. The Helghast bear a strong 
 resemblance at their core to many of the fascist nations that propelled World War II. All of the 
 firearms in this game, while purely science fiction, were pieced together from many modern firearms. 
 Everything about the Killzone 2 universe, therefore, is both alien and familiar and it works excellently 
 for the game. As far as the actual gameplay goes, it flows very well and I will even go as far 
 to say that it plays better than the Call of Duty games where the player simply 'moves the ball 
 forward' in the face of a constantly spawning wave of enemy AI. The AI in Killzone 2 is smart; 
 it knows when you are shooting at it (or have it in your crosshairs) and will effectively use cover 
 to avoid death. The variety of enemy types is also excellent, Helghast officers will rush you with 
 submachineguns blazing, snipers and rocket troops will keep their distance while attempting to 
 pop off killshots, and my favorite enemy, the badass Helghast Special Op, will basically stop at 
 absolutely nothing in an effort to flank and destroy you. 
  
  With smart AI it pays to keep your head down, and thankfully Killzone 2 has an excellent cover 
 mechanic that allows you to snap to cover by holding down the crouch button while close to these 
 surfaces. This cover system is done entirely in the first person and difficulties with this prospect 
 are dealt with by allowing you to see a limited degree above the object you are hiding behind so 
 you can still effectively pop out and deliver fire onto your enemies. The firearms in this game 
 all work well, every weapon has a purpose, from the ISA M82 Assault Rifle with its green-tinted 
 laser dot scope perfect for lining up headshots to the ridiculously fun to use rail gun which knocks 
 enemies off their feet, pins them to the wall and then throws them into the air when the rail detonates- 
 every weapon feels like a useful tool rather than a tacked on addition. Each of these firearms 
 packs the proper punch and is augmented by a solid sound design which brings the intensity of firefights 
 right into your eardrums. 
  
  The single player is broken up nicely by a series of moments when you get your hands on an ISA 
 Tank, mount yourself in a gunwell aboard an ISA Cruiser and gun down incoming Helghast fighters, 
 and most impressively, when you jump into an ISA Mech and utterly tear apart everything in front 
 of you. However, the most memorable moment in this game is when the player gets his hands on the 
 electricity gun from a fallen Helghast ArcTrooper that makes the rest of that level unfold like 
 the end of Half-Life 2; every enemy in your path is laid to waste and you have an absolutely ridiculous 
 amount of fun during that time. Basically, even if you fall into the category of people who despises 
 Killzone 2's controls, you will have a blast playing the single player campaign and there is enough 
 in the way of trophies and variations in difficulty to keep you occupied for a while there. 
  
  By far the most disappointing aspect of this game is a complete lack of story mode cooperative 
 play, either split-screen or online. This hurts the replayability of the single player greatly 
 and really prevents the game from entering the hallowed hall of classic shooters, specifically 
 because in this age of 'next-generation' shooters split-screen or online cooperative play has really 
 become a part of the standard package. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER- A GOOD BUT SHORT RUN:
  
  Killzone 2 has an impressive and initially daunting multiplayer component. Multiplayer games in 
 Killzone 2 (without host modification) are continuous and involve all of the various gametypes 
 to create a chaotic battlefield where players are constantly moving and firing to complete objectives, 
 be it emplacing a bomb in the enemy base, holding a checkpoint on the map, or your standard deathmatch. 
 This variation on popular shooter gametypes is enhanced nicely by the inclusion of several classes 
 each with its own unique primary and unlockable secondary abilities. All of the various classes 
 are unlocked as you advance in rank, and you will not have access to the full compliment of classes 
 until you have reached the final rank of General. In terms of abilities, medics revive fallen teammates 
 before they bleed out and have to respawn, snipers can temporarily turn invisible when stationary 
 until they fire a killshot, saboteurs can disguise themselves as a member of the enemy team until 
 they have fired off a certain number of rounds, and the standard rifleman can use almost every 
 firearm in the game with a few obvious exceptions. The classes are all well balanced, with exception 
 being the assault class which seems as though it were tacked on and thrown in at the last minute 
 in an effort to make the game more diverse. 
  
  However, this discussion brings us to one of the primary weak points of Killzone 2's multiplayer- 
 its longevity. When you have finally unlocked the sniper upon reaching the last rank in the game 
 (which the average player can do after playing the game for roughly ten to twelve hours) you have 
 little left to do in the game but improve your statistics and unlock the secondary abilities of 
 the various classes which you can then add to any other class that has its secondary ability unlocked 
 to create a somewhat unique combined class. The downside of this is that it takes a significant 
 amount of playtime to unlock multiple secondary abilties, about 8 games or so if you can complete 
 objectives perfectly. Furthermore the secondary abilities of most of the classes are nowhere near 
 as interesting as the primary abilities, so being a sniper that can dispense medpacs or repair 
 mounted turrets and ammo dispensers isn't that much of a perk. The ease with which the player will 
 unlock all of the multiplayer content, as well as the lack of a wide range of content, makes the 
 game grow stale rather quickly. 
  
  The limited number of ranks and class abilties combined with the very limited number of weapons 
 (and the lack of ability to customize any of these weapons with scopes, silencers, etc.) combine 
 to make the multiplayer component of Killzone 2 pale in comparison to other recent shooters. However, 
 for what it is worth, the weapons in Killzone 2 hold up incredibly well, I cannot image a Call 
 of Duty game containing only 2 assault rifles, 1 submachinegun, 1 shotgun, 1 sniper rifle, and 
 2 light machineguns and keeping a multiplayer community as entertained as Killzone 2's has been. 
 
  Also, the maps in Killzone 2 are excellent. Almost every map is epic in size and works surprisingly 
 well for every single gametype that Killzone 2's multiplayer can throw at you. The only disappointment 
 here is the limited number of maps, there are only 8, and to progress at all in multiplayer you 
 will be playing them a lot, therefore, the maps, like the weapons and classes, will get old after 
 you have killed, and been killed, all over them countless times. 
  
  FINALLY, THE CONTROLS- 'SLOPPY' OR 'DIFFERENT'?
  
  The most controversial aspect of reviewing 
 Killzone 2 has to be addressing its aiming mechanics. Aiming in Killzone 2 is different than just 
 about every shooter made before it simply because it is extremely loose regardless of the player 
 looking down the sight or not. The player will have to turn the look sensitivity way down to aim 
 with any precision at all. Furthermore, the player's field of vision is blurred everytime he looks 
 left or right. These control issues have caused many players to deem the controls 'sloppy' and 
 writing the game off as a failure altogether after playing it for a few minutes. However, this 
 isn't even addressing the actual shooting that goes on in the game. Killzone 2 was clearly influenced 
 by the Call of Duty series, easily seen in the way the player can draw up his iron sights (or scope) 
 to take more precise shots at his enemies. However, in the multiplayer portion of this game, the 
 shots fired while looking down the sights of a gun are far from pinpoint accurate; succinctly speaking, 
 shooting down the sight is slightly more accurate than shooting from the hip and ridiculously less 
 effective at close ranges. Moreover, firing while crouching is by far more accurate without using 
 the iron sights than any other mode of aiming, an aspect that has drawn in many former Counterstrike 
 players. Any shots to the head at all, from anywhere, are an instant kill. This means that a precisely 
 aiming player can be killed by one stray shot from a player running around spraying bullets at 
 him, or even by an errant shot from a sentry bot. Essentially, these facts combine to make Killzone 
 2 less like Call of Duty than any other game done in this style. 
  
  Also compounding this issue are player health and movement speed. In Killzone 2 players start with 
 a lot of health, only half of which regenerates. Players also move extremely fast, especially when 
 sprinting, to the point where firing at a player running laterally across your field of view is 
 essentially useless. What this all means is that players can absorb a lot of damage and run away 
 without dying, precisely aiming at them will not always yield results, and these facts combine 
 to make a situation that many players cannot deal with. An easy (and obvious) solution to this 
 is either to increase weapon damage so the shots that do hit enemies have an effect, or to reduce 
 player movement speed so that players can no longer run rampant around levels firing haphazardly 
 until they achieve kills. 
  
  Regardless, Killzone 2 is a game that every Playstation 3 owner needs to give a look, even if it 
 means a short look, the experience is well worth it, be it multiplayer or singleplayer. The game 
 is very well polished, and even if it can be devoured relatively quickly compared to many other 
 shooters, it still is a solid entry in the genre at its core. In terms of a long-lasting purchase, 
 Killzone 2 lacks the longevity other shooters like the Call of Duty series have set a high standard 
 for, while possessing way too much controversiality to keep it spinning in many players' PS3s for 
 very long, how developer Guerilla chooses to respond to this, be it gameplay tweaks or downloadable 
 content remains to be seen. Play this game, but lower your expectations. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Clark
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a game which may not bring anything new to the table, but combines many excellent 
 qualities of other great shooters such as smooth controls, technically impressive graphics, solid 
 frame rate and variety of guns to play with, all the while creating an experience which feels entirely 
 original. Much of this originality is on loan from the atmosphere provided by the militaristic 
 Helghast, whose faces remain hidden behind their gas mask, armored from head to toe, each with 
 a singular desire to kill their enemies. In many respects their look is akin to Nazi's wearing 
 gas masks, each Helghast soldier evokes a strong presence of inhumanity. Their most powerful trait 
 however is their eyes, which while behind their mask, glows a deep red, which also lends itself 
 well to multiplayer which will be covered later. The environment, Helghan, is a less-than friendly 
 one, whether it is in cities or out in the wastelands destruction and ruin is found. The weather 
 is even less welcoming, often thunder and lightning is in the forecast, lightning which oftentimes 
 is heard and seen striking buildings off in the distance. Besides the environment the game does 
 a great job of making the weapons and motions feel real. When the player melee's the screen moves 
 with the rifle butt, when the player reloads the entire process is visible, gun barrels glow a 
 bright red before they overheat, no free autoreloads either, when the player goes up a ladder the 
 screen sways to the side with ever movement upwards, and when the player presses a button the character 
 reaches forward and a physically presses the button. All and all the atmosphere is hard to beat, 
 which is good because the story makes every attempt it diminish its effect. Basically it is your 
 standard story of "Alpha Squad" which consists of a few rapidly swearing grizzled men of war fighting 
 against an overwhelming force.
  
  The controls are your standard FPS controls, they are responsive and are advanced by a stable frame 
 rate which aids the smoothness. The game includes a unique cover system, which is only available 
 in single player, in which you can peek out from cover, much like Gears of War or Rainbow Six, 
 but instead you are always in First Person. Sometimes it can be bothersome and stick the player 
 to walls they had not intended to and reloading causes the player to be unable to move around behind 
 cover, even though you can while just moving normally. Speaking of glitches its worth noting that 
 there are a few points in the single player where the friendly AI seems to forget to open up pathways 
 to continue in the game, more then once I had to kill myself with a grenade and replay a segment 
 to continue in the game.
  
  Multiplayer is one of Killzone 2's greatest achievements. A combination of a highly fun method 
 of combining multiple game modes, excellent map designs and a rewarding rank up system make Killzone 
 2's multiplayer a benchmark which future multiplayer FPS's should note. Firstly the game modes 
 consist of Bodycount (TDM) , Search and Retrieve (one flag CTF) , Capture and Hold (Conquest) , Assassination 
 (VIP Escort) , and an Attack and Defend mode (unfortunately the name escapes me atm) . Each of these 
 are fun to play but what makes it more fun is how they are put into play in the same game. Yeah 
 you read right, in the same game, Each map plays a certain number of game types, one after another 
 for a time designated by the host, each team competes to win the majority of rounds per match, 
 forcing the players to react to consistently changing battlefield conditions and objectives. Each 
 map is well designed and its worth noting that there is no bad map. Each one retains much of the 
 atmosphere of the single player game, including the lightning in some maps. They levels are designed 
 with multiple levels of high, forcing players to fight not only on an x and y axis but oftentimes 
 also on a z axis. Players will almost never find themselves wandering around in search of other 
 players, choke points are well designed and players are always routed directly to where the action 
 is. Remember those glowing red eyes? On multiplayer modes those same glowing red eyes are just 
 as menacing, fortunately for you it makes it very easy to spot Helghast, even in the distance, 
 another aspect which forces players into near perpetual conflict during multiplayer matches. Don't 
 be alarmed mind you, Helghasts aren't the only ones who are given away, the ISA opposition is easily 
 highlighted by their bright blue visors which shine in the distance. The Rank-up system is akin 
 to that of Call of Duty 4, players earn experience based on their performance and unlock new weapons 
 and classes with each rank. They can perform certain online achievements to gain additional benefits 
 for their classes or weapons. For Call of Duty it was a very successful system and continues to 
 be one in Killzone.
  
  Overall despite some single player specific glitches and a story which can only be described as 
 derivative, this is a game which will do more then just satisfy any FPS lovers needs but thanks 
 to an excellent multiplayer, which rewards long term play, it will stick with you for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolCheese6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Kllzone 2.... is it good? the 1st killzone was dissapointing so y buy the 2nd one? is it worth ur 
 cash? these questions were lingering in my mind untill... i bought the game! the answer 2 all these 
 questions r yes, yes, and yes! no 1st person can get ant better than this! let's start with the graphics... gorgeous... iam 
 speechless! u will be 2! the gore is beautiful, its very hard to see tough, everything is being 
 shot at (including u) so ur 2 busy finding cover to protect urself so u dont have enough time 2 
 enjoy the gush of blood! how about the AI's? they r smart as hell... they can shank u, they hide 
 for cover, they ambush.. how can it get any better?! if u liked COD 4, u will luv this game! the 
 shooting or action is very similar but better! 1 mor thing... Guerrilla added 1 creative and random 
 feature, u can actually shoot of the Helghasts helmet! yup, u heard me... if u shoot at the helmet, 
 it will be shot off! its very cool! final statement... GET THIS GAME OR ELSE...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikelftw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is that this game is absolutly amazing i'm not here to talk about the negative stuff 
 about it only the good ones.
  The graphics are Amazing, the controlls are Great (Yeah i dont understand the complainings about 
 the controlls being slow i got used to it in 2 days)
  The multiplayer is Revolutinary (for me atleast) it think i'm never gonna stop playing it The single 
 player is great Hard (thats all the point of the greatness)
  the A. I are really smart the can read your minds xept for your A. I sometimes
  i suggest to everyone 
 and those who dont have a account to playstation network to get this game because it got skirmish 
 that is mostly as warzone only with bots and it feels like online with no lag at all!
  TO ALL FIRST PERSON SHOOTER LOVERS GET THIS GAME RIGHT NOW.
  PS: the skirmish does not envolved 
 badges. (but who cares pick up weapons) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghandi_2005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  So it's finally out, and the flame war has began, and yes I am talking about Killzone 2. I recently 
 got the game the day it came out and completed the story in 7 hours. Which i felt dissapointed 
 considering the fact it had everything going for it until the very end of the game. It is a good 
 game, but I felt as if I've played this game 9000 times before. The graphics are pretty, but if 
 you start to study it, you will see that it's just the lighting thats making this game look so 
 great. It definately holds it's place with Gears and COD 4, but it isn't as gratifying when you 
 finally finish the single player component. The multiplayer is where the game truley shines, it's 
 nothing new but if you are a PS3 owner and your tired of playing COD and Resistance then this might 
 grab you attention. The game suffers from something I like to call Identity Crisis, it borrows 
 from so many great games. Halo, COD 4, Gears, Half-Life 2, and Resistance. It doesn't do anything 
 fresh, but it does give you a solid experience. I think this game is way over-rated, and the community 
 has turned this game into something you want to avoid. I have never really experienced arrogance 
 from people since the games release. So i can't score this game any higher or lower that what I 
 have, I think this score will have to do. Hopefull when Killzone 3 comes out they can bring something 
 new. So my verdict it: 
  
  Graphics doesn't mean Great Game, but this game does borrow from the best to bring you the best 
 PS3 shooter available. 
  
  Go buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it first person shooters rock. And Killzone 2 is no exception. The maps are frigging 
 huge. They make cod 4 look minuscule at best. it also has some influences from team fortress 2 
 like the medic and mechanic classes. There are probably more classes, but I haven't gotten that 
 far. The ranking system is similar to Cod4 and to me that is awesome. Since I'm a new PS3 owner, 
 I'm not used to seeing 32 players on one map and the connection has literally no lag whatsoever. 
 Depending on the game type you can have 5 different game types in one match which completely sets 
 this game apart form any other game because no game has this feature. And lets not forget the visuals. 
 Oh my ****ing God they are the best graphics on the current generation platforms. Just when you 
 think that the ps3 is pushed to the limit with MGS4, Killzone 2's visuals are maybe twice as good. 
 The atmosphere is a dark barren gloom world that is actually a feast for the eyes. But what I love 
 most about the game is the sound. I have a 5.1 sound system, and it is amazing to hear. I like 
 how they implemented the sixaxis into the sniper and it is about time a developer put the feature 
 to good use. The campaign is a good challenge in hard but is a walk in the park if you do it on 
 normal. Between this STF4, RE5 KZ2and other must have games, this has got to be the best first 
 quarters in recent history and three possible game of the year nominees by April depending on the 
 site or game mag. And I'm glad that I have all three. In the early going, killzone 2 may help increase 
 ps3 sells because if your a narrow minded xbot fanboy you are really missing out. So overall this 
 game is a ten. However any review under a 9 pretty much means that you have no clue was an awesome 
 game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moondog808
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  I have never really been more blown away by a games opening cutscene then I have with this game! 
 The graphics are the most obvious note about it. I mean look at them! Their wonderful! The best 
 a console has to offer, really pushing the PS3 to the limit. Also, the sound design is amazing! 
 The real sounding shooting, and the yells and cries of the soldiers on the battlefield, and the 
 epic music playing in the background really brings the gamer into it. Among these things, when 
 the cutscene ends, the game begins, and what a game it is. First of all, you'll notice that the 
 controls are a bit slower than in other FPS games, and this may cause some frustration. But remember 
 that this is a tactical shooter, and not a tight trigger-happy shoot em' up. With each step you 
 take, it feels heavy, like you're actually making an impact into the ground. You feel like you've 
 been dropped into this heavy war zone, all the way from start to finish. Speaking of finish. The 
 game can become pretty difficult if you're not experienced to tactical FPS's in the past. Multiplayer 
 is a blast, and the leveling system is just as good as any other game there is out there. So if 
 you have a PS3, and like shooters, then go and buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papacobden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep the review short and sweet. This is the title Sony needed to show why their system is 
 better. I own them all and love FPS games. Killzone 2 is the best FPS I've ever played. It doesn't 
 do everything better than every other FPS if you analyze each part of a FPS but as a total package 
 it is the best experience you'll have.
  
  Graphics are excellent.
  Environments are unparalleled.
  Map/level design is excellent.
  Multiplayer is deep and sets 
 a new benchmark for FPS games.
  Story moves the game along but nothing special even for FPS games.
  
  The only real complaint 
 I have is the lack of co-op mode. WTF! Sony, and other developers for that matter, drop the ball 
 in this respect. Basically, they are telling me if I want to play with my buddies we all need to 
 go home and play online with each other. Wake up. 
  
  It's simple. If you own a PS3 you have a duty to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viking_1298
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 was a great game with plenty of first person action that mops the floor with other 
 shooters. However since the release of Killzone 2 it is all but forgotten. How did Killzone 2 out 
 perform Resistance despite the franchises rough start on the PS2? Well for starters the graphics 
 have improved a whole lot. Second the animation is far more realistic than any other shooter I've 
 seen before. Even Halo can't compare with the realism that has given KZ an edge over the competition. 
 And third it's on the PS3; the most forgiven platform I've ever bought. The cinematics were some 
 of the best I've seen but the fighting is every bit or even mores as insane as Resistance. So far 
 the toughest part I've been through was trying to take out a boss character while trying to stay 
 alive. Then there was the first at the end were air strike missles started blowig up the whole 
 place after that show down with a tank unit. So far I'm on the run against some bizarre aircraft 
 spraying bullets all over the place. Yes when you first get into the game you'll be spending a 
 lot of time shooting enemy soilders and dodgeing bullets. I tell ya' I'd almost puked all over 
 the floor before saving my progress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Now before everybody out there that LOVES this game, and feels it is the second coming of FPS's 
 goes off the deep end and starts throwing out words like "Fan-Boy" or "Noob", sit back, take a 
 deep breath and just give me a chance to explain myself.
  
  
  Have you ever been on a blind date, or even on a date with someone that you "kinda" knew about, 
 or on a second date where you had some pretty high expectations due to your first date? And things 
 just did not work out, you left with a completely under whelmed feeling of "oh well, that could 
 have been better" Well, that is EXACTLY how I feel about Guerrilla's second attempt at KillZone.
 
  
  
  I will try my best to break this down, but a warning to all..... This review might seem a little 
 "harsh", that is due to my complete and udder disappointment I felt as I played the game. Oh, and 
 I should also let you know that I REALLY WAS looking forward to this game, based solely my experience 
 with the fist KillZone back in 2004.
  
  
  Story: 4
  
  Could this part of the game be any worse? They could have made this game with NO story, no speech, 
 no characters of any kind and I don't think anybody would have missed it. With some of the most 
 forgettable characters, and HORRIBLE writing, this is one of the worse stories you will ever encounter 
 in the gaming world. I never felt attached to the characters, or the need to follow along with 
 the story. Oh, and I think if you sit back after your hype induced gaming high, you will find many 
 similarities between this story and..... Gears Of War, does Radec remind you of anybody? Or how 
 about that battle on the train/transport... ever seen that before?
  
  
  Graphics: 7
  
  Beauty is only skin deep people. How hard is it to make a game look good when nearly every 
 level is dark, and hard to see? Sure, there are moments of flash and wow, but for me they were 
 few and far between. People say "it's in the small details" Well, I looked and looked for the small 
 details and really had a hard time finding them. WOW, look, bullets leave pot marks on the walls 
 (never seen that before) .. or COOL, tracers and tons of stuff on the screen... yup, never seen 
 that either. Even the explosions felt bland and harmless. Weapon detail is "good", but again I 
 felt like I was carrying around a toy the entire time. And to answer your question, YES I am playing 
 this in the full beauty of HDTV. Nothing ever made me say "OMG DID YOU SEE THAT" in this game.
 
  
  
  I am not sure where to throw this in, but one of the things that I had a real issue with was the 
 FOV (Field Of View) . For what ever reason, even when you are not zoomed in with your weapon, it 
 seemed that everything was up close, that you had a very limited FOV. I won't even really go into 
 the feeling of looking through a drinking straw when using the sniper rifle.
  
  
  Audio: 5
  
  Hmmm, nothing, and I mean NOTHING stood out for me when it came the audio. Given 
 the bland, forgettable environments, I think they did a great job of matching them with some lackluster 
 sound. From weapons firing to background audio... nothing to write home about, they did nothing 
 to bring me deeper into the experience. The good folks over at Guerrilla could take notes from 
 any of the COD games, or Dead Space.
  
  
  Controls: 5
  
  Oh my... here we go. I think Guerrilla knew long before this game was released that it was lacking 
 in almost ever aspect of what they wanted. Remember, they worked on this game for 5... FIVE years. 
 So in order to make it "unique" they added a control GIMMICK, yes, I do mean GIMMICK. They call 
 it "weighted weapons" or something like that, where you are supposed to feel the pull/weight of 
 the guns. Their goal was to make it so you were not able to spin and fire in a instance. I call 
 it a GIMMICK that made the game completely un-enjoyable, at least for me. I did finish the game, 
 but never did get use to "over steering" for lack of a better term. This awesome idea of a weighted 
 control system got so hyped that I think players bought into it just because they were told to.
 
  
  
  I also think this game exemplified some of my issues with the PS3 controller in general. I felt 
 that 80% of the time when I was trying to turn while in a firefight, I would accidentally press 
 the R3 button and zoom in, I did that ALL THE TIME. It also just showed me that the controller 
 is too small, R & L bumpers are to close to each other.
  
  
  Game Play: 7
  
  
  Over all, the game runs smoothly and there are very few glitches/bugs. They did a decent job of 
 splitting up the levels between using handheld weapons, or mounted guns..... to sitting in a turret 
 (again, another totally new idea) . Some things I felt they over used were the moments when you 
 had to use the Sixaxis control to turn valves, or plant explosives. Those moments were fun like 
 the first 5 times you had to do it. It also got old having to shoot electric boxes in order to 
 advance or cause damage to a enemy.
  
  
  Online: Un Rated
  
  
  I was going to give the online a 5 due to my experience with major lag when I tried to play. But 
 then I thought about it, and I only tried online twice so I figured that would be unfair of me 
 to rate. I understand the "flowing/changing" game play might be cool, but I did not get a chance 
 to really experience it.
  
  
  Over all, I will not say that this is a BAD game, but at the same time I would not say it is GREAT 
 or that it even lived up to its hype. After 5 years of development time I figured this game would 
 have floored me the way MGS 4 did. To me, it felt like a very AVERAGE FPS that at least deserves 
 a rental if you have the PS3.
  
  OVERLALL Score = 5.6
  
  
  To summarize, below you will see my list of PROS/CONS.
  
  
  PROS
  
  
  NO TIMED BUTTON 
 MASHING MINI GAMES!!!!
  
  The game was over pretty quickly
  
  Easy to use waypoint system
  
  
  CONS
  
  
  Forgettable story & characters
  
  You 
 are the only team member that can heal others
  
  Did I just play the first KillZone? It was hard to tell the difference
  
  Sloppy control gimmick
 
  
  Takes WAY to many bullets to kill someone
  
  Horrible FOV
  
  Can carry only one weapon besides the pistol that you can't drop
  
  Load issues/lag/freeze 
 ups between check points interrupt game play
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  I'm a PC gamer but love my PS3 for MGS4, GT5 Prolog, MS: PR and Uncharted. Loved Resistance 1 co-op 
 and very frustrated they removed it from R2. Really hoped for co-op in KZ2, sadly, it's not there. 
 In my book that already puts it at 9/10 max. Since I hate console controllers I want to just out 
 of principle knock this down another one point since I really think a good PC game on a good rig 
 that gets 10/10 cannot possible score more than 8/10 on a console if you wanna do apples/apples 
 comparisons. I won't do this since I'll be seen as a PC fanboy, so I'll stick to 9.
  
  The thing is, the rest of Killzone 2 deserves 9/9.
  
  The visuals are truly second to none 
 as far as consoles go and coupled with that the sound and meticulous care that went into level 
 design create an atmosphere that's as immersive as anything I've played. The single player campaign 
 has a typically unsubstantial FPS storyline but since an FPS with a solid story is yet to be created 
 (Half Life was prob closest thus far) I won't knock off points for that.
  
  I've seen many people complain about the controls, but to be honest it's no worse than any other 
 console game I've played (including 360 treasures like Halo 3 and GOW 2) . Nothing beats a mouse 
 and keyboard for FPS control. Period.
  
  Then of course there's multiplayer. I've only started to get into it but as I'm typing I cannot 
 wait to get back on. Surprisingly, I haven't played COD 4 on my PC online for the last week. Only 
 R2 and KZ2. Hopefully I'm not becoming a console gamer, or... even worse... a PS3 fanboy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooMan89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  This is the best single player fps on the PS3. I found the cut scenes engrossing the characters 
 likable and the action fast and intense. I did find that the controls where lacking as after the 
 fist minute I found myself changing from the default to an alternate. I found it hard to adjust 
 to the slow turning system, it was a good idea and 10min in I had got used to it. The game is well-polished 
 graphics where grate and movement and frame rate was smooth but this is what I expected as they 
 took so long making the game.
  
  The online is where sadly it is lacking., the maps are to big which makes action repetitive and 
 more than often than not slow, and there is a disappointing lack of non-team death match, which 
 is what I play the most on COD4. On a good note it was a good idea for the constant switching modes 
 within the game but that should be one option and not the whole online play.
  
  Over all it is a must buy for all PS3 owners and we should rub it in the face of all xbox 360 owners 
 as it is a good solid single player with a good but sadly disappointing online play.
  
  p. s one little rant. There is one thing, which is really starting to annoy me about all new generation 
 FPS. Where has split screen gone, I miss sitting down with 4 m8's shooting the sh**t out of them. 
 I find myself having to go back to playing time splitters just to do that. So BRING BACK SPLIT 
 SCREEN.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slallas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  A great game but yet does not match up to COD but at the same time it has its own little interesting 
 things.. I really enjoyed the story line.. especially how it ended !!
  
  Great graphics.. Especially love the background effects!! Loved most of the weapons but most of 
 all i loved the Flamethrower ! Although Found a few bugs here and there but they were rare but 
 when they kicked in annoying like if you were trying take cover behind something and try to aim 
 instead of looking over you end up moving out of the way and that got really annoying.. other than 
 that i found that it was great to play.. ran smooth and i had no hick ups !
  
  I found playing it on-line is great but eventually got dull and repetitive but if that is the case 
 just go out or do something and you will definitely go back and play it at the end of the day ! 
 
  
  All in all if your looking for a new COD then this is not it.. but i found this game to be just 
 as good in its own way !! this is just a brief review for people who are not too bothered about 
 reading a lot ! Definitely worth purchasing! 
  
  slallas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is out, at last. Oddly enough, all the hype it got was mainly for its graphical aspect. 
 Because, lets face it, Killzone 1 sucked major ass. Yes, it had good weaponry and nice animations, 
 but that was about it. And then, all of the sudden, this game gets launched to the stars with hype 
 just because of its graphics.
  
  And really, is there something else that holds up Killzone2 other than its graphics? Uh, online 
 for a while, I guess.
  
  The gameplay is a mixed bag. Gun models looks good, ( ripped off modern weapons and transformed 
 into futuristic ones ) and shoots right. Every guns packs a good punch, but the enemies you'll 
 face in the SP are very, very tough to get down. You'll most likely spray about fifteen bullets 
 per enemy, if not the whole clip, because the aiming-from-the-ironsight is so wonky ( unless you're 
 using the M82, wich is fine ) and hard to use properly. 
  
  So trying to get headshots is a real task, and worse, most of them needs two bullets in the face 
 to get down. One will spin them , the other will kill them. Wich is hard. I would have liked to 
 see enemies getting a little bit less health, to make things feel realistic enough. Online seems 
 much easier to get headshots, because players needs one well-placed bullet to drop down, wich is 
 fine. So, for the first hours, the game will be very hard, because you'll need to adapt to the 
 deadzone of the sensitivity. 
  
  Harder difficulties will literally make you want to throw the controller at the screen, like ninjagaiden2. 
 Why? Because in some places, you'll need to keep moving otherwise the game will spawn an infinite 
 ammount of soldiers for you to mow down. And the game doesnt tell you that. So you'll sit down, 
 and try to make your way while clearing the Heglhan troops- yet they'll keep coming. So you'll 
 need to trial-and-error- your way in, and rush past them to see them literaly disapear ( like in 
 the bridge fight ) It's frustrating, no, infuriating. It doesnt rewards your skill, but your luck, 
 wich is not fine.
  
  The problem with the gunplay is that there's nothing else to it. No secondary firemodes, ( unlike 
 KZ1 ) and no gameplay features to speak of. Maybe the cover system, wich is wonky at times. See, 
 sometimes you'll want to peek out, yet Sev ( your dude ) won't, or will stagger.
  
  The sound is fine, and the songs are epic. The big problem in that domain is only one guy, Rico. 
 He spits out f-bombs in every single phrase he speaks out. Every single one of them. Except one 
 or two. And really, it gets super tedious after a while, since his voice actor sounds like an horny 
 gorrilla ( guerrilla, see what i did there? ) and the character himself is a pain to bear. 
  
  The graphics are... yet again, a mixed bag. Some locals and set pieces are simply breathtaking, 
 including the lighting effects on both ISA and Helghast soldiers. But there's this ugly, displeasing 
 grain filter that blurs everything out for no reason. Even the butt of your gun is blured out. 
 When you reload, it gets blured out. Maybe was it the trick the devs did to hide some of the technical 
 blemishes? Anyways, the game really shines graphically, and it's easy to '' wow '' in front of 
 them. Except for the shadows, wich are extremely low res for some reason.
  
  The online aspect is quite nice - as long as you have something cool to unlock. Like classes. After 
 that, wich is about 18 hours long to get at a 1-1 kill death ratio, you'll start yawning. Since 
 the game supports only 11 weapons online, there's not much diversity for an online shooter. After 
 a while, chances are you'll want to start using something else than the default M82, but you'll 
 realise that its one of the most easy to use weapon, and get back to it, wich isnt really a good 
 thing.
  
  Of course, with some patches the online aspect of the game could be improved with patches, and 
 guerrilla seems quite dedicated to it. Overall, the game is a must rent, its a real tech demo for 
 the PS3, yet there's literaly no features to make this shooter unique and stand appart of its competitors, 
 other than good graphics. You aim, you shoot. No weapon modding online, no secondary fires, nothing. 
 For some it may be enough, but for me, its definitly not my cup of tea. I've spent 30 hours on 
 the game, and I don't see how i'll get back to it, unless something interesting gets DLC'ed for 
 it.
  
  9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martyr2k6
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so not to start a flamewar... But the people have spoken, both at Gamespot and the community 
 within... Halo still carries a 9.7 rating, Halo 2 a 9.4 and Halo 3 at a 9.5 ... While Killzone 
 is st a 6.9, Killzone: Liberation a 8.3 and Killzone 2 is only a 9.0 . Sure I know that Halo Wars 
 (a different game, different genre, same universe) was rated across the board as a 6.5, but that's 
 neither here nor there...
  
  Now that ratings are out of the way, I PERSONALLY have never played any of the Killzone games at 
 all. For those that know me, it is common knowledge that I don't own a PS3 or a PSP, but I do have 
 a PS2 and PS. So I have no PERSONAL experience with any of the games. Having said that, I have 
 watched and followed the news and footage of KZ2 with mixed feelings. Sure, the graphics are wonderful, 
 and I hear good things about the gameplay. But what would COMPLETELY deter me from the series is 
 that the followers (and developers at that) proclaim it as a "Halo Killer", hell Guerilla Games 
 was boasting about said quote before the first one was released. To me, that is a shameful act, 
 to deliberately set your goal to blowing a particular IP out of the water with your own in the 
 same genre...
  
  So being that I am a hardcore gamer (playing ALMOST all games, across ALMOST all platforms) I am 
 going to enjoy passing this one up. It has it's many triumphs, but it's downfalls are heavily weighted 
 on it's overall attitude. Sony again falls short on ill-fated promises in my book with this one. 
 The most they have been able to impress me with is MGS4 and LBP. 
  
  Thumbs down, thumbs down...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKungFool
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Though I was one of the few gamers who seemed to admire the original Killzone, it was with an awkward 
 trepidness that I awaited its next generation sequel. The first game was fantastic, though it was 
 met with much scrutiny at the time and revieved decent, though not stellar reviews, and I was worried 
 that its sequel would try to hard to go in a different direction. After playing through Killzone2, 
 I can honestly say I was delighted to see that my worries were for naught. Make no mistake, this 
 is the must have shooter on the PS3, and its leaves titles like Halo, Gears, and Resistance in 
 its glorious wake of destruction.
  
  Its hard to review this title and not come across as a completely overzealous fanboy, but this 
 game is that good, and its not to be missed. The campaign is a wonderfull ride full of top-notch 
 action and what I honestly feel are the best graphics this generation has seen thusfar. The story 
 will keep you wanting to see more, the action is addictive and enjoyable, and the variety in objectives 
 and missions is well executed. The only knock against the campaign mode is that perhaps it could 
 have been a level or two longer, and the dialogue can be over-the-top in a few spots. That said, 
 I haven't had this much fun in a single player FPSer campaign since "Chronicles of Riddick". 
 
  
  Gameplay wise, this game is a real treat. Controlls are fluid, aiming is very smooth and accurate, 
 and the vast array of weapons is staggering. Its not just that there are lots of weapons, but that 
 fact that they are done so well that was most impressive. The best example of this was the flamethrower, 
 which while its appeared in other titles before, has never felt to realistic and impressive to 
 use. There are also a few very nice touches such as the use of the sixaxis motion controls to place 
 mines and turn valves/levers, and the option to dash run and use a duck and cover manuever to take 
 cover. You'll also enjoy a few standard though entertaining scenarios of the tank driving, turret 
 manning, and mech suit operating variety. The other truly impressive aspect is the hit detection, 
 which is as accurate as I've ever seen in a FPSer.
  
  Graphically and Physically speaking, you won't find a more impressive game yet this generation. 
 Everything from the weather effects, character movements, and various effects are nothing short 
 of breathtaking, and thought the game rarely gives you a moment to relax, you'll find yourself 
 almost destracted with how fantastic the game looks. The transition between cutscenes and action 
 is almost seemless.
  
  The last thing to cover is the online play, which will unfortunately be a mixed bag for some folks. 
 The coolest aspect is the leveling system, which will release new weapons and skills as you rack 
 up the kills. The same slick controls, impressive graphics and smooth gameplay are present, but 
 there are definitely some quirks to be worked out. The maps are absolutely huge, and for the most 
 part it is a very well executed online experience, but it does have one glaring major setback.... some 
 areas are just too damned narrow to be playable as they contain some very tight stairways and corridors, 
 and 1/2 the time you'll be killed because your own teamate is just standing in a doorway and you 
 have nowhere to go. Maybe its not realistic, but far too often your teamates become more of a detrement 
 than a positive in many encounters. It comes down to simple level design, but a few of the online 
 maps are in defiinite need of some reworking. The other oddity at play is the hit detection, which 
 can be downright bizarre at times. Sometimes there is almost a delay of a second or two between 
 you hitting the guy, and the guy actually dropping. Sometimes you empty entire clips into a guy, 
 only to be quickly dropped yourself by a few random shots. The online is still very enjoyable and 
 complex and interesting enough to keep you playing, but don't be surprised if you get frustrated 
 often with the seemingly odd imbalance of hit detection and the afformentioned issue with some 
 of the tighter corridors.
  
  This is one of the first FPSers in a long, long time to offer such impressive quality in both the 
 campaign and online portions, and if you like FPSers whatsoever, this game needs to be in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. But not as much as I thought I would. When I saw the trailer back in E3 05 I 
 really thought this would be the game to end all games. But it's not, It's still Metal Gear Solid 
 4 that holds that title. So maybe Im going hard on it.
  It's true It does not look like the trailer but it comes close and blows away anything else on 
 consoles from a technical stand point. The gamesplay is fun and incorperates a cover system that 
 stays in first person for a change. The games has a varitey of weapons that all have a unique feel 
 to them and a variety of game scenarios that all have a way of keeping the action flowing and keeping 
 you hooked. Sound quality is impressive, but there isn't much to hear other than explosions, gun 
 shots, and some of the worst ingame dialouge ever. Multiplayer is really good supporting a bunch 
 of game modes stringed into a "warzone" mode which switches up the objective every couple of minutes. 
 
  Now for the bad. The games is pretty short. It has no CooP. I also was not compelled to replay 
 the single player again. It can be extremely hard. It fails to provide the massive, chaotic, explosive, 
 war situations that you want, by this I mean other than the first couple of levels there isn't 
 much of this massive wars going on. For the most parts its you and a buddy alone. I really wanted 
 hundreds of soldiers fighting. but I didn't get that. 
  In the end they get more right than wrong and at the end of the day with this game you will be 
 a happy PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobwhu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:43 am PT
Review:  This must be the first time I have ever disagreed with a review that awards a game a 9, while dismissing 
 the stupidity of people posting reviews and game scores of 2.5 and so on.
  
  My issues stand with games previously receiving scores of 9.5/10 that in my opinion are inferior 
 to Killzone 2, the argument used for such games was that although not perfect, for the systems 
 available at the time, and the fact they had moved the genre forward would warrant such a high 
 score. Halo 3 springs to mind, visually it was OK, but not ground breaking,, Story was good, but 
 had lost its way slightly, and the game play, although a classic/solid multiplayer was very similar 
 to game play on Halo 2 on the original Xbox, granted it was a step forward at the time for the 
 genre, but not ground breaking, yet it scored 9.5
  
  My opinion of Killzone, well, visually, its ground breaking, for the current crop of consoles, 
 this game is head and shoulders above the rest, bearing in mind this is in the same generation 
 as Halo 3. Anyone who states otherwise has either not played the game or is sadly a fan boy who 
 cannot come to terms with the PS3 finally showing its true potential (also see Motor Storm 2, LBP 
 and MGS4)
  
  Game play is superb, with a magnitude of on-line options, better voice chat, class system, the 
 ability to work as a team; all features taken from other classic games which include possibly the 
 best on-line team game I can remember "Return to Castle Wolfenstein:", anyone who played the class 
 system defending the documents on Beach will know what I mean. All these elements are included,
 
  
  Although not the longest, the single player is an experience to behold, amazing battles, fantastic 
 AI, with beautifully designed levels, granted the story isn't going to win an Oscar, but in my 
 opinion, this doesn't take anything away from my enjoyment of the game.
  
  So, my score, Do I think this game is a step forward, Yes I do, it delivers visually where no game 
 as gone before, it mixes some of the best elements of my favourite shooters (Halo 3, COD4, Wolfenstein:) 
 and blends them into a very rewarding online experience, so I award 9.5 (9.7 if the GS sytem would 
 allow me) for possibly the best shooter I have played both off and on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyser_So_So
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:36 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has for a long time been a game that has been essentially the trump card for many console 
 discussions. It's the "yeah but have you seen the in game footage and read the previews..." comment 
 for PS3 fanboys, and a "yeah but it's never going to be that good/we've got gear of war and halo" 
 comment for the 360 fanboys. 
  
  Nevertheless, I proudly distance myself from fanboyism and I can tell you conclusively that neither 
 comment serves any use now that we've all had a chance to play through it. You see, it really is 
 as good looking and great playing as Sony had hoped for their console's trump card- but at the 
 same time it's not flawless...
  
  Story wise it relies on you having played or at least know the story to the original Killzone on 
 PS2. Otherwise, the rousing speech at the beginning from the Helgan leader kind of deflates you 
 and leaves you thinking you are the bad guys.. if it weren't for the crazy glowing orange eyes 
 and all black attire of the Helgast. The story is involving if brief, expect to complete it in 
 roughly 7 hours; but it leaves you satisfied. There's none of the prolonged, increasingly boring 
 sensation invoked by recent games such as Far Cry 2 and nor is there a sense of it being too brief 
 to really explore fully, as was the case with Resistance 2. 
  
  Graphically, Killzone 2 really comes into its own. This really is top notch stuff, and it really 
 does look as if you're playing inside a top CGI film rather than a video game. The expanse of the 
 levels feels overwhelming and dense, and these are strengths that KZ2 plays to. There are moments 
 akin to the most stunning war movies and it never feels like you are some sort of one man army; 
 the entire time you rely on the actions of others whether its by your side shooting Helgast or 
 scripted or off screen events that you are made aware of over your radio. 
  
  The sound is suitably epic, from a rousing score to the epic sounds of battle around you; all off 
 set with fantastic acting talent that in some instances you will probably recognize.
  
  Gameplay wise, Killzone 2 shares much with the current FPS staples. It feels a slower, more methodical 
 and more realistic affair however- again reinforcing that sense that you are not an all powerful 
 one man army. The only advice for tweaking it is increasing the sensitivity of the axis slightly 
 in order to get your reactions faster, and also switching to 'Alternative 2' control scheme and 
 turning on the 'hold to aim' function- this essentially switches the controls to the familiar and, 
 many would argue perfectly balanced, COD4 control scheme (more on that annoying shadow over every 
 FPS later) . Most impressive within the gameplay is perhaps the enemy AI. They will scramble for 
 cover, create covering fire, move position to avoid your attacks, and sometimes attack you with 
 a knife when close enough to be sure of a kill. The same can be said of your squad mates and others 
 on the battlefield, although when they follow you they do have a tendency to get in your way as 
 you try and back into cover. 
  
  Online is perhaps where Killzone 2 keeps its best hidden triumph. I say best hidden, because to 
 be honest so much hinged on the core story and actual quality of the game itself that its not until 
 you fire it up that you realise the online mode is just as important in cementing its status as 
 a must have game. And it does in style. In a stroke of genius, the gameplay is slightly faster 
 and more twitchy in the multiplayer modes. In fact, it feels very similar to COD4. Which leads 
 me to the ultimate question- does it surpass or compete with that game's towering shadow over every 
 FPS released since? Well, yes and no. The online mode is definately on par, and its own features 
 surpass some of the flaws of COD4; especially in the exciting, epic battles where modes change 
 during one game, after each round, rather than quitting out and choosing different modes. And, 
 offline, Killzone 2's epic scope of the story and enjoyability easily surpasses COD4's fun but 
 slightly unimpressive story mode. Whilst COD4 was definately an online game rather than a offline 
 one, Killzone 2 manages the best of both worlds, and succeeds in being the game Sony desperately 
 needed it to be. It is a great game, and one that PS3 owners should not hesitate to try, if not 
 for the gameplay and the long run of playing online- then just to see what your PS3 can do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  I actually did just that.. sure it was just my old six-axis since my dualshock 3 was getting charged, 
 but I actually smashed my controller into a thousand pieces..
  Here's why...
  
  Man... where do I start. I love Killzone, I love the concept of Killzone but this game puts that 
 love through the test.
  
  
  (Before you read on it's important to know that I'm playing the game on the harder difficulty setting 
 since the default setting is too easy and I didn't want to blow through the game in a few hours)
 
  
  The problem isn't the fantastic visuals, the productionvalues or the fact that this is yet another 
 humans versus humanoids shooter.
  
  Part of the problem is that the game sets an absolutely relentless pace in that the combat never 
 ever let's up. The gameplay basically concists of the player walking into frantic ambush after 
 frantic ambush.. the stresslevel never ever ever let's up.
  
  That in itself isn't a problem because games like the Call of Duty series became famous for doing 
 just that.
  
  The difference between those games and Killzone is that the latter basically ties one hand behind 
 your back when dealing with those tight situations.
  Yes, I'm also going to hate on the aiming mechanics.
  They are not just sloppy, they are borderline 
 gamebreakingly bad.
  
  They wouldn't be so much of a problem if this were Rainbow Six, or Ghost Recon, and in the very 
 few slower paced sections of the game they will suffice. 
  But in frantic fights like the one where you have to cross the bridge to the Helghast palace they 
 are downright worthless.
  
  The best way to describe the controls to someone who hasn't played the game is to say it's like 
 playing Call of Duty on veteran after a bottle of Jack Daniels.
  
  The combination of the terrible controls and the frantic stressful ambushes results in frustrating 
 trial and error gameplay !
  
  The problem is further fueled by the fact that the weapons become frightingly inacurate after just 
 a second of holding the trigger. 
  
  So here we have a deadly combination of loose sloppy aim and reasonably unforgiving accuracy working 
 hard to make the game way harder than it actually is.
  
  The combination of a bad day at work and a dose of Killzone 2 proved deadly for my six-axis today 
 ;-)
  
  All in all K2 isn't a horrible game, but the combination of problems described above just mean 
 that regardless of it's name, graphics and fantastic enemy AI... the game just isn't as fun to play
 
  
  Since so many people are hating the controls and the fact that Guerilla games promised to take 
 notice of peoples wishes I still have hopes that a patch will come.
  
  It's just that right now, I deal with K2 rather than enjoy it... like I did Resistance 2.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 12:49 am PT
Review:  Kill zone, Kill zone, Kill zone, Kill zone, Kill zone. It is the best. It combines elements from 
 a lot of different amazing games. Like: The graphics from Metal Gear Solid 4, the aliens from Gears 
 Of War 2, the cover system from Rainbow Six Vegas, the action from COD 4, and the crushed environment 
 from Halo and Fallout 3. Kill zone combines all of those amazing games and makes one revolutionary 
 game. A great feature in the game is the violence in the blood. It is so realistic. Another amazing 
 feature is that the AI is smart and develop to how you play and what difficulty you need. For example, 
 if you stay next to a wall, covered, then your enemies would circle around you and hit you from 
 the back. Another thing that no other game has is that the enemies and allies could actually lose 
 ammunition. If an enemy lost all of his ammo then you would see him running towards you holding 
 a knife and slashing. This is a great thing because you could wait until they reload or lose ammo 
 so that you could fire on them and kill them. In this game you could also use the environment to 
 help you. Sometimes you see people transporting explosions over your enemies. Just shoot it and 
 they would all fall on them. You could also shoot at the edge of a wall to make a hole and use 
 it for cover or destroy the enemies' cover to make them vulnerable. This game also has millions 
 of different weapons like sub-machine guns, light-machine guns, rocket launchers, assault rifles, 
 and many futuristic weapons like the infinite lightning gun and the far-ranged flamethrower. This 
 game is the future. It is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, if you like to shoot things Killzone 2 is the game for you. It IS the best shooter ever made, 
 but it isn't perfect.
  
  Killzone 2 is the best looking game ever made, period. It looks better than MGS4, it looks better 
 than Crysis, you can't ask for more. The color palette is a little on the dark and gray side, but 
 is is so beautiful. There isn't a jaggy to be seen. Lighting is simply OMG. The visuals suck you 
 in and don't let go. The visual presentation really makes you feel like you are playing a huge 
 blockbuster movie. (note: I played on my Samsung 50 inch 1080p, probably wouldnt look as great 
 in SD)
  
  Killzone 2 is no slouch in the audio department either... The weapons sound amazing. Even your 
 simple starting assault rifles sound awesome, very powerful sounding as they should be. The weapons 
 all have their own different sound to add to the feeling you are shooting a different weapon. Voice 
 acting is superb, but ever so often the lip synching doesn't match up but its not too bad.
  
  The developers really took a risky move with the controls. Don't expect COD4 controls here, 
 everything is very weighted down. I like the way the controls feel, but it takes about an hour 
 to get used to them. The controls feel heavier than Gears of War, but you can move faster... I 
 hope that makes sense... Everything feels very realistic even though this is a sci-fi game, the 
 best way to describe it is a "sci-fi tactical first person shooter simulator".
  
  The campaign took me about 7.5 hours to complete, and it is HARD, mostly because of the A. I. which 
 is the best I have ever seen. Helghast will flank you, shoot when you peek, hide when you shoot, 
 rush you in teams, and so on...
  
  The story will make no sense or even seem non-existent if you haven't played the first Killzone 
 ( I picked it up a few months ago in anticipation of Killzone 2, glad I did, see my review of it 
 for more info) . The story is good but there is no doubt the focus is on the action. I really enjoyed 
 the rowdy cast of characters, a few of which return from the first Killzone.
  
  The online multiplayer is unlike anything you have ever played before. Every map is balanced and 
 well made. Up to 32 players compete on a map, team style. The innovation comes from the way match 
 types string together on the same map, the action never stops.
  
  Killzone 2 is the best shooter ever made. I am not biased, I have a PS3, Xbox360, and a Wii. If 
 you have a PS3 play this game. If you don't have a PS3, buy one to play Killzone 2. Every shooter 
 fan on Earth should play Killzone 2!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Heyz, well i honestly thought this game was going to fail due to hype. After it was well recieved 
 by gamers i thought "wow this game must be pretty dam good if it managed to survive all that hype". 
 After playing a few hours on campaign and a couple of online matches i could see why everyone liked 
 it. So this is my review. 
  
  Story
  Ok the story isn't anything special, your attacking the helghast planet and you need to capture 
 the helghast leader but some stuff happens and thats basically it. The story only really starts 
 picking up towards to the end.
  
  Single Player
  The single player, i personally think, is underappreciated. You'll spend half of the game fighting 
 through the Helghast city which is really fun and gives you a real feel that your in a real war 
 instead of just a little fight then some other stuff happening. The battles are very well done 
 plus with the help of the A. I, graphics, and the weight of the gun which i will go on to later. 
 So yea you'll only start going to a different enviroments just when you get half way through the 
 game although this isnt a bad thing. You'll being going around doing objectives with usally at 
 least one team mate almost all the time apart from one or two levels. While doing these objectives 
 you'll get into big gun fights against the helghast with your teammates, do last stands and hold 
 offs followed up by even bigger hold offs and attacks in huge numbers with teammate A. I which is 
 the sort of thing i've always wanted and because of the cover system it makes it feel amazing. 
 The cover system works really well and adds even more to the feeling that your in the battle. The 
 downside about single player is that its pretty short and loads as your going through levels which 
 means you game stop for a couple of seconds. Nothing to big but can get annoying at times.
  
  Graphics
  Now we all know that Killzone 2 has had alot of "omg best graphix's everz", Well 
 its graphics are the best graphics for a console i've ever seen but definitely not the best graphics 
 ever as well all know PC can do better. Theres alot of detail on the guns, surfaces, characters 
 and the blood looks really cool and this is a massive step for console gaming graphics wise. 
 
  
  Audio
  Audio is well done. The gun sounds are great and really add to the feeling that your in a living, 
 breathing battlefield when you can hear bullets flying past over your head, grenades going off 
 and team mates shouting commands to each other while being pinned down by gunfire,
  
  A. I
  Ok if one thing i think Killzone 2 does really really well is the A. I. They act like real 
 players. If they are behind cover and your still shooting at them they will wait until all signs 
 of fire have stopped before comming back out of cover, they blind fire, you'll hear them yelling 
 commands to each other, sometimes they'll go to do something then go back and mess things up like 
 real players would. Because of this really smart A. I it makes even the small battles against them 
 on a harder difficulty last long. Also they don't just shoot at you, they focus on your teammates 
 just as much. The teammate A. I is brilliant as well. They'll give you feedback on how well your 
 doing which is pretty awesome. The AI overall is fantastic well apart from the end battle where 
 it really is epic fail.
  
  Characters
  The characters are pretty forgettable but still have some great, funny and annoying features about 
 them which will at times make you love them and times make you hate them. There's Rico who is more 
 of the shoot first, think later kinda guy. Then Natko who is serious but adds alot of humour to 
 the game and had some lines that made me laugh out loud. Garza who will be with you through most 
 missions with. Although the characters are pretty forgettable that doesn't stop you from looking 
 out and getting attached to them because they are part of your squad who you look out for and they 
 look out for you.
  
  Multiplayer
  I personally think the multiplayer is overrated. From one of or two of the trailers i expected 
 a good level of teamwork to be used. Nope. Your'll be pushed with you teammates due to the maps 
 being pretty small. There are 5 different objectives. Assassination, where one player is the target 
 and the team need to protect him against the enemies. Capture and hold, where you need to go to 
 locations on the map and capture them and make sure you dont lose them to the enemy. Bodycount, 
 is a team deathmatch. Search and Destroy one team has to plant explosives in a certain place and 
 the other team has to stop them, this objective usally ends up as spray and pray in big matches. 
 Search and Retrieve, you'll need to get an object of importance from the map somewhere before the 
 enemy then take it back to your base. The great thing about all these modes is they are put into 
 one big match so your objective changes while playing so it feels like even of a real war.
  
  There isnt much choice in guns online either but each one is satasfying to get a kill with. 
 There's different professions to choose from. Rifleman which is just a bog standard solider and 
 doesn't have any advanatages other then being able to use 2 other guns that other professions can't 
 use. Medic who can heal people who are mortally wounded and heal teammates low on health. Engineer 
 who can build turrets and fix up ammo places. Tactician
  who can place down spawn points for the team and call in air support. Assault who uses rockets 
 and can run faster then most units. Saboeur who can disguise himself as the oppersite team and 
 plant mines, and finally Scout who is a sniper and can turn invisable and can also use the spot 
 and mark ability to put enemies seen on screen onto your friends radar. After you earn medals by 
 doing things like heal 10 players in one match 8 times your'll be able to mix the first bit of 
 the profession with a second bit of anothers profession, so this adds to the customisation.
  
  The online has its downfalls. For one there is no party system and getting into matches with 
 your mates can be a real nightmare. I personally don't think there is enough game modes and i think 
 most of the maps are to small. Also i think there should be a mode where the cover system is implanted 
 and you cant go past a certain bit and grenades and rockets are turned off. Also there is only 
 12 ranks in the online which isn't nearly enough.
  
  The online does do alot of things well though. The different professions work well and add some 
 teamwork into matches. The clan system is simple and well done. Plus theres a lobby system which 
 is good as you can pick which match you wanna go in and you can also create you own match and tweak 
 it. Also on the off chance your match doesnt fill up with players then you can fill it up with 
 bots.
  
  Skirmish
  Online not your thing? Well you can play the online modes and matches with up to 15 bots on different 
 difficulties. This is good if you cant be bothered for online or just want to practise for alittle 
 without having to worry about rank and statistics but sadly it lacks the custom options when making 
 a match.
  
  Guns
  There isn't much option when it comes to guns but each one is provides a very satisfying feeling. 
 They all have there positive and negatives about them for instance the M82 rifle is weaker then 
 the Helghast's STA52 Assault rifle but the M82 is clearer to aim with when down scope. They made 
 the guns feel heavy by making turning slower and it makes such a difference to the gameplay. The 
 only thing is the guns all feel like they have the same weight which is sort silly but it doesnt 
 take to much away gameplay wise.
  
  Controls
  Alot of people have said the controls are bad. Personally i think they are great and feel perfect. 
 But if you dont like the default controls theres 5 other control patterns to choose from and your 
 find you'll like.
  
  Sixaxis
  The Sixaxis is built perfectly into the game. Through the story when you need to turn valves and 
 plant explosives and stuff you'll use the sixaxis by turning the controller to turn the valve and 
 set the explosives. The sixaxis is also used for sniping, the more still your controller is the 
 more still the scope will be and make it easier for you to aim.
  
  Overall
  Killzone 2 is a brilliant game and can be easily called a contender for Game of the Year already 
 and can easily be argued as one of the best shooters ever made. The downsides being the story is 
 short and a couple of small online things that should have been added in to make the game much 
 smoother to play online with friends, but the great single player cover system and fun online gameplay, 
 the amazing graphics, A. I, controls and characters make up for the few problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Cipher
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  It seems that Guerrilla Games really took their time in making this game. Killzone 2, War Perfected, 
 but the question is, is it perfected? Well my friends the answer is YES! This game is like no other, 
 it makes Resistance 2 look like a cartoon and the gameplay is simply astonishing, it makes you 
 feel like you have that heavy weapon feel in your controller if you know what I mean. The story, 
 long story short, your name is Thomas Sevchenko (Sev) and you are an ISA soldier from planet Vekta, 
 looks like Earth and you take the fight to the enemy's planet known as Helghan, looks like Mars 
 but with a little more life and a body of water in it. Dictator Scolar Visari is the leader of 
 the Helghan who started it all and will not give up on anything to get rid of Vekta and the ISA 
 forces... Now lets talk about the online. Oh man, I tell you, you will get highly rewarded with 
 lots of goodies as you go up in rank and it has lots of different modes to play. Their are several 
 different classes, including Soldier, Medic and Engineer. For Engineer, you will get to install 
 bots in several different locations in the battlefields and they will help you kill some enemies. 
 Theres one class that you get to be disguised as an enemy and you can sneak up and kill them. If 
 you're thinking on getting a shooter, PLEASE DONT MISS THIS ONE! This game will drop your jaw!... Happy 
 Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  Wow was the first thing that i said when i tried this game out. After the first one got 5/10 this 
 one deserved and got a lot more. I'm gonna go in order of and say whats great and well whats better 
 than great
  
  
  
  Single player is first. It was highly addicting with a great storyline and amazing action. I maybe 
 got a 5 minute break between shooting if i was lucky. It usually was when a cutscene came on when 
 one was on. You barely ever got a break from shooting which made it a non-stop action adventure 
 shooter. Awesome
  
  
  
  Multiplayer was another good thing with a lot of game modes and some really fun maps but it had 
 had health on it and it never was restored completely like call of duty 4. However in this game 
 you never worry about any "noobs" teamkilling you which is cool.
  
  
  graphics 10/10
  single player 10/10
  multiplayer 10/10
  storyline 10/10
  AI 10/10
  overall 10/10
  GET 
 THIS GAME NOW WELL WHAT YOU WAITING FOR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cholo1075
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  While the controls are no Resistance, the graphics live up to the tech demo I saw long ago from 
 E3.
  
  Now I waited until the patch to write this but the patch might have been for network multiplayer, 
 because I did not notice any change in the control scheme of things. Now it might not seem fair 
 to bash a game on the control but as intense as the action gets I think the controls should have 
 a loser feel to it but you will get used to it.
  
  Now as for everything else in this game, if i was not a Godly whooooo... I could say some stuff 
 about this here. I recommend this as a buy if you have not already gotten it, you will not regret 
 one minute of this action packed movie; I mean game. The multiplayer is awesome the way it blends 
 game type is fun, plus you are able to level up in rank giving you new player options.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedX-14Pilot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  I am going to keep this one very short, and don't let my title fool you. This game is closer to 
 perfection than not. PlayStation has given us a couple of gems in the last month. MLB '09 The Show, 
 and now Killzone 2. I have favored my 360 the last couple of years. I felt it had better games 
 overall, and games generally looked and played better on the 360 if they were third party titles. 
 So if you generally feel as I do about the two systems, then you should know making this next statement 
 isn't easy to say for someone like me. This game is THE shooter you need to be playing RIGHT now. 
 I have played Gears of War, the Call of Duty's, but this game, I feel, spanks them all. I haven't 
 had as much multiplayer time as a lot of other people, but the short time I have had with it was 
 enough to make a decision about its prowess.
  
  Congratulations goes out to Sony for FINALLY giving its fans a top notch game. And finally giving 
 me a reason to game on my PS3. I can now forgive them for the last SOCOM. So you were looking for 
 my review to help you make up your mind about to buy or not to buy? The here is your help. RUN! 
 Don't walk, RUN to get this game. And if you don't have a PS3 yet, you now have a reason to buy 
 one. Also, MLB '09, Uncharted 2, and God of War 3 are also reasons you will be needing a PS3. This 
 game is more like a 9.4, so stop reading this and get playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  well, the wait is over and i bought Killzone 2 at 12 o' clock at midnight, and after completing 
 the demo at least 15 times, the ability to move past the ending of the demo spot, reminded me why 
 i love the killzone series. after the campaign so many things pop into my mind, about what went 
 good in other words "everything", from the top-notch graphics, to the amazingly fluid gameplay 
 that is always gripping and never boring. the battle to retake the courtyard comes to mind, to 
 name particular battles is impossible practically becasue the are all well set up, and they never 
 feel lopsided and make the gamer pull an impossible stunt to survive ( ie, the battle against general 
 ram, in GoW 1 ) . so many little touches were put into the game, to make it so well completed, and 
 the fact that I'm not pulling a headshot with a pistol a mile away is very reassuring that Killzone 
 implements it's own form of FPS gameplay that differs from CoD. and the controls, they feel just 
 right, the fact that all the CoD purists cry foul that Killzone 2 doesn't make it like CoD is strange 
 and pathetic, becasue if they wanted a game that closely mimics CoD controls they might as well 
 play Call of Duty 4 and shut up. this game puts you in control of a 180 pound soldier with at least 
 50 pounds of gear, simply put THEY ARE NOT GOING TO SPIN AROUND ON A DIME LIKE MASTERCHIEF!!!!!!. 
 the graphics are amazing, from the dusty shanty town suljeva village to the green tinted salamun 
 district, this game delivers every promise it made about the graphics back in 2004 and 2005. the 
 dialogue is good, it is'nt fancy like Metal Gear Solid 4, but not completely insipid like in Gears 
 of war 
  
  COG Guy "Wow are you theee... Marcus Fenix, the one who fought at Aspho Fields!!!!????" 
  
 
  Marcus "Yep" 
  
  COG Guy "wow... cool!!!!". 
  
  the story fits it's purpose, it gives the story some life and meaning and to a Killzone fan is 
 perfect. the bottom line is this game is highly recommended, and anyone with a PS3 and a spinal 
 cord should play this game. highly recommended 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Ever since it`s infamous trailer back a couple of years ago, Killzone 2 has been turning heads 
 and peeking the curiosity of many gamers. It`s been a long, hard wait, but KZ2 has finally arrived. 
 And it`s a triumph. Many were skeptical about this game, but their insecurity may now rest in peace. 
 It`s a gorgeous, detail-gushing adventure. The graphics stand right up there with MGS4 and CoD4. 
 I cannot stress enough on how beautiful and perfect the environment and the ambiance feel. It`s 
 a visual masterpiece. Graphics withstanding, KZ2 is also just plain fun. The cover system feels 
 balanced and accurate, and the shooting is very, very satisfying. The enemies are smart and extremely 
 sneaky. They will come at you from all angles, and will show no mercy for your soul. Although many 
 complain about the controls of the game, I find them rather justified. They add more difficulty. 
 Not too much, just enough for it to be balanced and equal. You will get used to them in less than 
 20 minutes, and you will find that they work well. And the multiplayer is worthy of mention. Think 
 Call of Duty, but with red eye enemies. There`s quite a bit of challenge, and the ranking system 
 is fair and fun. You`ll probably find yourself stuck in your room for nights playing KZ2. So, I 
 guess it`s safe to say that for 60$, it`s a cheap entry ticket to an awesome amount of gaming super 
 extra awesomeness. I couldn`t be clearer. Killzone 2 is the reason to buy a PS3. Go ahead, what 
 are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jewdogg
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about the online multiplayer. There are many modes and I love how the game goes 
 from one mode to another. I like to play in some of the customs games where you can only use pistols. 
 They make the fighting much more close up and fun. The fun team modes don't totally make up for 
 a lack of a co-op mode. 
  
  All the other major games have a co-op modes such as Resistance 2, and the latest Call of Duty. 
 That adds a lot more value to the game and should be standard. Speaking of standard, the campaign 
 mode is nothing special, no fun boss battles like in resistance, and no really fun parts like in 
 World at war's sniper level. It only took me 5 hours to complete the single player mode and I was 
 not to impressed. The mecharmor level was to short and not to exciting, and the one turret level 
 on the big ship seemed almost pointless. The campaign mode doesn't rewrite the books but there 
 are some intense scenes and it is very hectic.
  
  The weapons are all OK, and the weighted feel the controls have really made the aiming hard to 
 get used to. I played the multiplayer a lot which helped me get better and it showed in the campaign 
 mode. Shooting the flamethrower has got to be one of the more disappointing parts of the game since 
 it looks like a game from the '90s.
  
  The graphics are some of the best I have seen (beside the flamethrower) , and I didn't notice any 
 problems like pop in or frame rate slowdown. The loading got a little annoying but it was during 
 spots where it didn't effect the game and only a few seems to be long.
  
  I give this game an 8 because the amazing graphics and fun multiplayer. It would have received 
 a higher score if there was a better single player campaign and a co-op.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  KZ2, is the best shooting game of the past 10 years. I wont say its the best all time, b/c i seem 
 to remember a game called Goldenye 007 lol. Anyway i will break this game down right quick.
  
  Okay the story is good, but i felt the 1st game had a slightly better story. I havent beaten 
 the game yet, but from what i've played, its the most amazing single player mode ever. The Helghast 
 are smart, formidable foes. Theres even some special enemies to deal with. Theres just so much 
 excitement in the game its insane!
  
  Yes the controls are very realistic. The game feels "heavy" well thats how it would be in real 
 life. I really dont agree with reviews that give this game a 8.0 just for that. If i'm not mistaken, 
 its about the same as KZ1 so you can't complain too much lol.
  
  THe multiplayer will ensure you'll never get tired of this game. What separates this from other 
 games is the fact you'll be doin "body count" mode which is team deathmatch... then all of a sudden 
 you're doing search and destroy, or caputure and hold.... the game keeps you on your toes. 
  
  I didnt talk about the graphics since you already know those are the best for a Console FPS.... or 
 maybe any FPS. With all that said, i'm a lil surprised GS gave it a 9.0 when this game is nothing 
 less than a 9.5. Anyway BUY THIS GAME. You will get more than you paid for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyholic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very solid game, however, it is not a console saver by any means, leave alone all 
 time great. I was disapointed after like 1 week of intense online gaming. I felt like my character 
 was underwater. Weapons are OK but not that great, I think this is like a rich guy's Perfect Dark 
 Zero.
  
  Halo 3 hype with Haze results for me, the XBOX 360 is still the best gaming console clearly. Don't 
 get me wrong, the PS3 is a great system and blu-ray player 
 
  
  By the way this is my first review since forever, I don't know why they force me to write 100 words 
 are you kidding me ? I am a casual gamer not a reviewer, oh my god  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydneyviles
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  I have many fps games ranging from halo 3, crysis to call of duty 4 and 5. But I do have to admit 
 that killzone 2 is the best of them all so far. at first when you pick up that controller and start 
 playing the controls may feel a little weird. But within 10 minutes you will get used to them. 
 once that happens be prepared for one hell of a ride. by now everyone has talked about killzone 
 2's visuals and how amazing they are so im just going to skip that part. lets talk about game play. 
 the game starts you off making you feel like your basically owning the helgiest. but as time goes 
 by the tides turn and thats when gorilla games really mixes it up for you. one minute you'll be 
 shooting up fools with your stander machine gun. the next you will be setting them ablaze with 
 the flame thrower. the occasionel sniper rifle is given to you for those larger levels which is 
 great. oh not to mention the vehicles you drive. eventually even getting to use a meck suit. lets 
 not forget about the electricity gun. which gives you a real sense of power and confidence as you 
 blast through hundreds of enemys. battles get really intense. especially towards the end of the 
 game. boss battles are brought back which is even a bigger bonus. It always feels great to take 
 down a boss. all you gamers know what i mean. overall killzone 2 is a fps that cannot be missed 
 by and fan of shooter. this game and metal gear solid 4 are more then enough reason to get yourself 
 a ps3 and enjoy some of the best gaming today has to offer. i would suggest trading in your 360 
 for a little extra dough before it red rings on you and pick this hunk of power up. online is a 
 whole nother animal. the more you play online the more you get. eventually onlocking all the weapons 
 and becoming your own god. online is so addictive and rewarding that it could be a game in its 
 own. so even if you don't like campaigns no need to worry you wont be dissapointed with the game. 
 it performs aduacitally on all fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calabrax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  ok so killzone 2 is a game with a lot of hype around it ever since the trailer that blew everyone 
 away in 2005 at e3. it is an ok Fps worth playing, but the game does suffer from some problems. 
 
  
  first and foremost, the controls. they are not as responsive as they should be. aiming at an enemy 
 can be troublesome, no matter how much you've practiced aiming. the 1.20 patch has fixed some of 
 the problems, so it is better now, which is good.
  
  the game slows down to an abysmally low framerate at times when there is a lot of action on the 
 screen. for the most part though the game runs smoothly
  
  the gameplay feels better now since the patch, it's ok now.
  
  graphics are great. no one can 
 dispute that, they're possibly the best ever for a console video game.
  
  story is ok, and the single player campaign is short but exciting. it can take anywhere from 10 
 - 12 hours to complete. in the campaign, you can find intel, and helghast symbols that you can 
 shoot. finding intel and destroying symbols can get you trophies once you find them all.
  
  multiplayer is pretty fun the more you play it. it kind of grows on you after a while. once you 
 unlock different classes, it becomes more fun since you have different options. the 8 maps are 
 good and balanced. some are better suited for sniping and long range combat, and others are for 
 more close quarters fighting. overall the multiplayer maps are pretty good
  
  sound effects are great, and the ai is very smart
  
  overall killzone 2 is a good game, with 
 ok controls (much better after the patch) great graphics, good gameplay, average story and campaign 
 and fun multiplayer. you might want to rent this first, just in case you don't like the controls. 
 seriously if they were perfect this game would be a 9 or 9.5 easy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  So Killzone 2 is on the house. The HYPE of this game was "the game plays with graphics just as 
 neat as on the cinematics". In other words, the graphics are so shiny and cool, you will drool. 
 And so, the HYPE is was and has been totally fullfilled. You may read millions of reviewers that 
 say otherwise, but dudes it's true... it's true, nothing but the truth.
  
  Moving on, well the game is just that, a First Person Shooter, with great graphics and attention 
 to detail. No more no less. Dozens of you have a PS3 for the "Graphics", so here's a game to back 
 up that reason, yet most of you complain... How come?
  
  Graphics, nothing more to say or add... Great to say the least. With so much going on, (and i mean 
 a lot going on, this game really feels like a warzone) it's just an enormous job on the tech side 
 to keep everything moving, without slowing down. Kudos to those guys!
  
  Gameplay, i have read review complains about the controls and such... come on people have you really 
 played an FPS before? if your complain is how slow you move, that's just how heavy the weapon is... realism 
 in games my friends. Plus, if you want a perfect example of "slow motion controls for an FPS", 
 i dare you to go and play XIII... either on gamecube or ps2, intense game but with really slow cluncky 
 controls. I felt the controls on KZ2 were totally right and O. K. You wanted realism games, now 
 you have it, How Cum?
  
   no better than any of the 80's games. The (stole my girlfriend, 
 kill my dog and burn down my dojo) story ain't much good, so don't waste your time trying to make 
 sense and understanding it.
  
  Replay... the lmultiplayer takes care of this.
  
  To put an End to it, well this games is your average FSP, with sugar coated graphics and detail, 
 that you will want more. The multiplayer i have been told is great, and the single player is good 
 to. Is this as story driven game? No, is not. Does game controls hamper the experience? Nope, it 
 doesn't. It's really like all the other shootoers. Again its the graphics that made everything 
 possible.
  
  Hype was totally fullfielld, Now i don't believe this game is THE BEST GAME OF THE YEAR, but it's 
 a tough competitor.
  
  If you own or have Call of Duty or any of that stuff, it would be better you rent first then get 
 it, and if you are like me with no FPS on my list, maybe you should download the demo, and later 
 you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHILENO39
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 4:35 am PT
Review:  ok my first review,
  
  graphics 9,5/10
  single player 7/10
  multiplayer 10/10
  
  at first I was a bit afraid I would be dissapointed, because I read some reviews that weren't that 
 great. I heard people whining about the sucky controls, that it doesnt lived up to the hype. ok. 
 I bought it anyway to try it out by myself.
  
  I was overwhelmed,, the graphics were the best i've evers seen on ps3. ok the controls take some 
 time to get used to, lets say 15 minutes!? this game is not bad at all, maybe the single player 
 campaign gets boring after a while. 
  But the multiplayer is the BEST, the best i've ever played. Its like straight out a movie, like 
 riddick or something. 
  
  No man if you have an internet connection, GET THIS GAME! it will blow you away. its much better 
 then dod, and I own both of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haunt777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:34 pm PT
Review:  
  KillZone 2 is a unique piece of work, and one that I can say is probably the most next gen game 
 on the market. It keeps you fixed to your screen with jaw dropping visuals, intense action, addicting 
 online, and tons to explore. Even though the first KillZone wasn't a real head turner this sequel 
 is definitely a game to be noticed.
  
  KillZone 2 has a lot of good features, but the thing you would probably notice first is it's graphical 
 artistic beauty. These graphics immerse you into the battlefield, allowing you to feel the true 
 grit and destruction of war. There's a lot of little features as well that can bring the gameplay 
 experience to life. The odd news paper blowing down a cold industrial street, sandy winds constantly 
 blowing through the desert plain, destructible scenery, and gray clouded sky's. These are just 
 minor extra details that help contribute to immerse you into the KillZone universe. Without exaggerating, 
 this game one of, if not the best visuals I have ever seen for first person shooters. 
  
  A lot of people say its not the graphics that make a good game it's the gameplay. Which is a true 
 statement, and one that KillZone 2 does not over look. The online game play for KillZone 2 is a 
 big part of the game that will keep players coming back for more. The online play is very rewarding, 
 giving you tons of unlockable badges that gives you useful abilities, new weapons, and new classes. 
 The classes in the game really give you your own unique individuality. By having the ability to 
 switching your weapons and abilities to whatever you want, so no two players are exactly the same. 
 The online maps are some of the most intricate maps I have ever played on with multiple floors, 
 corridors, and paths it take a while to memorize everything. In an online game you can have up 
 to 32 players, and every one can play on any map and not have the feeling of being to crowded or 
 to alone. So if you were wondering about gameplay don't worry, KillZone 2 delivers. 
  
  The campaign story of KillZone 2 is full of fun memorable moments, moments that make you burst 
 out laughing and call on your friends to say "I just did the coolest thing ever". Even though KillZone's 
 storyline isn't too deep it gives you a good enough reason to fight your way through multiple groups 
 of Helghast soldiers. In the campaign you play as Tomas Sevchenco or Sev foe short, paired up along 
 with your squad members Rico, Garza, and Natko. Who all add humour and slightly corny dialog to 
 the game, even when it seems inappropriate. 
  
  With all the hype KillZone 2 has been building for 2 years it doesn't disappoint. Delivering to 
 all its promises and expectations. KillZone 2 is a game that shows that the First Person Shooter 
 genre still has a lot to offer. So if you're a fan of FPS and you own a PS3, KillZone 2 is a must 
 have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindibudd
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 looks phenomenal. The actual experience of playing the game, not so much. My caveat 
 to that is that I am referring to the single player aspect of the game. The multiplayer aspect 
 is where the real fun is found. A true Halo killer, the online aspect of Killzone 2 combines great 
 visuals with the balanced game dynamics that you would expect from a title of this pedigree. But 
 first things first, the single player portion of Killzone 2 is monotonous and short. That is not 
 a bad thing considering that certain portions of the game leave much to be desired in terms of 
 direction and clarity. I found myself in firefights that seemed to have no end and have no particular 
 goal in general. Now they did have goals, but they were not readily spelled out to me. This was 
 very frustrating. I understand this is an M rated game but the amount of profanity in the game 
 was just clear over the top. I understand that teenage boys find f-bombs endlessly cool but it 
 started to wear on me after awhile. For real. The story ends very ambiguously and doesn't give 
 you any sense of closure and quite frankly reeks of not knowing what to write next. The multiplayer 
 part of the game is a lot of fun as you level up. It is slow going at first but you will get more 
 and more points which will allow you to do things like planting a turret bot which I find very 
 amusing. Some have complained about the controls of the game but I think that it is really just 
 a matter of understanding how the game works and that it is not just a copy of Call of Duty or 
 Battlefield. Ultimately though, Killzone 2 is going to be judged on its ability to have staying 
 power as an online shooter, and as such, there is not a better looking one on the PS3 or any other 
 console for that matter. The different types of games that can be played are unique and fresh and 
 will serve to keep people coming back again and again. You can join or create the type of game 
 that you want to play (I'm looking at you, Halo 3) . And you can go online to killzone's website 
 to check your stats. I would highly recommend this game for those who want a great looking online 
 shooter. Otherwise you could live with out it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cainetao11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I scored this lower than GS, and only .5 higher than Too Human. I consider reviews personal 
 opinions, and no matter how many people like yours, it still means nothing. Killzone 2 is an awesome 
 shooter. I loved the gameplay as much as any shooter I've played in some time. The shaky, motion 
 blur gives me the sensation of moving through a tense, dangerous battlefield with an added 20 lbs. 
 of gear on. As opposed to Halo where I'm a cyborg and figure moving fast and smooth makes sense. 
 The war is presented on an epic scale and battles carry the weight of importance. Can I get to 
 the next checkpoint without dying? Enemy variation is well placed, as the first meeting with a 
 very large Helghast was surprising and challenging. The atmosphere is a dark oppressed industrial 
 world teeming with abandoned factory like buildings and bugs. Yes, bugs that explode from what 
 is called petrusite. A substance used to fuel the Helghan WMD's. Now a thank you to a fellow system 
 wars poster, who linked some backstory on the whole Killzone story to me and as a result I can 
 get a feeling for the universe of Killzone. See, for me that's my only real pet peeve with this 
 gem. I don't care. About anyone in this universe. I don't care when certain characters from the 
 previous games face life or death situations. I know others could care less about story or characters, 
 or think competitors game worlds, stories or characters suck. But that's my problem with Killzone 
 2, and the 3 iterations so far. Aside from great gameplay in 2 and Liberation, I like the story 
 and characters in Resistance more. All in all, this is a must play for gun fans, shooter fans, 
 and anyone who owns a PS3. As far as multi-player, if your making an FPS and haven't played Halo 
 3 or COD 4 and learned anything about multi-player to implement in your game, back to school for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoticdoom
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  After firing up Killzone 2 for the first time and, presumably, jumping into the first level of 
 the campaign, you will know right away it is something special. The opening cinematic is breathtaking 
 and the visuals will blow you away when you reach gameplay. The first 10 minutes or so you are 
 likely to grapple with the control scheme and movement mechanics, but this will pass rather quickly 
 and you will fall in love with an experience like nothing else. The campaign is the most intense 
 experience i have yet to have in video games. And, while the story is lacking, the action will 
 keep you going through the heart-pounding single player. 
  The online multiplayer is where the game really shines though, revolutionizing the FPS multiplayer 
 experience. The two branched reward system keeps it fresh, constantly rewarding you for tasks like 
 in CoD (challenge-esque) and rewarding you for experience gained in combat. Where it stands out 
 though, is the unique mission style, flowing all gametypes into a single continuous game. This 
 constant transition of goals means you never get bored of a single game type, and in fact appreciate 
 each for what makes it special. The classes are extremely fun to play and each offer something 
 unique and exciting during combat, whether it be the ability to dictate actiom by creating spawn 
 points, or calling in AI air support, you will always find something fun to do.
  
  The only thing keeping this game from being perfect is the lack of any real driving story, which 
 creates a sometimes lackluster campaign, though most of the time, the action speaks for it self. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyrexx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the Killzone 2 campaign, and let me tell you, it was awesome. I'm a big shooter 
 fan, especially of the Halo series, the Half Life series, and the COD series. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 this campaign, it was badass, it was tough, it was intense, it ripped apart your soul at times, 
 but it was surprisingly good and very rewarding.
  
  I enjoyed the first Killzone more than most people did I think. I thought it was decent - like 
 a 7.5-ish, didn't remember much about it, but the 2nd one blows it away. It was clear that Guerilla 
 heard the cries about the first and decided to put their best effort forth in the sequel.
  
  I played through the Campaign once on "Veteran" difficulty, so this review is of the Campaign 
 alone as I haven't tackled the multiplayer yet... looking forward to it.
  
  Visuals: 10.0 - Comparable to MGS4 for the best on the PS3, and equivalent to Gears of War 2 on 
 the Xbox360. The Helghast death animations are incredible, the electricity graphics are GREAT!
 
  
  Sound: 9.0 - Excellent sound quality, nice sounding explosions and electricity.
  
  Controls: 8.0 - I like the controls, I like the first-person cover concept, but there were a few 
 quirks. First, the weapons are more accurate while crouching. However, some cover doesn't allow 
 you to crouch so you have to back away far enough to crouch and shoot. This is a result of having 
 the cover and crouch buttons one and the same. Second, the aiming is made to make the weapons feel 
 "weighty", and it successfully does that, but it can sometimes get annoying while you're trying 
 to snipe, or just tag a baddy from afar. As long as you're not going back and forth between other 
 games like Halo, COD, or F. E. A. R. 2 you'll be OK... Killzone 2 controls completely differently 
 that any of those games.
  
  A. I.: 10.0 - The Helghast were some of the best bad guys to fight that I've ever encountered. Each 
 one was tough to kill, they flank you, they use grenades to flush you out, they don't pop in and 
 out of the same spot so you can predict and pick them off. You really never can tell what they're 
 going to do. To me the A. I. was equivalent or better than the original F. E. A. R. You have to do 
 whatever you can to kill them, no sitting back, no cheap way to pick them off, you have to bring 
 the fight to them and use skill to get the job done.
  
  Story: 8.0 - The story to me was about a 5 or 6 until stuff finally started happening in the second 
 half of the game. Sometimes you don't know what just happened until the Loading screen fills you 
 in... I didn't like that. But the story was good enough, the action is the main attraction here.
 
  
  Overall: 9.5 (Not an Average) - This was a fantastic campaign that needs to be played by any FPS 
 fan that owns a PS3. It is an impressive achievement all around! Congrats Guerilla!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, Guerrilla Games did it. 4 years of speculation, a flood of ridicule and mockery later, they 
 have managed to silence the hordes in a rather spectacular fashion. This is why Killzone 2 is indeed 
 an instant classic.
  
  First off, let's get the obvious out of the way, the game simply looks stunning. Sure, there are 
 some flat/blurry textures up close here and there, but compared to the technical prowess of the 
 overall presentation, it would be beyond nit-pickery to even consider docking the game for it.
 
  
  The art direction and level design simply fits like a glove in terms of trying to convey an overly 
 oppressive, 'war is hell' atmosphere. When you also factor in the remarkable lighting, particle 
 effects, animations and sound, you would be hard pressed to find another war game that can stand 
 up to the level of pure ass kickery that Killzone 2 has on display.
  
  Also well worth mentioning is the truly stellar enemy A. I. in the campaign. The way in which the 
 Helghast reacts to you is different every time you play it. In fact, it is almost as if you are 
 playing against actual players with the way the A. I. will react to you. They will flush you out 
 with grenades, while setting you up for flanking, they change cover and blind fire, ect. It is 
 just amazing to see, and a pleasure to play.
  
  Still on the topic of A. I., one of my only real gripes with the campaign would have to be the friendly 
 A. I. of your squad mates. Often they will have seemingly late reaction times or they will simply 
 stand directly in your line of fire, refusing to move. Most of the time it is just OK, but I feel 
 this is one area they could have polished up a bit more. But, it is a minor quibble when viewed 
 in the broader context of this spectacular game, nonetheless.
  
  As for the story itself, I actually rather enjoyed it and found myself actually caring for the 
 characters by the the time the game reaches it's point of rising action. Put it this way, the story 
 is sufficient enough, while it is the taking part in the war itself that carries it through. Further, 
 I would have to say that General Radec is without question one of the coolest characters in any 
 recent FPS. His presence is actually what makes the story keep it's interest and intensity storyline 
 wise.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, it feels better to me than any shooter I can recall. As the sense 
 of realism in terms of having a feeling of weight while you move and aim is a welcome change from 
 the fun, but extremely unrealistic twitch shooters, such as Halo or Unreal. Some have complained 
 because they are accustomed to the aforementioned easier control scheme, failing to grasp that 
 Killzone 2 controls the way it does for a reason.... and it feels fantastic once you get the flow 
 of the 'realistic' control mechanics.
  
  Now the multiplayer, the reason most were interested in this game. In summary, intense, deeply 
 rewarding, challenging, incredibly competitive, and just out right fun. I love the fact that you 
 have to unlock various classes, weapons and abilities, as it paces the multiplayer out with an 
 incredible amount of longevity that keeps you fighting away for more. This system, along with the 
 various ribbons and medals provides the multiplayer experience with an overwhelming sense of achievement, 
 in addition to the fun.
  
  The 8 maps are greatly varied and masterfully designed. The Warzone set up itself is incredibly 
 innovative, in that you stay in the battle while playing through various modes. This gives each 
 team the ability to turn the tide at any point when playing a best out of 7 in non-stop fashion. 
 It is for this unique set-up, that I do not think that there is currently a deeper or more robust 
 FPS to play online out there..... especially on consoles.
  
  In conclusion, Killzone 2 is a beast of a package, and a technical juggernaut that has without 
 question put it's own stamp on the FPS market. If you dig first person shooters and are looking 
 for a top shelf game within the genre that will convey to you one of the most intense gaming experiences 
 that you will likely have this year, then look no further. Killzone 2 is without question worth 
 your time and money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrilledCharlie
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great. However, the controls make what should be a game of the year into just another 
 "pretty" shooter. Not only are the controls sluggish, but the weapons are inaccurate and frustrating. 
 How many headshots should it take to kill a Helghast? How many bullets at point blank range period 
 should it take? I know that I'm laying on the trigger right now, but I'm so close that the red-eye 
 fills my screen, and I'm still missing? They should have chosen between inaccurate weapons and 
 sub par controls vs. nearly invincible enemies. You can't have both. The sad thing is, whenever 
 you adjust the axis sensitivity it makes your fine tune aiming almost impossible. I gave it an 
 8 purely for the control issues. I know that everyone says that you have to get used to the controls, 
 but that is just dumb. Good shooters you can pick up and play with a minimal learning curve. This 
 one has a hand-eye coordination curve, not a button layout learning curve. I'm an avid shooter 
 fan, and play almost nothing but, and after more than 20 hours of on and offline play I still get 
 frustrated with the controls. Obviously I'm not the only one either, considering that one of the 
 issues attended to by the 1.2 patch was the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tahurahk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Having played the demo from the PS store, I was pretty excited about this - as I had been since 
 I got my PS3 when it was "one of those games I am definitely going to get." As I loved the original 
 game, and Liberation as well, I had high hopes for Killzone 2, and it didn't disappoint at all. 
 As I said, the demo looked promising for the single player and my friend in the online beta had 
 nothing but praise.
  
  When I got home after buying it, I had to wait until the evening to have a go and I could hear 
 it taunting me from the next room. As I'm sure many gamers do, I had a good run at the single player 
 before taking it online, and I think with this game it's the best thing to do. Even from the introductory 
 cutscene after loading the game, you are instantly hooked by the breath-taking visuals which make 
 you wonder if the in-game will match up. And it does. The levels are fluid, engaging and interesting 
 enough to warrant your attention and the weapons feel just right, from the accurate and stable 
 M82 to the Lightning gun which leaves the "Higs" twitching and stuttering on the ground, and they 
 are thoroughly fun to use. The death mechanics are fascinating, as bodies fly and spin as you kill 
 them, and even whipping out your knife feels "just right," as it seems just how the character would 
 do it. The controls and animations feel realistic as though you are an actual soldier, laden with 
 gear and ammunition, moving around Helghan rather than just a floating gun. The AI is also impressive, 
 neither concentrating on you alone nor giving you an easy run of events - sometimes the Helghast 
 actually seem pretty wily. While the story is... well generic, it leaves you entirely satisfied 
 and keen to give it another go - that is after you've smashed a few skulls online.
  
  The multiplayer is probably one of the most thoughtful and structured I've seen. It doesn't feel 
 like a mere extension to the main game as some do, but rather a fundamental part of the package 
 in its own right. The maps are incredibly detailed and thought out, and give great scope for tactical 
 gaming - and even with the full compliment of 32 players running around, they never manage to feel 
 crowded. Even when you come up against the inevitable (yet seemingly deliberately placed) choke 
 points, the ensuing carnage feels more like a decent team effort to take ground rather than a random 
 flail of gunshots and grenades. And of course, that can be undone by the sneaky scout who sneaks 
 round the map and guns us all down from behind - only to be taken down himself by our respawning 
 comrades. Very rarely do you feel like the game is imbalanced in favour of one team, and if you 
 lose it rightly feels like your own failings, and not the game itself. And with ranks, abilities 
 and medals all giving you variations on gameplay, you'll keep coming back to perfect that map strategy 
 you've been working out.
  
  I think this game is one of the crown jewels in the the PS3 exclusive tiara, and it's what the 
 PS3 community have been waiting for - a game they can point at and go "Yes, that is ours, and we 
 like it." This game has all the hallmarks of becoming a classic, and has everything to become one 
 - all round it is very, very good, and well worth playing. This has already become one of my favourites.
 
  
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 offers a new experience to the FPS genre basically with cover. Most reviews of this 
 game were done within 24-48 hours and it takes way longer to go through the whole game and multiplayer. 
 
  Controls-I'm a big fan of the COD4 control scheme and for complainers you can go to that control 
 scheme. The problem is its very hard to get into cover. Let me explain, you have to hold L2, LS (to 
 pop in and out of cover) , RS to aim, R1 to fire, square to reload. I tried this and it becomes over 
 complicating for an FPS. When you do it the default controls its much easier-L2 (cover) , press RS 
 once to be in aim mode, R1 (shoot) , square to reload. This at first looked to be annoying to me 
 as well but after the first level its really quite simple to adapt to.
  Cover-it's great for low level crouch cover but is horrible for columns and pillars. Simple solution 
 just crouch or stand behind the column or pillar instead of taking cover.
  Weapons-The weapons are nice but do tend to all be related around smg (sub machine gun) or lmg (light 
 machine gun) hint: beat the campaign before you go online, you'll learn how to use the weapons much 
 better than just trying them online.
  Graphics- top notch, here is another complaint made by all COD4 fans, the movement. you do turn 
 a lot slower than in COD4 but it gets you more immersed into the warzone and realistic and that's 
 what KZ2 is going for. Better frame rate and plus no installing the game when you first put it 
 in like other PS3 titles!
  Story- it's simple and that's the honest truth. You invade the Helghast and it's an all out war. 
 Satisfying story with many twists that you'd think anyone would just give up and die but not the 
 ISA. The story is epic, Templar from the first game leads the assaults from one of the many flying 
 fortresses. Colonel Radec (Visari's head general and hell hound) leads the defense and constantly 
 will send the best he has to kill you.
  Boss battles- hint: secret trophies for the boss battle, kill the bosses fast to unlock secret 
 trophies. You'll fight a heavy machine gunner in a small alley, the arch elemental slayer (uses 
 the lightning gun which you get if you kill him) , the APC which is a faster more diabolical version 
 of a helicopter-jet mix, and lastly a spoiler don't read if you don't want to know..... Radec who 
 sends wave after wave against you and Rico (squad leader) , he then will fight you himself 1 vs 2 (Sev 
 & Rico) .
  AI-Very impressive I must say. Not just the enemy bots but your squad as well. They actually have 
 a good chance at holding their own and sometimes will save your ass. You can revive your squad 
 mates (trophy 25 times) . Your armed with infinite magnum ammo and your knife at all times. Helghast 
 troops are very challenging since played on veteran for my first time. (second hardest to Elite) 
 They won't pop up in the same place you jus shot them and will do a great job at rushing or flanking 
 you and your squad. At mainly all times your with a squad member. You have Garza (tech specialist) , 
 Natko (weird name but he is the cocky brute with a shotty) , Rico (squad leader and his voice can 
 be a little over the top but is no big deal) and you Sev. (sergeant and second in command after 
 Rico of the squad)
  I know this is a long review but it's coming to an end.
  MULTIPLAYER-people who reviewed this a day or two after its release didn't rank up and get the 
 many classes and medals.
  Like Resistance 2 you have ribbons but those ribbons unlock medals which are like COD4 perks, more 
 ammo, more frags, new abilities. Example, you need to revive 5 guys in a game to get a medic ribbon, 
 now that you have the ribbon you need 7 more of the same ribbon to unlock med-kits.
  Badges-It sucks at first because you only have 2 available weapons and no badges, but when more 
 weapons and badges are available the points come in easier.
  Medic-Revive down teammates, Med-kit, combine secondary badges to Medic class.
  I will warn you 
 I haven't ranked up all classes because that takes weeks to do.
  Engineer-turrets (you get stronger turrets with more turret kills so place well) , tools (build/repair 
 ammo boxes and repair turrets)
  Saboteur-cloak (disguise yourself as an enemy player to infiltrate and get behind enemy lines)
 
  Tactician-place spawn grenades to make new spawn points, call in APCs
  Assault-regenerate health to full recovery, and honestly the rest I don't know for assault.
  
 Sniper-cloak to be invisible while sniping, yes its pleasing. If shot at your visible
  ALERT- all classes are forced to use certain weapons for each designated class. If you want to 
 use a different weapon you can select no badges and use any weapon.
  Sad part is that if your really good online you can rank up completely really fast but there are 
 trophies and especially weekly awards to the top 1,3,6,10% players.
  Hopefully this has been helpful and I give Killzone 2 a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigger2695
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  This game defines shooters, withits amazing visuals, environments and gameplay. Online is too good 
 to be true, You can customise your soldier with air support, health packs, deployable sentry turrets 
 and my favourite to become invisible ( only used with the scout badge) . There is a great selection 
 of weapons to use. M82 assault rifle is the perfect all round weapon you can use it in all situations. 
 The shotgun is fatal at close range, the sub machine gun has a great capacity. The VC32 sniper 
 is the most powerful weapon in the game. You can shoot the enemy anywhere and he will go down. 
 The story is good aswell. iv'e completed it in 4 days. The AI are made to fight like an online 
 fighter would, which makes the story INTENSE. Overall this game is what a FPS should be like it 
 defines the word MASTERCLASS.
  
  -bullet2695 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJDav
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  I havent yet played 100 hours, but i most certaintly will.
  
  Killzone 2 is finally here. At first you may be extremly fustrated with the control system, especially 
 the aiming. It is because there are two speeds, if you are turning it is slow for about 2 seconds, 
 then speeds up to fast. This can sometimes be annoying as you will sometimes spin right past someone 
 who want to kill. However it is not long before you get used to this system and all is well. This 
 is its only real downfall, on the other hand the game itself is amazing.
  
  Killzone 2 offers some of the best AI in a game i have ever seen. You can hide, but not for long 
 as they will chuck a grenade in your direction. You can pop out of cover, but they spot you and 
 turn on you. You can aim and shoot at them, but they will duck for cover until you have stopped, 
 its funney to see them peek over to see where you are, thats when you blast them. If you dont cook 
 your grenade they will run away for cover. If you run over to do hand to hand combat, watch out, 
 as soon as you kill one helguast another onr is right behind you. Try running backwards and shooting 
 at him, he wont chase after you for long, but he will start to fire.
  
  This game would be pretty hard if your teamated ran around like headless chickens, but this is 
 not the case, far from it. I was in hand to hand combat one time, i managed to beat this guy to 
 the floor, and suddenly i got smacked from behind, all the colour drained from my screen i thought 
 i was going to die, i turned round to see the helgaust about to take another swing, where out of 
 no where come a shower of bullets from my teamates, killing the helgaust instantly. I found that 
 whenever i was in trouble my teammates were always there to back me up, but not to steal my kills. 
 This makes the game extremely enjoyable.
  
  The graphics are also awesome, the blood is cool and makes shooting very rewarding. I think the 
 revive lazer could have been done better, but apart from that and the control system this game 
 is absolutely amazing, and well worth the 40! I have yet to try out online, but the system looks 
 streamlined, fast flowing and very fun, i carnt wait to try it out! Apparently the controls are 
 a lot easier in online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Sorry for my late review.. I bought this game long time ago on 25th of Feb .. because of my late 
 review bec i would to double check all the pros and cons before deciding this is the right game 
 for other ppl and all FPS lover.....
  
  Lets go to review.. 1st thing you will notice regarding the game is the beautifull graphic ... 
 i SALUTE to GG for doing a incredible game graphic for us to enjoy.. they have proven right to 
 us they are capable to achieve the E3 2005 trailer .. everyone were so angry saying that this is 
 just a pre render graphic just for cut scene or movie but it turn out to be a whole game experience 
 . GG have done the graphic better or same par as the trailer as what we see.. even during online 
 the game graphic never lost its magic and remain the graphic smooth without any lagging and washout... 
 
  
  Now the story .. Story are still the same old same sttory like normal hero war story.. Enemies 
 attack us and we attack them back .. so far there were no reason y do helghan wan to conquer us... 
 don wan to speak about spoiler , juz wan to tell u they may be a 3rd part of the story call Killzone 
 3 ... Story only raise a few gun not as much as COD or any other shooter but it seem like there 
 are no other gun could compete the main assault gun ... through the story there will be hidden 
 intel and emblen need to find like COD4 finding laptop.. Computer Ai are superb as they know where 
 u are after u shoot them , as they know how to cover and avoid grenade.. in harder difficulties 
 Comp are more Smart as they will throw grenade like rain hailstorm.. 
  
  To the most important part where ppl would like to know about is Multiplayer.. The main mode of 
 multiplayer call Warzone.. its a mode where a selection of mode will run thorught without even 
 exiting the game or load the game .. it was so smooth the game will move to other mode with a small 
 notice at the corner to inform.. They will be few standard mode such as body count (team deathmatch) , 
 search and destroy, search and retrive, headquarter and assasination.. Character development are 
 important as u kill u will gain exp to lvl up.. lvl up grant u gun and classes .. Classes is wher 
 different game from COD4 .. it have medic , enginer , scout and tatician ... it almost similiar 
 like Battlerfield 2. The following point is the most important point wher shine from other FPS 
 online game which is Clan .. , I got ask the GG developer during E3 2008 during gamespot interview 
 with GG, i ask them "what different u guys could do to differentiate Killzone 2 with COD4 ". The 
 answer they gave was "CLAN" . Clan is where u create and allow ppl to join and select a day to 
 fight with other ppl to earn supreme ... by wining will earn valor which show ur standing in the 
 rank... Clan can be created by anyone if u beleive that u clan may grow.. Gun are remain the same 
 like what single player got. Offline multiplayer also prvide us to train ourselves with bots , 
 they are fairly great setting in a high lvl AI
  
  the negative part is wher some ppl will cant wait to find.. after playing game and playing so long 
 only i find this negative is the gun choices are little... damn little i can say for a FPS.. gun 
 varities are important but GG give us few gun that can last for the whole game , only some ppl 
 can stand it.. second is the story .. story may seem a little weak and we want more tragic and 
 suspense to bring us to the next sequel.. ... 
  
  After this review hope u will understand how the game works .. and help to decide regarding the 
 game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killakomando
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Killzone Isn't your ordinary First-Person shooter, First and furomst, the visuals, amazing in every 
 aspect of the word. The facial animations and rendering are on an unprecidented level, Seeing the 
 anger, pain and Cheer in an comrades face submerges you into the Conflict in the game.
  While dust particles react to the thrusters of a drop ship, making the air look breathable. The 
 sound in the game, is quite amazing with surround, and with the deepness of it you can literally 
 feel your enemies "behind" you making sound one of your most useful weapons. 
  
  The enviorments are rendered exrtemely well with a unprecedented level of detail. Effects like 
 lighting, motion blur, and film grain, bring out the the true grittyness of warfare.
  The story is well told, not having many twists and turns, But it delievers none the less. And while 
 the the Npc's (Other than the main story ones) remain nameless, you get a sense of urgency to protect 
 them, every felled ally is felt through this gripping tale of loyalty, loss, and honor. Though 
 it lacks the a thorough story like MGS4, It delievers a devestating haymaker of a story.
  
  Helghast AI is unreal, speaking on the elite mode. Flinching and reacting to every bullet fired, 
 every missed step; Kicking cans, breaking boxes, and and any other sound that disturbs the air. 
 Although some believe the controls are clunky and unmanageable, in an hour or so, they will be 
 welcomed, complementing the atmosphere of the game. The multi player is a Hectic warzone, a full 
 32 people shooting it out, with modes that change In-game with no pause.
  
  Lagging is at an all time low with this game, making the experience very tolerable and fun. And 
 there are a bundle of trophies that will keep you busy with the multiplayer and single player campaign, 
 fun little tasks that will challenge your ability to play and add hours to the game. all in all, 
 this game is ridiculously realistic, making you "ooh" and "ahh" at every dirt particle.
  
  This game is a must buy, add it with metal gear to your collection and enjoy.
  
  -P. s. Theres 
 strong language in the game, bare with it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LA_BooM_420
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  plays like a typical console fps, with minor framerate issues and wonky controls. i had really 
 high hopes for this game that were smashed completely but by some miracle this game does have some 
 character .... the core shooter on this game is solid but the controlles offset the frenzy, kinda 
 like slow motion. contains many of the good components that made some franchises huge but this 
 lacks alot in the plot depth, the cover system and controls just make you feel like a 300# lard 
 ass. i would give it a 8 if the single player didn't feel so confined... gritty moments in most 
 battles... chaotic/arcade shooter ... lotta smoke and mirrors. oh btw the kick ass looking buggy 
 from the old videos has been replaced by a jallopy junker jeep and the cover system is non-existant 
 in the multiplayer lol just be careful what you spend your money on these days ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin_09
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  well i got to tell you that kill zone 2 is a big hit and i can see why
  first off the game play makes you stay on your guard, they make it so you stay interested in it 
 and not get bored after a few missions
  i dont even know where to start with with the online game play
  i think that its better than 
 cod4, and cod4 was my favorite game until this came out 
  i have been playing for hours and hours and i havn't even got bored yet but all the other games 
 like cod4 you get bored of after awhile
  the other great thing about the game is they have not just one typ of game in the match, after 
 you beat the mission you have to do there will be another one
  there are like 3 or 4 a match
  there is alot of people that use mic in the game though ; (
  
 well alls i have to say is go out and send the $65 its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormer454
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok first Guerrilla has really made up for the 4 year waiting period between part 1 and now 2. Second 
 this game has alot of good things putting it at the top of the video game food chain. The graphics 
 are superb and are just as well as well or even better than most games out on the market. The audios 
 wonderful and one of my most favorite things about the story line is the fact that you still have 
 the same old characters such as Rico out smashing Helgast and Templar commanding the invasion. The 
 weapons are a 2 thumbs up because they kept the same weapons such as M82 Assault Rifle (ISA) and 
 the STA52 Assault Rifle (Helgast) , however they did remover the secondary features such as the 
 Grenade launcher but made up for it by adding a whole arsenal of new weapons. The maps throughout 
 the game are well thought out and designed. Each level is set to have Maximum satisfaction and they're 
 made to really challenge the best of the best players. It plays out real well and sets in to the 
 first Killzone. The onlines excellent but I belive it could be improved with better maps and layouts 
 as well as game styles. In the end I give this game a 10 because I really believe it was worth the 
 wait and I hope that theres a third one and comes out alot sooner than 4 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokittoya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is definitely more than just a pretty face. Everything seems to be done quite well. 
 However there is one drawback i had with it. The story is short and does not have that much depth. 
 The actual gameplay through the campaign is actually very well done and intense. The multiplayer 
 is great, if not a bit too hyped up. The game has a good array of weaponry, and the level design 
 is well done.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  OMG the graphics are amazing. What more is there to say? They mastered this part. It everything 
 is done so well, i read a review saying the frame rate was poor, but honestly i don't see how.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Everything is done well. People complain about the controls, but i guess they don't know how to 
 open up the menu, go to options and change the controls and sensitivity. The gameplay can get pretty 
 intense. The campaign places you in amazing firefights, and since you can only carry one main weapon 
 at a time (you also carry a sidearm with unlimited ammo) you have to think strategically about which 
 gun to bring, and what to leave behind. 
  
  Story: 7/10
  The story is decent. It doesn't have much depth or length, but everything makes sense. There is 
 some profanity in the dialogue every here and there, but if i was on another planet with the chance 
 of getting killed by guys with red eyes i would probably cuss a lot too. 
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  The multiplayer is excellent. The system syncs match types very well. Instead 
 of playing one type of game, ending, and then loading to another type of match, it switches instantly 
 and seamlessly to the next type. The level design is excellent, and makes it so if anyone tries 
 to spawn camp they'll regret it. The experience system is like Call of Duty 4's, and the class 
 system is great, and well balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyguy65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  What isn't there to say about this game i mean really its freaking awsome its definatly the prettiest 
 FPS I have played, and the cover system is a great new feature that future FPS's should follow. 
 Though on the other hand the story was kind of dull and seemed it was only there to tell you "ya 
 the guys with red eyes ya um KILL THEM" so the story could have used more depth. Also i noticed 
 alot of people whined about the controls or more so the sensetivity, i found it funny how they 
 kept calling it lagg input or something but ya no its supposed to be like that. I suppose they 
 tryed making a scifi shooter realistic and i think its fine just have to get used to it. There 
 is one thing in Killzone 2 that i personally thought was great though, the siaxis controls i mean 
 they actually made them useful. So now when turning a handle or planting a bomb you kinda feel 
 a sense of i dont know realishness. The multiplayer is good but not addicting which i suppose is 
 also good but well i dont know ive been to hooked on the story to care lol. That pretty much ends 
 my speedy review of this badass game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaryZero
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Its everything I've been waiting for since the first one. I bought a PS3 to play this game!! I 
 don't normally care much fro multi-player but this one has me dreaming and day dreaming to play 
 it. I sucks to be an adult and have to wait till Friday night to play this. I look forward to more 
 DLC and even the next game if one comes. This blows Halo and COD out of the water. Trust me its 
 very additive and you get a nice experience when you play this, it has a good feeling and the class 
 system is just awesome. I just wish everyone will get off their high-horse and give this game a 
 shot. Even 360 fanboys would enjoy this game, trust me I play my 360 way more. in fact this is 
 the only game I own for my PS3, remember I bought a PS3 to play this game. But then again I really 
 loved the first game and the sequel on the PSP. So technically I'm a Killlzone fanboy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 it had a lot of hype behind it all the way to the end, did it live up to it? Well yea 
 it did just that, I got it the first day and have been playing it ever sense. It's just plain fun 
 and I'm just having fun with single player, I ain't got online so I ain't been able to check it 
 out yet. But after playing the first Killzone and seeing that it was great I thought this one would 
 be to, but it simply a masterpiece.
  
  It probably would of got a 10/10 if I ever get to play online.
  
  Graphics:
  What else can 
 you say about them but there simply great, everything looks great. Especially the environments 
 that you be fighting in. The shadows and everything are done greatly, you just have to see them 
 for your self.
  
  Sound:
  Another great thing about it, everything sounds great, the sound makes it feel more realistic in 
 a big way. From the guns and everything, I kind of didn't expect it to be so good but I'm glad 
 it is. It makes it seem like your in a real war, if you have surround sound you'll love it.
  
  Gameplay:
  I've heard a few that didn't like it, but I think it's really great there isn't 
 nothing wrong with it I like all of the action and controls are great. I've already beat the game 
 once and starting threw the second time, I'll end up playing it a lot more over and over. 
  
  Overall Killzone 2 is simply put a must buy game, for any fan of FPS games you'll love it. 
 If you don't then o well to bad you didn't get what you were looking for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManginaSORES
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  What I find to be so terrible about this game is the fact that you can spawn as any cheap weapon 
 turret camping hallway rocket using invisible sniping fool. Why couldent they make it so you had 
 to earn this stuff everygame. Rush a certain area to get a weapon, fight for it. But instead they 
 just give it to you, so even the biggest noobs can sit in a room with a shotgun and four turrets 
 pointing at a door. Another problem is the way you earn the weapons is to easy I played for two 
 days and unlocked everything. How ridiculous is that if that happened in call of duty the whole 
 world woulkd be pissed but since it happens in one of these ps only games we cant be critical or 
 talk about the bad points of this game. Now time for the crappy single player that i never got 
 to complete. Every Level is the same in single player you're never surprised at all and Rico should 
 go to H**. The only reason i havent completed this crappy game is because of the simple fact that 
 it WONT PLAY PAST A CERTAIN PART OF THE GAME!!!!! It just freezes and locks up says its loading 
 and sits there what a piece of crap. There is no scratches on my game. Its not dirty, it just sucks... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj_simmons
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  Well, the graphics in killzone 2 are truly amazing. The textures of the environment are on par 
 with the best. The lighting effects are extremely realistic and easily surpasses every other game 
 on the market. The environmental reaction effects are so realistic that the thought of it being 
 just a game boggles the mind. For instance, shooting gas tanks and watching them spin around then 
 exploding, or the realistic way the enemy react when shot has never been so much fun to watch. 
 Where the graphics in Killzone 2 really shine is the atmosphere. The wind blowing dust and debris 
 around, the look of the scorched sky, and the constant explosions accompanied by a rainfall of 
 bullets flying at you gives Killzone 2 an atmosphere not seen in any game before it. However there 
 are a few graphical hiccups. While the character models in the cg cutscenes look better than anything 
 before them, the in game character models, while not bad, could use a little more work. Also, from 
 time to time you may notice a little frame rate drop and jagged edges around shadows and shinny 
 objects. But this is not always the case and most of the time hardly noticeable. On rare occasions 
 you might also notice the limbs of the enemy soldiers and your squadmates sticking through solid 
 objects. Again this happens rarely but it does happen. The sound of Killzone 2 takes the atmosphere 
 in the game to a whole new level. The realistic sound effects of the environment to the cry of 
 agony from the enemy allows killzone 2 to raise the bar on sound quality in video games. However, 
 your squadmates will use the same quips and phrases after you deliver a head shot to an enemy or 
 need to take cover and overtime you may grow tired of hearing the same thing over and over. The 
 story is the part of Killzone 2 that is the most lacking. The setting of the story lets you know 
 that the enemy started the war by invading the planet Vekta and now your taking the war to them 
 by invading there home planet Helgan. In the first few cutscenes get the since of a bond between 
 you and your squadmates and that they've been in battle together before, but other than that the 
 story offers no background information about its characters or there relationships with each other. 
 For the most part the story is objective based throughout the game, meaning you need to do this, 
 now you need to do that. The story never really develops a real plot. The gameplay in killzone 
 2 is another area it shines in. The AI of the enemy is amazing. They will run from grenades, take 
 cover when fired apon, and flank you when given the chance. The enemy AI makes Killzone 2 a challenge 
 even on the easiest difficulty settings. The AI of your squadmates is also quite impressive. They 
 will protect themselves and take out enemies. They will occasionally get in you way while your 
 moving but unlike other first person shooters; they actually do more good than harm. While the 
 default controls may take some getting use to, you can fully customize them to your liking by adjusting 
 the X and Y-axis sensitivity and choosing from many different control schemes. The only problem 
 with Killzone 2s' gameplay is that it slows down or freezes for a second when loading or reaching 
 a checkpoint. It's a glitch that could have been easily avoided if there was an option to install 
 onto the hard drive. Other than the slowdown when loading and saving, Killzone 2 is one of the 
 most entertaining games on the market. It offers non-stop action, a variety of weapons and maps, 
 and an additive multiplayer that doesn't share the same flaws as the campain. Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Story: 6
  Gameplay: 9
  Entertainment: 9
  Overall: 8.4/10
  
  If you are 
 a hardcore FPS fan then I highly recomend this game. If you are just a casual gamer or only play 
 the ocassinal FPS then rent it first to see if you like it. Killzone 2 is a great game that deserves 
 atleast a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares_hot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  Finally after years of hype killzone 2 is here, and how is it? Awesome.
  Lets start with the presentation.
  The graphics in this game are AMAZING! Seriously, I'm pretty 
 picky about graphics but this game just blew me away. It is the first game to actually look better 
 than crysis.
  Moving on to the artistic side, rugged enviroments, glowing eyes and heavy weaponry are really 
 great.
  The sound is kickass too^^.
  
  Lets go on with the story of killzone 2. It follows up the story of Killzone and Killzone: Liberation 
 and for a full background story of the universe check out Killzone. com.
  You play as "Sev", a sergeant in the ISA army and a member of Alpha team. After the invasion of 
 Vektan the ISA are pissed of adn want to bring the war to the helghast backyard. Unfortunetly the 
 invasion doesn't go as planned. The Overall plot is good but the story in the game is weak, or 
 not weak as much as not present with just a few things that happen that actually is story. Mostly 
 you are just waging war but when the story is brought forward it is done in a great fashion, especially 
 the ending cinematic.
  
  Well, that's it about the story, now the gameplay: It's great, you run around and shoot guys and 
 well that's pretty much it. You can use cover wich is done in a uniqe way with you still being 
 in first-person while in cover.
  There are alot of weapns in this game but most of them are usual weapons like assault rifles, rifles, 
 flame-throwers, lmgs and smgs but they are still better than theyr'e counterparts im most games 
 thanks to the heavy feel of them.
  You also get to pilot either turrets or vehicles on several occasions and these moments are great 
 to change the pacing a little bit.
  But there are one thing that I've seen that alot of people **** about and that are the slight latency 
 of the controls. Well that's something you just have to get used to and it isn't to bad either 
 way.
  
  Okay, there's one more thing that I haven't written about yet and is ofcourse the multiplayer.
 
  Well how is it you might ask and the answer is awesome. There are no class creating like in CoD 
 but it is still great with changing objectives and such. And in this game you really have to earn 
 your special abilities by aquiring ribbons and medals. You also rank up in a the usual way.
  Just take my word for it when I say it's great.
  
  SUMMARY:
  Graphics: 10.
  Sound:9.
 
  Story:7.
  Gameplay:8.
  Multiplayer:9.5.
  
  C'ya online^^. Feel free to add me.
  PSNID: Juel92 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omid1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Best FPS Ever Made Till Now... 
  Shows the power of the PS3...
  5 Out of 5
  Yeah... it's all about Killzone2...
  Killzone2 is one of the best games I've ever played, I mean 
 like it has awesome graphics, sweet gameplay, cool weapons, and much more...
  I beat the game on the medium difficulty, but it seems if you want to complete the WHOLE game, 
 you got to beat the game on ALL difficulties.
  About the online mode (Warzone) the only thing that I can say, is WOW.
  It's one of the best 
 online modes I've ever seen...
  So after you complete some matches online, then if you go on the website (www. killzone. com) you 
 can see the replays, and much more on the website such as leaderbords, clans, and ...
  In my opinion the online ranks are really easy, well there's not many of them so, you just need 
 time to get to GENERAL.
  Anyway if you have a PS3, you GOT TO HAVE THIS.
  Thanks And Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebvan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I'm going to say it This game is better than Halo 3 AND Gears of War 2. There. 
 I'll admit that I was looking forward to making this purchase for 2 reasons.
  
  1. To buy a game I thought would be amazing.
  
  2. To buy a game for that big black machine 
 which has been reserved for strictly LBP and Blu-Ray movies recently.
  
  Well, I can gladly say I am happy for both reasons after playing the game and beating it in about 
 8 hours.
  
  Graphics - What can I say that you haven't already heard about this game honestly? EVERYTHING is 
 amazing. I had heard that some of the effects were lacking from reading early reviews but I couldn't 
 really ever see what they were talking about because I was looking for those flaws the whole way 
 through. MAYBE the flamethrower is a little weird, but honestly, 1 gun that I used maybe a total 
 of 2 minutes the entire game is going to take away from the total experience? Please. The thing 
 I kept on thinking while playing this was just how I've never seen anything like it before and 
 how the graphics almost actually did look like the CGI they showed a few years ago.
  
  Sound - Best sound since MGS4 for me. You can ask my roommates, when I played this game the house 
 was rumbling. If you have Dolby 5.1 Sound, then prepare to cream yourself because this game is 
 amazing with a system.
  
  Gameplay - So you've probably heard that this game has slower controls and would assume thats a 
 bad thing, right? Well in a weird way, as you play through the game you actually get used to the 
 controls and appreciate it. You feel more like a soldier fighting a war with crazy heavy weapons 
 than a stealth ninja assassin with cat like reflexes. I was skeptical as if I were going to like 
 it but ultimately it won me over. Also for controls, there are a couple of vehicle/mounted weapon 
 sequences and each one of them flows smoothly. There is the occasional loading hiccup when your 
 moving to checkpoint to checkpoint, but once again that's being nitpicky.
  
  Story - The story isn't that bad. It's not great, but it's not bad. I'll be honest with you all 
 though and say I really haven't cared about the story in a FPS since Half-Life 2 came out.
  
  Features - One of the things I loved most about K2 was the multiplayer. Matches are made up 
 of a certain number of rounds and game modes switch seamlessly while your on a single map. So you'll 
 vote on a map, get in the map, play execution and as soon as the round is over, it will switch 
 to the king of the hill mode while everyone is still running around the map. VERY cool feature 
 and I bet a lot of games in the future are gonna be stealing that one. I also appreciated the stat 
 tracking and medal progression in the game. I'll definitely be playing this game for many hours 
 to come.
  
  Overall - The original Killzone was supposed to be the Halo-killer. It wasn't. But for me, Killzone 
 2 is. If there is one thing that Halo has going better it is the replay system. But I enjoyed everything 
 in Killzone 2 more than i did in Halo 3. I'm really starting to believe that the PS3 exclusives 
 are a good deal better than the 360 exclusives. I mean, to me my top 3 favorite games out now are 
 PS3 exclusives (MGS4, Killzone 2, and LBP) . And even though Final Fantasy is coming out on both, 
 FF Versus is going to be PS3 exclusive too. Killzone 2 is just another step for PS3 gaining ground 
 the best way it can, making awesome video games that people will buy consoles to play it. If you 
 have a PS3 and haven't picked up Killzone 2 you are definitely missing out on a candidate for GOTY. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The game has great graphics, but the transition for each event could be smoother. You'll notice 
 a second or two of lag time between each level, which is not bad I guess. The game does take forever 
 to load though. The characters in the game are funny as they do crack a lot of jokes. The thing 
 that I don't like about this is that they are not good at defending. Sometime you'll see an enemy 
 behind your partner just firing away and your partner just ignores the guy. I'm just tired of running 
 around saving these dumb partners so that I can have some back-ups. This happens especially in 
 the last level of the game. The partner is a retard. He is steadily getting lit up from behind 
 and just ignores the bullet until he's disabled and asked me to save him (really annoying) . The 
 game saves for you when you meet a check point, so this could be a problem for certain people. 
 Since some places are quite long to get through and you would hate to do things over and over again. 
 The game is short, but for the hours that I've spent to beat the bosses make the game a little 
 longer. Unless you are really good at shooter and have time to be frustrated, then start the game 
 out with Veteran. The last level is where you'll hate yourself for making the decision to play 
 on a high difficulty. Gun aiming takes a little of getting used to. I'm used to playing Call Of 
 Duty 4 and Dead Space where aiming required you to hold down the L1 button, but this game is firing 
 from the hip. You can center the aim by pressing the R3 button, but it doesn't really do much good 
 other than for Sniper Rifle. The game make use of the controller's motion sensor. I like that the 
 steady aiming of the Sniper Rifle is based on the steadiness of you holding the controller. Maybe 
 it's just me, but it feels weird where the hair trigger is on the screen. It makes the character 
 seems short. Over all, the game is fun and there are a lot of swearing involved (both from the 
 game and from me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 : Stop me when you've heard this pitch before. Imagine a first person shooter where 
 you play as bulky space marines battling evil invaders. The kids will totally eat it up.
  
  Story : You play as "Sev", part of a troop of marines on a mission to invade the enemy homeworld 
 and capture their leader. The enemy is the "Helghast", a literal army of British Darth Vaders with 
 machine guns. It's as if someone asked the designers to come up with the most evil concept design 
 for armoured enemy soldiers possible. Their leader, "Scolar Visari", is some kind of hybrid of 
 Adolf Hitler and Dr Robotnik, yet comes across as the most appealing personality in the entire 
 game, in part because he's the only character with a personality. Your squadmates are the most 
 vague and stubborn archetypes for video game space marines one can come up with, and the script 
 feels like it was written by the whitest freshmen on campus whose only experience with military 
 personnel comes from their tour of duty on Halo. The story is entirely inconsequential, up to an 
 admittedly solid ending sequence. 
  
  While "kill zone" is an actual military term that refers to dangerous territory (according to Urban 
 Dictionary) , I still have a hard time believing that someone named their new first person shooter 
 franchise as such without snickering, let alone a franchise that appears to be very important to 
 a company like Sony. "Killzone", to me, is the equivalent of "BoneStorm" or the name of any given 
 parody mocking violent video games on The Simpsons or such breed of television. Then again, I have 
 a hard time imagining that much thought was put into the game as a whole aside from "the kids like 
 Halo, so lets make Halo but prettier", but lets not jump to conclusions yet and try to analyze 
 Killzone 2 on its individual merits. 
  
  It's a first person shooter to the Nth degree. The general gameplay consists of going from Point 
 A to Point B, with a lot of things dying along the way. Despite the futuristic theme, almost all 
 of your enemies are the bald yet humanoid Helghast troopers. All of your weapons comprise of the 
 traditional machine guns/shotgun/sniper rifle/flamethrower toys that most shooters carry, except 
 for an effective "lightning gun" that smokes all enemies from close or long range and has infinite 
 ammo, yet only appears in one level (call it the Killzone Kuribo's Shoe.) There are no alien targets 
 or gimmick weapons aside from the occasional leaping mini-spider or flying gun turret thing, so 
 the gameplay may be better compared to a Call of Duty but with the tense warzone ambiance replaced 
 with the same future apocalyptic soullessness and overdone orchestral score you've seen many times 
 over. 
  
  The AI is strong, though I feel that almost every first person shooter these days should have strong 
 AI after years of AI being bragged about in every first person shooter press release. Even on Normal, 
 the AI will chuck grenades and flank your backside if you turtle in one spot for too long. I get 
 the impression that this game is akin to Halo in that it's meant to be played by FPS elitists on 
 the hardest difficulty settings, where the ability to strategize, conserve ammo and still rank 
 headshots while running is critical. But even those faithful will have a hard time adapting to 
 the odd control scheme; Sev is a bit slower than most shooter icons, it seems, and with all of 
 the important commands assigned to the shoulder buttons and analog stick buttons, I often found 
 myself mistaking melee attacks for grenade throws or ducking or fire or running or having an emotional 
 connection to the plot. 
  
  The Campaign is strongest when you're simply pressing onward and shooting Helghast as you go, but 
 the game hugs to certain conventions with great passion. Within the span of the game's 10 missions, 
 I counted there to be 9 gun turret sequences. I can tolerate one or two gun turret sections in 
 a game, and in particular a heavily scripted, cinematic experience ala Metal Gear Solid 4, but 
 this strikes me as a bit of overkill. There's your fair share of explosive barrels, one interesting 
 vehicle sequence near the end, one lame duck vehicle sequence near the beginning, and the worst 
 of all, the mission sequences where you have to stand still and fight off wave after wave of enemies. 
 This game strikes the opposite effect of Resistance 2, a game that threw all of its alien adversaries 
 at you simultaneously in a virtual frontline and thus felt like a believable battlefield. Here, 
 the enemies come at about 5 or 6 at a time, sporadically, and these frequent-occurring sequences 
 come across as feeling very drawn out. They also have checkpoints that are rather spread out. One 
 battle at the end of the game can go on for 15 minutes without any checkpoint, and force you to 
 restart the whole blooming battle all over again because of one stray rocket hit you while you 
 were looking for a weapon with the range needed to pick off an enemy halfway across the room. As 
 a whole, the campaign is decent, if occasionally dull or frustrating, but it lacks any memorable 
 moments that make me look back at my time with the game fondly.
  
  Your multiplayer deathmatch options are fairly solid. You get all of the deathmatch/capture the 
 flag variants that you normally expect in a shooter, but with an odd matchmaking system where online 
 games seem to rotate match types instead of stay consistent. It's a great system if you plan to 
 play for an hour or two, but if I just want to get in a quickie free-for-all deathmatch before 
 going to work, you're going to have to roll the dice. Likewise, Killzone 2 follows the ever popular 
 new trend of "perks", or giving benefits to individuals that play and succeed often enough, even 
 going so far as to open up character classes for repeated play. I know that multiplayer shooter 
 fiends seem to eat up these grind-based systems with all-nighter gameplay sessions like they're 
 playing some kind of MMORPG, but for someone like me that only plays online deathmatches when the 
 odd chance comes up, I can't help but despise the notion that people who play the game a lot more 
 than me, and are already much better than me, are getting even more of an advantage than me. 
 
  
  Killzone 2 redefines "flavor of the month shooter." If anything, it makes me feel bad for labeling 
 Resistance 2, Call of Duty: World at War and Far Cry 2 as flavor of the month shooters because 
 those games at least had a stray fresh idea here and there. The Campaign is decent but forgettable, 
 and the multiplayer is sufficient but brings nothing new to the table that we haven't seen before. 
 Killzone 2 is just another shooter with no identity, other than having the most cutting edge graphics 
 on the market as of this writing.
  
  I made a conscious decision to not discuss the graphics in this review for two reasons. I wanted 
 to assess the game on its practical merits, and because every other big budget shooter is striving 
 to have the best graphics on the market anyways. Unless the game brings some unique visual aesthetics 
 to the dance (look at Call of Duty 4's campaign for a practical example) , a game striving for realism 
 will be forgotten in two months when the next big shooter is released, or the next game trailer 
 is posted on the internet. 
  
  But back to the game, the only circumstances that I would suggest Killzone 2 to someone is that 
 either you have a disgusting passion for grind-based multiplayer and have grinded your way past 
 every other shooter on the market, or for some benign reason you must play the best-looking game 
 available at all times. Otherwise, I couldn't in good conscience recommend this game over Resistance 
 2 or the last two Call of Duty installments. 
  
  Pros : But that said, this is a really, really gorgeous-looking game. 
  
  Cons : Needless Sixaxis 
 control sequences. The game will periodically ask you to turn a valve or rotate the handle on some 
 kind of bomb, and doing so involves moving the controller around with a great amount of effort.
 
  
  3 stars
  
  I hope the praise for Resistance 2 redeems me a bit in the eyes of the Playstation faithful after 
 I branded said game as uninspired. In retrospect, it's a good deal more inspired than Killzone 
 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryjoered2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:23 pm PT
Review:  .Killzone's characters voice acting is really annoying but you'll tend to drown it out because 
 you'll be struggling to survive. One of the hardest shooters I ever played no doubt. Graphics are 
 incredible, better than any console shooter for sure maybe rivals Crysis on the PC. Controls are 
 at first clunky, but you will get used to them and compensate. They really aren't as bad as some 
 people have been saying, but yes a little more responsive would be nice. The Campaigns story is 
 pretty weak i'd have to say but the action is so fun you won't give a crap. The best part of this 
 game is the multiplayer it's definitely unique it uses a battlefield 2 type of ranking system maps 
 are great there is 8 classes and from what i understand you can make custom classes when you are 
 high enough rank mix and matching attributes from two different classes. Long story short if you 
 have a PS3 buy this game and if you don't you are missing out on one of the best FPS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I just can't figure out if I like this game or not. It's a mixed bag all around.
  
  First single player: the action is INTENSE. Crazy battles at every corner, and the AI is very smart. 
 Too bad your teams AI sucks, and the characters are forgettable. 
  
  Multiplayer: I really like the maps, the Warzone concept, and the ribbons/medals aka Bad Company. 
 
  
  What I don't get is the aim lag, it takes some serious getting used to, especially when compared 
 to other FPS on the market. It degrades the game into a "whoever shoots first wins" concept. In 
 addition the rifle you get in the beginning is the gun you will use 85% of the time. And graphically 
 I don't see what all the hype is about. Everyone is gray/brown/bleh. Easy to make textures look 
 good when you are using a limited color palette. I liked how R2 was brighter. 
  
  Overall the game is solid, but its not a 10, and just has some missing links that keep it from 
 being so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Downfall90
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2, a hugely hyped game for Sony in 2009. Many 360 fanboys hated the game, and didn't believe 
 the hype, but it is worth every dollar. 
  
  I have played COD 4 and 5, and Killzone 2 is much more realistic, it doesn't have Aim Assist like 
 COD, and no one camps. Seriously, i hated the COD 4 online becuase of campers, but in Killzonoe 
 2 , no one camps, everyone pushses forward, as a unit, in virtual realism. 
  
  Fanboys are always quick to judge games like Killzone 2, but it is good online and off. The campaign 
 isn't very long: it takes about 7 hours to complete, but it is a very intense story, and Visari's 
 constant speeches and propaganda against you make it feel like you really are fighting against 
 a warlord bent on destroying ISA world of Vektar. 
  
  The graphics are, amazing. The texture is very solid, and the lighting and shadowing effects are 
 amazing. The dyanmic light is also a noticable feature in Killzone 2, as Helghan isn't a world 
 with many colous besides Grey, dark green and more grey. But theres nothing wrong witha that, it 
 actually makes the setting more immersive, as this planet isn't meant to be beautiful and colourful. 
 It's meant to be rugged and war torn, and it very much is. 
  
  Overall, Killzone 2 is a fun game to play offline and online, and lives up to the hype with it's 
 beautiful visuals and realistic gunplay and is worth buying for its replay value in the online 
 section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda_adict
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Good
  -amazing graphics, although there are some blurry textures
  -intense action keeps you on the edge of your seat for the whole ride
  -multiplayer is wonderful. 
 It's a ball of goodiness
  -even though there isn't abundance in weapons, they're all good
  -multiplayer is rewarding for a long time
  -controls aren't half-bad
  -brutal gameplay with 
 lot of blood
  -you can literally beat people to death (not halo of resistance, nut actual repeatedly whack the 
 guy with your gun)
  -nice story
  -AI is really good
  -small details like motion blurs make this game really nice to look at
  -the cover system is 
 a welcomed addition
  -the bolt gun. It propels a guy to a wall, nails him there and then freakin' blows up...... i mean 
 SICK!
  -the electricity gun......... a taste of heaven.
  
  Bad
  -quite tough at some times
  -controls take some getting used to, but they still are good
  -short 
 campaign
  -the story had so much potential, but was cut short
  -the game stops for up to 5 seconds while saving or loading, which kind of breaks the flow of the 
 game
  -stereotypical characters seem to be attracted to enemy bullets
  
  
  REVIEW:
  
  -Graphics: 9.8/10
  
  -Gameplay: 10/10
  
  -Sound: 9.5/10
  
  -Story: 8/10
  
  
 -Controls: 8/10
  
  -Difficulty: 8.5/10
  
  -Value: 9/10
  
  -multiplayer: 10/10
  
  
  OVERALL: 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjames4040
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The following quotes are the ridiculous criticisms made by some gamers. 
  
  "The controls are sluggish, the controls lag, there are deadzones, the aiming is off, the controls 
 are flawed"
  
  I am all for opinions, but to say that the controls are flawed simply because you don't like them, 
 is unfair.
  
  I would go on and discuss about how the controls are great, but I think that Killzone Producer 
 Seb Downie can sum it up better than I can...
  
  "After carefully looking into this, reading the posts, talking to a lot of you directly and analyzing 
 the controls at GG we have come to the conclusion that there are no changes required to the system. 
 Killzone 2 is a weighty, slower, more tactical first person experience that focuses on immersion. 
 It is not a twitchy, split-second gun-wielding experience like some shooters."
  
  BTW, there isn't any lag or DeadZones in the controls. You can test this out by simply moving the 
 right analog stick very slowly. 
  
  Enough about the controls, now lets get into the review
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  What more 
 can be said that hasn't already been said about the graphics! It is simply the most stunning graphics 
 ever in a video game. The environment looks incredible!!! Even the shadows and lights look realistic. 
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The most compelling part of the Killzone experience is its gameplay, and order to have great gameplay, 
 you need plenty of action. This game probably has the most action I have ever experienced in a 
 FPS. One memorable Killzone 2 moment that I will never forget is when I used the bolt gun on a 
 pair of helghast that were outside of a door, and when I shot it, it hit both of them and connected 
 them both together, and what happened next was the most entertaining thing that I have ever seen 
 in a game They both went down the stairs just like a slinky goes down the stairs, and then they 
 blew up. This was a weird and very entertaining moment that showed me that this game is a technical 
 masterpiece.
  
  
  Usually I don't say these types of things because someone might call me a fanboy, but what I am 
 about to say, must be addressed
  
  When it comes to shooting, mixed in with the environments and the map layout, Killzone 2 is better 
 than every shooter, including Call of Duty. Before you throw me under the bus for saying that this 
 shooter has better action than COD, listen to what I have to say. There has never been a game that 
 has been able to intertwine a map, heated battles, and the thrill of killing the opponent in one 
 game like Killzone has managed to do.
  
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  This part of Killzone really surprised me. The sound felt so realistic, it reminded me of a war 
 movie. Everything, from the guns to the environment sounds very real.
  
  
  Single Player 10/10
  
  Killzone 2 may not have a revolutionary story, but when was that ever 
 a deciding factor in an fps? The thing that makes this story mode a memorable one for the ages 
 is the action. Each level has its own different feel so that there is not a repetitive experience. 
 
  
  Multiplayer 10/10
  
  Like I already said before, the maps are some of the greatest multiplayer maps ever made (even 
 the gamespot reviewer agrees with me!) Another key addition is having the option fusing different 
 modes together. There are multiple class systems that are very rewarding, and the ribbons give 
 you the sense of accomplishment (and bragging rights too!) Multiplayer is so intense, that you 
 will enjoy it until Killzone 3 releases.
  
  
  Innovation 10/10
  
  Since there are many people who think that Killzone 2 isn't innovative, I decided to point out 
 what it brings new to the fps. The first one is realism. There has never been a game that has felt 
 so real and epic. Another innovative thing is the technical aspect of the game, which takes shooting 
 people to a whole different level with the controls and weight. . And the third one is the action.
 
  
  Also, even though Kevin V (editor at gamespot) gave this game a 9.0, when you find that much great 
 things to say about a game, and find no flaws, then that game should have gotten a 10
  
  Buy this game, because there isn't any fps on the market that is like it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEvilBaron
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2, a game that was something, but not the something it should have or could been, but 
 still a great game no less.
  
  
  The story of Killzone 2 was a story that lacked so much substance, being very minimal to give just 
 enough reason as to why you're on what level and what your next overall goal is. At no point in 
 the game does the story compel you to really drive forward to fight out what's next. Which is a 
 shame as the game could have been a lot more if it had been longer, with more events and more emphasis 
 on character building. A prime example of this would be Scolar Visari, a game character who genuinely 
 seemed interesting with his charisma and passion for his dream. I considered this a great shame 
 as he and Mael Radec could have been great, if not the greatest villains in a game if they had 
 been worked on properly.
  Even though this has no real connection to the story, I have to say it, Rico, your comrade, is 
 the most irritating soldier in any game to work with, with his temper. A good few times I felt 
 like I should be able to shoot him instead of the Helghast, moving on though...
  
  
  The game play is rather spectacular, the atmosphere in the levels are usually intense and chaotic, 
 unlike usual shooters where everything seemed spaced out. The close level designs also make for 
 a claustrophobic feeling, as if being stuck in a small room with the Helghast, which makes the 
 action all the more frantic as you stick your head up over cover to be greeted to the sight of 
 six pairs of Red Eyes.
  This isn't a game where you can run up to the pack of Helghast and expect to spray them all to 
 death. The reality is you'll get half way and be riddled with bullets and have your screen go grey. 
 Cover is essential in the game, especially for those players whom feel up for the challenge of 
 Veteran or even the impossible Elite.
  Most of the opening levels are undoubtedly going to be your favourite as they are much more fun 
 and hectic compared to the emptier more open spaced levels that follow later on. Though the end 
 levels bring back the chaos and frantic dashing to cover, players will be undoubtedly become frustrated 
 by them as they pit you in unbelievably unrealistic situations that you will, and I promise you 
 this, die, MANY times, causing unbelievable frustration. 
  One thing about the ending levels, though one part seems fitting, the very end seems anti climatic, 
 stuck in a room pitted against the hordes of the Helghast. It's as if Guerrilla thought they couldn't 
 top earlier levels so just thought hellish action would somehow suffice; it doesn't, it leaves 
 you wanting and wondering why they couldn't have ended the game on a more grand note. Though I 
 could explain the ending and why it's so hmmmm, I won't give anything away.
  One point I want to point out is the loss of secondary fire on guns, a great shame to say the least, 
 one I hope that returns in future instalments as they'd make for more action in levels. Not only 
 having to worry about the machine gun or the knife, but the secondary shotgun fire, makes for really 
 thing about what your course of action should be.
  
  The graphics, in my opinion, as graphics are subjective, has been vastly over rated by reviewers, 
 I booted it up, expecting graphics only Gods' could pull from their pockets. Instead what I saw 
 was indeed great looking, but hardly eye candy, though I guess it's not supposed to be. Helghan 
 is dark, it's grim and the colour, or lack of, really demonstrates this 
  Though there is no denying it's a great looking game, something satisfies the innate human Aggression 
 Feeling as Helghan bodies flail about as you blast them and their blood splatters over the screen.
 
  
  
  I feel I have to mention the AI, the enemy AI is indeed nigh on flawless in my experience, always 
 looking for a way to flank you. Very often you'll encounter groups that will suppress you with 
 automated fire and as you hide in cover, here the ticking of a grenade coming your way to flush 
 you out. The Helghast are very cunning, don't expect them to be kind and wait for you to poke your 
 head out, they'll come to you with their knives when you least expect it and knife you, hello grey 
 screen. I should also just mention I've witnessed the Helghast wave at my dead body, thought it 
 was a funny quirk. 
  Your Comrades AI however, leaves something to be desired, many times I saw my comrade with their 
 backs to the enemy, just letting them stand there, not reacting as they shot me dead; the result 
 of this after the umpteenth time ended with after the reload, shooting my team mate in a frenzy 
 for his inability to do his job, anyway. 
  
  I can't say much about the multiplayer as of yet, going to play it soon, online I mean. So I'll 
 edit this again later.
  Skirmish mode however, is fun with bots yet slightly annoying you can't adjust the options for 
 how long the match goes on for, an issue hopefully that will be patched. 
  Though I do feel, though it may go unnoticed by others that developers are beginning to discriminate 
 against those who perhaps don't want to take the fight online to unlock all the weapons and badges 
 and just want to play alone. A crazy concept I know. Hell, most have access to the internet nowadays, 
 but that doesn't mean developers should begin to shun the lone player. Even the trophies have to 
 do this, but anyway.
  
  
  Also, just to address the issue with some, certain people whom moan about the controls, the controls 
 are not that bad and on Options, under Controls, set the Controls to Alternate 2 and you're back 
 to a lay out 95% similar to most other shooters, so problem solved.
  
  
  Overall, Killzone 2, after the years of wait is a good game for action and pace, it makes for a 
 good addition to the PS3 though is nothing ground breaking. It's a shame the experience didn't 
 last too long, took me 6 hours to complete on Veteran but the action is ferocious and hectic enough 
 to keep players coming back for a few more times. The skirmish mode alone is great gaming with 
 its different style of modes being compressed into one match. However, the story is lacking and 
 some parts of it rather frustrating, but on the whole, the game shines through as a great testament 
 of a power house shooter.
  
  
  My final word is that for a game that took so many years, most was just polish clearly as the game 
 lacks great length or story, so hopefully in the Killzone 3 game that will inevitably come, Guerrilla 
 should focus less on the polish and graphics and more on the story and game play and they'd be 
 looking at a grand game. So a great game, but there's room for improvement in this ambitious title
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilipO38
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Basically Killzone 2 is a very good FPS, but there are things that keep it from true greatness.
 
  
  Iv'e been playing FPS's since Wolf 3D, so these are second nature for me, and my first impressions 
 are almost always dead on correct.
  
  Look, we all know the hype behind Killzone, so let's get to the big question is it a Halo killer?
 
  
  No, but it's still one of the best shooters this generation.
  
  What this game does superb is to nail down the core elements such as sweet graphics, great enemy 
 a. i, a superb immersive experience of being in a war, a nice cover system, solid (but not great, 
 especially early in the game) weapons, and good animations.
  
  Where it falls short is that you will never care what to storyline is or remember the characters, 
 the level design is simply not very good, the maps are tiny (maybe to accomidate the heavy graphics 
 on screen?) , the voice overs are poorly done, the graphics overall are a bit a shy of superb.. as 
 the textures are the same old brown/greenish and you will notice alot of low resolution textures.
 
  
  One more thing, there is not one thing Killzone2 added to the FPS genre, it's all been done before, 
 but what it does, it does extremely well.
  
  Finally, i'm not sure why there is a constant yellish tint for so many PS3 games, but this one 
 has it as well.
  
  The greatest FPS's have had storylines you always remember, and add in something fresh to the genre (HL2 -- 
 anti-gravity gun, Halo 1-- heavy use of vehicles.. ect) , and everything, from storline to voice 
 overs to characters to graphics to a. i to level design are near flawless.
  
  Killzone2 falls short in some of these areas, but it's still a very good FPS and one of the best 
 this generation.
  
  If you own a PS3 and your a FPS fan, you need this game in your collection.
  
  Maybe Killzone 
 3 will be where Guerrilla nails down the near perfect FPS, because this was a good leap up from 
 Killzone 1, and i'm sure we will see a good leap up to Killzone3 as well.
  
  But as it stands, enjoy Killzone2 for what it does do, which is a frantic FPS ride with core elements 
 that are nearly perfectly done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  After nearly four years in development, the infamous Killzone 2 has been released exclusively on 
 the Playstation 3 platform. It's a First Person Shooter developed by Guerrilla Games that lives 
 up to the initial CGI trailer released at E3 in 2005. Without going into too much detail, plain 
 and simple, this game is a must buy for ALL PS3 owners and warrants at least a rent for owners 
 of multiple platforms. 
  
  The single player campaign follows the events of Killzone and Killzone: Liberation, and entirely 
 takes place on the planet Helghan, the home-world of the Helghast, who invaded an Interplanetary 
 Strategic Alliance (ISA) colony. Two years after the Helghast assault on Vekta, the ISA has launched 
 an assault on the enemy's homeworld of Helghan. The ISA goal is to capture the Helghast leader, 
 Scolar Visari, and bring the Helghast war machine to a halt. You play as Sergeant Tomas Sev Sevchenko, 
 a battle-hardened veteran of the special forces unit Alpha Team, that goes on a mission to take 
 out the Helghast threat. Despite what the masses are saying, the single player campaign delivers 
 a very good experience with huge, detailed set pieces and TONS of action! 
  
  Like most games for the current-gen systems, it features a multiplayer experience, which in my 
 opinion, is the high point of the game. It features your standard Team Deathmatch (Bodycount) , 
 Conquest (Capture and Hold) , Capture the Flag (Search and Retrieve) and VIP (Assassination) modes. 
 The biggest part that sets the multiplayer in Killzone 2 apart from other shooters is that it seamlessly 
 fuses all these modes together, which is superb. It also uses a class based system like Teamfortress. 
 Players initially assume the role as a standard soldier, but with time you receive points that 
 eventually unlocks other classes (medic, engineer, tactician, assault, saboteur and scout) , items 
 and special attributes.
  
  The sound is fabulous and features great voice acting and sound effects that are hugely immersive 
 with a surround sound system. The graphics are the selling point of the game and are stunning as 
 Guerrilla Games truly came through with delivering visuals that are close to or equivalent to the 
 2005 E3 CGI trailer. The controls take some time to get used to as Killzone 2 is not your standard 
 Run-N-Gun shooter. The physics deliver a feeling of realism as your characters will feel as if 
 they are actually carrying gear with weight, not like the arcadyness (real word?) found in COD. 
 The physics also are reflective of real world situations as there are a multitude of particle effects 
 found throughout levels and really sells the environments and characters. 
  
  I could go on and on about how great this game is, but it would do a disservice to experiencing 
 this adventure first hand. As stated previously, if you own a PS3, this is a must buy and clearly 
 a system seller for Sony.
  
  Time to kill some Higs!!!
  
  Final Score: 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Citille
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is absolutely incredible. The fact that Gamespot gave the same rating to Killzone 2 
 as they did Resistance 2 and for nearly the exact same reasons is beyond me. The storyline is nothing 
 to write a book on, but give me a break, who cares?! I could have seen Killzone 2 getting a 9.5 
 for it's minor flaws but let's get real here, GTA IV was given a 10 despite missing many of the 
 things that made Vice City and San Andreas so fun to play. If Killzone 2 doesn't deserve a 10 based 
 on those reasons alone, then it should have been given a 10 for providing its players with flawless 
 gameplay, flawless multiplayer, and stunning graphics. The graphics of Killzone 2 are the best 
 graphics seen on a console to date, bar none. If you are into first person shooters with intense 
 gameplay and multiplayer, get a PS3 if you don't already own one and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly awesome and an experience that will last with me for a long long time. This 
 game is almost totally flawless and it truly was worth the wait and it does live up to the hype. 
 I picked this game up the day it came out and as soon as I got home I popped it in my Playstation, 
 and it was truly a mind blowing experience. At first I must admit I was mildly disappointed, since 
 some parts of the early levels are just okay and I couldn't connect the multiplayer but as I advanced 
 further in the single player and finally got a good taste of the multiplayer my opinion changed. 
 The story is better than many have made it out to be although I find many of the characters annoying, 
 especially Garza, for whom I felt no sympathy for at all when he died, and I also thought Sev and 
 the rest of the squad were lame. I think the developers were going for a kind of unique thing with 
 the squad by making them seem like wisecracking badasses but it is really more of an annoyance 
 than anything else, and I would have preferred to have had them be the normal ISA soldiers that 
 you fight alongside (the game never explains why you and your squadmates do not have to wear helmets 
 and are allowed to act so out of line) . That was really the only negative thing about this game 
 and I thought the Helghast were AWESOME!!! Along with the multiplayer being some of the best ever, 
 I think the ranking system is just right and the special achievements really do make a unique system 
 that works, with the real rewards behind achievements making you want to complete them. The only 
 game that has bested this game in multiplayer is Call of Duty 4 and 5, and while I live I would 
 be surprised if any game ever bests them in multiplayer. So is this the best game ever. No. Does 
 it come really close. YES! Really I have not much else to say except: BUY. THIS. GAME. NOW.
  
  Graphics: 10.0 The graphics are one of the most awesome components of this game, and they are 
 probably the best graphics I've ever seen! (that's right Crysis fanboys)
  
  Gameplay: 10.0 The gameplay really is all its cracked up to be and more and is SO AWESOME!!
  
 
  Story 9.0 The weakest part of the game, with somewhat annoying characters but I did find the whole 
 Helghan part of the story interesting though.
  
  Replayability 10.0 This game hasn't grown old for me yet and I have played nothing but it since 
 I got it a week ago.
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 10.0 This game is truly amazing and awesome and if you 
 have not bought it you are really missing out. The fabled "Halo Killer" has come, and like the 
 Helghast it is not taking any prisoners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSP2009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game looks awesome with OKAY AI. The guns sound generic with an average desing but then there 
 are kick ass guns which you get about half way throught thew campaign.
  
  Singleplayer:
  The single player is solid with a very well thoughtout design and how the weapons drop you have 
 enough ammo in round to blow up the world so spray to your hearts delight. This game also features 
 the screen changing colour aproch to the FPS Genre where you don't die on normal if a rocket hits 
 you in the face, you hide around a corner and *bing* your fine to start killing again. This just 
 makes the game more fun in my eyes. There is also a cover system which took me a few minutes to 
 get my head around this was a welcome addition because it is no longer just crouch behind a wall 
 and then wait it has a kind of Gears of war element to the gameplay which I quite like, it also 
 worked very well because it stayed in the FPS view of the gun. 
  
  Multi-player:
  This is solid made with all round just great map design where you will always find if you camp 
 you will be fflushed out by the enemies working as a team or by the stray grenade which will always 
 seem to catch you out. I so far have not experienced any problems with this in terms of lag the 
 servers are fine with enough people on each map for it to still be fun. The leveling system is 
 good but leaves much to be admired mainly when you play people who have the higher ranks meaning 
 they have a ONE shot ONE kill sniper which are easy to use. The one thing I would have liked for 
 them too include is the cover system but then I guess it would play alot like Gears then. There 
 is another part I REALLY like is how the game is split into rounds and each r ound is part of a 
 different games mode and how it all flows together.
  
  Overall:
  It is a definate must buy for the PS3 it looks great and plays really well this shows the Playstations 
 potential. This game is well worth the rating I gave it. I would have given it a 10/10 but I just 
 don't see anything that is worth giving it that because it is nothing new to the FPS genre. I have 
 personally not found anything wrong in terms of glitches. Hope too see you on there 
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  is something missing? Dont get me wrong, I waiting months for its release like everyone else. I 
 am not in any way disappointed (I dont think) , but it does seem like I am expecting something incredible 
 to happen after a long fire fight with Helgast, and it never happens...... Its like your waiting 
 for a climax that never comes. Im close to the end of the single campaign and have yet to try the 
 multiplayer, but these are my points thus far:
  
  The Good -
  1. Graphics are oustanding obviously with no jagged edges or disfigured shapes. I read somewhere 
 that more polygons were used in one enemy in this game then the entire first and second levels 
 of Killzone 1!
  2. Atmosphere is unique and detailed giving you the feeling of almost being in the action yourself.
 
  3. Weapons varieties are just right. A lot of people are hung up because they cant carry more 
 than 1 gun at a time, but I think thats what makes this game more realistic. I spent 6 years in 
 the Marines, and I can tell you that youre not going to want to have the added annoyance of slinging 
 an additional high capacity rifle or shotgun. One weapon and a sidearm is plenty. I also like how 
 realistic the front sight posts look as well, especially during recoil. The M2's front receiver 
 looks very detailed and scaled perfectly from a first person perspective, especially when you are 
 reloading.
  4. Assisting other teammates and giving them medical attention adds great aspect to the game. When 
 one is down, you can really feel the affects of the Helgast assault.... almost instantaneously.
 
  5. Tanks and turrets were great. One thing I hated about Resistance 2 is the inablitity to be 
 able to operate heavy machinery.
  6. Gamplay is just right. Controls didnt take long to get use to as they are pretty standard FPS. 
 I also like how you can peak around corners or take cover behind burms.
  
  The Bad -
  1. Story is weak. I think part of what made Metal Gear Solid so incredible was getting sucked into 
 the storyline. Without the story, you get a feel of there not being a point to playing the game 
 (other than it being fun of course) .
  2. Enemy's could have been better. The same guys keep coming at you in what seem like never ending 
 spurts.... kind of reminded me of Uncharted.
  
  Other than that, it is an awsome game that lived up to the hype. However, I prefer the originality 
 and lighting of Resistance 2. The 1,000 shades of gray gets a little old after awhile. I never 
 really feel on the edge of my seat playing this game as I did in R2. Still an awsome game overall 
 though, with high resail value. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko-b
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  Wow.... That's all that comes to mind, when i think about this game. Visuals absolutely stunning 
 (lighting, shading,...... oh, everything!) Some people do not like the slow movement, but you try 
 lugging around heavy armor, and a 15 lb assualt rifle, and see how long you could whip around, 
 jump and run around.... I was in the Marines, i know what they were going for, just saying. The 
 turmoil, and choas they were going for on the sound effects side, i was impressed. The game also 
 feels right on the difficulty scale (veteran or elite) , i like games that give you a challenge. 
 The multiplayer is addicting, i can't stop playing it, the way you seemlessly go from one mission 
 to the next was definitely a smart move. I have a lot of ps3 games, once i got killzone 2, i don't 
 even touch those other games. i have played a lot of FPS, and i would have to say that nothing 
 comes close to this game...... hands down, they won the FPS war, everyone else might as well surrender, 
 it's a losing battle! If you own a PS3, this is definitely a must buy, so factor in an extra 60 
 bucks in your equation when you go buy a PS3 if you haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Hello, Gamespotters. You already know this game has a good review, since I'm Killzone333. But, 
 I come with flaws also. This is my review, on Killzone 2.
  
  In Killzone 2, your an army soldier named Seth who travels around killing Helghast. I haven't finished 
 the game - but I'm far enough to write a review. ( By the way, I'm at the part when the ship is 
 being attacked, after Seth's friend died.)
  
  First of all, Enemies:
  The Helghast are soldiers who wear masks to breathe, but really are ehite skinned. (Knock their 
 mask off, you'll see.) I thoght the Chimera from Resistance were tough soldiers, but these Helghast 
 are incredibly tough and smart. They duck, throw grenades, run from you, and work together. It'll 
 take more than wild shooting to get past them. You have to throw grenades and keep a distance. 
 My strategy: Run up to them while shooting, then smack them once or twice. It is very effective 
 - try it out!
  The Helghast may all look identical, but if you look closely they are all different. They wear 
 different masks and clothing. One type of Helghast, usually takes a dagger out and tries for melee 
 attacks. Oh, and the huge Helghast that you shoot their backs to kill. And these Helghast aren't 
 nice. They curse at you, say 'I'll kill you myself' and 'human scum'. For example, when you die 
 you fall to the ground and see for about 5 more seconds before respawning. When I died and was 
 still seeing, the Helghast that killed me actually waved goodbye at me!
  
  What would make Killzone 2 great are boss fights. There really is only one, an aircraft. Resistance 
 2 had great bosses, this one has really no bosses. Just one, which is really easy to beat and takes 
 no thought. What I do like though is that movie feel. Killzone 2 has some great cutscenes and plot 
 twists that make it seem like a movie.
  
  And now, weapons:
  You only get to carry 2 weapons, one which is always your pistol. I actually like the pistol, unlimited 
 ammo and a powerful shot. Grenades also help wipe out enemies or make them scatter. Trust me, use 
 em' ALOT! My personal favorite weapon would be the Helghast Lightning cannon with unlimited ammo. 
 It kills those dirty Helghast like crazy, and takes out air enemies in seconds. Oh, an ambush of 
 10 Helghast! I'll just wipe em' out in 5 seconds with my lighting cannon!!! Boom - done and done. 
 When you get a chance to have this gun, pick it up and don't let it go!
  
  One more thing: Sixasis
  As you all should know, PS3 controllers have sixasis which is sorta' 
 like a Wii thing. You move it to do certain things. In Killzone 2, you use sixasis to turn wheels, 
 place charges, and move the sniper scope. I.... don't really like it. It's not needed. And at first 
 - and I know this goes for EVERYONE, turning the wheel was super hard! Right? Sixasis isn't really 
 needed, just a little add - on.
  
  
  So, Killzone 2 has minor flaws, but overall - it's a good one! 9 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This first thing any sane person will notice is the HUGE contrast between Killzone and Killzone 
 2, the first was bugged, uninspired, and massively over-hyped. It had some good points too, it 
 was graphically adequite, had pretty fun multiplayer, and it at least functioned. It was called 
 the "Halo killer;" it was nowhere near that, but with just a few more months of fine tuning, it 
 could have competed with Halo. Killzone 2 has the best and most detailed graphics I've, so far, 
 ever seen on a console; detailed evironments, volumetric explosions and clouds, and some amazing 
 dinamic lighting, some incredibly smooth character animations and detailed character models. Great 
 hit detection, and blood effects. I can't praise the developers enough for this incredible engine.
 
  
  I found the defult controls sloppy, unsuited for the type of game; zoom mapped to R3 was my biggest 
 problem, this wasn't a big deal because i just changed the settings to more "Call of Duty" type 
 controls; zoom mapped to L1, and that solved the problem. One minor glitch with the gameplay which 
 everyone will notice is that when the game is loading a new area of the level, the game stalls 
 for no more than a second, luckily this never happends during fights, so it really is not a big 
 deal.
  
  I found the story to be very weak, and some of the characters unlikeable, especially Sergent Velasquez, 
 some of the characters voices are obnoctious, allthough the writing is usually decent. The game 
 contains plenty of incredible cinimatic moments but do to the weak story, you won't get the real 
 deep psychological feeling you would get in games such as Call of Duty 4.
  
  All of the movements of your character and weapons feel like they have a real heft to them so they 
 do feel real, great recoil effects and weapon sounds, and all of the weapons seem like they could 
 be real, even the more rediculus ones.
  
  After the great campain mode, the game is still far from done, extensive multiplayer customization, 
 and rediculusly fun, chaotic matches change modes seemlessly with each other.
  
  Pick it up soon, you'll probably find something you'll like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-F-3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing. The story is a little weak but still has value. This is completely worth 
 60 dollars and is one of the best PS3 games i have ever played second to maybe only MGS4. The multiplayer 
 is no COD but is still fun and entertaing. i have beat the game and the one thing i have to say 
 is this is no easy game u have to play intelligent or you will just get mad and break something. 
 this isnt one of those games im just gonna beat and sell it has replay value and i would reccomend 
 it for any fan of first person shooting games. dddfghdfjk lghdsuiv hldfhuiwerhfdmnf jcvndluifh 
 lajkdhjkg hsdjkgjkd shfjkdshl dskhgjkd sghdkjgh sjkdgjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjiwwkjsdj klhliehfdndcjk 
 lvdghlkasdfj gnkldnvkjd fgnsd kgj; ds gklhdf jklsgis kkkkk uilajkls hdgjklg hjklask jdfhugls kjdghlsi 
 uddjkfhj kdhfkjh gljkhls djkgha skjdhfu ails; et kh; iruti ieuieoo fhkhz sdklfh ldsugy llrkuieyfh 
 kalsd kfylaagjkghfdg hkahgair htakfj ghakl. i hope this is enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is an amazing game with a rare mix of beauty, complexity and immersion but has a few 
 rough edges that hold it back from touching the stars. It's hard not to start with Killzones visuals, 
 so I will. They are mind blowingingly beautiful in every way both technically amazing and artisticly 
 staggering, but probably the most immpressive parts of the visuals also make the visual issues 
 more apparent. There arn't many visuals problems, but there are a few, and they add up. First, 
 resesitation beam looks dreadful, as does flame-thower. Secondly, load times can be a bit lengthy, 
 but very manageable. Third, game chugs at checkpoints. Lastly, I have had the game slow-down about 
 3 times quite badly and I have had killzone freeze on me once, (online) and I had to turn off my 
 system and start it back up. These might sound quite bad, but have you seen this game? It's just 
 too good looking for these issues to hurt the game much. Sound is top-notch both pertaining to 
 sound effects and music. Sound effects thump and bang very nice. Noise when you get a kill online 
 makes me happy. Music is very immpressive and fits the action perfectly. Voice acting is largely 
 terrible and curse filled, but visari's moments are amazing. Controls took me a long long time 
 to get used to, I don't know if it's just me or what, but I have played dozens and dozens of FPS 
 games and KZ2 is by far the most difficult for me to get used to, due to a fairly sluggish feeling 
 throughout, but it isn't bad, just different. Everything has a very heavy and weighted feeling. 
 Gameplay is fast paced but also tactical. Killzone has it's highlight moments, such as a tank fight 
 and mech-suit, both are very very fun and control very nicely, although both sections are too short. 
 The guns is KZ2 are a mixed bag. Most of the guns are generic, although very detailed and beautiful. 
 One gun does stick out however, which is the arch-gun, or lightning-gun if you prefer, which is 
 now my favourite gun of all time, excluding half-lifes gravity-gun. Length of KZ2 is short, but 
 it seems like every FPS seems to be going this direction, which is sad. It took me about 7 hours 
 to complete KZ2 on normal but left me feeling good and not ripped off due to the games compact 
 and very viseral feeling. KZ2 may be short but you will want to play though at least 2 times because 
 of hidden suit-cases and shootable helgast symbols and 3 difficulties and one unlockable one. One 
 last little thing to mention about gameplay, you can hide behind cover, gears of war style, although 
 you never leave first-person view ( I like this) , and works very well. This brings me to the oddest 
 part of KZ2, cover is a big big part of the single-player, but you can't even do it online, yes, 
 a hugh part of KZ2's offline strategy isn't even included online, but instead online is more fast 
 paced because of it. This is good or bad depending on your pereference. I like the pickup in speed 
 of gameplay. Online is class based, but you have to unlock the different classes over time, which 
 is weird. Online is great and clocks 32 players, but has very few maps which would be a problem 
 if each and every level wearn't amazing, but they are. KZ2 dosen't have co-op however.... of any 
 kind, this is quite a missed opertunity because you are never alone in the single-player and it 
 works perfectly with the story.... sad this didn't happen. Killzone 2 is a really fantastic game 
 with a few quirks/problems, but it is a game that everyone should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorAnubis3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Having been let down in ways by Sony in terms of a lack of good First Person Shooters, Killzone 
 2 brings a remarkable masterpiece to the table. Having read and heard amazing things, I had decided 
 to pick it up because hell, if I didn't like it, I'd just sell it and end up only paying what I 
 would for a rental. But after having sat down and experienced the gore and pummeling of artillery 
 first hand, I must say this is one of the greatest and most addicting games I have ever owned for 
 my PS3. Although the controls are hard to master at first ( Had to change them around which in 
 turn made me have to learn the "tiger claw" hold on the controller) , breathtaking sounds and graphics, 
 along with intense full fire fight situations make up for that no problem. Both enemy and friendly 
 AI are nowhere near as dumb and useless as in previous FPSs on PS3. You don't feel like a pig going 
 into the slaughter and you wish you could pat your fellow soldier on the pack for saving your sorry 
 butt from being picked off while reloading. Your buddies actually do something instead of standing 
 there and shooting at nothing! What an amazing concept! All in all, the only reason I gave Killzone 
 2 a 9.5 is because of its hard to handle controls and because of its slightly hard to play online. 
 You can't see your opponents bullets coming at you and you feel like a massive target at all times. 
 However an update or two should be able to fix things up quite nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logan906
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I will say that the singleplayer is awesome, awesome graphics, story, experience, everything. 
 However, I mainly bought the game for multiplayer, which turned out to be horrible. The maps are 
 way too big, which normally wouldn't bother me except that when you spawn, you have to run across 
 half the map to get back where you were. But the biggest problem is the aiming. It is absolutely 
 horrible, and I mean horrible. I didn't notice this as much in the single player because the AI 
 is never as good as a multiplayer foe, but when I got into the multiplayer the aiming issues really 
 showed. Compared to COD4 you will feel like you are trying to aim with bungie cords pulling on 
 both of your arms. I know, I know, I read that they wanted to make it "realistic". This isn't realistic, 
 it's frustrating, especially trying to line up a moving target more than 5 feet away from you. 
 The reticule does not move smoothly with the right toggle like in COD4. If you want a fun single 
 player, rent it, enjoy it, beat it and move on. If you're looking for a great multiplayer, look 
 somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_aid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Hello im back after a long leave of absence (Lost Planet) damn near forgot i ever even used GS. com. 
 Well regardless, apperentaly im starting to have an opinion again and this time its about Killzone 
 2.
  Now its funny i mentioned LP cze it happens 2 be the only Third Person shooter on the PS3 other 
 than MGS4, but thats more of a movie than a game & MGO sux, i happen to have a real problem w 1st 
 person view, weather it be that i feel like im trapped in a box, or the character gets stuck on 
 some little tiny piece of nothing so you cant strafe or back away from a grenade, or i get headaches/dry 
 eyes (bloodshot in the case of Resistance 2) , anyway id much rather see my character. & when nothing 
 else is out 4 PS3 im forced 2 try these games. I'll split this review up into 2 sections Single 
 & Multiplayer. 
  Single player. 
  Enjoyed the Trophies in this game , challenging but fun to strive for. The music and voice acting 
 was also very well done. & the graphics were beyond anything i ever wanted. The story i thought 
 2b somewhat bland and probably a rip off. Gameplay was off and on for me squad based gameplay pisses 
 me off (good thing it lets me revive 'em cuze i pistol wipe crazy if u steal my kill) . theres more 
 but i wanna start complaining about multiplayer now.
  Multiplayer.
  Ok u want to win almost everytime camp, hide, snipe. Granted u'll need to use some natural gaming 
 instant, but basically thats all u need to know. The radar really sux its too streched out first 
 of all, & my dot wont show on ur radar if im on a diffrent elevation than u, so in other words 
 i couldc be right next to u standing 1 step above u on a staircase or ramp & my dot wont show on 
 ur radar and there are way too many ramps & staircases & i know not to rely on my radar, but its 
 its a very simple way to catch ppl off guard espically if they have been running around the map 
 forever lookin 4 something to shoot at (most of the maps r very complex) . Played some matches this 
 very morning, clicked on join matchmaking where it says right there "only players of same rank" 
 ended up getting killed by ppl w much higher ranks than me using weapons like snipper rifle and 
 rpg and flying bots that i dont have yet. 
  KZ2 online either boring (when matchmaking works) or unfair.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTechGeek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Overall, KZ2 is an AMAZING FPS!!!
  
  Weapons: 9.5
  
  The weapons of KZ2 are really well balanced. They feel and shoot great, and some are just really 
 cool. The flamethrower is available in the campaign, and it has its own unique properties that 
 set it apart from flamethrowers in other games (small stream of fire instead of a broad spray, 
 and it looks like something like a bored plumber put together) , but not in a bad way. The standard 
 assault rifle type weapons are in the medium range of strength and accuracy, as they should be 
 (good feel to them too) . Rocket launcher, shotgun, and heavy machine guns are also placed in the 
 game (they feel about average as any other game) . And some other fun weapons
  
  Graphics: 10.0
  
  KZ2 looks simply amazing, from cutscenes to gameplay. The weapons give off 
 a bright light when fired, which looks really cool. Environments are detailed and atmospheric. 
 Characters actually look like they are wearing fabric clothes, and not some generic stiff attire. 
 Explosions are gritty and pronounced. Fire is especially realistic looking, and it will actually 
 blow in the wind. Blood sprays are cool and detailed. Multiplayer doesn't look graphically deficient 
 than that of the campaign (i. e. R2) .
  
  Controls: 10.0
  
  The controls are high quality. They offer their own unique feel without feeling horrible. A lot 
 of people say that the weighty controls are horrible, but they actually add an atmospheric feel 
 to them, and they can also have their speed adjusted to the player which lessens their slowness. 
 I like that the controls feel as though you are human, and not some stiff bodied robot running 
 around with jerky movements (i. e. COD series)
  
  Sound: 10.0
  
  Not much of a sound geek, but everything sounds great and none of that "I can barely hear the 
 other characters talking" situations.
  
  Campaign: 9.5
  
  The campaign is full of intense action that is well paced and fun. Enemy and Friendly AI is good, 
 and they take cover well. The only downside to the campaign is its lack of meaty storytelling. 
 There is a story, and it is really good. But it is spread thin over the length of the campaign 
 (A little thicker than the R2 story) . Overall, it took me about 5.5 hours to complete, but has 
 me wanting to play through it again.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.0
  
  The multiplayer is really good. Action is fun, with in game objective switching (which means not 
 having to leave the game to play some other game type) . Matches can hold up to 32 players. It allows 
 you to create or join squads (with their own chat) . Rank system is balanced well. It doesn't take 
 forever to rank up, but not short enough to reduce the challenge. Also a badge system allows for 
 earning extra bonuses. Maps range from medium to large and are well designed to keep action intense 
 and strategic in almost every area. The maps are even atmospheric, with neat things going on such 
 as rockets flying through the background, large wind gusts, and lightning storms. It's really fun. 
 One complaint is that the large "desert" map is too big to not have any vehicles. Traversing it 
 takes way too long to make for quality objective based gameplay. Every other map is great. Oh 
 there are no vehicles in the MP, but it's not really a bad thing. The biggest beef I have on the 
 multiplayer is that not all the weapons in the campaign are in the MP. I hate it when a game is 
 like that. If I see a really cool weapon in the campaign (i. e. flamethrower) , I want to be able 
 to continue its awesomeness in MP. But in general, the MP is top notch.
  
  Summary:
  
  KZ2 offers great gameplay in both campaign and MP, with top notch controls, sound, graphics, and 
 weapons.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drek-an
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I found this too be one of the biggest problems with game, because i feel like im wearing 
 a suit of armour and can't move. Aiming is a big problem it takes a while for the sight to move 
 when your aiming but when it starts moving it moves to much, you're shoots are never precise and 
 it feels like you're fighting with the controller. I like the cover system its not great but its 
 fun and useful but every time I play online i notice it dosen't work which really annoys me as 
 it could be so useful online. Single player is fun and challenging even if the story not that interesting.
 
  
  Sound: Good quality, music fits the atmosphere, and sound effects make you feel like you're really 
 in a battlefield. Voice acting was great for the Helghast but the ISA sound like a bunch of kids 
 playing a war game. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good in this game, my only problem with it is that its too dark, yes 
 I put the brightness up on my tv and it still wasn't enough.
  
  Online: The constant change of the mission is good but its all team based, what happened to free 
 for all, ok thats not really a big problem which you can overlook as the games can be fun ( if it 
 wasn't for the infernal aiming) . My main problem with the online is the same problem I had with 
 COD: WAW its to dark and depressing, the maps are all dark and the music is dark, these things are 
 important because they effect the mood of the person playing. I know its suppose to be dark, war 
 is dark yes but i can't enjoy myself if you're making me feel depressed. The good things about 
 it is how it challenges you to get upgrades, in example how you have to get 10 kill in one match 
 8 times to get more grenades. Making a clan is also easy and well organised.
  
  Overall 
  This another game I have played with great potential but has fallen short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaNiKore
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  It's finger lickin good..........
  
  
  I really enjoy playing this game, great game play. 
  So far I have only played up to 4 to 5 hours, 
 online and off. 
  The AI is smart for a change, they move around, chase you, hide and try to corner you. The only 
 problem I had so far is your mate in arms who tags along and tries to help you. Half the time the 
 BOZO is the way, so I had to shoot him a couple of times...., out of frustration. Luckily I had 
 my trusty Medic Zapper with me so I could zap him back to health (the Sap :) ) . But he is handy 
 when it comes to drawing away fire so that you can recuperate. 
  
  
  The surrounding graphics are just terrific, I also love it when pieces of wall and other debris 
 start flying around and you have to wait or move to get a clear view. It just brings a extra effect 
 and a rush of adrenaline. I just have a 1 problem with the controls, you move to slow. Thats just 
 something I have to get used to.
  
  
  Playing online is like a dream, playing a multiplayer with 31 other players is like a onslaught, 
 there players everywhere. You also play a multiple of missions per game, jumping from Body Count 
 to Assassination. What I think is really refreshing in stead playing the on mission a time.
  
  
  Thank you Guerrilla for this addiction!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamTrini
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  I was delighted when I saw the E3 trailers and even more so when I played the demo. The opening 
 cut scene for this game blew me away, the graphics are superb none of that Resistance 2 crap. That 
 being said I would rather have R2 controls than the "realism" of K2. They are too sluggish and 
 adjusting the sensitivity of the x and y axis does nothing to compensate for this. By the time 
 you have someone in your sights you have made so many passes trying to line up your shot you either 
 get shot down from behind or sniped.
  
  They claim this is because of body armor yada yada yada... but yet you can run through out the 
 entire game without having to catch your breath; yeah realism at its best. i know it is unfair 
 to compare this to any COD game but what sense does it make to spend years perfecting the graphics 
 in this beautiful game and making the controls so frustrating. Everyone is saying to adapt to the 
 new system but why stray from a proven formula. i sincerely hope they release a patch soon for 
 the main reason I bought this game was for the online play and the multiplayer just ruins it for 
 me.
  
  You can tell who is using a keyboard and mouse to play online just by the amount of kills they 
 are able to rack up. I challenge these same people who are insisting the controls are not broken 
 to try using the sixaxis controller and see how frustrating it is. There is no "grey" it is either 
 black or white. You can either aim really slowly or really fast which is no help with the lag they 
 have put into the game.
  
  I guess I will have to hopefully wait for either a patch or the other alternative COD Modern Warfare 
 2..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbreed20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  omg i first played killzone for ps2 and i thought it was bad ass but playing killzone 2 just blew 
 the roof off lol it is amazing graphics look real game play is great the game takes ur mind its 
 addictive as ever i love shooting games and this is one of the best shooting games to ever hit 
 ps3 like i said u cant put the controller down it that good it looks so real as if it is a movie 
 the blood is real the set up is amazing the levels are hard so that makes it better i like a challenging 
 game and that it is it not a game that easy from wut i here from my friends they say killzone is 
 better then gears of war and i have played gears of war a few times enough to say that killzone 
 2 is better then gears of war 1 and 2 the game has alot of cursing lol but im not complaining lol 
 the game could very well make game of the year and i would not be surprised one bit but it might 
 have to compete with resident evil 5 but yeah killzone is a game i give 9.5 rating it is that good 
 i recomend if u have not got it yet u need to get it u wont be disapointed at all killzone gameplay 
 graphics and difficulty all is perfect for this type of game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shtiv
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Firstly, MY GOD, it looks AMAZING. The intro, where you see that dude talking on the TV? Wow, just 
 wow. I thought it was a real face for the first 5 seconds, the graphics are that good. The single 
 player appears to be a lot of fun, I've done the first two levels and its full on. Things are constantly 
 happening, bullets flying everywhere, and you really DO feel like you're in a war.
  
  The controls, and their weightiness, do very well in single player mode.
  
  But then, unfortunately, 
 you get to multiplayer mode, which from what I can tell is really quite poor. The controls DO NOT 
 convert to multiplayer at all! You have to either a) Sit tight and take long range shots, which 
 the guns really don't seem designed for or b) Run and Gun, which, thanks to the weightiness, is 
 really not a possibility.
  
  At mid to long range, the game gets fun. I enjoyed being patient and waiting on enemies to pop 
 their heads out, but then I realised:
  
  a) I'm practically camping and
  b) If someone throws a grenade at you, because of the weightiness, YOU DO NOT get away, period!
 
  
  Other random problems include:
  
  1. Snipers are king, people stay still to get shots off and of course, snipers are amazing long 
 range
  2. Hip fire is so accurate that, if you're sitting in a room holding it, some lucky n00b can run 
 in and headshot you from 15 metres away, completely detracting from the "tactical" side and making 
 it luck based if anything.
  3. The game is very objective based, which is great. But a lot of online players just want kills, 
 which is not great. Also, the objectives are so short and quick, that if you die you might find 
 yourself running back to the action when it says "Mission Lost!" before you know it.
  4. The CONTROLS! Oh yes, he said it. The controls just aren't good for multiplayer. Its GREAT for 
 single player, yes! But multiplayer, NO, the weightiness sucks!
  Seriously, the amount of times some dude has run up behind me and shot me, only for me to turn 
 a SMALL amount to the side so he misses, then turned around and killed him is UNREAL. Vica versa, 
 I'll be shooting someone in the back and he just strafes and turns round and kills me.
  
  In single player, the controls are "weighty" and feel great. Multiplayer? They can only be described 
 as clunky and unresponsive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_forever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  i bought this game the day it came out. i read about it in game informer about a month before and 
 saw it advertised as possibly the best shooter of the year (which given its only march i found 
 easy to believe) but i can tell you now, they may be right.
  
  killzone 2 is an incredible game with awsome visual effects, sound effects, graphics and is just 
 a generally fun game to play that WILL keep you coming back for more.
  
  i started off with the campaign which wa great combat and even though a few of the enemies are 
 a little TOO similar and it can be suprisingly challenging at times it never manages to get boring! 
 the story doesnt exactly do much but its enough to keep you interested. i would describe the certain 
 bits i mean, but i dont want to spoil it for noobs to the game. you also have the choice to collect 
 numerous intel and destroy specific helghast symbols which both give unlocks on killzone's website. 
 
  
  the weapons are mostly all basic FPS guns such as machine guns, pistols, grenades, rocket launcher 
 and shotgun, but they have mixed it up a tiny bit by adding the lightning arc gun (only available 
 in campaign for good reason) which is possibly the most deadly weapon i've ever seen. simply tapping 
 the button NEAR an enemy is enough to kill him and the charge lasts for ages so no worry about 
 recharging really.
  
  even the turret sequences are fun and well worth experiencing. in the game you will experience 
 AA guns, mounted turrets, and EXO suit (basically a giant walking tank) and a tank. the sequences 
 dont easily get boring as the game spurs out just enough soldiers to make it exciting and fun, 
 but not too easy/hard.
  
  overall, the campaign is a great adventure with HUGE maps, THOUSANDS of helghast soldiers to stab, 
 melee, shoot and blow up, maybe not the most imaginative story ever, but it serves its purpose 
 as far as keeping you interested in the game!
  
  now for the multiplayer. killzone 2's multiplayer is possibly the best multiplayer game i own and 
 is the mode that i spend most of my time on while playing killzone 2. multiplayer offers 8 HUGE 
 maps suited amazingly to all 7-8 soldiers you can choose from, which you unlock through ranking 
 up.
  
  each map has its own characteristics and i have easily managed to play large and small scale battles 
 on each one without getting bored or fed up of consistently dieing/not finding the enemy for ages.
 
  
  the game has a unique and favorable twist to how you play the battles as well. instead of just 
 choosing only to play one particular style of game (which you CAN do if you choose too) you can 
 pick and choose between 5 different battle modes and tweak each one to fit you hunger for the kill. 
 these battle modes are: Body count (basically team deathmatch) , Search and Retrieve, Search and 
 Destroy, Assassination and capture and hold. each mode will have you frantically running round 
 the map killing as many people as possible to complete the objectives. the game also allows you 
 to pick the maps you prefer to play and it will loop the maps round once you finish them all. another 
 bonus is players have the option to vote as to which map out of the selected they wish to play.
 
  
  attention to detail is also clear in the multiplayer game. as i was running round Radec Academy 
 i noticed that the tiny plaques in the courtyard actually have clear writing on them, statues, 
 chalkboards, tables, chairs, they all have close attention to detail which makes the experience 
 feel a lot more "real". 
  
  though it IS relatively easy to reach the highest rank level, it took me about 4 days and i'd say 
 i am an average slightly just above average gamer, the game does offer numerous ribbons you can 
 collect by doing certain objectives, amount of kills, headshots, heals, turrets and others. after 
 collecting eight of the same ribbon you are rewarded with a new ability, usually specific to the 
 class but there are mission objective badges which give you access to more points.
  
  overall the multiplayer experience is an imaginative, unique way of playing offering massive or 
 mini battles with impressive success. it will definately grab a hold of you and the hours will 
 literally fly by!
  
  the game as a whole is incredible, and i could never have spent my money any better on an FPS. 
 if you dont have this game. you're missing out big time.
  
  my PS3 username is guitar-genius, thanks for reading my review and i hope i've shed some light 
 onto what this game is capable of. it isnt perfect, but its damn near close!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:43 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming, but after a 4 year wait, Killzone 2 is finally out on store shelves. 
 Developed by Guerrilla Games, this is a PlayStation 3 exclusive sci-fi FPS, set in a galactic war 
 between two human colonies, the ISA and the Helghast. This time around, the ISA are launching an 
 invasion of the Helghast homeworld in response to their invasion of the ISA planet Vekta in the 
 original Killzone.
  
  Ok, so let's get the obvious stuff out of the way. Killzone 2 looks beautiful and is comfortably 
 the best looking console game ever made. The graphical fidelity is mind-blowing, right from the 
 gorgeous opening cinematic which very clearly sets the tone for the rest of the game.
  
  The textures and models are very gritty and realistic and the visuals really give you the impression 
 that you're in a filthy battlefield which is being ravaged by warfare. There are a huge amount 
 of particle effects going on as well, from billowing clouds of thick black smoke which blow in 
 the wind, to fire which sends sparks and embers into the air. The smoke in particular is some of 
 the most impressive ever seen, often making it very difficult to see during explosive fire-fights. 
 The lighting is equally stunning with NPCs and the environment casting beautiful shadows.
  
  The most extraordinary thing about the graphics is that the framerate never dips even slightly 
 despite everything that's going on and that really is a compliment to the PS3 hardware as much 
 as it's a compliment to Guerrilla's art team. What everyone wants to know though is how the game 
 holds up against that infamous E3 2005 trailer. I can say that it certainly looks as good as that 
 footage and it often looks much better. It is a truly amazing feat to behold.
  
  I only noticed one problem with the visuals, which was that the lip-synching was a bit strange 
 on occasions, but that's an incredibly small issue when everything else is so awesome. The sound 
 is terrific as well, with extremely intense battlefield sounds and a very well produced orchestral 
 score. The voice acting on the other hand is very basic, except for the Helghast leader, who is 
 performed magnificently by British actor, Brian Cox, who many of you will know as Ward Abbot in 
 the first two Bourne movies.
  
  The story of Killzone 2 very much follows the trend set by the voice acting in that it is very 
 generic. It is paced very similarly to Gears of War and like Gears, you won't really find yourself 
 emotionally invested in what's happening. That said it does a good job of explaining what's going 
 on, especially to people who didn't play the first game.
  
  The graphics might be incredible and the story might be functional, but without great gameplay, 
 this wouldn't be the killer app that the PS3 needs. Thankfully, Killzone 2 delivers this in spades. 
 The shooting and feel of the weapons is very solid and often reminded me of Call of Duty 4, which 
 is no bad thing at all. Where this game really differentiates itself from the FPS crowd is with 
 its movement controls.
  
  Moving in Killzone 2 is designed to convey to the player the sense of being weighed down by a large 
 amount of military gear. Turning in particular takes a lot of getting used to, because you turn 
 faster the longer you hold the stick in a direction, rather than the further you push it (which 
 is the FPS norm) . It's a very strange feeling at first, but you'll gradually get used to it and 
 you'll find that it controls just fine. There's also an interesting first person cover system where 
 you remain in first person view while in cover, unlike other FPS titles which have used a third 
 person camera for cover, such as Rainbow Six Vegas and Quantum of Solace. Like many things in the 
 game it's uncomfortable to control at first but works brilliantly once you adapt to it.
  
  In campaign the level design is of an extremely high quality and there's enough variety with the 
 enemies and weapons that the pacing doesn't become awkward. Many of the weapons are very traditional, 
 such as the standard assault rifle with red-dot sight, shotgun and rocket launcher. Killzone 2 
 certainly has some other outstanding tools of death though, like the Boltgun which can pin enemies 
 to walls (and then explode!) , the sniper rifle which requires you to hold the six-axis still to 
 steady your aim and the ber-powerful Lightening Gun.
  
  Despite all of the great gameplay and design in the single player campaign, Killzone 2 definitely 
 has its share of issues. After all the great missions throughout the game, the final level is a 
 huge disappointment. It's horribly designed and feels very archaic. Some other weird problems include 
 weapons not carrying over between missions and the initial primary weapons on each level are very 
 random. One wide-open outdoor level actually starts you off with a shotgun, which is just plain 
 stupid.
  
  The pacing of the campaign's action is punctuated by occasional turret sections and a brief section 
 in a tank early on in the game. Neither of these is especially fresh or exciting, but there is 
 one other vehicle section which is truly spectacular, the mech section. You see the mech from the 
 inside and view your characters hands on the controls in first person. The look of this section 
 from inside the huge machine reminded me greatly of the mechs in The Matrix Revolutions. It's extraordinarily 
 immersive as you tower over soldiers and muzzle flashes reflect off your windscreen which becomes 
 scratched and cracked as you take damage. It's the best vehicle section in an FPS for a very long 
 time.
  
  Back on foot, the best parts of the campaign are undoubtedly the large scale battle sequences, 
 where you and a huge squad of soldiers (sometimes upwards of 10) take on waves of increasingly 
 tough Helghast opposition. It captures the chaos of war like no other game, while still providing 
 some tactical depth thanks to some intelligent AI which always seems to find a way to get up close 
 and personal. Killzone 2 is probably the best single player FPS on the current generation of consoles, 
 but co-op would have been a nice extra.
  
  Once you're done with the campaign, which will take somewhere around 8 hours on your first playthrough, 
 there's the online multiplayer to jump into. The core experience of Killzone 2's online matches 
 feels very similar to most other FPS titles released in the last 2 years. Thankfully the progression 
 of each match is a cut above any other console FPS.
  
  When you go online you'll find all the usual deathmatch, CTF, zones, and assault gameplay types, 
 but you don't play them as separate matches. Instead, they are presented to your team as objectives 
 and the team that completes the most objectives wins the match. For example, your objective might 
 be to capture the other team's propaganda speaker (Killzone 2's version of a flag) and the next 
 objective might be to capture and maintain control of certain control points.
  
  The way the different gameplay modes contribute to one overall score on the map helps to create 
 a sensation of the ebb and flow of a battle. You might not be great at a particular game-type but 
 there's always a different one right around the corner, so you never feel like you're not contributing 
 to your team's success. Also of note is the fantastic map design which really helps the dynamic 
 of the online game. There are a variety of open and closed spaces, with a huge assortment of high 
 vantage points to get the drop on enemies and the map layouts often funnel players in just the 
 right directions to create intense battle sequences.
  
  The multiplayer is certainly innovative and it's an awful lot of fun to play. However, it isn't 
 as complete an online package as Halo 3 and co-ordination can be difficult because so few PS3 owners 
 are using headsets. Still, with all of that said, Killzone 2 is the best online FPS since Call 
 of Duty 4.
  
  Overall, Killzone 2 is an outstanding game and a prime of example of just how powerful the PlayStation 
 3 really is. Is it the definitive killer app for Sony's machine? In my opinion Metal Gear Solid 
 4 still has the edge in that area, but if you own a PS3 this should be a must-have game for you. 
 If you don't own a PS3 then this is yet another reason that you should consider buying one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a Masterpiece. . . Despite all all the fanboys on all sides the game is impressive 
 no matter how you spin it. Graphics wise it is the best looking shooter in existence today. The 
 lighting effects are stunning, the guns look great, and the art design is great. The helgast, despite 
 all being very similar, make great badguys. They just look menacing with their evil glowing red 
 eyes and gas masks. The Helgast feel like they could really exist in the future which to me is 
 a nice touch. It keeps you interested by not getting too "Supernatural" which i really like. The 
 campaign was however a little disappointing. Since killzone has been in development for what feels 
 like forever I had high expectations. Simply put its "short but sweet." For a Game to be worth 
 60 bucks it better have online and this is definitely what Killzone does best. In-game clan support 
 and clan matches, streamed together games, cool badge system, etc. This game has an amazing amount 
 of replay value and fans wont be disappointed. Now For the break down.
  
  Graphics- This game is so good graphically its hard to believe. The lighting engine really gives 
 the game a lot of depth and awe. And watching it in motion on your television is a really rewarding 
 feeling. It is the best looking Shooter despite any arguments. The only graphic areas that are 
 really lacking is with the character faces. Up close when you look at Rico, or Garza for example, 
 their faces have a plastic look to them that looks unnatural, his isnt as apparent with the helgast 
 that look quite impressive. If games were rated on looks alone then killzone would get a 10.
  Sound- the sound is great. the guns sound great there is a echo feature that you can definitely 
 hear which is a nice touch and the soundtrack is very well done.
  
  Gameplay- killzones gameplay is great but it definately has a learining curve even for the most 
 expierienced gamers. The game has a slight latency in its controls. though this isnt huge it definately 
 takes some getting used to and at first can be quite frustrating. But once you get used to it really 
 isnt a big deal. Its only a minor complaint. In my opinion since it makes aiming a little more 
 difficult it helps avoid you from being sniped constantly and makes killing players more difficult 
 in a good way. I hate games that increase the gamers health bar to make thing more difficult this 
 only makes kills feel more rewarding. The game speed id say is slower than counterstrike, COD4 
 but faster than Battlefield bad company. 
  Online- For the most part the game is very balanced. When I first got the game i didnt think this 
 was going to be the case since the Helgast have bright red eyes that u can see easily. To balance 
 things out the ISA have a few things on their gear that give off a blue light. this helps prevent 
 campers and also helps you know exactly who is friend or foe, which is nice scuttle touch. Every 
 game is filled with intense firefights that will keep you coming back for more. All the different 
 classes are balanced with the exception of the Shotgun, which has an auto aim feature that the 
 developers claim they will remove. The Badge system is easy to understand and the ranks however 
 seem to move rather fast. The game is also the First to have different game modes strung together 
 which means less time in the game lobby and more time playing, this touch is done very well and 
 really mixes up the variety of the game play, from the mindless killing though that is just as 
 fun. Finally the in-game clan support is the final great feature. you can manage your clan all 
 in game and clan matches can all be set up against other clans without having to go to the internet. 
 A lot nicer than Call of duty just giving you a clan tag.
  Campain- Other than being rather short and the ending doing a good job at pissing you off. It is 
 incredible. I dont want to disappoint any thing for you guys but it is extremely fun and well worth 
 playing. This is where the game does a great job of showing off its graphic's as it was intended 
 to do.
  
  Final thoughts- killzone 2 is a must have for any Ps3 owner. The Online is close to flawless and 
 the campain though short is impressive. The game has a bit of a learning curve even though it is 
 a shooter which can frustrate and confuse players at times, but its only a minor issue. And Graphically 
 it is unbelieveable. I wanted to give this game a 10 but it isn't. The little bugs that i have 
 with it though minor are enough to keep me from giving it a perfect, but none the less Killzone 
 2 is a supurb game and a must have.
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  OVERALL SCORE 9.5/10 A
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac8317
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start out with the single player aspect. I was amazed at how visually stunning this game 
 was. The opening trailer looks so much better in full 1080p on my 46". I highly recommend playing 
 this game with HDMI. It was griping the moment the propaganda minister started speaking. The sound 
 quality is second to none. I do not even have surround sound and it sounded better than any bluray 
 movie that I own. Now we jump into combat on a beach. This made me think of "D-Day" and that I 
 was fighting futuristic Nazi's. the bullets whiz by your head and the cries and screams are just 
 brilliant. It really gave me the feeling I was fighting a war. A few times I actually had to run 
 and hide to get my bearings straight. The AI is superbly written. You'll find yourself laughing 
 wildly pumping round after round into the "HG". The story is very fluid and the game environment 
 is very dark and gritty; even in daylight scenes. The cut movies blend right into the game. No 
 watching and then waiting for the PS3 to load the next map. 
  
  Multilayer......... Man this is the best part of the game. The graphic quality does not change. 
 It is every bit as visually appealing as the single player campaign. There are are a lot of details. 
 Like the wind skimming across the ground. The flickering city lights in urban maps. The ONLY complaint 
 that I have is that the aiming seems a bit slow. So, all you HALO fans out there may find yourself 
 having to actually put some effort in the game. Did I just say that out loud. So, really it is 
 a double edged sword. All the little 17 and under kids will not be able to dominate, bunny hop 
 or spam grenades being you only carry one in MP.
  
  I hope they release a collectors edition soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yungswift44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  OK now to start off i am a big fan of killzone 1, but i'm going to try my hardest to be unbiased... which 
 is pretty tough when you find out just how amazing this game is.. it takes an interesting approach 
 to the sci-fi theme, whereas, its futuristic yet oddly familiar and modern. 
  
  gameplay: 9.5
  
  only reason i do not give this a perfect 10 is some peopel will not liek the 
 more realistic and weighed down feel of the game, peronally i love it and it definitly adds to 
 the feel of the game, you truly feel as though you control Sev"s (the protagonist) movements from 
 the way he bends his knees to jump to the turning of his gun. online is a little more fast paced 
 and slightly arcady but in a great way
  
  story: 6.5
  
  now the story is not the best but it is basically a war, no secret alien coverup or dealings with 
 mystical forces or legends or anything, no its a war and vetka is invading, and dealing with massive 
 resistance. the action and battles play out like a great war flick, the fairly simple story doestn 
 detract from the game.. it just doesnt really add anything neither
  
  graphics: 10
  
  i will go ahead and say this is the best looking console game in my opinion, the model are smooth 
 and move beautifully, the response to bullets are superb and varied, Guerrilla has somehow managed 
 to make the ugly planet Helghan, look beautiful, the wind blows debris flies, the lighting is superb, 
 definitely a masterpiece (and i am playing on a SDtv)
  
  sound- 8.5
  
  bullets whiz by your head, Helghast soldier taunt and threaten you, and explosions galore, truly 
 a beauty to hear as well as see, the intense action is also helped by a great dynamic soundtrack 
 and wonderful voice acting.
  
  online: 9
  
  fantastic and addictive, you will find yourself lost trying to unlock new badges and just trying 
 to master this tough portion of the game, it is quite balanced and frantic, some players will simply 
 ignore you though, when talking, but the lack of headsets on PSN is an issue with every game i 
 guess, oh and in-game music makes a much welcomed appearance online
  
  pros:
  
  -Beautiful graphics and environments
  - game play feels smooth and responsive
  - brilliant 
 action and battles, truly addicting game play
  - fantastic online portion
  -challenging
  
  cons:
  
  -controls may scare off very few players
  - can be frustrating at times
  - 
 it ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillkillv2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  10
  Singleplayer
  10
  Multiplayer
  
  I played demo.... i was exited the n i played the actual game and i was exstatic. Graphics are amazing 
 and cover was good.... but i wish that it was in multiplayer... it would be really usefull. Guns 
 & Recoil.... the guns are perfect; they all have the recoil for a weapon like that in real life. 
 Grenades are tricky but adds a little spec of realism... instead of having the dotanation bars on 
 the Call of duty series. AI , The AI are extremely smart. if you hide behind cover they actually 
 try and flush you out of the area with grenades and other explosives. Helghast look even more detailed 
 from the original version of killzone. Over all Killzone 2 is a digital master piece and i cannot 
 wait till M. A. G comes out because if this Playstation 3 Exclusive is good then any other one can 
 be good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrazen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, I now feel like I have played this game enough to be able to give it an in depth review. 
 
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  The graphics in this game are in one word, amazing. This is the best looking console shooter period. 
 The in this game is amazing. When you throw a flashing grenade you can see the light from it lighting 
 up surfaces and casting shadows off of any object on the screen. You can see an enemies shadow 
 around a corner before you see the enemy himself. Because of this, the graphics not only look great, 
 they actually add to the gameplay. Unfortunately There have been a couple graphical issues which 
 keep it from being perfect. Once in a while your dead body and other objects will fall through 
 the map into the endless void of death. At least it looks good doing it.
  
  Controls: 10
  I have read many complaints in other reviews and forum rants about how there are control issues. 
 I have specifically tried to repeat these errors to no success. The moment I move the joystick 
 the cross hairs move on the screen with no noticeable delay so there is no lag. There has been 
 a YouTube video going around about a guy trying to explain that the dead zone is bad. I would like 
 to point out that the controller shown in that video is not an official ps3 controller but an off 
 brand one. I have tried this as well and the cross hairs move with the slightest touch of the joystick 
 on my daulshock 3. I have never had any problems getting head shots online or off and I believe 
 that it is actually easier to do so than most console shooters. For those of you still having trouble, 
 my only suggestion is to keep practicing and you will get there in no time.
  
  Story: 6
  I don't actually put much weight into the scoring of a story but it deserves to be in the review 
 none the less. To put it simply there really isn't a story. It's you attacking the Helghan planet 
 with a bunch of your military buds who like to swear like online twelve-year-olds playing halo 
 when there parents are gone. There is only just enough to keep you going from one place to another. 
 Just remember to kill the enemy and don't die and that's really all of the story you are going 
 to need. Besides, the online in this game is where the real fun is at anyway. Who needs a story.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Single Player: 9.5
  The single player missions play very well and are pretty much your everyday fps which looks good 
 and has basic weapons with the exception of a couple interesting ones. Like the other reviews say, 
 there isn't really anything new. This game takes the best parts of all the other shooters, cuts 
 out the parts no one wants, and makes them perfect. The AI is something that really stands out 
 over other FPSs. The enemy will actually group up to try and defeat you. No matter what you do, 
 they will adapt their strategy to try to defeat you. It really stands out when playing on the harder 
 difficulty. I've had a couple times where one of the enemies would zone out and sit there even 
 if I was shooting him. The sniper enemies in the harder difficulties are kind of ridiculous but 
 I had fun trying to kill them.
  
  Multiplayer: 10
  I used to own an xbox360 and the only thing I missed from it was halo 3. There is no denying that 
 the online in halo 3 was excellent. There was nothing on the PlayStation 3 that could replace the 
 online replayability of the halo series. I was hoping that Killzone would fill that void in my 
 gaming life at least a little bit. Fortunately it not only filled that void but it actually replaced 
 it and renewed my current thoughts about how much fun can be had playing an online shooter. Just 
 like in the singlepayer, the multiplayer takes parts from all online shooter and puts it into one 
 while at the same time making it more polished. There are classes very much like from Team Fortress 
 2. There is an experience and level up system like that used in Call of Duty 4. By leveling up 
 online you unlock more classes and weapons. By successfully using these classes and weapons you 
 will earn ribbons. Get enough ribbons and you will earn badges which allows you unlock combinations 
 of classes. instead of going to a lobby between each game type. Killzone works by setting what 
 game types you want to play and go through them one at a time within one map without returning 
 to a lobby. It switches game types mid game. The only time you see a lobby is when the server is 
 switching maps. Even then you are only in the lobby for 30 seconds. There is also little to no 
 visible lag.
  
  Conclusion: 10
  While it does have a couple problems, these problems in no way actually make the game less enjoyable. 
 Bottom line, this is one of the best games to come out this year and is easily a contender for 
 game of the year. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdarkknight
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  When you see a game prerendered years in advance like Killzone 2 you just say "Man that would be 
 cool, to bad the game can't look like that." For the second time in the Playstation 3's short history, 
 a game has out done itself. Just falling short of Metal Gear Solid 4, Killzone delivers on all 
 fronts.
  The story, if you have played all of the previous Killzone installments, falls right after the 
 Helgast have taken the Nukes after Liberation and gone back to Helgan to plan their next move. 
 The player dialog is lacking to say the least, but does not stray far from the Gears of War "All 
 war heroes are meaty idiots", dropping F* bombs and "your mother" jokes like its 4th grade. 
  Besides that unfortunate set back, everything else in the game is amazing. Some people complain 
 about the controls, but thanks to a deep controller customization feature you can tweak the control 
 to your liking so that is a non issue. 
  The Multiplayer is amazing. A deep leveling system that only begins to get interesting when you 
 unlocks the different jobs. This can make the online clan battles very interesting and the first 
 time I have seen actual strategy come into play in a FPS.
  I would go into greater detail but the fun with this game is finding out all the amazing features 
 it has to offer. Do yourself a favor if you own a PS3 and go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaiThFul066
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a good game, I like it because it has some fresh ideas and the campaign is excellent. 
 But the online needs some serious work. Here is the breakdown
  
  Good:
  
  -Very Good graphics; KZ2 has very good graphics and in the opening credits of the game this is 
 displayed when you see the leader of Helgan delivering a powerful speech. The good graphics are 
 also displayed in other ways throughout the game.
  -Excellent Campaign; As stated above I really enjoyed the campaign. You get ribbons (Trophies) for 
 every level you complete (more about the trophies in a bit) . The campaign leads you through the 
 game nicely and I was not left wondering how something happened or puzzled about why something 
 is the way it is. It explains everything pretty nicely
  -Trophies; Many trophies you can unlock and there is enough time to get all of them and you are 
 not left PO'd because there is not enough time in the campaign to do everything. Also the mystery 
 trophies are actually unlockable, they are not extremely difficult to achieve, but not too easy 
 either. 
  -*Online; You can set your game mode to the same rank as you so you are not playing against generals 
 when you are a PFC. I like this feature
  
  Bad:
  
  -Gameplay; The gameplay in the game is not smooth. If you have played COD4, or 5, they have extremely 
 smooth gameplay. KZ2 does not. It just seems like it is out of proportion, your character turns 
 left and right slow and looks up and down slow, and when you aim it turns too fast, granted you 
 can adjust this but adjusting the X and Y axis sensitivity adjusts the aiming also so they will 
 still be off.
  Online; This is what really upset me about this game. The online is a let down. First of all you 
 can't make parties, yeah you heard, NO PARTIES! This is a huge deal because you have to go through 
 a whole dilemma to play with your friends, especially if they are different ranks. Second, there 
 is a slight death delay. When you kill an opposing player, they seem to stay alive for a half second 
 which is just enough to kill you, there are a lot of double deaths (you and an opponent kill each 
 other at the same time) which can easily frustrate you. Third the online games are not the greatest, 
 the game modes are good, but sometimes you will join a game and it will have continuous play through 
 all the game modes, so you can't rank up for that game. At least for me I joined a game and it 
 did not end for an hour then i left because it was boring me to keep playing through all the modes 
 on one map. This happened several times. Overall the online is a major let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYoung103175
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I let the reviews pour in, while I sat back and actually played for hours on end, and gave myself 
 time to give it a true assessment.
  
  First off, I have owned all consoles, pretty much in the history of gaming. This will be no fanboy 
 review. If youre a fanboy, well, you know what you are.
  
  Anyway, to the game. One word, amazing.
  
  The graphics and enviroments are truly the best 
 to date on any console. To be honest, I thought that would be tough to do with Gears and COD looking 
 so stunning. Hands down KZ2 takes the cake. Just the wind blowing in the desert portion is mesmerizing, 
 and every level is the same. You really FEEL the enviroment you are in, which engulfs you in the 
 game even more.
  
  Now, the controls, which seems to be a lot of the gripe I have read thus far. I do not mind the 
 heavy feeling, or the slow rotating. To me its more realistic this way. You want speedier reactions, 
 play COD. Look at the equipment and the guns these guys are carrying, would they really spin on 
 a dime like you want them to? I prefer more realistic feel, and this game has it. I do, however 
 have one small gripe. I know guns have recoil, and kickback, but it does bounce alot, and you seem 
 to miss a lot more then you hit sometimes. This can get frustrating when shooting from long distances. 
 Up close, its not a problem, but try to shoot an enemy from 30 feet away, youre going to have to 
 empty a clip. This is my only gripe.
  
  The story to me was fine. Maybe it does not DELVE deep enough into why you are there, what you 
 are fighting for, etc etc. But I found the story and characters interesting. I know that were at 
 war, and were taking the battle to them on their homefront. I dont need much more then that to 
 want to kick their tails. The main character has heart, as his counterpart Rico does not, and he 
 will get ya into some messed because of it. Even the leaders of the Helghast are awesome. Redic 
 is a cold hearter, ruthless villian, and youll see that throughout, especially when ya have to 
 take him on. That was some work. I do sense like a Star Wars kind of reference in the idea and 
 the bad guys, but hey, I liked Star Wars. As far as the ending, I liked it. It was a cliffhanger, 
 and the way it closes out is perfect to me, and it lets ya know, KZ3 will be coming. 
  
  The campaign is engaging, exciting, full of so much action it will make your head spin, and you 
 wont be able to put it down. From the enviroments, the graphics, the characters, and all the gunfire, 
 its definately one of the best ever.
  
  Now, to online. As I am seeming to get a little better, it does take time to get to know the maps, 
 and best strategys for them. I am a pretty good FPS player, but I was getting waxed over and over 
 to start. It definately helps to have a strategy, and some teamwork to succeed. I love the way 
 it intertwines all the modes together, but it takes time to figure them all out, or what ya need 
 to be doing. I am good with just blasting people, so everyone else can take care of the missions 
 I guess. The 8 maps are great, and all have their own feel and vibe. The battles are just as intense 
 online as in the game, and a hail of gunfire will be ringing throughout for the whole battle. This 
 is intensity at its finest. I am still not big on the personal bots, but maybe cuz I dont have one 
 yet, but those things are a pain in the ass to deal with. Just a personal gripe there haha I do 
 like the bots at the respawn points, so spawn camping girls get filled with lead for hanging around 
 the area. Anyway, multiplayer is awesome, and will keep ya busy until the next one, or COD MW2 
 comes. But even then, I think youll be going back and forth between games. This game rocks.
  
  So overall, with the most minor of complaints, I have to give this game a 9.7. This is for 
 the shooting from distances, and maybe just a little because of not enough background story. But, 
 who cares. This game is the best game to come out in a long time, and the rest of the year will 
 have to have some kick ass games to compare to this one. I truly believe it raises the bar high 
 this year. So, fanboys, like it or not, Halo (overrated) , and even Gears (which I think is the 
 best XBOX game) need to make vast improvements next go around and step it up, because KZ2 is amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Obviously the first thing that stands out about KZ2 is the graphics. There is not a shooter that 
 looks better on any console to date. Environments are very detailed but like other shooters this 
 gen, they sometimes relied too much on the whole "rusty, industrial plant" levels far too often. 
 
  
  The SP was exactly what any shooter fan should've expected. A lot of shooting wrapped around a 
 weak story. There were bits and pieces of the story that were enjoyable (Visari's speech at the 
 end) , but the soldiers' (ESPECIALLY Natko) voice acting was hilariously bad and really didn't help 
 me get immersed.
  
  KZ2's strongest suit is the MP. An average match consist of 5 different types of matches that change 
 without having to go back into a menu and also makes you strategize on the fly. The rank system 
 is well set-up and you actually have to work to get certain badges, as simply ranking up won't 
 do it. 
  
  The controls, which are a little wonky (especially the sensitivity) and lack of co-op, as well 
 as a party system are more than enough reason to keep it from being a 10. But it's not enough to 
 keep any person who owns a PS3 from owning this great game. That is unless you just don't like 
 to shoot  goddamn hippie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 review by | Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller |
  
  
  
  
  Conflict rages all around. Enemies attack from all sides as violent electrical storms fill the 
 toxic sky and hurricane winds batter the land And the magnitude of what lies ahead becomes clear 
  this is more than just a battle against a fierce adversary; brace yourself for a level of hostility 
 no solider has experienced before. Welcome to the brutal home world of the Helghast.
  
  The Good
   Visuals
   Sound-Effects
   Animation
   Light and Shadow Effects
   Movement
 
   Weapons
   Online Multiplayer
   Enemy A. I.
  
  The Bad
   Speech Dialog
   Teammates getting in your way a few times
   Stutters when at checkpoints
   Ending
   
 Controls (AT FIRST)
  
  Okay let get one obvious thing out of the way, the visuals in Killzone 2 are mind blowing and definitely 
 one of the best looking games to date, not just on the PlayStation3, but all consoles. Everything 
 right down to the very small details is just insane. Bullet sparks, blood splatters, explosions 
 even things you may not notice like bullets bursting out of your gun as you fire and bullet holes 
 are just crazy. The best thing about the visuals (Never mind everything else) is the light effect. 
 Killzone 2 has the best light and shadow effect I ever seen in a game. Even thou some level are 
 dark, the background sceneries are amazing and beautiful and you may even find it hard to concentrate 
 on what is going on in front of you because of the gorgeous landscapes.
  
  
  
  
  Okay so we know the graphics are amazing, but how is the game in general? You are thrown into battle 
 as Tomas Sevchenko a. k. a. "Sev" a First Class Sergeant along with the rest of his teammates. In 
 the first level you are thrown into an intense battle in the Helghast's world. The game-play is 
 great. The way you move through the game is probably one of the most realistic looking first person 
 shooters. The game-play will take some time to get used to. As you play you may feel the game-play 
 being a bit heavy as you move and air and you may find yourself going into the options menu a few 
 time to adjust the controls to your liking. The way to take over is ether crouch down or press 
 the cover button, (Mine is L2) which will stick you to a surface where you can peek around corners 
 and shoot. I've never see anything like that I a first person shooter and I didn't think it would 
 work well, but it does. The game-play may take you a few levels to get used to (Or maybe longer) 
 but it is great nonetheless. The downfall is that you can't fully customize the controls to your 
 liking. I like having the L2 button to aim and the R2 button to shoot and you can't have that option 
 in the game, so that's probably why I found the game-play a bit frustrating at first. Through the 
 entire game you carry only two weapons. One is a standard weapon that stays with you the entire 
 game, a handgun, and the other can be replace with another weapon if you run out of ammunition, 
 or just want a different gun. At the start of every level you will start with the specific weapon/s, 
 so if you found a gun that you really like, chances are you mite not see it in the next level. 
 The weapons in Killzone 2 are impressive and when fired really do feel like your firing a real 
 gun. There are a few weapons to play around with including Helghast weapons, and my personal favorite 
 is the lighting gun that deals bolts of lighting at your enemies and kills them almost intently. 
 There are several level to go through, (Some harder than others) each level is just as intense 
 as the last. In addition to what you can do in the game, you take control of a mech robot. The 
 mech robot is pretty cool and the way you move and deal damage to your enemies is pretty sweet, 
 but I didn't find the mech robot very memorable as the mech robot in F. E. A. R. 2. The game tends 
 to stutter and may pause for some time due to checkpoint saves which more than once I thought the 
 game crash. Hopefully will do an update to fix this miner problem.
  
  
  
  The enemy A. I. system is fantastic. There are plenty of first person shooters out there where the 
 enemy will ignore you're A. I. teammate and only attack you. In Killzone 2, that's not the case. 
 The Heighast will attack anyone they see. If you hide, the Heighast want know where you are. What 
 I love about the A. I. is that the game doesn't make you feel like you're the only one in the battlefield. 
 Like most FPS games when you see an enemy taking cover, you'll aim just above the object where 
 he's taking cover so when he pops his head up, BANG headshot. But in Killzone 2, the enemy is not 
 stupid. They want just pop there head up for you to shoot them. If a Helghast sees you aiming as 
 him or you fire and miss him, he will take cover and make it hard for you to hit him. The game 
 is challenging and the enemy A. I. makes it even more challenging. Occasionally your teammates will 
 get in your way, or trying you get out from a narrow corridor with three guys in front of you that 
 want move can be a bit frustrating, but it's all good. In additions to the awesome A. I. comes the 
 animation, which is fantastic. The physics in the game is mind blowing. Shooting a Helghast up 
 close and watching how his body reacts and jerks, to the impact of the bullets piercing into his 
 body is bloody impressive.
  The sound effects are fantastic. The sound of your weapon, turret guns being fired, background 
 sound effects, (especially with surround sound) is amazing.
  The single player is rather short. It will probably take you about 7 to 8 hours to finish the story 
 mode, but that 7 to 8 hours will be worth it. After finishing the game, it's time for even more 
 greatness, online multiplayer. If you loved Call of Duty online, and want something new to play 
 online, Killzone 2 is it. The online multiplayer is awesome. Yes Call of Duty has more multiplayer 
 games to play, (You can't beat Nazi Zombies) Killzone 2 has only 5 multiplayer games, not a lot 
 I know but it's still great fun. Search and Retrieve where you have to locate and return a series 
 of items. Search and Destroy where you have to locate and destroy a target before the time limit. 
 Capture and hold where you have to locate, capture and hold a target. Assassination (which is pretty 
 cool and fun) where you have to locate and assassinate a player, or you mite be the target and 
 you have to stay alive. Body Count, which is basically team deathmatch. The cool thing about the 
 online play is that the game continues on to the next match without having to leave the game. Once 
 one game is done, it continues onto the next game and feels like your playing one big long game. 
 You can host and edit your game mode of cause if you want. You can have one game, or all five games 
 and you can set it to repeat so once all five game have been played, it will repeat the games again 
 without ever leaving the game, which is very cool. There are 8 big maps to play and choose from 
 which are pretty sweet and can be play with up to 32 players. Playing the online multiplayer, you 
 will receive experience point for kill and so on to upgrade your character. There are 7 characters 
 to play with which you will unlock the more you play. Rifleman, (The default character) Scout, 
 Tactician, Medic, Saboteur, Engineer and Assault. When online you are put into squads, Alpha, Bravo, 
 Charlie, Delta, Echo or Foxtrot which provides more options for groups of players to work together 
 as a close-knit team. Form a four-man squad to view on-screen information about squad members during 
 a mission and to stay in audio contact using a squad-specific communication channel that other 
 faction members cannot listen to. If for some reason you don't like the single player mode, the 
 online multiplayer is worth the play. Hopefully they'll add more online game modes and maps.
  You can play Skirmish mode where you can play offline match against the computer using online maps 
 and what not. Skirmish is good for working on your skills or if you just don't like playing online 
 with real human beings or, if you do have an Internet connection, but you'll be missing out on 
 a great experience.
  
  
  
  Story  7/10  Good story (Disappointing ending)
  Graphics  10/10  Amazing (Even better this HD TV)
  Game-play  8/10  Great (Once you get used 
 to it)
  Sound-Effects  10/10  Amazing (Even better with surround sound)
  Online Play  10/10  Amazing (I love it)
  Overall  9/10  Awesome game
  
  
  Overall I 
 found Killzone 2 a brilliant game. (Not the best game, but a brilliant game) Outstanding visuals, 
 sound-effects, online play and a decent story-line. If you like first person shooter, get killzone 
 2.
  
  Simon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScubaSteve411
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Killzone is a great game other than one issue. The controls. Not the controller button set up... the 
 fact that every movement you makes lags nearly half a second. GG claims they tried to make it realistic 
 by making movement slower b/c you are wearing so much armor, yet it ruins the game. Other than 
 this issue, its an amazing game. I really hope they release a patch sometime soon because the controls 
 are driving me nuts. If you like gears, halo, etc you would really really like this game IF they 
 fixed the controls. Until then you will be frustrated. I know GG has talked about many issues including 
 the controls and plans to try to fix some of them. Until then I will probably keep trying to play 
 with the lag, trying to adapt like others are doing, yet why adapt to something that is clearly 
 broken and will just make you worse at every other fps you may play in the future. 
  BEWARE many fanboys try to say its not an issue. It is a very big issue and needs to be fixed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdk6
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  This game has been hyped to hell and back. From graphics to gameplay, from the moon to the sun, 
 everything has been KZ2. So I made a purchase, and what I found was an extremely average game. 
 I found this game more fun to watch, rather than to play.
  
  
  Graphics:
  The flagship of the title. In actuality, the graphics are not that good. Mind you, I'm colorblind, 
 so graphical nuances stick out like a sore thumb, and KZ2 has them in spades. The insane blur, 
 the grey overlay effect on even stationary targets. You can't hate on the textures simply because 
 they've been mapped over with more blur and you can't see them. The game simply does not look that 
 good aesthetically, when it comes to detail. It's a chore for me to find Helghan (who wear all 
 black) in a very well lit room (which is a shade of very light gray) , because everything is blurred. 
 Everything. However, it also has fantastic explosions, the best since PD0 (which had great explosions) , 
 has by far the BEST animations in an FPS and it's not even close. Smoke is great, wonderful. Butchering 
 some Helghan with your assault rifle is always more entertaining to watch than actually do. But 
 other than that it looks pretty decent, the weapons look exceptionally nice.
  
  Controls:
  Horrible. It has to be the worst FPS control on the market, no doubt. It might be 
 just my DS3, but the controls are just simply put - crap. I have done my share of testing and there 
 are only 2 vertical/horizontal movement speeds (not sensitivity, speed) no matter how far or slowly 
 you push the analog, it will only move at 2 speeds. Too slow and very fast. Resistance didn't have 
 this problem, and in an FPS, this is inexcusable.
  
  Story:
  Eh. I'll leave this one alone. It's not bad, it's not good, it's just there.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  What it did right - ATTENTION TO DETAIL. This game doesn't miss much. The way your weapon moves 
 when you move is very noticeable, and not stiff like other shooters, but very unsteady and wavy, 
 which is fun to watch. Aiming and shooting is wonderful, again unsteady and agitating at the same 
 time, but it meshes well. The action in the game is balls to the wall every single level. Doesn't 
 ever stop, except for the loading hiccups which in this game don't really matter, they aren't egregiously 
 long like MGS4 to where it begins to hamper the experience. Infact they aren't long at all. Also, 
 the Multiplayer is average. Wasn't my bag of chips, but I'm not going to knock it down because 
 I could see why some would like it. Think COD4 at a Halo large map pace.
  
  What it did wrong - This game failed to capture my attention, or awe me. Why? Because it's not 
 doing what it wants to do correctly. I often find myself asking the question "why am I playing 
 this?", and I subsequently go stick in GRAW or RB6V. There is no oomph to this game. It's a run 
 and gun shooter missing the most important part, variety of enemies. Whilst yes, there are "different" 
 types of enemies, some harder than others, it fails where run & gun shooters aren't supposed to 
 fail, real variety. This to me is where the game dropped the ball. KZ2 would have been much better 
 had they randomly put in enemies that would be me all about the face, and if I killed it, would 
 be a sign that I am a gaming god. KZ2 does not have this, thus loses it's allure quickly to an 
 FPS fan.
  
  Sound:
  Perfect 10/10. Voice acting a bit rough, but hey, boys will be boys.
  
  Presentation:
  Perfect 
 10/10. This isn't a cop out. There is literally NOTHING missing from the artstyle and the overall 
 interpretation of the atmosphere. Nothing.
  
  Overall.
  
  Graphics 8/10 (25% of total) 20
  Controls 4/10 (15% of total) 6
  Story 7/10 (10% of total) 
 7
  Gameplay 8/10 25% (25% of total) 20
  Sound 10/10 (10% of total) 10
  Presentation 10/10 (15% of total) 15
  
  78% round up = 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigLLL
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  First off lets talk about the so called laggy slow controls? These complaints are just from either 
 xbots who are trying there hardest to find something they can use against killzone 2 and because 
 the game is near flawles they are down to the controls or it's people complaining who are call 
 of duty nazi's, And this game just isnt Call of duty in anyway, Killzone is a slower more tactical 
 game, Where you cant go on some rambo killing spree!! You have to work as a team and get your timing 
 right, Killzone 2 controls like killzone 2 which is great and shouldnt be changed.
  
  Graphics well, Best there has ever been on a console by far and even has a more WOW factor than 
 crysis
  
  Story - The story is great depending if you were a fan of number 1 or not The stuff that goes down 
 really sets it up well to make you want to kill the helghast
  
  Gameplay - The best cover system in a FPS which im sure will be used and copied in other future 
 games coming out, it just works great and adds to the immersion of the game, The great thing about 
 the gameplay is it really is it's own style, Killzone 2 is killzone 2 and it's full of win
  
  Online - Online rocks, good ranking system and the different classes/badges or full of win 
 just like the rest of the game
  
  
  So is killzone 2 a halo killer? in sales probably not? But as a game just forget about it because 
 killzone 2 didnt just pass halo it rasied the bar so high Halo doesnt even compare, There is no 
 such thing as a halo killer anymore When a FPS comes out from now on it has to be   is it a killzone 
 2 killer and thats not going to happen for a long time
  
  If you have a ps3 and dont have killzone 2 then shame on you, go out and get the best FPS this 
 generation maybe of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Though my time with the game may be short, it was enjoyed to the peak that the Playstation 3 really 
 needed. With great graphics and gameplay, this game shows that it has what it takes to compete 
 with those of the Xbox 360. The controls feel really picky in single player, but with the removal 
 of the cover system in the online play, it feels like an FPS should.
  
  The singleplayer is not bad in any sense. It provides its own sense of enjoyment with little to 
 no boring segments. It sucks you in, but I personally felt hatred for the squadmates that I was 
 forced to work with. They insisted on quoting the same annoying quote such as: "Boom! Headshot!" 
 every time I scored a headshot on a Hig. It's only when they repeat it dozens of times in succession 
 that you wish you were a Helghast soldier yourself.
  
  The multiplayer is really where Killzone 2 gets it's place in the sun. It feels like a real war. 
 There are explosions going off all around you, wounded and dead lay on the ground. Some are still 
 moving. You see the slight glow from the enemy that is ready to drop you without a moments thought. 
 This is the way the FPS genre was meant to be when played against human opponents.
  
  With a somewhat unique badge system, Guerrilla Games shows how to follow and be original at the 
 same time. In order for players to expand their arsenal of equipment and weapons, they must co-operate 
 with their fellow squad mates and conquer the enemy scum in the game type that is randomly generated 
 every few minutes. The weapons pack much more punch online, with a single bullet to the brain from 
 any weapon resulting in an instant kill. LMGs are weak and not worth their weight. Assault Rifles 
 play the backbone of every firefight. Perfect balance.
  
  After all factors are weighed in, this game is great. It made me buy a Playstation 3 after playing 
 on my Xbox 360 for 2 and a half years. I am very pleased with this game, as it kept every promise 
 that we trusted it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this first. I think Sony has blown it with the PS3. Phew, now that that is out of the 
 way, I can review this game. Killzone 2 is like a REALLY hot blonde; it stuns you right off the 
 bat, but if you want a real relationship, it starts to show its few glaring flaws.
  
  If you want to hear the good about this game, read any of the surrouding reviews... I agree with 
 them. I will simply point out the game's many flaws, but keep in mind that I think this is a very 
 good game, and these are really the things that dissappointed me.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in Killzone 2 is solid, at least in single player. The difficulty is fairly well tuned, 
 though it may be a bit on the easy side. The weapons feel pretty good for the most part, though 
 the Rocket and the ISA Rifle are pretty weak (The Helghast Gun is F***ing awesome!) .
  
  Graphics
  Stunning... but flawed. The art design is beautiful, but the graphics really aren't 
 that much better than Gears of War 2... in fact, I would go so far as to say that the graphics aren't 
 better at all. What makes the difference is the geometry. Everything just looks real in Killzone 
 2, but when you see something that doesn't fit, it REALLY sticks out. There are bad textures all 
 over the place and the physics engine just flat out sucks (ex. The rocket launcher. Seriously, 
 fire it at a Helghast, I dare you. The poor bugger will move about 2 inches, as opposed to flying 
 through the air a la the first Halo. Whoops!) Killzone 2 is a painting. It looks great when still, 
 but if you try to move it, its flaws become more obvious. It is stunning to be sure, but not all 
 that it is hyped up to be.
  
  Sound
  AWFUL. While the ambient effects are awesome, the weapons are pathetic, with the lone exception 
 being the mind bogglingly awesome Helghast assault rifle. The ISA rifle sounds like a pea shooter, 
 and the Rocket has the weakest little "bam" I have ever heard. This game will stun you at first, 
 but the sound effects won't hold your interest for long.
  
  Multiplayer
  Solid, but there are balance issues. The Helghast assault rifle is overpowered compared to its 
 ISA counterpart, and quite frankly, this game is going to suffer from the same problem that plagued 
 Syphon Filter on the PSP: the starting weapons are no match for the high ranked weapons. Sorry 
 guys, but newcomers are going to be few and far between, because noobs are going to be MEAT in 
 this game.
  
  Killzone 2 is an achievement for its developer, but it isn't anything revolutionary. It does what 
 it does well, but what it does has been done one hundred times before, and it has been done better. 
 Definitely not a Halo killer, though a wonderful improvement over the first Killzone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEWMAN08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the single player: Once you pop the game in, there's a short video introduction 
 that gives the player a setting for the story. You'll see quickly the caliber of graphics, which 
 are incredible. I've never played the first Killzone, so the intro did its duty, and afterwards 
 its off to the killing fields. The game mechanics are solid, altough many people have been complaining 
 about "lag" or a delay, but I've found that playing with the sensitivity of the analogue works.
 
  The best part of the game occurs when you open up on a Helghast from a close proximity, and watch 
 as your bullets tear them to bits. Every kill is different, and none of them look the same.... well 
 maybe headshots :) The weapons deliver different experiences, all handling situations in a seperate 
 fashion. 
  The online shines in Killzone 2, but it will take you time to adjust to the feel and controls. 
 Once you do, you'll enjoy earning badges which unlock weapons, classes, and different abilities. 
 So while you may not enjoy playing online at first, keep going till you unlock some badges that'll 
 expand what you're able to do. While most online shooters today push the team aspect, Killzone 
 2 really requires that your team uses different badges to accomplish the mission. When the abilities 
 are used correctly its a beautiful thing, so get online and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FerdinandZBull
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The storyline serves its purpose. The framerate is solid. The visuals are very top-notch. Even 
 though the textures probably aren't as good as in an FPS on a PC, everything else is pretty much 
 on par or better than PC FPS's I've played.
  
  There are very few issues I have with the game so far. The hiccups while loading are annoying but 
 very forgivable. There are a few odd visual glitches here and there... the main thing I noticed 
 were bullet casings getting stuck in midair for a few seconds. My favorite FPS so far would have 
 to be Half Life 2, and this game is pretty close to being as good. I haven't had a chance to play 
 the multiplayer yet on Killzone 2, so that could be subject to change.
  
  It feels like I've been waiting for this game for a very long time. The PS3 has needed a flagship 
 FPS for far too long. This one is going to carry my interest for quite awhile. Some of the trophies 
 are going to be really difficult to get, though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFireWalkWithMe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that I bought this game simply as a hope that it would break the spell that 
 Call Of Duty has on me; in the sense that it might give me something else that I actually want 
 to play. I did not necessarily give into the hype as I had learned my lesson with MGS4, nor did 
 I expect it to be a replica of a COD multiplayer. I did however expect something new and innovative; 
 something that would catch my interest. The sad truth is that after about 30 minutes I found myself 
 taking the game out and putting in COD 5 once again. 
  Why might you ask? Because this games strength purely lies in its undeniably stellar graphics but 
 there isn't much else to hoot and holler about. I felt like I was playing Resistance with better 
 imagery, I'm sorry. The campaign is of your typical FPS warzone fare, albeit done with a whole 
 mess of flash but really no substance, and the multiplayer is like a cross between Halo and Resistance 
 with horrible camera control. I felt like when I went to turn my character the camera actually 
 sped up causing me to overshhoot my target and getting mauled upon by numerous unseen enemies. 
 I am sure the controls are something I could get used to but the sterile nature of the game and 
 the lack of innovation aside from a graphical standpoint make this another nice looking game but 
 not that much fun. I get that been there done that feeling which will inevitibly land this game 
 next to MGS4 and Farcry2 on the shelf with me wondering what I could have done with the 180 dollars 
 I spent on them.
  All in all my experience with the game is of bitter dissapointment, especially because I still 
 have to endure long hours with the horribly addictive COD, well maybe thats not so horrible after 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the few that absolutely loved the first Killzone, so I was even happier than many to 
 see this sequel coming. Killzone 2 plays much like the original (which makes it quite odd that 
 no one like the original but are calling this game a Halo killer) and the action may be some of 
 the most intense and rewarding combat yet. However, this makes it much more disappointing that 
 it is such a brief experience.
  
  The action doesn't do anything new; it's just more intense than the typical shooter. The first 
 thing that you will notice is that the movement is much slower and more deliberate. This helps 
 the intensity because you are more worried about your flanks since it is harder to defend them, 
 but turning a complete 180 takes much longer than it should.
  
  The breakdown of the weapons is as follows: the machine gun, the other machine gun, the heavy machine 
 gun, and the light machine gun. As you can see, there isn't much variety. Occasionally you will 
 run across a rocket launcher, but it only appears before a fight against a vehicle or something 
 similar and the ammo is so limited that you can't take it beyond the fight it was meant for. There 
 is also a lightning gun that I only found in the main campaign once, so I don't really feel as 
 if it was part of my arsenal. You also have a pistol with unlimited ammo as backup, but ammunition 
 for other weapons is plentiful enough that I never had to resort to it. Even though there isn't 
 much difference in the guns, they still feel good to use and help draw you into the action.
  
  There isn't much variety in the enemies either. Every single enemy, from the first grunt to 
 the final boss, is clad in dark gray armor and has orange glowing eyes. From a distance, it is 
 difficult to tell any difference between the enemy types. They also show some disappointing behavior 
 from time to time. For example, during one of the mounted turret sequences, a constant flow of 
 enemies kept running out the same door right into my machine gun fire. They also seem to have designated 
 places where they must take cover. If you kill one guy in cover, another will most likely show 
 up within a few seconds to take his place.
  
  The story is just enough to get the game going. Every character is the stereotypical macho soldier. 
 Several twists in the plot happen entirely because one of these guys is protecting their ego. Several 
 characters make a return from the first game, but I was disappointed to see that Luger is not here. 
 Each person has a distinct personality that makes them memorable. My biggest gripe with the main 
 campaign is its length. I finished in almost exactly six hours. It is bad enough when a straightforward 
 war game (like COD4) is over in such a short time, but it is even worse when a sci-fi epic is over 
 so quickly. I felt like I was just getting into the game when the final boss fight started.
  
  The graphics are amazing, but the lack of variety hurts. There aren't many big impressive set 
 pieces. Every level fits in the same category: war-torn industrial area. Any screen shot of the 
 game could come possibly come from any level. The lack of variety is disappointing, but once you 
 get in the thick of the action, you probably won't even notice.
  
  Killzone 2 may not have much variety, but the action is more than enough to carry the game. If 
 you are in the mood for some straight up shooting, you can't go wrong here. If you are looking 
 for a more varied combat experience, I would recommend the recently released Resistance 2 over 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Review!!!
  
  Story: Basically this ISA is going to the Helgahst home planet to fight the helghan and capture 
 their evil dictator Visari. Who is a threat to the universe.
  
  Characters: Wasent really attracted to any of the characters but i really liked garza such a shame ( 
 SPOILERS) he had to die : (. Sev was ok looked very cool but somehow i thought his voice didnt match 
 his look lol and rico is a prick and natko looks like a redhead lol.
  
  Gameplay: Killzone 2 introduces something new to the FPS genre with FPS cover system witch works 
 really well and you will have to use it because even on the recruit difficulty the enemy will KILL 
 YOU.
  
  People have said there is a problem with the controls but for me this aint the case because you 
 can change it.
  
  Aiming does feel and movement abit slow but you get use to it and dont even notice.
  
  Online: 
 Very good and rewarding, clans make it even more exciting
  
  Basically just go and buy!!!
  
  Thanks for reading the Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lxlHIMlxl
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a game that has been anticipated for years, and it shows from all the details in 
 the game. However even though the game is phenomenal it is not as revolutionary as i expected. 
 
  
  Killzone 2's graphics are one of the best, amazing detail and realism almost everywhere you look. 
 It matches the story with a futuristic look, while still being believable. 
  
  The gameplay is something that may turn people away from the game. It is different but not necessarily 
 bad. The controls are "heavy" but you will adapt as you do with any game so it may take away joy 
 from the experience at first but soon you will be loving every second of the game.
  
  Multiplayer is the best part of the game. You partially work with your team to reach a common goal. 
 Since there is a reward system online it gives you more of an incentive to not only do well personally, 
 but help your team win. Online setup and everything is great.
  
  Killzone 2 is a wonderful game that i recommend for anyone interested in a shooter, it just had 
 potential to be more and it looked like it would have more, but still its one of the best shooters 
 I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zigen591
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I am glad I bought the PS3! I was beginning to think I purchased the wrong system...
  
  This game is amazing and the visual effects is breath taking. I never played the first KillZone, 
 but starting to think I should. I saw the trailers and demo and was shocked how realistic this 
 game was. I have always like first person shooters... Quake, Doom, Unreal, but they all seemed 
 the same after these classics came out. I decided to reserve a copy when I purchased SFiV. 
  
  I can tell you that you will not go wrong buying this game!!! The game play is easy to learn, 
 and you will be amazed how stunning the graphics is. I actually explore when I'm playing in campaign 
 mode. You can tell the developers took the time to make sure all the details was up to par and 
 that they took full advantage of what the PS3 had to offer. 
  
  I can tell you this game is by far one of the best 1st person shooter I've ever played and very 
 addicting. It been a while, since a great game comes along on PS3... I'm glad I'm a proud owner 
 of a PS3. Keep up the great work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrrchef
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  After playing a friend of mine's copy of Killzone (1) , I was skeptical about Killzone 2. Well, 
 not anymore. I am quite simply blown away. As an avid fan of FPS games, I am especially critical 
 to the genre. From the moment that the intro began, my jaw dropped. Graphics are absolutely amazing. 
 Lighting, textures, bloom effect, shadowing are first rate. With the exception of a minor "hiccup" 
 when it is loading, which is not really noticeable, the frame rate is smooth and fluid. 
  Game play is awesome. While I admit that at first I found the controls a little lagging, I soon 
 realized the beauty of the controls. They are actually realistic. Not UBER responsive non-realistic 
 like most FPS. Control of frags is also a thing of beauty. 
  Enemy AI is top notch and presents a challenging and rewarding game play experience. Likewise, 
 the AI of your "squad" is so good that it truly adds to the sensation of being part of a team in 
 active combat. Firefights are nothing short of spectacular. It is utter chaos in some scenes (which 
 is what a battlefield of this nature should be!) . Bonus of playing as a "mech" or at the helm of 
 a tank or anti-aircraft gun is not only fun but effective in adding to the overall aesthetic of 
 the game.
  This is a first rate FPS, the best yet on this platform. I've owned all 3 systems (360, wii, ps3) 
 and can honestly say that this is my favorite shooter to date. 
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!! You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karriston
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 was never going to please everyone. Just like every other hyped game, it was never going 
 to live up to everyone's expectations. Since it's first unveiling at E3 several years ago, people 
 have been wiping the drool from their mouths at the numerous peeks they've gotten of the game. 
 There was even a beta that had people fighting to gain a place in it. What's surprising is that 
 even after all of this, Guerilla (the developers) have made some blindingly obvious design mistakes 
 that ultimately drag Killzone 2 down from great to OK.
  
  If you've played the first Killzone or the PSP Liberation spinoff, this is very much in the same 
 vein. You fight the Helghast, a group living on the planet Helghan lead by their leader Visari. 
 You play as a group of soldiers who work for the ISA, who came under attack on the planet Vekta 
 in the first game. This is where the problem begins. You're treated to a lovely looking introduction, 
 and it wipes away any doubt that these aren't the most realistic graphics to be seen on any console 
 yet. However, beyond the lucious graphics, there isn't much else. The gang of soldiers who are 
 supposed to be the game's main characters are instantly forgettable, so much so that they might 
 as well have been called Stereotypical soldier #1, #2, #3 and #4. The story doesn't get much better, 
 and assumes too much knowledge of previous games. It all makes for a rather uninvolving experience. 
 But at least it's nice to look at!
  
  Or is it? The graphics are undeniably detailed but the problem is the lack of imagination. It suffers 
 from the usual FPS formula of grey + brown = good. The fact that this technology has been wasted 
 on endless grey corridors shows a criminal lack of imagination. Nevertheless, these faults could 
 easily be forgiven if the game didn't seem determined to stop you enjoying it.
  
  If you've played the demo or happened to stumble upon any forum topic mentioning the game, then 
 you'll know there's a problem with the controls. Despite what some overzealous fans may claim, 
 the controls do nothing to add to the gameplay, instead doing nothing but taking away from it. 
 The problem lies, not with the button mapping or response time, but with the obvious analogue stick 
 deadzone and odd turning acceleration. Unlike most games, the stick needs to be pushed further 
 than most games to register movement. While it isn't much, it's definitely noticeable. This alone 
 wouldn't be enough to spoil the game, but coupled with the acceleration it becomes a problem. When 
 moving the analogue stick, it starts by moving slowly. Within less than a second, the acceleration 
 raises sharply. What this means is that you're never quite sure where the crosshairs will end up. 
 This makes any precision aiming nearly impossible, unless you spend a few more seconds moving the 
 crosshairs. Unless you've managed to find an enemy with amputated legs, any precision aiming is 
 nigh on impossible. All this in the name of "realism". Lack of precision does not equal either 
 fun or realism.
  
  Yet this isn't the only bad decision. The game features a cover system, not seen too often in the 
 FPS genre. It works well in the single player, but for some horrible reason, it was taken from 
 the multi-player. Apparently, it was to keep up the fast pace of the multi-player, because, you 
 know, it made Gears of War and Rainbow 6: Vegas super slow...
  
  The main problem of the game is that it doesn't know what it wants to be. The sci-fi setting is 
 wasted by a World-war 2 shooter in sheep's clothing with none of the weaponry (bar a few guns) 
 taking advantage of the situation. The game wants to be realistic but does everything everything 
 to remove strategy possible, the lack of a cover system in multi-player being the prime example.
 
  
  Now that the bad points are out of the way, let's focus on the positive, namely the multi-player. 
 The game has the usual suite of options, except, oddly, any type of co-op mode. Impressively, there's 
 the ability to play with bots, which goes to show the power of the PS3, being able to have all 
 those bots and graphics on the same screen at the same time. The A. I. is generally great, as is 
 the enemy A. I. in single-player (which is more than can be said for friendly A. I.) . The interesting 
 thing comes with how the game modes are handled. When creating a game, you can add what game modes 
 you want to play in that match. The modes will then change on the fly, e. g. when you finish a bodycount 
 round, the next one will begin immediately on the same map and without resetting everyone to their 
 spawn points. It works really well and helps the games flow.
  
  Like a lot of multi-player games all of a sudden, Killzone 2 features class-based gameplay. Classes 
 and abilities are unlocked by gaining XP and levelling up. Like COD4's challenges, KZ2 features 
 ribbons. These are little acknowledgements of fulfilling special criteria in a match, such as getting 
 10 kills. Once you collect enough of a specific type of ribbon, you gain a new ability. It's all 
 very addictive and adds depth to the multi-player experience.
  
  And yet, The prevailing sense is one of mediocrity. The game doesn't even try to do anything new 
 and the graphics are wasted on the bland environments. The biggest problem is the control system. 
 All of these elements add up to a disjointed experience and a wasted opportunity. Thankfully though, 
 its biggest problems could easily be fixed with a patch.
  
  Killzone 2 is a fun game, but a frustrating one, seeing how its faults are so obvious it's painful. 
 The game never aims for the stars, but seems happy with being average. Even if it did, though, 
 I doubt it'd be able to hit anything with the controls! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'll start with my only complaints, the controls are not as good as they could be, although after 
 awhile it becomes a very small issue as you get used to it. My other complaint is that the water 
 texture and most geometry textures are not amazing when you get really close to them , however, 
 they are still good, and it's a bit of a non-issue when you just play the game normally. Minor 
 as they may be, those are my only complaints.
  The game looks and plays fantastic, the single player is satisfying, fun, and looks amazing. Somehow 
 they managed to bring those awesome visuals into the multiplayer as well, boasting 32 players, 
 and I have yet to experience any lag worth noting. There is a levelling system which is enjoyable, 
 and various unlocks along the way. The level design is amazing, the maps are, in a word; art. Get 
 this game, it lives up to the hype.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anshanlord
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome
  i can't even say how much it was better than i expected it
  single player can end in less than 10 hours but that 10 hours take u deep within the helghan when 
 u start to think: is this the greatest thing ever!?
  well we can't say that totally 
  with all the great games around like Metal Gear Solid, Fallout 3 & ,......
  but killzone 2 shows 
 what it means to be perfect if it had more solid storyline we could say its the best game in the 
 last 2 years
  game play is very solid u can mount lot of headshots with a little accuracy & guns are just fun 
 to shoot with
  helghast are great enemies i sometimes wish that i could play as them.
  but if we skip the sound & graphics which both are the greatest seen (Atleast the graphic part)
 
  the multi-player is just great
  makes u addicted to it me myself honestly havent done anything since i got the game
  its like 
 u cant get enough of it
  above all killzone is one of those rare games that are worth the money u pay for 'em
  it great 
 and it can't get better in a shooter in years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sstonee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:14 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best thing out there right now. The action in the game is so great 
 its hard to describe. I want to say that this is the first fps game to have a cover system. Definitely 
 adds a little uniqueness to the game play. You will also find yourself in basically non stop action. 
 The graphics is definitely the strongest element of the game showing that straight from the cut 
 scene you play the game and see little to no difference. Within the first 10 mins I said Oh my 
 god at least like 25 times. There are even things for completionest with finding Intel and destroying 
 Helgast symbols. The story was just kind of there. It helps you through the game so that you would 
 actually want to continue playing through the campaign. 
  The mulitplayer is definitely strong as well with movement of your character that takes some time 
 getting use to but not at all hard to learn. It has much of a counter strike feel with a little 
 bit of the ideas from halo. 
  All in all this is a must have for any ps3 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidus4444
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I first laid my eyes on that unbelievable trailer... I remember the immediate hype 
 that surrounded everything 'Killzone 2' because of that one trailer. Sony and the developers of 
 Killzone 2 promised the world that the trailer we all saw was going to be actual in-game action. 
 So, everyone's main question is probably whether or not that is true. Hopefully my opinion will 
 help you decide for yourself whether or not Killzone 2 is worthy of it's hype, or even worthy for 
 solely being a Playstation 3. 
  
  The Bad: 
  1. The controls in this game are pretty weak. I hate the fact that I can not truly reconfigure 
 my controls to my personal liking. The player is pretty much forced to choose from about 8 different 
 control schemes all of which I did not like. For example, the crouch button is ALWAYS L2, which 
 means if i wanted to make my 'aim' control to L1 it would make it impossible for me to duck and 
 aim at the same time unless I used both my index and middle fingers at the same time. The controls 
 are also sluggish. It takes less than a second for the character to react to the joystick, which 
 frustrated me at first. Eventually the player will get used to it and it won't be that big of a 
 deal. 
  2. the 'tacked on' motion controls are weak in the game as well. When the player needs to plant 
 a charge on an objective, he or she is forced to use to motion controls to plant the bomb. This 
 is a cool feature at first but it quickly becomes annoying. The zoom for the sniper also forces 
 the player to keep a steady hand otherwise the zoom will go out of focus. (VERY ANNOYING) . Of course 
 Killzone 2 had to something with the motion controls to make it truly 'Playstation 3', but I just 
 feel that the developers merely tacked the feature on the game to simply make Sony happy. 
  3. The story and voice acting in the game is horrid. Even the characters themselves are very unmemorable 
 and ugly. Gears of War had cheesy lines, but they were cool and fit the environment. Killzone 2's 
 voice acting is simply stupid and way too cheesy that it takes away from the overall feeling of 
 chaotic war. The story is also very bland and unexciting. If you thought the well done opening 
 scene would steer the game into a great story driven game, well you thought wrong. The enemies 
 in the game also have stupid corny lines that don't really intimidate the player at all.
  4. The MP is very deep. Players are forced to level up like in the Call of Duty games, which is 
 cool and adds to the replayability of the game. This of course doesn't cure how boring the MP actually 
 is. Yes it is intense, but it isn't fun. It's slow, unmemorable and bland. Although the level design 
 on the MP maps are rather nice. I did not find any real lag with the game unlike some other shooters 
 out there. 
  
  The Good: 
  1. The action is amazingly chaotic. When you are fighting side by side with your AI controlled 
 buddies it really feels like your in the middle of a battle. The main battle rifle in the game 
 is the best weapon in the game by far and looks really cool from the first person perspective. 
 This game is all about set battles with about 20 red eyed foes hurling bullets your way, and it's 
 hella fun. 
  2. The AI in the game is challenging and fun to battle with. The enemies will hide behind cover 
 and act like you would think smart AI would act when they have a horde of enemies shooting and 
 throwing grenades at them. They will not be afraid to run around your cover and rifle butt you 
 in the face though.
  3. The graphics are stunning. From the environments to the motion blur on your rifle, this game 
 is hands down the best looking first person shooter on any platform. 
  4. The sound design for the weapons and all of the ambience in the levels are great. I just wish 
 the same went for the voice acting. 
  5. The physics in this game are very fun. Shooting baddies causes them to react like you would 
 expect them to. The same goes for the first person perspective camera. When the player jumps the 
 gun and camera reacts like you would expect it to. 
  
  Overall: If you look past the hype this game had and judge Killzone 2 for what it REALLY is then 
 you will enjoy this game. This is a first person shooter that doesn't really bring anything new 
 to the table but it's a lot of fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I was never planning on buying this game ever after I played the first one, because it sucked, 
 like bad !!! Surprisingly, after I saw IGNs and gamespots reviews on this game, my thoughts flipped. 
 So the on the release day, I bought it. I have tried it out for and ooh boy this game rocks !! 
 I mean its solid rock !! 
  
  Graphics:
  Best graphics I have seen in an FPS since modern warfare and I mean its THAT DAMN GOOD !!!
  
 
  Game play:
  Its no CS source, but its kinda slow. I mean it feels heavy, with all the running and the aiming 
 but it kinda gets much faster when you play multiplayer. 
  
  Story:
  Never cared, too complicated. Somehow, this one concentrates around a couple of soldiers taking 
 over bases.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Fun, especially when you receive those ribbons and stuff. The game changes objectives fast without 
 any loadings whenever the one before is done, so it keeps you going no matter what. 
  
  Overall, this game is a great shooter and I recommend anyone to buy it. Although I never liked 
 shooters on consoles because half and counter strike will always be the best for me, COD 4 and 
 killzone 2 will kickstart your heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-417
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  well i picked this game up on the midnight release.. and i can just say WOW!!!! this is an instant 
 classic and shows the potential of the Playstation 3.
  
  first of all... THIS IS NOT YOUR AVERAGE CALL OF DUTY!!!
  
  this game is meant to be realistic, 
 and if it hasnt given you a bit of motion sickness in the process, you're playing it wrong..
  
  the game has great multiplayer that always has somehin g new to offer..
  
  the campaign, 
 i do agree with gamespot, is not a strong point, there isnt much emotion put into it.. but then 
 agai why is this game so great????
  
  because there isnt anything else like it.. ut this on hi-def, and surrond sound.. and you get as 
 close as you can to true war with being shot in the face by ak's..
  
  this game is worth much more than its priced for.. but dont take my word for it.
  get out and 
 there and play it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunnwolf27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I played the single player for a while only to get used to the game and went straight to multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer hit me like a brick wall to the face, in a good way. First of all i love to keep playing 
 without having to switch to different games to play other types of game play. The way the battles 
 role out are very fluid going from one objective to another and blending in with the mayhem of 
 the match seamlessly. The reaction timing of the bullets and kills are a little slow but i like 
 that about this game because if i shoot a bullet no matter how close to death, the bullet should 
 count. The way you can also make 4 man squads in your team is also a nice touch for those with 
 mics or those who want to spawn at their leader. My favorite it about multiplayer is the mortally 
 wounded aspect with making sure that enemies won't get revived and kill you. The classes seem really 
 balanced from the generic rifleman to the saboteur. All in all the Single player is something that 
 could be polished, but the multiplayer is compelling and active like a real war between the ISA 
 and Helghast should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivitaminwater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  There comes a time every once and a while when a game breaks all expectations. Gears of war, metal 
 gear solid, and another select few. Today in a market full of horrible or acceptable games, only 
 few shine above the rest. Killzone 2 is one of them. With a fantastic re-playable campaign and 
 excellent story-telling, this game, with the addition of the best multiplayer of today, is definitely 
 the number one game I've played since gears of war 2 back last year. (No others before that) I 
 will not act fanboyish by making a one paragraph review not describing anything and being vague. 
 To prove this game is good, I pre-typed this on a microsoft word document. It was 2 and a half 
 pages single spaced with a one space separation between each of the 5 categories and my other main 
 descriptions.
  
  This is going to longer than many of my reviews, so let's get this started. I will have 5 different 
 categories as follows: Campaign, Multiplayer, Gameplay, Visuals, and overall fun factor. Those 
 of which will have different subcategories. Warning, I will spoil some but not so much that you 
 have no reason to play.
  
  Campaign: The campaign component of Killzone 2 is good enough to sell as an original game anyways. 
 This will be separated into just storytelling.
  Storytelling: The storytelling is amazing. I seriously do not get at all how the story is weak. 
 This story is filled with moments of awesome suspense, but the phenomenal, believable voice acting 
 makes the experience feel all the better. In the story of killzone 2, you play as sergeant Tomas 
 Sevchenko, or "Sev." Sev is a new protagonist contrary to the original kililzone's main character 
 Jan Templar. Templar plays the ISA's fleet commander against the opposing colonel Mael Radec. Radec 
 will be the final boss and an excellent one too. Your trusty squad consists of Sgt. Rico Velasquez, 
 Cpl. Dante Garza, and Cpl. Shawn Natko. Your squad, alpha team, is a lovable squad, just don't 
 get too used to them. They can get pissed off, or worse. It's a hard campaign in which you can 
 even die a lot on the easiest difficulty, but the sheer fun pays off; however, moments or swearing 
 and mindless ranting make the story a little bit absurd. This story overall is excellent and the 
 best I've ever played. (But seriously, no co-op?) 9.0/10
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer component is excellent too. I'll separate this to 2 separate sub-categories: 
 Classes and Weaponry. There are 8 multiplayer maps, all excellently designed. 
  Classes: The classes of killzone 2 certainly are not new, but the feel of it makes it feel both 
 original and expandable. There are 7 classes, each of which have a different specialty. I have 
 not unlocked every class because you have to level up to general to unlock every class, so I can 
 only give more feedback on medic and rifleman. I'm currently a master sergeant. Rifleman: This 
 class's specialty is to be able to carry about every unlockable weapon. No other special class 
 is needed. Medic: This is the only class that can revive mortally wounded foes. This class mostly 
 carries the ISA's M82 or the HG's Sta52. Engineer: This class is pretty special. Able to build 
 sentry gun turret, this is a pretty good class. The tactician class is able to put up smoke signals 
 that people from your faction can respawn from. This is very helpful in a larger, widespread map, 
 or in the midst of a large battle. The Saboteur can disguise him/herself as a random enemy character 
 while the assault class can run faster for a certain amount of time. Finally is the scout class. 
 Able to scan the area for enemies and turn invisible when not moving, this sniper scout is unlocked 
 at the last level. 
  Weaponry: Weaponry is probably the number one aspect for a shooter game. Killzone 2 doesn't shy 
 on the weapons either. From the standard M82 assault rifle to the oh so trusty electricity gun 
 (only in one level of the single player mode) , this game has a wide variety of excellent weaponry. 
 The variety doesn't stop there though. Being able to man turrets, AA guns, tanks too, these parts 
 sets the pace differently, giving you opportunities to try something new and not get bored. There 
 are guns that stick out other from assault rifles, rifles, pistols, LMGs, the sniper, and SMGs. 
 There are someunique but already used from other game's weapons. The flamethrower gives you a 
 sense of power and so does the electricity gun. The bolt gun stands out one of the most. Being 
 able to shoot a powerful bolt that drives into the enemy and pushes him back to tag him onto a 
 piece of cover leaving him hanging is cool, but the cooler part is that the bolt explodes after 
 a few seconds. This seems like the torque bow from gears, but has a different feel so it's ok. 
 Besides a few minor complaints, both the weapons in the multiplayer and single player with the 
 variety of multiplayer classes makes this game all the more worth while. 9.7/10
  
  Gameplay: This is going to be split up into 3 sub-categories as follows: Single player gameplay, 
 multiplayer gameplay, and controls/
  Single player gameplay: I can't say anything much but phenomenal. The first person cover system 
 is not only genius, it's helpful and it looks good. Few games tried to tinker with a first person 
 cover system and failed. Those few games like Rainbow Six Vegas decided to make that part 3rd person; 
 however, killzone 2 is different. This well-thought cover system is essential in certain parts 
 of the game if you want to survive easier, but not absolutely needed. So if you don't like it, 
 don't use it. I would though. There are some weapons in the single player gameplay that you can't 
 use in multi-player. The electricity gun for example is not usable in the multiplayer game. But 
 that's good because that weapon is way too cheap. =D The six-axis usages during the game like setting 
 the D-charge or opening a wheel thing (which it's name escapes me) is pretty unique, but it's annoying. 
 Thankfully, it doesn't show up all of the time so if you hate it, you'll only have to do it once 
 in a while. Overall, the single player campaign is both strong and fun. 9.2/10
  Multiplayer gameplay: Oh where to start. Not only does this wonderful class system have much diversity, 
 but it's so fun to play. Although you start out slow, it gets so fun so fast. Unlike other games 
 that bore you out, this one seems to draw you in more. The Small yet awesome ranking system allows 
 you to rank up around 10 times. It takes a while but the game's so fun, you don't care what rank 
 you are. It's the class system that keeps it up and running. The customization of matches is cool 
 too. The host can turn on or off friendly fire, and even decide which weapons are ok. Though it 
 seems annoying, the difference of ideas of the online community makes you play games with only 
 pistols to a full on battle of anything you want. The 5 modes of killzone 2's multiplayer are very 
 fun. From assassination to search and destroy, you can actually choose which ones you want in a 
 match. You can choose if you only want 1 in a match to if you want all 5. In fact, games can last 
 from only 2 minutes, to a long half hour. Winners get 1.5x more experience so it gives you motivation 
 to win. Some complaints are the shots register a little slow and the online might disconnect you 
 sometimes, but these are minor complaints. Killzone 2's multiplayer is one of the best I've played. 
 9.6/10
  Controls: Being one of my biggest complaints in the game, the controls aretacky. There are much 
 better layouts than this, but once you've been playing for a while, you'll get used to it. You 
 can customize your controls to an extent though, but I prefer the default. 7.5/10
  
  Visuals: This category is going to stand alone. The presentation on killzone 2 is outstanding. 
 Every single part of this game from the breath-taking single-player to the magnificent multiplayer 
 is the best I've seen. Although it runs on a mere 720p, the lighting, details, and environment 
 of helghan is teeming with features that almost no game would have the patience to deal with. This 
 is truly an outstanding game that is pretty to look at every single corner. 10/10
  
  Overall: Killzone 2 is a phenomenal game. This is totally not expected from killzone 1, which didn't 
 do so well. So much thought, time, and preparation to this game really paid off. People who've 
 been waiting for this game for nearly a decade will not be at all disappointed. Despite, a few 
 small complaints, I can barely nit-pick anything else that is wrong with it. Killzone 2 not only 
 should get, but deserves 2009's Game of the Year. 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerjoseph6969
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time owner of an Xbox and an Xbox 360 and most recently a PS3 i have to saying the 
 hour this game came out i bought it because i knew it was some thing special. I was one of those 
 people on the floor when they debuted the CGI file over a year ago and laughed at how people thought 
 this was real. It good to hear they had made it their bench mark or aiming point. And i have to 
 say they did a good job. It's like when they said 640KB RAM is all they need, Programmers had to 
 make apps fit.. This game is a Very good definition of what to have in a next gen FPS. Nothing 
 new is done all that is created is the feeling of reality. The gun weight the environments, the 
 scope, the action the AI of the NPC the vehicles the explosions with real time smoke.
  
  The List just goes on. Not having the best online is ok. Thats not the dev's problem that was Sony 
 for not being able to at least copy LIVE. But what they do have is still solid enough. 
  
  Very good job, Games like these are the games i was always fear full of to come out on PS3 and 
 balance out the console war. Till more dev's actually do this ........ Great job Guerilla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I have held off on writing this review for several days to make sure that I got an accurate idea 
 of just how good Killzone 2 really is. A game with this much hype surrounding it deserves a very, 
 very critical play test to see if it really can really live up to the expectations set for it. 
 Well, after three days of playing it as critically as I can, I have come to the conclusion that 
 it not only lives up to the hype but surpasses it in many ways.
  
  Let me begin by saying that I am what you would probably call a "360 Fanboy". I prefer the 360 
 to the PS3 both in game selection and online features. The few sorties I have made onto PSN (MGO, 
 SOCOM Confrontation, Resistance 2) have left me disappointed and sent me straight back to the Xbox 
 after only a few hours. Killzone 2 has changed all of that. Forever.
  
  But enough of the intro, time for the review. I'll start with the area most hyped before the game's 
 release: the graphics. All I have to say in this department is WOW. I have played all of this gen's 
 best looking titles (GeoW2, Bioshock, etc.) , but KZ2's graphics simply blew my mind. The smooth 
 texture work, silky framerate, and incredible lighting effects have to be seen to be believed. 
 Of course, the best part is that the graphics aren't so impressive as to distract you from the 
 game; rather, their beauty lies in the small details: the way characters move, the wind blowing 
 across the sand, chunks of earth flying after explosions. If someone had told me a year ago that 
 a game this graphically impressive could be made on any of the current gen systems, I would have 
 laughed in their face, but Geurilla has somehow pulled it off and, for me at least, gaming will 
 never be the same. I have seen what the PS3 can do, and it is going to be hard to go back to anything 
 else.
  
  Of course, good graphics can easily be ruined by poor sound. Fortunately, KZ2 doesn't disappoint 
 in this area, either. Explosions are deafening, weapons sound powerful, and even small details 
 like wind whipping across a high platform in the desert sound fantastic. When it all comes together 
 you get one of the most immersive, fantastic sounding experiences ever created. I frequently had 
 to turn the TV down a little for fear that the neighbors would think there was a war going on in 
 my apartment. I'm not a big sound tech guy, so I won't presume to know the fidelity or any of that 
 stuff for KZ2's sound, but I can say that it's awesome. 
  
  Now, on to the most important part of the review: the gameplay section. All of KZ2's production 
 value would mean nothing if the gameplay was lacking. Let me preface this by saying that KZ will 
 take some getting used to in terms of control. Everything will initially feel sluggish to those 
 of you who are used to CoD or Halo or Resistance, and you may need to change the control scheme 
 to fit your tastes as the defualt scheme is slightly unintuitive (I chose Alt. 1, but that's just 
 me) . Once you do that, though, it won't take long for you to get used to it. The sluggishness soon 
 translates into a nod towards realism by making everything you do - from jumping to climbing a 
 ladder to aiming - feel like it has some sort of weight to it. You can't just swing a ten pound 
 weapon around like it weighs as much as a sheet of paper and you can't jump twenty feet in the 
 air. 
  
  All of this contributes to Killzone 2's individual identity as a shooter. You have to play Killzone 
 like Killzone and not CoD4. This is not a run-'n-gun shooter - you will have to take cover frequently 
 and move tactically to stay alive in the single player campaign. Multiplayer is a little more hectic, 
 but 4-5 rounds will drop you and there are frequently large numbers of enemies running together, 
 so you better get good at taking cover and doing the whole pop-up and fire thing or you are going 
 to die a lot. I won't go as far as to call Killzone 2 a tactical shooter, this isn't GRAW or R6, 
 but I will say that it is a big step in that direction from other main-stream FPS titles like Call 
 of Duty. 
  
  The campaign is fun, if a little uninspired. It shines graphically as I mentioned above, but it 
 suffers from some pretty boring objectives and generally is just a progression from intense firefight 
 to the next. Fortunately, the shooting mechanics are so good that you probably won't want to wait 
 long without shooting something, and you won't ever have to. Unfortunately, the bland objectives 
 (open the gate, lower the bridge, etc.) won't do much to keep you interested, so the only thing 
 that will really keep you going is wanting to see what scripted event will happen yet. The scripted 
 events are very, very good, and range from fighting a flying death machine to surviving an ambush. 
 All in all, the campaign is very good, but won't be winning any awards for innovation. 
  
  The only real problem I noticed in the single player was the occasionally sketchy friendly AI... your 
 teammates seem to have forgotten how to take cover and, as a result, will frequently die in very, 
 very inconvenient places. This forces you to run out and heal them. This frequently leads to death 
 because, unlike your friends, the enemy AI is ruthless. They move realistically, covering one another 
 and leapfrogging up to flank you. Once they get to cover they will stay covered, waiting for a 
 shot on you when you have to reload or try to make a move. KZ2's enemy AI is some of the best out 
 there, and will certainly keep you busy on even the normal difficult setting. 
  
  Finally, I need to say a few words about Killzone 2's multiplayer. The summary is this: after three 
 days I can't find a single thing wrong with it. It is quite simply the best FPS multiplayer ever 
 created. The graphics are on par with the single player, and in the 30 or so games I have played 
 I have only run into one with any lag. Even with 32 people running around on gorgeous maps and 
 things blowing up everywhere the game never hitches. The frame rate stays solid (I've only seen 
 a few minor slowdowns) and the game runs like warm butter. 
  
  The weapons are perfectly balanced, so if you are hoping for an unbalanced "God gun" like the M-16 
 in CoD4, you are out of luck. No matter which weapon you choose, you are going to have to work 
 for your kills. Burst fire is a necessity - holding down the trigger and emptying your clip at 
 an enemy usually results in him killing you while your bullets fly everywhere. The classes are 
 equally balanced, every one with a useful, effective perk that works well while remaining outside 
 the realm of unfair. The maps, too, are balanced. Every area offering multiple ways to approach, 
 each better suited to a different style of play. Want to charge into the chaos with an MG and lay 
 waste to the enemy? Take the courtyard. Want to move in from behind for some CQC? Take your shotty 
 and sneak up the rear corridor. More of a sniper kind of guy/gal? Sit back with a rifle and take 
 the headshots that present themselves to you. It all winds up feeling so incredibly and delicately 
 balanced that I just found myself in awe most of the time I played the game.
  
  The changing game modes are great, too. The change is fluid and random, so every map will play 
 a little differently every time you play it, preventing them from going stale once you know exactly 
 how they will play every time. One second you could be trying to kill the enemy officer, the next 
 you could be defending a tiny room from an onslaught of 16 enemies, and the next you could be running 
 for your life as the assassination target. It works very, very well and I expect it to keep the 
 game fresh for a long, long time.
  
  Sorry about the length of this review, but there was a lot to be said about this one. It has single-handedly 
 changed my opinion of both the PS3 and PSN. I won't be touching the 360 for a long time now that 
 I have this gem. The only reason I awarded it a 9.5 instead of a straight up 10 are the boring 
 objectives and sketched out friendly AI in the single player. All that aside, though, this is literally 
 the perfection of the MP shooter - it won't be getting any better this generation. Anyone who loves 
 games and especially shooters needs to own this game. I don't care if it is the only game you ever 
 buy for the PS3, it's worth it. It's rare for me to say that a single game is worth a $400 system, 
 but if there ever was one this is it. So go buy it, play it, love it, and I will see you there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesamasauris
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Their is no point in drawing out this review, I'm going to keep it short. Some parts of this game 
 are great. The graphics are simple stunning, and i spent the first few minutes of this game running 
 around looking at all the amazing textures. It's clear that a long time was spent making this game 
 look really good. After playing a few more hours of the game, i was kind of unimpressed, and when 
 i hit up the multiplayer, things all came crashing down. 
  
  The biggest problem with this game is the terrible controls. the game has a 1/2 second controller 
 lag, so every time you try to move your guy, it takes 1/2 a second for him to respond. This is 
 alright in single player, but sucks the last ounce of fun out of the multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 in the game is boring, slow moving, and because of the terrible controls, absolutely no fun. Every 
 time you get killed you feel cheated, like their was nothing you could of done to avoid your death. 
 For example, someone runs into the same room as you, and his guns trigger is already close to you. 
 By the time you player responds to your controller movements, your already have been shot 5 times. 
 
  
  The single player suffers from the controller lag much less, mostly because their is a well done 
 cover system, and to be honest, the AI is pretty dumb. you always, even on the hardest difficulty, 
 feel like you have an upper hand on them. Also, because of their helmets, you can see them from 
 a mile away. You begin to wonder why they keep wearing the helmets, and why the dont bother turning 
 the light down. It kind of seems unimportant, but thats what i was thinking about, simply because 
 i was so bored of the story.
  
  This game was fun, but it was still an utter disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claykenobi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Killzone 2 is everything it is cracked up to be. It is easy to see that this FPS stands 
 alone as soon as you begin your first mission. Addictive gameplay, beautiful and detailed level 
 design, AI and difficulty leaves you frothing for more bloodshed! This game stands alone simply 
 because you really don't know what to expect next. The enemies don't just simply run to cover and 
 pop their heads up. You truly have to outsmart them at times. Their performing ninja rolls, running 
 to find better angles of attack, flanking and blind shooting any weapon (even the flamethrower) . 
 To put it blunt, their little bastards which makes it so much more sweet when you decapitate them 
 close range with the shotgun. Other guns include your M82 which is money for any situation, the 
 Bolt gun that sends your enemy flying backwards and the all too amazing lightning gun which is 
 almost unfair in any battle. The Detail put into the level design and sound creates a realistic 
 environment and makes it nerve racking at times like you're really in the middle of war on an alien 
 planet.. Wind blows loudly outside then quiets indoor. Flags, tarps and cloth are flappin about, 
 dust flying and lightning booming. One of my favorite levels puts you on a moving freight train 
 where the detail really stands out and you can really sense the speed in which you're moving. This 
 game shows that visuals and sound is very important and Killzone 2 sets the new standard. The controls 
 are definitely difficult, but in a good way. Instead of making the game frustrating, it makes it 
 challenging forcing you to take cover and think about your next shot instead of just plucking off 
 brainless enemies. There are a few times where I literally shot the enemy point blank in the body 
 or head and he just kept on with his assault without a flinch, but most the time once you get your 
 cross-hairs on the target you can unload on them to their death as the animation is almost too 
 graphic. The only thing I can't understand is why there isn't a Co-op mode which is always a plus. 
 It gets annoying at times reviving your not so smart soldiers with a defibrillator with what looks 
 like a 2D lightning bolt coming out of it. (which is the only graphical error in the game) . But 
 surrendering the controller to watch some gameplay isn't all that bad either. This game is a must 
 buy for any FPS fan. If you don't have a PS3, but you like first person shooters I suggest you 
 go pick up a PS3 console soon because you're missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I guess i'll start off with the good. The graphics! This game looks absolutely amazing. If you 
 have been wanting to show off a game to anyone this is it. There is also a great physics engine 
 at work here. Tiny details like being able to shoot off concrete to unearth the rebar underneath 
 it is just astounding. The campaign is average at best, but of course is made so much better by 
 it's great visuals. The multiplayer is very deep and will provide fans of the game with hours of 
 great online play. 
  
  Now for the bad. The aiming system is terrible. I don't understand why anyone would purposely make 
 a game aim like this. The story is almost non existant and doesn't really make too much sense. 
 Also the story is not helped along by the terrible dialog and voice acting. Most of the time your 
 team mates will just annoy you while they shout out obsenities. Another problem is the loading. 
 It seems like it has to load every new area you travel to. While loading is handled without stopping 
 the game you will experience a split second where you think your Playstation is going to freeze. 
 Last (and this may be the most important) There is no offline modes at all. This game is featureless. 
 No Co-op on or offline (odd omission these days) and also there isn't even offline multiplayer. 
 The original for the PS2 even had that. "What about game night Guerilla!" All in all you can't 
 stay away from it's good looks, but in the end this game will leave you with an empty feeling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting four years for this game to come out and I have to admit that the wait was 
 well worth it. As of late there have only been a handful of PS3 games (as well as 360 games) that 
 have made me feel like I was playing in "the next generation" of gaming. Killzone 2 has made me 
 confident that the PS3 is indeed worth my early investment and it gives me a lot of hope for what 
 is to come down the road. I think when we look back a few years from now we will be able to say 
 "Killzone 2 was the game that started it all for the PS3" because this game is absolutely amazing.
 
  
  I won't try to get into a lot of the details you read in other reviews but if I do it's because 
 that game pulls it off very well. That being said, the graphics in this game are easily the best 
 I have seen on either the 360 or PS3 so far. There are moments in this game, such as when your 
 buddy Garza is talking to his friend on one of the tiny ship transports, that you will go "wow 
 this is in game?!". I can't even begin to tell you how many times I would stop and stare at the 
 ground in amazement at the textures or how many times I would blow up red barrels/propane tanks 
 just to see AND hear jaw dropping explosions. Many reviewers also leave out what your weapons might 
 do to the environment. If you shoot a table you blow a hole through it, lob a grenade at a metal 
 barred and the barrel bends based on how the grenade exploded near it. The attention to detail 
 in the environments is top notch.
  
  The physics are also top notch. It is true that your character feels more like a real person than 
 in most First Person Shooters but when you shoot enemies or when your A. I. buddies get taken out 
 they too act like real people. The enemies will get sent to the ground by a nade, but then they 
 slowly and realistically get back up if the nade didn't take them out. Speaking of which I have 
 NEVER seen so many different animations for enemies getting killed and it adds a lot to the depth 
 and realism of the game, making each kill unique, different, and also gives you the sense of truly 
 creating this reaction to your action, in other words, it immerses you quickly! 
  
  The sound is also something to brag about, especially if you have a 5.1 surround sound system and 
 using a fiber optic cable. Explosions are loud but they are also modeled well in terms of how they 
 sound close up or far away; or, if many explosions happen at the same time expect that to be way 
 louder than just a couple going off. The guns sound real and powerful, the background noise makes 
 you feel like you are in Saving Private Ryan (minus the WWII lingo) , and even the noises of these 
 environments like wind are pretty awesome.
  
  One thing I don't get are the complaints about the story. I see Killzone 2 much like an action 
 movie, you aren't buying the game for the story just like you aren't going to an action movie for 
 the story (I hope!) . That being said, I didn't think the story was all that bad. I remember all 
 the characters quite well, there are a few parts that will elicit somewhat strong emotional responses 
 (such as what you character does in the beginning of the game with the mirror, or at the end of 
 the game when something CRAZY happens) , and I thought the dialog was a lot like Saving Private 
 Ryan or other war movies. Crude humor mixed in with some seriousness about the situation. Just 
 soldiers trying to have a sense of humor to keep them less stressed about their lives being on 
 the line every second. I definitely don't think the story detracted at all from the gameplay in 
 fact I think it helped it out a little and is nothing Guerilla Games (the makers) should be ashamed 
 of.
  
  Lastly, the online multiplayer is indeed awesome. I am sure you know all about how you can level 
 up, get new weapons and abilities, so I won't blabber on about that. However, I have to say that 
 the Map design is EXCELLENT and it is VERY rewarding to people like me who like to kind of sneak 
 around and break away from the group to take out the enemy where they least expect it. There's 
 TONS of different paths, way more than you would find in COD4, and the game modes are so much more 
 fun because of the effective level design. Online multiplayer is very addictive and I think i'll 
 be playing it for many more months.
  
  In the end Killzone 2 is one of the finest examples of a FPS. The single player campaign is a blast, 
 it's not too long and not too short, and when it's over you'll want to play it at least one or 
 two more times (although I too wish it had co-op) . The multiplayer is just as fun, or perhaps more 
 fun since you never know what to expect, and the graphics are still just as good as they are in 
 the game and it's very rare to encounter lag even in 32 player matches. Anyone that likes shooters 
 should buy this game or at least rent it, but be warned, once you do you may end up ruining your 
 social life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HA_Chaosagent
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is finally out after such a long wait when we saw it in 2005. Since then it's been hyped 
 up so much. Now that it is out the big question is: Does it live up to the hype? The answer YES! 
 
  
  Killzone 2's visuals are the best of any console game to date! Everything is very detailed and 
 have a realistic look to it. The lighting in this game is the best. When looking through your scope 
 sometimes the sun will shine into the scope making it harder to see thought it. That is well done. 
 Even when the is light going the roof. All the guns feel realistic and you can feel the power it 
 can deliver. The controls are really smooth for me and are prefect.
  
  Killzone 2's single player is one of my favorite for FPS. Every moment you play is intense. From 
 arriving to Helgan to blowing up a lightning tower to getting chased by a Air drone. The AI in 
 this game are really smart and know how to kill you. They will flank, flush you out of cover and 
 do anything to get you. There is tons to do in the SP even when you beat it. There are things to 
 collect and shoot and trophies to get too. Also when your done it tells your stats like how times 
 you died, how halghast you killed etc.
  
  Now the Online part. The online part of the of the game is the best I played. The class system 
 is prefect with each class having it's advantages and disadvantages. From the basic Solider to 
 the Scout. Each class having it's own special ability that can really turn the tide of the battle. 
 From using spawn grenades to help defend a area to using the saboteur to kill the Assassination 
 target. With clans and tournaments that happen regularly, you won't get bored anytime soon.
  
  So overall I think Killzone 2 is the best game out to date. With it's solid Single player and 
 it's addicting online. It's no wonder that it's been getting prefect scores! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXDENNYXX92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok after reading these reviews n I'm talking about people who are negative about the game.... So 
 I will say that yea the controls were so what bulky at first but after spending an hour n fine 
 tuning. I didn't even remember that. Controls are fine now so no need to complain. Every game isn't 
 the same. So with that said. How can so many people who love this game be so wrong n the 1% that 
 hate be so right. Well the reason is u guys are crying oh the controls... I mean come on n I do 
 love cod4 but to say killzone is not as good looking as cod. U must b high... N yea maybe killzone 
 doesn't do anything new but warzone is great all 5 modes in once n unlike cod unless u know everyone 
 on ur team. There is no teamwork at least here even if u don't anyone ur playing with u can make 
 squads. Not to mention unique classes. Bottom line this game is great n yes it's better than cod4. 
 No debate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with my only complaints, the controls are not as good as they could be, although after 
 awhile it becomes a very small issue as you get used to it. My other complaint is that the water 
 texture and most geometry textures are not amazing when you get really close to them , however, 
 they are still good, and it's a bit of a non-issue when you just play the game normally. Minor 
 as they may be, those are my only complaints.
  The game looks and plays fantastic, the single player is satisfying, fun, and looks amazing. Somehow 
 they managed to bring those awesome visuals into the multiplayer as well, boasting 32 players, 
 and I have yet to experience any lag worth noting. There is a levelling system which is enjoyable, 
 and various unlocks along the way. The level design is amazing, the maps are, in a word; art. Get 
 this game, it lives up to the hype.
  
  -Written by a hardcore PC gamer who also owns a 360 and a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets get this out of the way, I do not own this game, or even a Playstation 3, I own an Xbox 
 360, so this review might be a little biased.
  
  A friend of mine has been screaming "Killzone 2 February 27th!!!" in my ear for about the last 
 month, so I decided to come over to his house to see what all f the hubub was about. I checked 
 this game up online beforehand and saw that all of the hardcore PS3 fanboys were touting this game 
 like it was the second coming of Christ and like buying the game will get you laid and cure cancer.
 
  
  I've played some of the campaign, and some of the multiplayer, and this is my opinion of it: this 
 game does not kill Halo.
  
  While Killzone 2 is very graphically impressive (it's ridiculously beautiful) and while the campaign 
 is great, with epic firefights there was something that's missing, a story. Granted I didn't play 
 the first Killzone but I have to say, there wasn't much of a story to this game, which is completely 
 forgivable, I don't really need motivation to kill things with glowing red eyes who are shooting 
 at me, but I would have liked to know a little more about the character's and their motivation 
 because it would have made the game more immersive. Regardless, the campaign really drew me in 
 with it's great presentation, and interesting to use weapons.
  
  Now lets move on to the multiplayer, that thing that keeps us playing games years after they come 
 out. The multiplayer is good, but not great. The whole class system is a lot of fun, and the rewards 
 system is great, and the game modes and maps are fun to play. the maps hold up surprisingly well 
 for every gametype, but this great game is hurt by poor controls.
  
  I didn't notice the controls until I started to play multiplayer because people are a lot harder 
 to kill than AI. The biggest problem here is that they have encoded lag into the game, so you don't 
 have 1:1 controls. I'm going to quote g4's Brian Leachy here, because I think he says this better 
 than I can:
  
 Many times during the game, I felt like I was fighting my controller. It removes that feeling 
 of being a badass when you execute a perfect flank. Or surprise three enemies that have no idea 
 you're there only to struggle to kill more than one of them because the game's aiming system is 
 broken.
  
  Why would you ever ADD lag to your game? Since the dawn of multiplayer gaming, we've been fighting 
 a war against lag. We play video games for 1:1 controls. Adding lag is one of the worst design 
 choices ever. Guerrilla Games was attempting to add weight to the character, but all it does is 
 hurt the way the player actually controls the game.
  
  Think about trying to line-up a quick headshot. You move the analog stick to the right, but overshoot 
 the person just a tad bit so you let off the stick. You've just racked up two instances of the 
 input lag. Now, you re-aim, hitting left on the stick. Another piece of input lag on top of the 
 pile. While the controller is sweeping back across their head, you hit fire! Except, by the time 
 the game registers the shot, your controller has moved beyond your target. Now, you attempt to 
 readjust, but you're still going to be dealing with the lag. By the end of that, you're running 
 a delay of about half a second, which is like pinging 500ms to the server."
  
  That's all I have to say about that. If there isn't a fix for this you shouldn't be buying this 
 game. It definitely deserves a rent for now, and if the controls are fixed I would definitely tell 
 you to buy this game, but if the controls aren't fixed the multiplayer won't hold your attention 
 as long as the Halo 3 multiplayer has (and will continue doing so) . if you just want to keep going 
 through the campaign, it's fun, and you will enjoy it, but for those who on; y go through a campaign 
 once, and then stick around for the multiplayer you are out of luck for now. If there is a fix 
 for this go ahead and by the game, and the moment there is I will retract this review and give 
 the game a 10, but I love multiplayer and laggy controls in multiplayer is a deal breaker for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adziboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2's hype was huge, but it lives up to a majority of the hype to form a great game; both 
 offline and online.
  Killzone 2 is many things, and choosing a classification for the game is just as difficult as writing 
 an un-biased review. For the main part, I hope this will cover most of what Killzone 2 is to a 
 gamer; one that owns a PS3 but respects the Xbox as its main rival and to a lesser extent, the 
 Wii.
  I can probably assume that most PS3 owners have tried the demo; well this isn't actually the beginning 
 of the first level, to be exact. Before that, you go through a few cut scenes exclusive to the 
 retail version and you get to control your character through the most parts of these. These appear 
 often throughout the game, but you will be unable to shoot and will only be performing tasks such 
 as throwing switches and following or escorting an NPC. But because there's cut scenes, this does 
 not mean there's a story, or a good story. The game mainly lacks anything resembling a plot line 
 and just pits you against each of the levels with small background information to why you've been 
 ordered to slaughter hordes of Helghast.
  If you haven't played the other games, or have forgotten, the story goes like this. Killzone 2 
 follows what was left of the story of Killzone on the PS2, and Liberation which was exclusive to 
 the PSP. The Helghast had invaded the planet Vekta and your job was to defend against this. In 
 Killzone 2, you play as a Sergeant whose name is Tomas 'Sev' Sevchenko who is a member of the ISA 
 Special Forces Alpha Team. The ISA has launched a counter attack against Helghan, the home planet 
 of the Helghast. The entire campaign takes place on Helghan in many different locations which are 
 very varied, including a battle in the sky. Your job is to take down Emperor Scolar Visari; leader 
 of the Helghast.
  The campaign is a strong point of Killzone 2, and one where there aren't many faults. One of the 
 best things, is the weapons. Each weapon has a unique feel to it and currently, Killzone 2 has 
 the best sound effects for all the weapons this-gen. Each gun fires with strong recoil which is 
 easily handled but makes firing continuously difficult and each bullet exiting the gun sounds loud 
 and authentic; something which is good when playing large scale battles as well as online where 
 the sounds are the same. There are a variety of different weapons, from the normal Assault Rifle, 
 to Shotguns, to Snipers, but then there's also the "Big Guns"; including the Bolt Gun and Lightning 
 gun. Normally, every weapon has 2 variety's; ISA and Helghast. Both are different in ways, but 
 mainly the same; with ISA being more accurate and Helghast focusing on power.
  No guns really feel under or overpowered until you get the Bolt gun and Lightning gun, which are 
 extremely powerful but this is balanced out by a lack of ammo available and the limited amount 
 of time for each one. As well as all these weapons, there are vehicles too which are extremely 
 fun to use and add some nice sections to the normal game play and spice things up. There are tanks, 
 AA Guns and Mechs as well as turrets; all designed to wreck havoc and is exactly what you'll be 
 doing with it.
  Combining this with the unique cover system makes for a very action packed campaign. The cover 
 system is unique in the sense that it never leaves first person view and uses the lean and peak 
 system which makes gunning down enemy's very fun and providing you with an option of tactics. All 
 this feels so right for the game play of Killzone 2 and Guerrilla pretty much nailed it.
  Of course, everyone knows by now the biggest and most important aspect of Killzone 2 that all the 
 fan boys are wetting their pants over. The graphics. Now, a game that's been in development for 
 4 years, and is meant to be the FPS of all FPS', you would expect amazing graphics. This includes 
 animations, lighting, map design and everything to do with the cosmetic side of the game. Well, 
 you got what you expected. And more. The graphics are phenomenal in both online and offline and 
 really add to the game play. Whether you're fighting through a sand storm on the bridges of Pyrrhus 
 Rise while snipers are on the balcony's and fighting goes on through the shanty town, or whether 
 Salamun markets grungy feeling and multiple height levels are very claustrophobic and make fighting 
 intense, you'll always be amazed, mouth open, at the attention of detail and the amazing visuals 
 that come with the package. The textures you can see have been worked on; each one looking different 
 and you can actually image what they would feel like. There are plenty of buildings, with very 
 cleverly designed staircases, cover and whatnot and everything just looks so realistic. Attention 
 to detail astonishes, with little things just making you go, "Wow!" To add to all this, Killzone 
 2 has very nice weather. Not as in bright, glaring sun and kids playing out in the green, green 
 grass, but the effects of every level are different and bring out a different side to the maps. 
 Sandstorms and extremely strong wind are very common, as well as flashes of lightning, which light 
 up the entire sky as well as the map to provide additional lighting to those extra dark areas. 
 
  Animations are also top-notch; the best yet in any game. As your aiming over their heads, Helghast 
 run around from cover, fire away, interact with team mates, reload, jump and dive and everything 
 you can think of and it's all brilliantly seamless. Not at any one time did I see any of a Helghasts 
 limbs move from one place to another without traversing the space in between. Every move looks 
 as if it was a spur of the moment decision and is never scripted so you'll always see different 
 animations. One complaint would be that everything is so dark, and the times when you're fighting 
 in more light always feels the best and I think Guerrilla do daytime best, or at least just as 
 good.
  And, before we depart from the subject of graphics, we have to mention the water effects. As everyone 
 always says; graphics are all about the water effects! And if the water effects are anything to 
 go by, then the rest would be astonishing. Killzone 2's water effects are lovely, with normally 
 a gentle sea rather than a raging one. Bullets and explosions go nicely on the water, but like 
 said in other reviews; don't stand around too long. You'll find yourself being shot at of every 
 second of every minute.
  Unfortunately, no game is perfect and there are always flaws. As with many next-gen games, the 
 quality of games has flourished rapidly but the quantity has all but disappeared. You'll find yourself 
 playing level after level for 4 or 5 hours before you finish the game and are left on a cliff-hanger, 
 as well as the thought of, "Where's all the other missions gone?!".
  One of the biggest selling points for Guerrilla was the enemy Ai, and I, for one, can vouch for 
 them and say it's impressive. Enemies learn and make mistakes, but also know a lot and can rectify 
 these mistakes. They also never make the same mistake twice, but will always use the same technique 
 if it's killing ISA. It's certainly impressive, but to make the game realistic, they had to give 
 the Helghast the same or similar weaponry to what you will be using. When fighting through infantry, 
 they'll be equipped with all sorts of weapons including everything you use, which is a nightmare 
 in some cases as they're arsenal often consists of rocket launchers. These launchers aren't overpowered, 
 or underpowered when used by the player, but in the hands of multiple Helghast they become a deadly 
 tool and you'll often find yourself jumping around and leaping from cover to cover as rockets come 
 from every direction. This is one of the more frustrating moments of the game and can often lead 
 to anger as you die a few too many times trying to take out just 2 Helghast.
  When developing the game, realism was a big factor. Apart from the sci-fi setting, Guerrilla wanted 
 to make a game which people could play and be immersed in. They sure did this with the environment 
 and atmosphere, as well as the controls and the many different game play mechanics. But the controls 
 are where most people find Killzone 2 at a loss. In the options menu, you can change the controls 
 but not fully customised; they give you 4 or 5 sets of pre-configured configurations for you to 
 use. This is annoying at times, but adaptable to and you can quickly get used to everything and 
 start powering your way through. Some are also moaning about acceleration which is basically the 
 speed at which you turn and aim. As you turn, you'll gain momentum and get faster as you swing. 
 As this is trying to be an unbiased review, I must honestly say that it is extremely frustrating 
 and means moments that need quick thinking and fast reactions are out of the picture. Guerrilla 
 have already mentioned they are looking into this as an option to be taken out in future patches, 
 but is currently not planned and they have no intention of releasing it now, if ever.
  Killzone 2's campaigns only unique advantages are the cover system, but that is not what makes 
 the campaign great. The fact that it does everything amazingly well easily makes up for the originality 
 of the mechanics of the game and the quite generic sci-fi story line. It will keep you entertained 
 for a good 4 or 5 hours on normal, and around 8-10 on Elite but after that, no real incentive to 
 play single player again. It's an entertaining and exciting time playing through but because it's 
 over so quickly, the campaign cannot ever be as good as other shooters out there; with RPG like 
 fallout stretching over days and FPS' like far Cry having a very decent 20+ hours on a single play 
 through. None the less, it's an authentic, realistic campaign and offers great mechanics.
  So the campaigns not all it's shaped up to be; well, luckily for us, the big thing at the moment 
 is online. With the Call of Duty series gaining popularity by the second, contenders are hard to 
 come by when it comes down to the addictive, customisable game play. Killzone 2 is one of these 
 hard to come by contenders, but is probably still no match for the enormous community of Call of 
 Duty and other ever-growing community's of well known series'. The multiplayer is customisable, 
 to a point, and is a fun, tense game which is addictive and will always keep you playing. Multiplayer 
 is where Killzone tries to be unique. By tries, it means it does things other games attempted and 
 then perfected. It's not necessarily perfect for everyone, but it's what Guerrilla aimed for and 
 they achieved that well.
  One of the things which is great about Killzone 2's Multiplayer, called Warzone, is the game modes 
 they've designed and how they all link together very fluidly. An average game consists of 7 mini 
 rounds, awarding 1 win to the team who wins and the losing team gains or loses nothing. The unique 
 aspect of the game play is how you come by to achieving these wins.
  As you play, every 5 minutes a new objective will appear that involves your entire team in some 
 way and affects the tide of battle enormously. With this change of objective means the fighting's 
 always fresh and you'll find in very few matches that you'll be cramped up in 1 specific place.
 
  The 5 modes are: Body count, Search and Destroy, Search and Retrieve, Assassination and Capture 
 and hold. Each of these are generic game play modes with added twists, apart from Assassination 
 which to my knowledge is the first of its type.
  Bodycount is an awesome name for Deathmatch and works exactly the same way as any other games death 
 matches; a limit is given and the first to reach that limit in kills wins. Simple stuff but a very 
 tense battle, often because it's a mixture of long and close range and the points are very close. 
 You'll find it a bit like basketball; both teams score hundreds and you find yourself winning at 
 the last second by 1 kill.
  Search and Destroy is slightly different to other games and is probably my least favourite, because 
 it seems that a lot of maps are very biased towards the defence team. An attacking team is chosen 
 and they must attack two points. Both these points need to have their C4 armed before the fuse 
 starts, and then the defending team which must defend these two important points must defuse. It's 
 a very fun mode if on the right map, with the right team and definitely a few tacticians needed 
 for their spawn grenade. The reason it's biased is because the defending team can take cover, fortify 
 their position and blast the hell out of anything that moves. Unfortunately, the attacking team 
 must spawn far away (if without a tactician) and have no chance to fortify a decent attacking position. 
 They also have to plant the bomb without being killed, and that means both bombs, and then survive 
 long enough to defend these two C4. If they are defused, the battle rages on until the target explodes 
 or the time runs out; so if they get defused, keep on trying! This is played twice during the 7 
 rounds in a match; with both teams having a chance to attack and defend.
  Search and Retrieve is the capture the flag of Killzone 2. Both teams fight to get to the propaganda 
 speaker in the middle of the map, in an open space, and then have to take this to a point on the 
 other side of the map, in enemy territory. That's all good and all, but you have to do this 3 times 
 to guarantee a win which can be frustrating again because, as with Search and Destroy, defending 
 teams have an advantage. But all in all, this is a fun mode like the others but requires a lot 
 more teamwork than the 2 previously mentioned. Some might argue that Search and Destroy is the 
 most needed for teamwork, but I've seen one man go out and plant both C4 and staying alive for 
 the 30 seconds while defending it. Needless to say, he was an amazing player.
  Assassination is the unique mode of Killzone, and is easily the most fun. Like S&D, this mode is 
 played twice in the 7 rounds and each team gets a chance to defend, or assassinate. Basically, 
 the game mode targets one player on one team, and gives the job of defending to that team. Meanwhile, 
 the other team are fighting to get close to this target and take him out. This mode feels the most 
 balanced, and is fair to both sides. Without teamwork, this will go to shambles and the attacking 
 team will usually win. When someone is killed as a target, they will go into the mortally wounded 
 state and will stay in this until respawn; meaning until he takes 1 more bullet, he can finish 
 the mission. Always handy to have a medic around during these times as a quick revive restores 
 him to full healthy state and keeps the other team from winning.
  Capture and Hold works exactly the same as the Domination game mode in Call of Duty 4 and 5. And 
 by exactly, I mean EXACTLY. Three points on the map are chosen: one close to each team, and one 
 centered. To capture a point, you have to wait until the marker goes green and then this captured 
 point will contribute points over time to a counter. Once this counter reaches full the team wins. 
 Very basic and personally, not much fun as it is way too easy to lose and win bases meaning people 
 are just running from base to base.
  The multiplayer also uses a very good class system which at firsts, seem simple, but as you unlock 
 new classes, abilities and weapons, so many options become available that mixing and matching does 
 get interesting and you can personalise your class to an extent.
  As you progress up the ranks to General, you will unlock classes throughout the game with there 
 being a decent amount at the end: Scout, Tactician, Rifleman, Assault, Medic and Saboteur. My mistake 
 if there are more. Rifleman is open at the start, with no badges or medals but able to use all 
 weapons (once unlocked) apart from the sniper. The others all have ribbons, badges, medals and 
 a selection of weapons unique to the class. Scout, for instances, can cloak and use an ability 
 called "Spot and Mark"; with a default sniper rifle that cannot be changed unlike the pistol where 
 you have two options. Another case would be the Medic; they can revive as well as throw down health 
 packs; they can use both Assault Rifles of the ISA and Helghast and the same pistols are used for 
 all classes. So that seems quite simple, right? Well, after you've done some extra challenges for 
 these classes, you gain the ability to mix and match the secondary ability (Spot and Mark, Health 
 packs etc) . So you could have a sniper with health packs, or a medic with Spot and Mark. Although 
 it sounds complicated, it's quite easy to navigate an use. You'll find online that most people 
 use Assault Rifles and Medic badges early on, but Scout is unlocked at the end and is extremely 
 powerful; it cannot be rivalled at range but up close it has no chance unless you choose to stealth 
 it out.
  All the classes seem pretty balanced, with a selection of abilities and guns and it makes for varied 
 matches every time. Some guns are over used, but that is expected as Assault Rifles are extremely 
 popular, good, all round weapons. This makes no problems though as whatever class you decide to 
 be shapes the outcome of battle.
  There's a few flaws with online though. No lag makes for a seamless game, but other things disrupt 
 the action and can cause frustration and stress. Spawn killing is an often tactic; used mostly 
 by the people who've just unlocked spawn grenades and Rocket launchers. This can easily be fixed 
 with a slight change of classes in the team and some tactics being used; but once in a loop of 
 spawn killing on a small map, it can go ongoing for the entire match.
  Aiming is also a problem; 99% of the time, you'll find that hip firing (firing without aiming) 
 will be more accurate and easier to control than the sights (aiming down the iron sights) . This 
 is a big mistake on Guerrilla's part and makes for interesting battle where the people who are 
 aiming are going everywhere and the people hip firing are somehow getting extreme headshots and 
 going crazy.
  
  But going past te other multiple flaws, the online is fast, tense and full of action. It will keep 
 you entertained for months to come; but with the campaign, you'll be disappointed with the length 
 and be left wondering where the rest went.
  
  Killzone 2 is a great game; with some action disrupted by the few flaws but is mainly a fast-paced, 
 amazing looking first person shooter which will offer fans of the genre to experience a new and 
 astounding game while casual gamers will still enjoy the beautiful visuals and crazy action.
  
  Hit me up with a PSN friend invite if you play regularly; currently on General Rank; weekly 
 honour rank 1. PSN: CrazySaint
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The review was pretty spot-on about the game here at gamespot, however, one thing they forgot to 
 mention was that the single player campaign can be ridiculously difficult when played on veteran 
 status or higher.
  
  I am not new to the world of the FPS and have been playing them since DooM first dropped. The gameplay 
 is solid as hell in this game, but the AI is just the most fierce, unforgiving bastards I have 
 ever experienced in any video game, ever. It doesn't feel cheap, but the cover mechanic is put 
 to the friggin' test. Your enemy will throw grenades at you with pinpoint accuracy to flush you 
 out of hiding and already be aiming at your only point of exit for when you have to run. The Helghast 
 are also aware that bullets hurt and do not like to engage in open shoot-outs anymore than you 
 do, so get used to them hiding behind cover in mass number and you better pray you got grenades 
 on you or you will have a fight on your hands indeed.
  
  The Helghast are really a scary foe on the battlefield and Guerrilla Games deserves credit for 
 introducing these beasts to us. 
  
  The .5 ding is because I grew to really hate my squad mates. They are the most stereotypical group 
 of bad-ass marine retards I have ever played with. The random conversations that the Helghasts 
 will have make me like them better and their expressions are also alot more life like.
  
  There was one point when I had a Helghast soldier pinned down in alley way. He returned fire and 
 I heard his gun start clicking empty. "F###!", he cried out. A moment later I heard him say in 
 a disappointed voice, "F### it." He then let out a scream and charged me swinging his gun like 
 a friggin' club. It was at that point that I fell in love with the Helghast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunnuck
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a good FPS, do not get me wrong. I have yet to play the online multiplayer. However, 
 the story is horribly weak, and most of the time you are stuck wondering what your mission is. 
 Since there is no story drive, the gameplay gets repetitive, especially since it just feels like 
 another first person shooter wrapped in a prettier bow. 
  
  Hearing so much about the storyline from the first from my friend, I was expecting an awesome story 
 to drive me. Given the epic opening (which I noted as 'how an opening for a game should look') , 
 I was expecting a wondrous story. But, no. The lack of story makes the gameplay repetitive. While 
 the storyline is not always the most important aspect of first person shooters, it has to at least 
 be a factor when your bringing to the table a standard FPS game with great graphics. Graphics do 
 not make a game. 
  
  The battles are intense, and satisfying... for a while. But then there is another intense battle. 
 Another intense battle. And, like a drug, players get something called "tolerance". This is where 
 a higher dose of the drug is needed for the same effect. Killzone 2 lacks the higher dose. It stays 
 at the epic, bullet riddled, explosion filled action throughout the entire game. And while this 
 may sound good, it is not. Since it stays at the same level, if feels like your seeing the same 
 thing over. Especially since there isn't a single unique gameplay component, or vehicles for that 
 matter, and no developed story, it makes the game feel lacking. Since no one really uses a mic 
 on PS3 online, it feels as though you are playing computers that are just good at the game. It 
 feels exactly how it felt in campaign. 
  
  This game needed to pace itself, keep itself under control. But it couldn't. And didn't. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: butters85
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  After waiting close to three years for KILLZONE 2, it is finally here. There was much speculation 
 that the trailer that was shown at the launch of the PS3 would actually be met. The final verdict 
 is that it is close. Very, very close. The visuals may not be exactly the same, but the amount 
 of chaos that is presented at any given time, was shown very well by that infamous trailer.
  
  Perhaps the selling point for this game is the amazing visuals that are in the game. Only once 
 in a while are there some flaws that occur in the game, but nothing taking away from the amazing 
 vistas and scripted explosions. (10/10) .
  
  The overall sound in the game was incredible. The musical score drives you forward in the game 
 and reinforces the action. The sound effects of the gun, explosions, and trash talking Helghans 
 add to the overall experience. For once I was thankful for surround sound. At the end of the game, 
 it came in very handy. (10/10)
  
  The controls, however, take some getting use to. The movement is a little slow, and lining up accurate 
 shots can be a little dodgy at times. However, after playing it a couple of times, I couldn't play 
 the game any other way. (8/10)
  
  The story is pretty good for a first person shooter. The story is not ground breaking, but it does 
 lead into some amazing scripted events that showcase some breathtaking visuals that add to the 
 atmosphere of the game. My only gripe is that the ending should have been done better, though. 
 (8/10)
  
  The overall experience in the game is one that should not be missed. There are many times where 
 you'll be taking over an enemy position, then defending it and feel like you deserved the area 
 that you had just acquired. The sum of all the parts in the game, including the robust multiplayer, 
 make this a game that any PS3 owner should not be without. Its the game that I've always wanted 
 on the PS3. (10/10) .
  
  Overall score: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemar430
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  Guerilla Games came a long way to make the Killzone franchise strong and worth the wait. It shouldn't 
 be compared to any other FPS because ppl are use to the controls of others and wants Killzone 2 
 to play exactly the same way. The controls are great! I had no problems with controlling the game. 
 It seems as if the person you control has wait to him which is the physics at work. You figure 
 the armor weighs you down as well as your weapon. When you jump, walk or run you can feel and see 
 the weight shift. The visuals are excellent, sound is awesome and the multiplayer keeps you coming 
 back for more. The multiplayer is its true bread and butter. With class advancement and weapon 
 availability and changeable matches on the fly, its one game that makes me want to question other 
 multiplayer FPS. Its still room for improvement and the story is short and could had done a lot 
 better but the gameplay keeps you from dwelling on this. This could possibly be Sony's flagship 
 to bring the PS3 out of its slumps and also have developers go back to the drawing board to find 
 ways to make games even more immersive. A definitely must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Well this truly is the best game ever made! You cant deny it. Killzone 2 brings the satisfaction 
 you want out of a kill by letting you see your enemy
  die in a truly bloody, gory brutal way. This game is truly about killing... in the zone. And in 
 the zone I mean the world of Helghast, your real enemys, which
  are occasional pain in the asses when it comes to campaign mode and they try different tactics 
 to outflank you. They are an amzing AI when it comes to campaign but also a fun AI. On the back 
 of the box in the shops, it clearly says, 18rating bbfc- contains strong bloody violance... missing 
 out something?
  YES! Oh, mabye you forgot to note down that in averagely every 10 words they say a swear slips 
 out... Yes, it should mention,- contains very strong language! Anyway, online is the best, with 
 up 64 players in a clan, 32 players in a match and over 12 different guns and 6 different classes, 
 and 8 maps, the online is the best ever! Truly it is! Amazing! It gives you the realism of brutal 
 bloody kills when you blow their body in with shotguns and stuff. The blood is really realistic 
 and its so fun walking up to a guy waiting to be revived and smashing him in the face with a gun. 
 It is so fun. Its a great game, well worth the money. Oh my PSN- Id- gameaddict10
  My conclusion...
  Best game ever, best game ever... eh, and best game ever!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_freak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that I am not biased (used to be an Xbox fanboy, now I love both PS3 
 and Xbox360) . Now that we got that out of the way, here's my review.
  
  Let's start with the campaign. The campaign took me around 8-8.5 hours, which is a fairly decent 
 amount of time for a shooter... that being said, I also played the campaign on the hard difficulty, 
 not the medium. Anyway, the campaign is beyond amazing visually, and the audio in the game is superb 
 to say the least. The enemy AI in the game is top-notch, and numerous times flanked me when in 
 a firefight. There are only a few problems I had with the campaign... your "squadmates" are as 
 dumb as rocks, as well as usually get into your lilne of fire. The controls for the game are "heavy", 
 which does not necessarily bother me, but when I hit a button and there's no response... that bothers 
 me. Other than that, a very solid campaign in Killzone 2.
  
  Now, on to the Multi-player in Killzone 2. I was very impressed at the very beginning by how quickly 
 the network will hook you up with a game... very nice. You only start off as one class/type in 
 the beginning of online play, but as you rack up kills and points you unlock new weapons and soldier 
 classes. The multi-player has amazing maps, which I can't stress helps a game so much. The only 
 real disappointment I have in the multi-player is that nothing new is really introduced... but 
 then again, keeping strong to what you know works is sometimes the best thing a game can do.
  
  In the end, a very solid and visually/audibly appealing FPS shooter which should be owned by 
 any PS3 owner... the controls not responding is my only main issue.... though I might get yelled 
 at for saying this, you can almost say it's the "Halo" of the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eduardomatus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  The effort and detail put into this game is incredible, everything feels perfect so very naturally. 
 The story may not be the most epic love story or classic hero but it help a lot in setting an environment 
 to the whole game but where you will find the reason to keep your ps3 on all night is with the 
 incredible warzone multiplayer, the badge system with the exp and ribbon medal rewards make it 
 so much more addictive than it already is with the frentic battles with so many players and things 
 happening at the same time and objectvies switching every now and then... they could't find a better 
 name for it cuz it really feels like you are in a warzone instead of some manslaughter for no reason 
 like in other MP deathmatches
  I find it simply amazing i don't think ill be dropping my Dualshock3 in a very long while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotdork70minus1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  Ok so we finally have Killzone 2 and I'm here to ask, what is with all the high scores ??? 
  
  Every single review that I have read say's that the multiplayer out shines the campaign by 
 far. Every review say's the acting is bad, the story is just ok and EVERYONE asks why there is 
 no on-line co-op. Every review also seems to say that Killzone 2 is COD4 with great graphics. 
 
  
  Besides these gripes, the graphics are amazing and the multiplayer is really good but why do these 
 two things outweigh all the negatives ?
  
  I have played for about 30 hours now and I'll say that the multiplayer is awesome. My only gripe 
 is the spawning, sometimes you are dealt a 2 to 3 minute run just to get back into the action. 
 The Run feature is something I really love, you can run for a long time before losing stamina but 
 then it recovers in about 3 seconds.
  
  There isn't much to say about the campaign, there isn't anything that you haven't seen before. 
 There isn't a wide variety of enemies, the AI is really annoying with their constantbad ass 
comments falling flat every time. Sometimes there is just too much going on at one time to even 
 enjoy what is going on in the game.
  
  The campaign would have been soooooo much better if it offered online co-op, these average campaigns 
 have alot more legs with that feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero635
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Originally Posted:     I started playing this game on launch day. I have made it through the first 
 level. I have to say this game is visually stunning. The graphics are all they were hyped to be. 
 However, I must say I am very disappointed in the controls. They seem to be very sluggish, and 
 do not respond as quickly as they should in such a quick and high action packed game. The controls 
 are very clumsy and it takes a lot of getting use to. Especially if you come off of FPS such as 
 COD4 and COD5. Over all, I will hang in there and continue to play it. If for nothing else, Trophies. 
 There are a lot of them that are offered up to this game. The on-line play looks stunning, but 
 again the movements due to the controls makes it a frustrating endeavor. Also, not being a huge 
 fan of FPS, I was a bit confused as to what the objectives are. If you can move past the controls 
 issue, then I would say give this a try. Visually you will not be disappointed.
  
  Updated:    I have played long enough now to have a difference in opinion. I have made it through 
 the first few levels. I was very concerned with the controls when I first picked this game up, 
 but now that I have had time to actually dive in and play, they have actually grown on me. I don't 
 notice the delays as much as I did in the beginning. So with that said I have raised my rating 
 from a 7.0 to 8.5 and I have changed my title from Great! But Over-Hyped to A Great Game that Grows 
 On You!!! If you haven't picked this game up, you are missing out on a whole lot of fun and excitement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  I have played every major shooter in the last 10 years, and a lot of "B" shooters as well. Killzone2 
 ranks very highly in terms of being a fun hart pumping ride. Although the story is somewhat week 
 and the characters are no better than the characters we have all seen before, it still manages 
 to suck you in and make you feel as if you are really part of the action. At its heart FPS games 
 are meant to do this very thing. The sound and the visuals are some of the best ever. I would compare 
 this part of the game to Half Life 2 (still the best ever in my opinion) . If you cant tell by now 
 I place a good deal of value on the single player campaign. This is where I get to escape from 
 a boring corporate existence and relive some of my childhood. 
  
  The online portion of this game is slow at first but has epic potential. The ranking and medal 
 system is great and it keeps you up till the wee hours of the morning trying to get just one more. 
 The front end of the online should have more to do with your character since that is were the appeal 
 is focused. Being able to see your progress would make you feel as if you are doing something with 
 your life even though we all know that is not the case. I know that you can look at the statistics 
 screen to see this, but that is what it is. Finding a game session could also use some work. It 
 seems hard at first to jump into something that you like. I don't know what kind of downloadable 
 content will be available but i hope its geared toward customization. The maps and locations are 
 excellent. They have the same great feel as the story and it seems pretty easy to find a good place 
 to hide. It is equally satisfying to take on the enemy as you advance with your entire team into 
 a fortified area. 
  
  Well I hope that the Xbox fan boys will at least give this game the credit it deserves. We all 
 know that Halo was an awesome series, and Gears is equally impressive. Its been a while since PS3 
 had something to call its own, and for me its been worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric008R
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  I have been a gamer for nearly 20+ years and have played hundreds of shooters to date. I currently 
 own a high end PC, Xbox360, and PS3. 
  
  Killzone 2 in short is a 'buy', but it is not the 'divine' game that many were led to believe it 
 would be. When I first saw the E3 trailer a few years ago, I was blown away. So much so, that I 
 didn't believe it was real. Of course, now that Killzone 2 is here, we all realize that the trailer 
 wasn't in-game. 
  
  You will see the best graphics to grace an FPS with Killzone 2. I truly believe this is the best 
 looking game to date. Lighting is incredibly realistic, shadowing anything that gets in the way 
 of direct lighting. Characters are beautiful looking (their hair doesn't blow in the wind like 
 the E3 trailer showed though lol) . 
  
  The controls are not as fantastic however. Aiming will take a LOT of 'getting used to'. It's not 
 that the controls are laggy (as many claim they are) , it is just that they are not as precise as 
 they should be. You will find after playing for several hours that you are still throwing rounds 
 all over the place, even when you are given a juicy target of opportunity. Having real life experience 
 with firearms (law enforcement) , I am confident it is easier to aim a firearm in combat in real 
 life than it is in Killzone 2. The lag that you are hearing about appears to be intentional, giving 
 you a feeling of weight in the game (which does a great job of making you feel like you are there) . 
 But the aiming just doesn't work well. Games like Grand Theft Auto 4, show that free aiming can 
 be very precise (headshots on command can be very possible in video games) and Killzone 2 just 
 doesn't deliver here.
  
  Everything else virtually is great. You have no doubt heard all of the great things about it by 
 now, so here are some personal gripes.
  
  1. The locations of the game are cool, but not varied at all. It is far too close to the gritty, 
 boring locales of Gears of War (designed to make it seem war ravaged) . I personally feel that Killzone 
 2 should have offered perhaps ONE level, where the clouds opened and the sun came out. Just to 
 throw in some variety (and to show off the beautiful graphics in the light: which seems now as 
 though it was a wasted opportunity) . 
  
  2. The blood 'spray' is a little overdone. It seems as though they stole this directly from Gears, 
 with the extreme blood spray near the entrance wound of your successful rounds. Additionally, the 
 hit point of your bullets actually illuminate when they hit. (I don't know why bullets actually 
 throw off light when they hit flesh)
  
  3. Helghast take too much damage. Headshots require two well placed shots. ONE to take off their 
 helmet, TWO to take off their brain. They should drop easier.
  
  4. Death animations are varied, but some are unfortunately lame. I had a Helghast take about 6-10 
 headshots while he was following through a 'canned' animation of him walking to a ledge, rolling 
 over the bannister, falling over, then grabbing on with one hand to hang there a second or two 
 before falling to his "7th death". HEADSHOTS SHOULD DROP THEM ON THE SPOT, ignoring all precanned 
 animations. 
  
  5. We are in the age of interstellar travel, hovering jump/drop ships, lightning guns and our side 
 arm is a slow firing revolver???? Who's lame idea was that? 
  
  OVERALL:
  
  I believe Killzone 2 is the best shooter to come out since Halo 3. While the graphics are better, 
 unfortunately I have to give the better game to Halo 3 and GTA 4. The shooting mechanics are far 
 superior, and the story lines in both of those games are much better. Killzone 2 is basically a 
 summer blockbuster that is great fun to play and replay and replay... but just could have been IMMACULATE 
 if some small things were changed. (Maybe they will be too)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlsmikey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  First, the graphics on this game are amazing. The best i've seen a PS3 so far and the level of 
 detail is stunning. Sound is very impressive as well and even the voice acting is pretty solid. 
 The best part is the absolutely frantic game play. The tension starts right at the beginning and 
 the pace only picks up from there. They definitely borrowed some ideas from COD4 and Gears of War, 
 but that's okay. This is definitely one of the best shooters out there. Those are the positives.
 
  
  In the middle-of-the-road category. The perspective of gameplay is a little off. It almost feels 
 like your view point is zoomed in too much. It makes for a fairly tight feeling environment and 
 doesn't make the controls feel very smooth. Speaking of, the controls are a little odd. The sensitivity 
 never feels as smooth as in other shooters for some reason. It is adjustable, but i haven't gotten 
 to the point where I really like it. It's much easier to aim in other shooters than this one due 
 to the combo of controls and perspective.
  
  The bad. The constant frame rate glitches when sections are loading. Instead of installing a large 
 amount of stuff on the hard drive, the game continually loads as you progress. The problem is that 
 every couple minutes it pauses for a few seconds to load. This gets really tiring.
  
  Overall, this is a must buy. The best graphics and pace of any shooter I can remember playing. 
 The mulitplayer online is also very solid. Single player took me about 6.5 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dink470
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, this is an awsome game, but i do know a few people that just dont like it mainly 
 because of the online multiplayer. It seems to me that the people that dont like the game have 
 the same complaints about how it takes almost a whole magazine to take someone out sometimes online. 
 I think they may be a little too used to Call of Duty 4&5 still, which are also great games by 
 the way. I dont have that problem so much; I just go for the head, and they go down much quicker. 
 I can see where they would get frustrated though when you empty a clip into some and they dont 
 die and then someone else gets you from the back. It would be fun to see how a hardcore mode in 
 the game would work out, like in Call of Duty. I think it would make the multiplayer much more 
 tactical and cut down on the running and gunning. It would definately make it harder and more tactical 
 but, it would take the fast paced aspect of the game away which is something that i like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancing
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of Killzone 2 was just as inaccurate as your shots will be while playing this 
 game. There really can't be enough said about how pathetically bad the controls feel- no level 
 of sensitivity is right. In multiplayer games, sprinting basically grants invulnerability, because 
 nobody is capable of lining up their reticle with a moving target. If you try to move in for a 
 melee kill, i wish you the best of luck. More often than not, you and your opponent will find yourselves 
 dancing in a circle, fighting to keep your enemy on screen. This, combined with your character's 
 inability to toss a grenade farther than 20 feet makes you feel like the least deadly soldier ever 
 to exist. 
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, and the bodies' reactions to being riddled with bullets look incredible, 
 but those two things are really all this game has going for it. The campaign and characters are 
 incredibly forgettable. The cutscenes seem to be from a different game than the gameplay, in the 
 sense that they never match up or explain one another. You never feel like there is a purpose for 
 you being wherever you are, other than that you need to kill Helghast there. Here is an overview 
 of the campaign: Fight with your unit, split up from your unit to open a door or blow something 
 up, reunite with your unit, split up to fight a boss. Heavily-armored, gatling gun-wielding, "Heavies" 
 make up the bulk of the boss fights, which are incredibly repetitive and dull.
  
  Even the vehicle segments feel half-assed. When you finally get in the tank, you're trapped in 
 a puny little penned-in area, which makes it feel more like you're manning a turret than driving 
 a tank. The only variation in gameplay that the mech suit provides is the ability to fire missiles 
 instead of grenades. 
  
  With no co-op, offline multiplayer, cover system or vehicles in the multiplayer, this game feels 
 more like a last gen shooter shrouded in next gen graphics. Thanks a lot for getting me to waste 
 $40 on this game after the trade-in, Gamespot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  Pros : Good A. I + Boss fights / Good graphics / Probably ps3's best fps so far / Fairly good story
 
  
  Cons : Short / nothing new / graphics not up to "that trailer" and certainly nothing to prove the 
 ps3 is the most powerful console / Lots of lose ends
  
  Review : Killzone 2 is a fun game that will keep you entertained while you play it, however it 
 is also fairly short, the graphics are not as great as they was hyped up to be and there's nothing 
 we haven't really seen before. In my honest opinion it is a great game but there has been better 
 first person shooters released in the past and will be in the future, is it worth the money ? that 
 all comes down to do you enjoy online play if yes then it probably is, however if you do not enjoy 
 online play there is probably not enough to keep you interested after a play or two through it.
 
  
  A good game that is a lot better then killzone but fails to live up to the hype 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kargion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is one of the best FPS games i have ever played. It has the best graphics you will see 
 on a console to date to boot. The single player is full of epic battles but it doesn't let you 
 connect really with any of the characters so you don't really care when they die in the story. 
 Also the story is a little week and lack luster. There is a lot of holes but this still doesn't 
 make the story fun enough to enjoy. 
  
  The MP is where this game shines. Instead of doing different servers for game types they group 
 all game types a user wants in one game then rotates them. This keeps the games really interesting. 
 One team may be really good at Body Count (TDM) and another team may be good at search and destroy.
 
  
  The reason i gave this game a 9.5 and not a 10/10 is the story is not A+ and the aiming feels weighted 
 down. Don't let this steer you away though. After a few games and tweaking your sensitivity your 
 be use to it in no time.
  
  This game is not very easy online either so don't expect do go in and just destroy everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:03 am PT
Review:  I only remember a few games that were as hyped as Killzone 2. How flashed we all were after this 
 overwhelming E3-trailer  Now that the game finally hit shelves there's a lot to say about it.
 
  
  Of course I have to start with the visuals because they are simply groundbreaking. The engine textures 
 an enormous amount of details in close range as well as it creates stunning backgrounds. More over 
 Killzone 2 throws bombastic effects at the player: Blur- and particle-effects are outstanding, 
 explosions look amazing and throwing a grenade was seldom so much fun because of the levels destructibility. 
 On top of that, the game sounds great, too. Not only is there an epic soundtrack but the sound 
 effects and voice acting are also brilliant. Technically seen, Killzone 2 is top-notch and probably 
 even the best console-game to date.
  
  But there's a lot more that makes Killzone 2 such a great experience. First of all the AI is remarkably 
 smart. The Helghast make great use of the cover system, constantly change their positions and often 
 try to pin you down with grenades. In combination with slick animations, the overall weapon handling 
 and the already mentioned sound design the shoot outs generally are awesome. Moreover, the speed 
 of the game left me breathless because of great timing and pacing. Killzone 2 rushes the player 
 through an intense and immersive campaign.
  
  Unfortunately Killzone 2 doesn't offer much variety. The weapons are (with a single exception) 
 all standard and don't even offer a secondary firemode. And there's another shooter standard which 
 is left out by Killzone 2: There aren't (again with one single exception) no boss battles at all 
 in the game. Another letdown is he story which isn't much more than a hypocritical frame for the 
 gorgeous action. But that's of no consequence because it's the action we all bought Killzone 2 
 for, isn't it?!
  
  Some other of the various highlights of Killzone 2: The mech-, tank- and flak-mission fit great 
 in the context and loosen the gameplay. The cut scenes are cool and fun to watch - even though 
 they don't tell an ambitious story. 
  
  As you can tell from my previous reviews I'm not quite the multiplayer kind of gamer. The sole 
 online-experiences that really got me were those of CoD 4 and GTA IV. But both of them aren't as 
 great as the multiplayer of Killzone 2. It's fast-paced, diversified and highly motivating due 
 to great maps and an addictive rank-system. Killzone 2 is definitely my new favourite when it comes 
 to online play.
  
  All in all Killzone 2 lived up to my high expectations. Although it ignores some shooter standards 
 such as boss battles or innovative weapon design, the game is still an awesome experience. Technically 
 the most advanced game in years it offers an immersive, near-perfect designed and explosive campaign 
 and leaves you with the anticipation for a great multiplayer part! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  From the opening sequence it looks beautiful. The atmosphere is gritty and real as is the feel 
 of motion. I think this is second only to Dead Space in terms of visual appeal. Unfortunately beyond 
 the cutting edge visuals, there is not really much else that innovates. It is very much a defense 
 and cover biased shooter. It plays a lot like both Resistance and the first Call of Duty games. 
 Get to cover and then plan your attack and everything is usually fine!
  Update: I have finished the campaign now after 8 and a half hours -ish. I am trading this game 
 in tomorrow. utterly forgettable game over-all. The attempts to put a conscience behind the war 
 were laughable. i expected so much more.
  
  Scripting and story are best not mentioned. There is no fluidity to the game it's more just "here's 
 a fight", "now here's another one."
  
  The action is brilliant, there is no lag to annoy you and there is some great AI to keep you on 
 your toes.
  
  Overall its very average.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Multiplayer is stable, even when very busy, making a pleasant change from the norm. It's very easy 
 to find games and the level up system is well thought out. As well as scoring kills, you have to 
 play well as a team to get upgrades.
  
  Some massive mistakes in the implementation include the horrific spawnkilling opporunities and 
 the poor balancing of some weapons - notably the shotgun. The servers are currently packed so there 
 isn't much room to move but at the moment things have degenerated into a grenade spamming festival.
 
  
  Although there are several weapons to choose from, most time will be spent with the rifle with 
 the green sight. For some reason it beats a shotgun up close and is also as good as a sniper rifle 
 for all but the furthest targets. The deployable gun turrets are becoming annoying too. I am consistently 
 finding that four or five have been parked at the entrance to our base. It makes for a slow and 
 dull game, where you spawn and die, spawn and die. Typically I am racking up 50 kills from the 
 shotgun morons on the base spawn but also dying 40 times
  
  Level design is average. Nothing new. No interactive components and no destroyable elements. Everything 
 pushes you into the same direction rather than letting you roam. This contributes to the grenade 
 spamming problem.
  
  Apart from that there is NOTHING new to write about. All of the guns are clones from other games 
 and the gameplay feels almost identical to resistance 2 crossed ith battlefield 2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:27 am PT
Review:  Holy Crap. If your wondering if its all it said it would be, yes. Yes it is.
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME!!!
  The graphics will immediately make your jaw drop. From the intro cutscene 
 to the thick of battle everything looks completely beautiful and real. Especially the character 
 design and and animations. Your squad mates and everybody else literally looks real, and what adds 
 to this is that all animations are fluid and real. The frame rate holds up, never letting down 
 at any point.
  Sound wise everything sounds real and vibrant, I wish I had a surround sound system to experience 
 the games full potential.
  
  There is no shortage of action in multiplayer, everything is run-in-gun but with an objective twist 
 that gives you something more to do than just kill. Assassination, search and destroy, capture 
 and hold, and the list goes on. And there's so many ribbons and medals you'll be 80 years old before 
 you get all of them. And you can even play your own music in multiplayer!
  
  Gameplay is solid, controls are good, and there are many options for layouts to best fit your needs. 
 Some complain about input lag or delay. Don't worry, its very slight, and done on purpose to give 
 it a realistic feel.
  
  The one thing I will nitpick about is game delays. At checkpoints the game will temporarily freeze 
 while saving, and it gets annoying at times. Rest assured it never happens during a firefight or 
 cutscene, and at that expense there is no mandatory install.
  
  If you have a PS3, get this game and be prepared to be wowed by a trully awesome game that will 
 go down in history as the best FPS ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  So i've been waiting for this game for over 2 years and this is one of the reasons i got a PS3.
 
  
  Story - Story isn't really interesting but still kinda sucks you in. I guess killing bots rather 
 then playing online is alot more fun. Some parts of the game get somewhat difficult.. but not too 
 hard. The story isn't short but it's not long.. it's about right.. you get what you pay for.
  
  Multiplayer - After spending alot of time on a campaign and right after jumping in multiplayer.. 
 i thought it wasn't fun. But after all you get used to it and it becomes enjoyable. Maps look great.. 
 but sometimes a huge battle stays in one place and it's a complete rampage. Everyone just tosses 
 random grendas (just like CoD games) and of course gets lucky kills. There are tons of people playing 
 it online. So if you're looking for something fun (multiplayer) i would recommend getting this.
 
  
  Weapons - Not too impressive. Exact same weapons from Killzone (1) except they look better and 
 few other new weapons were added to the game.
  
  Graphics - To me these graphics are stunning! I think the game looks beatiful! Characters don't 
 look as good as everything but i personally think they still look good.
  
  Controlls - Feel weird and at first it's hard to aim.. you just have to adjust the settings and 
 get used to it. I thought the controlls were horrible at first but after few hours into the game 
 they didn't seem so bad.
  
  Overall - It's a great game, worth $60, don't buy it if you didn't like the first Killzone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itsdewdewbabiee
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Yes the controls are different but its not halo or COD, yes it takes time to get used to but once 
 you do, its over, let the killing begin. I love the different abilities that each character class 
 has. and I love the fact you have to earn your keep. You first start out with only 60 some bullets, 
 and as go and earn points you unlock medals which unlock ammo, and amount of granades you carry 
 and more. But not to mention the team work that is envolved in this game to win. You can break 
 up in squads, which makes game play more organized. It's not your average shooter. There is so 
 much tactics involved that it blows my mind, not to mention 32 online players with no lag. I was 
 playing with my buddies in Malaysia and no lag at all... Just awsome! Not to mention killzone. com 
 that actually shows replays of several games last played, so you can review tactics. Not to mention 
 the clan valor point system where you through down points winner collect all. There is so much 
 to say about this game, its a game thats brought a bit of fresh air to the gaming genre. And i'll 
 be on this game for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greensthooligan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Any doubts about the sequel to the over hyped Killzone have been totally answered. This visually 
 stunning FPS has delivered on several levels: great campaign, creative and fun weapons, great and 
 original online play. 
  The story continues nicely on from the sequel, with the soldiers of Vekta now invading the planet 
 Helghas. The campaign never becomes boring, and their are constant battles and some nifty little 
 six-axis controller additions (eg setting a charge) . This section of the game i'd give an 10/10.
 
  The weapons are great, and as you really get into the campaign you are required to use the entire 
 variety of weapons. During the campaign you cannot switch between weapons, if you need a change 
 you must find the weapon you are after, this requires a player to adapt their strategy to the weapon 
 they are using. The bolt and electricity guns are two of the highlights of the game.
  The online multiplayer is great in appearance, but I, and i'm sure many others, have not worked 
 out the kinks of the set-up. This includes selection of what team you are on, ISA or Helghast, 
 and this can get frustrating when trying to team up with friends or versing foe. This section of 
 the game seems a little more complex, but when in the multiplayers great maps is almost flawless.
 
  Killzone 2 is an instant classic, and any FPS veteran or newb will love its look and gameplay.
 
  Peace from GSH
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I was like many of you, watching the '05 trailer in awe. And since then I was following this game 
 like a mad stalker for 4 years. I preordered it almost a month in advance. Anyways, this get to 
 the review.
  
  First and foremost the graphics... WoW! The hype surrounded the graphics is definetly backed up 
 by this gorgeous game. I could of probably cut an hour off my time through the campaign if I wouldn't 
 of stopped for site seeing. No complaints at all in this department.
  
  The Story: Non to speak of really. I was not at all immersed into the story at all, and it's not 
 my fault or my personality, there is just no story to speak of. You're simply on an alien planet 
 with a race called the Helghast, invading their land because they invaded yours in the last game. 
 That is basically it. The campaign is very short, with a flop of an ending.
  
  Gameplay: One word, SATISFYING! I have never felt so satisfied shooting guns in a FPS and particularly 
 the kills! It will take a very long time for you to get bored of shooting up Helghast, simply so 
 pleasureable. The Hit-Response-System was perfect, the animations were some of the best I've ever 
 seen.
  
  Controls: My biggest complaint. GG took a good concept and idea and simply did not capitalize. 
 The DeadZone (Look it up) is horrible, the acceleration is terrible, and add input lag to that 
 you have a losing combination on aiming. Do not mistake this as the "Heaviness" you feel during 
 the game, it's more of a broken aiming mechanic. You could lessen the DeadZone and keep the "Heaviness" 
 feeling and the aiming would be fine, but with all these issues it's almost unplayable... almost. 
 The Campaign it is definetly excuseable since it is more tactical, but when it comes to the MP, 
 be prepared to be frustrated and to never feel comfortable or natural with the aiming. Now for 
 all the fanboys simply denying this issue exists, there are videos (Search) showing the aiming 
 issues. And with current polls out there, it shows that more than the majority feel the same way, 
 so it is no minority experiencing this. So be prepared to over and under-compensate on almost every 
 slight adjustment in your aiming.
  
  Multiplayer: Awesome, exluding the controls. If the controls were more responsive, this would be 
 my new life... for many years to come. But sadly the controls ruin the MP for the most part. The 
 maps are excellent, the gamemodes as well.
  
  The Wrap Up:
  If the controls were more responsive, this game would of got a perfect 10 from me. It does so well 
 in almost everything, but at the few things it does fail at, sadly ruin the experience to a high 
 extent. And it's also weird that they did so well on the details, while other details were overlooked. 
 Most of the time during the cutscenes, there is a lip-synching issue. In the beginning Evelyn and 
 Rico talk, and she does the same 2 animation gestures over and over again, even when their done 
 talking, which makes her look like a complete robot and looks completly out of place. The voice 
 acting is completly terrible, excluding Rico, Visari, and Radec. At one point in the game Evelyn 
 screams out and it literally sounds like she's faking an orgasm (Not exagerrating) . The dialogue 
 was complete garbage. F bomb this, F bomb that. Couple quotes from the game (And sadly this is most 
 of it) :
  "Damn. Daaamn"
  "goddamnit"
  "sonofab****"
  "F***, F***"
  "What the F***)
  "S***, What the F***""
  
  And sadly, these are actual quotes.
  
  The boss fight that apparently 
 everyone has been having trouble with (Including reviewers) , I do not see what the big deal was, 
 I thought he was very very easy (I actually only died once, and that was because I didn't know 
 what was going on and he appeared behind me) I beat the final boss in my first play through in 
 16 minutes, which many have claimed it took them close to an hour, and some even longer than an 
 hour! Also, you appear to be very short in the game, most of the time only coming up to your friends 
 chests. While your sprinting this makes you even shorter (Even if you teammate are sprinting) So 
 when you sprint and there is someone in front of you, you will be staring straight at there butt.
 
  
  Final Verdict:
  Now, if you can play with the sluggish controls, then you will more than likely love this game, 
 you can surely get use to the controls, but the problem is, it never feels natural or even comfortable. 
 If you do not like the controls, then the game is worth a rent (Beat the campaign in 6 hours, with 
 site seeing) . And if you can play with the controls, and your an MP player, you'll be in heaven, 
 KillZone Heaven.
  
  PS. If you have played the game goto http://www. misterpoll. com/polls/423319 and cast your vote!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pogan567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is absolutely amazing, so much so that I don't care how many years I had to wait for 
 it. Graphically, it is the best thing I've ever seen. The details and atmosphere are like nothing 
 I've ever seen in a game. Both the single and mulitplayer blow everything else out of the water. 
 The single player campaign is an ideal length; as well the fire fights are epic and just the right 
 length so that you never get bored nor overwhelmed. The multiplayer is a shining part of this game. 
 The games that are divided into 5 different game types and 7 different rounds never get boring. 
 You're always on the fly and always moving. The reward system is excellently done. Unlocking new 
 classes and weapons doesn't take long but it does take some time and you do have to work for it 
 but the rewards are more than worth it. The class based online is similar to that of Team Fortress 
 2 but less restricting. Each of 7 classes has its own unique primary and secondary abilities that 
 can be combined to create your own unique soldier. Unlike TF 2 you are not restricted to a specific 
 weapon for each class. You still have a wide selection if somewhat limited for certain classes. 
 Overall this game is the best shooter I've played by miles and definitely one of best games ever 
 made. Everyone needs to play this and it is what its predecessor was supposed to be; a Halo killer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resn8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The finest game ever to date. Killzone 2 amazes on every level: gameplay, graphics, sound, controls. 
 The gameplay is perfect, easy to get into, yet difficult to master. The single player system is 
 fun, though it sometimes gets hard to figure out how to progress in the mission. The AI of the 
 enemy Helgast is good, they move often when you are firing on them. Multiplayer is the best that 
 I have yet to play in any FPS. 32 player battles are so much fun. Graphics are amaaaaazing!!! Each 
 new area, I'm scanning the landscape to check out the details. This game really shines on PS3. 
 Sound design is also topnotch -- it really places you emotionally in the heat of battle. A lot 
 of hard work went into the details of this game, and you players about to get this game are in 
 for the best treat. Get Killzone 2 if you have PS3. For your money, it will be the best entertainment 
 for most of 2009 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is hands down the best looking game ever made so far.....
  but there are some annoying problems that pop up here and there
  like.........
  THE CAMPAINE 
 MODE IS TOO SHORT
  seriously.......
  there is like only 6 hours or so of single player mode
  but the story WAS suprisingly dramatic 
 in all the right places
  BUT the aiming is just TOO clunky
  its not sensative enough 2 make tiny adjustments 2 hit targets from a distance
  and the aiming 
 is difficult 2 hit targets that are right next 2 you either
  and if u need an example on what a game with good aiming feels like, then just play Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 (the aiming in this game is sensetive and easy 2 use while killzone 2 takes a lot of practice)
 
  and the online is very fun
  but the whole "aiming issue" can b a problem in online too
  but one good thing about online is that the graphics remain fantastic in online
  unlike some 
 multiplayer games that might have good looking online modes, but suffers with a lot of lag from 
 it
  well thats pretty much all i could come up with
  the enemy A. I. is also very good
  the A. I. brings a diiferent feel of difficulty
  makes u ACTUALLY THINK on how 2 avoid or get 
 around various areas in the game
  the A. I. will always get the best of u if u just rush in blindly
  so u have 2 innovate a tad 
 bit
  
  its not a lot of problems but the few problems affects the whole experience
  but there is always the hope that the developers will send more content thru expansion packs (much 
 like Grand Theft Auto 4: the lost and the damned)
  and HOPEFULLY
  these expansion pack WILL FIX DA DAM AIMING 
  but this is IF there is an expansion pack
  =O 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manqueida
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Really impressed with how the graphics evolved but some textures and effects (water) are pretty 
 bad for a game that has been so hyped... still going to help sell a lot of PS3s. The animations 
 are very smooth and the sound effects are spectacular. I'm a bit disappointed with the gameplay 
 but after one hour you'll master it. I've never really liked the dualshock for FPS games and I 
 think it affects the controls on every game of the same genre released for the PS3. I was expecting 
 a lot more, not sure if this game puts the PS3 ahead of competition but certainly doesn't put behind. 
 Not sure if the PS3 can really be much better than the 360 if we consider Killzone 2 one of the 
 best games on the system and a demonstration of the console's graphical power. What is impressive 
 is the amount of stuff happening at the same time on the screen. The multiplayer is definitely 
 a new experience, 32 people is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rygu79
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  For a console FPS, this game is excellent. Probably the best fps for any console yet. Im getting 
 sick of people saying it looks better then Crysis though because its 720p and Crysis in 2560x1600 
 full detail blows it out of the water. 
  
  Online play has mad replay value... trophies, ranks, ribbons all that. Too bad you can only have 
 32 people in a server i heard the limit would be as high as 80. When will there actually be a fps 
 on a console that can handle more then 32 players? Next generation my rear-end. 
  
  Bottom line: Great fps for the 720p console. If you're a lifetime PC gamer though, its been done 
 before many times nothing special. To those who say Halo 3 is better, this game stomps on it. Now 
 im just gonna blab to make my 800 characters, a little overhyped imo but a very good game overall 
 nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The hype that surrounded Killzone 2 was out of the ordinary for a sequel to an underwhelming, disappointing 
 Playstation 2 shooter. A pre rendered trailer later, and the whole world goes crazy either claiming 
 the second coming, or calling bluff on Guerilla and Sony. "Does Killzone 2 live up to the hype?" 
 I'm not touching that one with an answer, because that is a ridiculous question. A more reasonable 
 question would be "Is Killzone 2 good?" And my answer to that is a resounding yes. "How good," 
 you ask? Killzone 2 is not only the best game on Playstation 3, but Killzone 2 is the single greatest, 
 most viscerally enticing experience yet to be had this generation.
  
  It feels good to get that off of my chest. Killzone 2 is a modern masterpiece. There's a large 
 number of things that make it so exciting. Starting with the visuals, it's initially breathtaking 
 to put your eyes on Killzone 2 for the first time. The battle raging through my mind while playing 
 (and this still gets me) is if the art was better than the technology on display. That is pure 
 preference. Killzone 2's textures, lighting, animation, draw distance, and effects are all the 
 best in the business. However, Killzone 2's art might be the reason it looks so great. There's 
 something to be said for when you look out on the street on Salamun Market, or when you sprint 
 through the ash in the final battles in Pyrrhus, and you see in the vista, two glowing, staring 
 red eyes, and you realize that they're looking at you. It's war, and he is your enemy. The environments 
 themselves are just breathtaking, and the urban, bleek, destructed setting is rich with atmosphere. 
 People have been complaining at the grey color palette, but they too can rest easy. Killzone 2 
 utlizes colour near perfectly, and you'll never feel overwhelmed with dark blur. Beginning with 
 the red eyes of the Helghast, or the sandy tone of certain levels, or the tint levels have to them, 
 Killzone 2's colour palette is diverse and varied. When you take the most technically advanced 
 achievement, and riddle it with one of the most distinct art directions, you get what might just 
 be the best looking game ever made.
  
  The sound design reaches as high a bar as the visuals. The sound effects of the weapons are perfectly 
 recorded, and you'll be able to decipher the sound of an SMG from an Assault Rifle in no time. 
 The voice acting from all characters is nicely done, and even the orchestral score is so epic and 
 so fitting, it's one of the highpoints of the game. When you hear the cries of a fallen enemy, 
 that's when you'll full appreciate the work put into the sound design.
  
  The suffix in Killzone 2 implies that there may have been a Killzone 1. That's definitely true, 
 which means that the setting and art match up pretty nicely. In the previous games, (Killzone and 
 Killzone: Liberation) , the British-Nazi-Alien-like Helghast invaded the planet of Vekta, looking 
 for blood. This time, Vekta and its inhabitants are fed up with the constant flow of attacks, and 
 the ISA (Interplanetary Strategic Alliance) finally takes the fight to the Helghast homeland of 
 Helghan. You play as Sev, a sargeant with a nice hairstyle. As part of Alpha squad, your main objective 
 is to capture the Helghast Emperor, Visari. While the setup seems rather cliche and actually quite 
 simple, the overall quality of the narrative is exceedingly high. Whether you look at the excellent 
 voice acting, or the greatly directed cutscenes, it's all magnificient. The game focuses heavily 
 on the consequence and triumph a war platoon can face. The four men in Alpha squad, Sev, Natko, 
 Rico, and Garza are a brotherhood, and it really shows. The game gets you to truly care for the 
 soldiers and their survival, sucking the player in from the opening cutscene to the end credits.
 
  
  So it's safe to say that the story and presentation are incredible. To be as cliche as possible, 
 it's the gameplay that counts. Killzone 2 doesn't have that many new ideas to bring to the table, 
 but what it does, it does at the top of its class.
  
  It's tough to pick a place to begin describing why Killzone 2 is such an incredible piece of software. 
 The weapons themselves pack a devastating punch, and each of them feel unique. While the controls 
 certainly take a lot of getting used to, due to the heaviness of movement, it doesn't take too 
 long, and in no time, you'll learn to love the different feel Killzone 2 has. The combat is incredibly 
 satisfying. This is mainly due to the presentation. Everything just looks and sounds so incredible, 
 that when you mow down an enemy with a machine gun, the blood splatter followed by a non scripted 
 animation, and a gut wrenching scream are more than enough to bring a smile to your face. Perhaps 
 when you hit an enemy with a shotgun, and their head explodes, or when you pour 25 bullets into 
 his torso, ripping him to shreds, that you'll understand why the gameplay is so rewarding, addictive, 
 and just plain fun.
  
  The weapon design is awesome. There's your standard set of assault rifles that are fit for just 
 about any situation, there's your rapid fire sub-machine guns, a sniper rifle that utlizes steady 
 hands to aim properly, but then there are some truly magnificient guns, such as the flamethrower, 
 bolt gun, or the lighting gun. Yes, the names of those weapons describe them perfectly. The stream 
 of fire that comes out of the flamethrower sets enemies on fire to stunning effect, the bolt gun 
 knocks enemies off their feet and then blows them up, and the lightning gun (which you get to use 
 for a long time) , obliterates enemies and shocks them.
  
  While the weapons are incredible fun to use, it'd all be useless without the excellent opponent 
 AI that sets a new benchmark for the FPS genre. For example, say you were having a firefight with 
 a soldier 60 feet away. When he reloads, you run around the corner and get out of his sight. If 
 you listen carefully, you can hear him mention he's lost you. Now, he's looking for you. The enemy 
 AI never faulters, and always keeps a great challenge. They will call out your position to their 
 allies, try to flank you, and they're pretty good with a rifle themselves.
  
  Because of the fantastic AI, Guerilla implemented a cover system in the single player campaign 
 to give you a fighting chance. By snapping down on the L2 button, you can take cover on most of 
 the low objects in the game, always maintaining a first person view. It seems to fit very well 
 with the game, and is absolutely essential to survival. That's not to say that you can't kill enemies 
 when not taking cover, but it's to say that they will kill you should you avoid it.
  
  There are some absolutely incredible set piece battles. In fact, most of the campaign will consist 
 of one after another. The way that the campaign is designed, is that it constantly gets better 
 and better. It stays consistent like that, always having a steady increase in quality, until the 
 final battles at the end of the game, which are honestly the most exhilarating moments that I ever 
 remember playing in a video game. There are a fair number of turret and vehicle moments that fit 
 the bill as well.
  
  While the campaign is only about 7 hours long, there are several trophies to unlock, as well as 
 stats that it keeps on you, like how many kills you have, how long a certain section took you to 
 complete, and there are hidden collectibles strewn throughout the levels. The menu system is also 
 quite generous in allowing you to revisit any section of the campaign quite easily. While it's 
 short, the reply value is actually pretty high.
  
  The 32 person multiplayer component in Killzone 2 is actually quite innovative. The way that matches 
 play out is seamlessly merging game modes together into one consistently raging war. There are 
 five game modes, Search and Retrieve (which is a variant on Capture the Flag) , Body Count, Assassination 
 (which chooses on player on one team, and is up for assassination) , Capture and Hold (which is 
 a variant on Zones) , and Search and Destroy (which is similar to Sabotage in Call of Duty 4) . Matches 
 where all game modes are featured, scrambles around the game modes in random order. So matches 
 can start out with 5 minutes of Body Count, then quickly shift to Assassination. Since it's all 
 randomized, it can be a real rush to try to talk things out with your team about where to go and 
 how to carry out the situation depending on the objective. Sometimes an Assasination is called 
 out, and your team has just 20 seconds to figure it all out before the identity of the V. I. P. is 
 revealed to the opposing team. It's actually quite dynamic, and it keeps every piece of action 
 of every match fresh. Some matches, given the two teams are competitive enough, can last up to 
 an hour long. Now that's hardcore.
  
  There are 12 ranks in multiplayer, that unlock rewards such as the ability to join a clan, or unlock 
 new weapons, or even new clas5es. The multiplayer in Killzone 2 is fully clas5 based, with soldier 
 being your only choice when you start out, as you play and rank up, you unlock more classes such 
 as Medic (whom can revive fallen teammates, Scout (whom can go invisible) , and many more. It's 
 an incredibly balanced and rewarding system. On top of the 12 ranks, there are ribbons that reward 
 you with specific abilities such as more grenades or a higher running speed. Ribbons are handed 
 out for performing specific duties on field such as getting 10% of your team's kills in a game. 
 So with the rank system, as well as the ribbon system, Killzone 2 constantly rewards you for shining 
 light onto its multiplayer.
  
  If somebody asked me to tell them what Killzone 2's issues are, I'd mention the 3 or 4 motion control 
 sections that take 4 seconds each. That's really all about it. Killzone 2 is the best shooter currently 
 available. Its visuals and audio are the best in its class, its combat is viscerally exciting and 
 satisfying, its story is top notch, its campaign is perfectly paced and full of awesome moments, 
 and its multiplayer just keeps on giving. There is absolutely no reason not to play Killzone 2. 
 That being said, should you play Killzone 2, play as much of it as you possibly can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaz3d
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I fell for the hype and so did my 60$. Its not a totaly bad game don`t get me wrong, But its 
 far from "OMG BEST EVEAR!" and "GOTY 100%". If you have played a FPS before you won`t be in for 
 anything new, its a 8 hour action packed ride. After a while it feels like the same shoot this, 
 save that, capture this, shoot this, FIN. 
  
  Now multiplayer is pritty cool. I do like how theres multiplayer games where the game mode switches 
 every 5 to 10 minutes. That is cool. Multiplayer is intesne but like many other games and besides 
 that new feature its a meat grinder kill the other. No really stratagie i can see besides band 
 together, aim well.
  
  One of the biggest gripes i have about this game and many others share is the controls. It feels 
 like theres a lag to the controls, like there tacked on as gamespot says. I think or hope the will 
 fix this and if they do ill consider playing this game more. But for now its back to battlefield 
 bad company for multiplayer action.
  
  In conclusion its not worth 60$ wait untill it hits the bargin bin for 30$ or less. If you new 
 to FPS pick it up, its a great way for you to get introduced to the fps series. If not id advise 
 not grabing this title unless you really want it for 60$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok this review will hove 2 parts Offline review that mean Single Player and Multiplayer Online 
 so lets start with single player, what i observe from the game its amazing almost perfect graphics 
 gameplay atmosphere sound effects and cutscenes they are all so dam good that i hove no words to 
 say i am telling u i never experiance somthing like that before this game its so realistic that 
 u hove a fealing that u are then inside the game when i saw a gun fire boss fighting robot and 
 tank riding i was really dam speechless, i play alots of FPS shooters they were amazing but nothing 
 that can compare to this game all i can say this game worth every single penny :D ok now lets talk 
 about Multiplayer Online ok lets start with good part the gameplay and graphics amazing us much 
 offline but there is three things that missing first of all and the most important its weapons 
 they are really good but there is not enough of them they are missing lots of them they need unleas 
 2 of each class, second thing its scops and sights there is no in Killzone2 but its ok since i 
 was play COD WAW with out scops so its not big deal but third its kind of its more piss off then 
 missing its when u play TDM= team death match u can put only 100 kills max and even if u pot 20 
 or 30 mins of gameplay the mach will finish in 10 or max 15 mins and the maps its not small and 
 u allso need to wait 8 sec before respond so its all take time but its all ok, the really important 
 its weapons they really need ADD-ON for weapons if they one online to hold more then a month or 
 2 so yeah that was my big review about the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troy2000397
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Note this is a single-player review
  
  Graphics: Wow, from gunfire in the dark to expanse outside environments 
  
  Mood: Very good, 
 makes you actually feel like your in the middle of a war
  
  Game play (the most important part) : Yes your character moves slower than what many people are used 
 to but it just adds to the realism in that your character actually feels like he has some weight. 
 The cover system is great and makes the moment you pop out of cover that much more thrilling.
 
  
  Sound: The gunfire sounds like gunfire it really has a boom to it. Some of the cut scene dialogue 
 does sound a little forced but not to bad
  
  Story: Admittedly this is no Half-Life but with a game this fun do you really need a story
  
 
  Overall: I HIGHLY recommend this game to anyone who has even a remote interest in shooters, I 
 haven't been able to put it down since I got it
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortlived2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Why is Killzone 2 so great? Well lets start with the visuals. Killzone 2 has the BEST graphics 
 on any system ever. Every detail is carefully designed and uh... detailed lol. From the gear on 
 the AI's person to the random objects in the environment. This is helped by the insanely good lighting. 
 In some sequences it feels like you're watching a live-action movie. It always feels like your 
 in a dark, gritty, surrealistic version of Earth, (just as it should) instead of some stereotypical 
 alien planet. The sounds are perfect for every situation and make you feel as if you're there yourself. 
 The gunshots are solid for each gun, which allows for the great satisfaction of mowing down the 
 "Higs." Gunshots and explosions echo across the battlefield, giving the appropriate feel of an 
 intense war zone. The sound of bullet meeting fleshing is a nice, thick sound that even feels rewarding 
 in a... "I like killing"... kinda way as the blood flies in spurts. That blood realistically paints 
 the walls in lines and smaller splatters, unlike the one big splat that is common in most other 
 games. The guns present a variety of ways to kill, such as the realistic burning of a flamethrower 
 or the missing head that results from a well-aimed shotgun blast. The animations of every single 
 action are pure butter. The AI smoothly goes from firing stance to cover to full-on sprint as fluidly 
 as someone in reality would. Simply put: No game you have ever played can compare to the smooth, 
 clean, graphics and animation that Killzone 2 provides. The gameplay is fast-paced and heavy with 
 action. There are few breaks from the relentless push of the Higs. The battles are intense and 
 challenging, but are beatable and never feel overdrawn. The AI are incredibly intelligent: they 
 effectively utilize flanking maneuvers, "shoot-and-scoot" techniques, vary their cover, suppress 
 fire, duck when necessary, and efficiently use their weapons. At higher difficulties they can take 
 a fair amount of damage, so they never feel like weak little grunts. Each individual enemy even 
 provides a good fight in itself. The multiplayer is just as smooth and intense as the campaign, 
 if not better. The games are fun and immersible and require the 15 other team members to succeed. 
 You earn different classes and perks as you rank up or achieve certain "badges." The perks are 
 very handy and do a great deal to help your team succeed. The maps feel perfect for every situation. 
 The different modes are all put in one game, so you find yourself running around the whole map 
 with your team to complete different objectives as they come. The variety makes every game a new 
 game as you compete for the lead against the opposing faction. Killzone's multiplayer is definitely 
 one of the best and way better than any Halo.
  Con: There is some inconsistency as a sequel. The characters from before look a bit different and 
 have different voice actors. Those who played the first will find this slightly bothersome. however, 
 if you didn't play the first Killzone, its not a hindrance. Also, The story is fairly weak, but 
 then you don't care when your roaming the beautiful landscape killing Helgans. All in all, this 
 game is a MUST HAVE NO MATTER WHAT for all PS3 owners. X-Box players can cry in their sleep. This 
 is the best shooter on the market today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  - Beautiful, rich gameplay graphics (the best I've ever seen!)
  - Super realistic character movements
  - The weapons are very fun to shoot
  - Realistic sound-effects
 
  - Challenging enough so you don't get bored
  - Multiple different game modes online
  - Online-play includes ranks which unlock different things as you advance.
  - Rewarding online-play
 
  - Missions are CRAZY! Explosions and gunshots everywhere!
  - The campaign is pretty long
  - The story is always keeps you on the edge of your seat
  - There are so many medals and ribbons 
 to unlock that you'll never get bored!
  - Includes a great variety of weapons (like the "Electricity gun" for example)
  - Super addictive!
 
  - It has trophies!
  
  THE BAD
  - Aiming accurately can be a challenge sometimes
  - The last mission can become VERY frusturating at the end!
  
  Overall, this is really the 
 best FPS I have ever played on ANY system! I never really enjoy FPS games, but this one looked 
 different from most others. I picked it up and before I knew it, I was a addicted! So, in the end... 
 if you own a PlayStation 3 buy this game! Even if you don't enjoy FPS's you will probably enjoy 
 this one. Better than Call of Duty; that's for sure.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizik89
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Making this review short because this game isnt worth saying much about. Basically another run 
 of the mill shooter, graphics looked nice in indoor locations but nothing compared to some other 
 FPS' ive gone through. Some out door parts look terrible though, stuff poppin in and out everywhere 
 = bad news. Multiplayer is barely fun at best. Controls in this game are pretty wack so if your 
 tuned onto a scheme like COD4 or another relatively close you wont be happy. Pretty cliche dialogue 
 as well. I just dont know what else to say about this game other than people rating this 10 either 
 dont take ratings seriously or just have bad judgement..
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  Sound: 7
  Gameplay: 7
  Controls: 5
  Lifetime value: 6
  
  Overall: 7.0
  
  This one.. like i said 
 in the review deck.. is a rental, not a buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathan-Hale
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Good game, not great as many other people are saying. I'm glad i rented this one first I was going 
 to buy it but no copies were left. The game itself is great but it's just too short, i beat it 
 and I've only played 6 hours and 30 minutes. I rented it the day it came out and I just beat this 
 game, and i have played about 2 hours of online. So this will be an unbiased review.
  
  Campaign
  - The campaign was great. In the beginning you're with the alpha squad and right away 
 there is a hell lot of shooting and explosions. You feel great and the game sucks you in. This 
 game has a lot of action, at points where you blow up tanks, drive tanks yourself, and even control 
 a mechsuit and an AA gun. However after awhile the thrill wares off, the game was just too repetitive. 
 Usually you go onto a mission complete it then more guys come then more and more. Then you have 
 to meet back with your team and then more guys come while you get to them. Then when you meet up 
 with them and more to kill. It's fun at first but then you just get bored at shooting people. The 
 story was great though, from the beginning to the end. Garzo being killed in action because of 
 the foolishness of Rico, even though he saved the squad. The colonel dieing in the line of fire 
 trying to destroy the petrusite grid and using his own ship as a weapon. Radec nuked his own city 
 knowing the amount of ISA troops that were in there.
  The ending i will leave to you. Overall i think the campaign was good but would've been better 
 if missions didn't repeat too much and if the story had been longer (only about 6 hours to finish 
 the game and I'm not that good)
  
  Online
  - The online of this game is what surprised me the most. It is very fast paced and exciting. The 
 nice thing is that you can play 6 different modes in the same game, or you can just create your 
 own game and choose the mode you would like to play. In online mode there are several different 
 missions that will determine the winner of the round. When a team completes that mission then another 
 mission will soon appear. The 5 modes are
  - Assassination a target from your team or the opposing team will be selected. If the target is 
 on your team protect him, if the target is on the other team, kill them before the timer is up.
 
  -Search and destroy there will be 2 designated areas to play D-charges to blow up that certain 
 area. When the 2 bombs are successfully planted the team trying to destroy that area will have 
 to protect them for 30 seconds. If they succeed then they win. The other team will have to try 
 stopping them and make sure they don't destroy that certain area/object.
  - Search and Retrieve sounds simple but it's actually hard. You have to pick up the propaganda 
 speaker that both teams are after and deliver it to a certain area. However it is very challenging 
 because if you have the propaganda speaker the enemy will be shooting at you a lot, and you have 
 a long way to go.
  -Body count pretty simple, it's pretty much Team death match. First team to get up to 100 kills 
 wins.
  -Capture and hold kind of a game of zones. Your team has to capture and hold zones and if anyone 
 from the other team tries taking them then you have to defend it. The more zones and the longer 
 you hold them will make you win faster.
  
  Opinion
  - I suggest that if you do have spare money then buy this game, but if you don't then just rent 
 it. The game has really amazing graphics that surprised me every time i saw an explosion or a ship 
 crashing. If you're not a big fan of fps games then I suggest you try the game out still, it's 
 good but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broman6015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Its amazing to think that a trailer shown in a video montage at Sony's E3 2005 Press Conference 
 would be the biggest subject of controversy before the current generation would even begin. But 
 despite the mass amounts of pressure put on the development team, Killzone 2 would be destined 
 to be that game everyone got excited about when that first trailer hit. In short, Killzone 2 is 
 quite possibly the most intense, and thrilling shooter you will find on the market today. Is it 
 the best? Probably not, but the best is usually described on what you perceive it to be.
  
  Killzone 2 offers an intense single player campaign that will probably last you around eight or 
 so hours. While there is definitely some action to be seen here, the campaign falls short in a 
 lack of memorable characters and an interesting story. I wouldn't say that the story non-existent, 
 because there are certainly some decent story elements to be found here. It's disappointing because 
 the Killzone universe is one of the most interesting seen in a first person shooter and it would 
 have been great to really dig deep in the struggle between the ISA and the Helghast.
  
  You will play as Sergeant Tomas Sevchenko, who will go simply by the name of "Sev." Accompanied 
 Sev are three other members of the Alpha Squad, one of which a returning character from the first 
 Killzone, Rico. The game starts out with you and your squad simply landing on the Helghan surface 
 ready to do business. From there the story is told through a few cinematic's, but its mostly just 
 getting orders on the fly to head out to certain locations to get stuff done. Because of the short 
 comings in the story, about half way through the story trys to get all "touchy" with you. And because 
 of the lack of memorable characters, or really a good enough reason to justify why this war is 
 going on, it's kind of hard to really care what's happening.
  
  But not to dwell on the story to much, the action is the real show here. Killzone 2 offers a unique 
 cover system that with a click of a button will attach you to a wall to protect you from incoming 
 fire. From here you can simply pop out, take some shots, and go right back into cover. The cover 
 is crucial to your success. The enemy A. I. is phenomenal. You will notice that the helghast will 
 take cover as well. The fact that they take cover is not what's amazing though, if the cover their 
 using starts to deteriorate, they'll take note of it and find new nearby cover. With that said, 
 if the helgast notice your behind the same piece of cover over an extended period of time, they'll 
 attempt to flank you out with grenades. A tactic mind you, that you will come to find works. The 
 A. I. at times will also try to rush you and your squad. Making for some on the fly decision making 
 on what action to take. It's also great to see that the enemy will not just attack you, but your 
 whole squad as well. This is something that we don't get to see very often in shooters.
  
  Throughout the campaign you'll also have opportunities to jump into tanks, drive a fully armed 
 mech, and man a flank gun hundreds of feet in the sky as you try to defend the ISA fleet in an 
 all out Ariel war. These moments make for some thrilling and incredible gameplay you soon will 
 not forget.
  
  One thing too also note about Killzone 2 is yes, the visuals. Killzone 2 offers probably the most 
 impressive display of lighting ever seen in a video game. From the sun light peeking through the 
 clouds, to the flare your assault rifle lets off as you unload a magazine on some helghast. But 
 it's not just the lighting, the game simply looks incredible. The character models are top notch, 
 the environments vary and are a sight to see. What's even more amazing is how these visuals don't 
 hinder at all during the full scale, 32 player multiplayer action.
  
  Killzone 2 offers probably one the most addicting and rewarding competitive multiplayer experiences 
 we have seen in a long time. It's not that it does anything different from what we have already 
 seen. Its how its presented that makes it worth spending time on. Instead of just playing one game 
 type per round, Killzone 2 will through several different game types in ONE round. You may start 
 the match off with bodycount, your standard team deathmatch. From there it can go to assassination. 
 Were a player gets selected and the opposing team has to "assassinate" as the name implies. There's 
 capture and hold, which is your standard territories type mode. Search and destroy, were you plant 
 C4 on a particular location and make it go boom. All of this while simply never leaving the match.
 
  
  The multiplayer will offer player classes to try out. These classes are a medic, who carries a 
 gun that will bring people back up were they have already fallen, an engineer, who can set up turrets 
 but is limited to a shotgun, assault, your heavy type class that carries a missile launcher, The 
 tactician, which can create spawn points for other players to spawn at, rather than all the way 
 back at the team base. There's the Scout, which uses a cloaking ability that renders the player 
 nearly invisible. Saboteur, who can take the identity of a player on the opposing team. But the 
 interesting part about all this is that everyone starts off as a basic rifleman. Who carries a 
 standard assault rifle and few grenades. From here you must earn points to unlock the different 
 classes. This isn't a bad thing at all as it gives the player a basic understanding on how everything 
 works before giving them all these unique ability's. The longevity on the multiplayer comes in 
 being able to upgrade the classes to newer abilities.
  
  The multiplayer also features a rank system, and awards players with ribbons and medals for accomplishing 
 certain goals. All this while playing on 8 different maps that alternate per round. Again, most 
 elements we've seen before, but its presented in a damn good way. It's fun, its addictive, you'll 
 simply love it. Hopefully all the crazy killzone 2 talk can be put to rest . If you have a PS3, 
 then you owe it to yourself to try it out. Killzone 2, after such a long development cycle is out. 
 Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celru
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, i was waiting this game for more than 2 years and now, when a get it, i see the new best 
 game in the 2 o 3 next years. The graphics amazing, the A. I. amazing, the on line Mode amazing, 
 the story mode amazing, and the game in general is superb.
  I can't understand why this 9 and 9,4 of IGN, i things that this game is at the level of Metal 
 Gear in graphics and design. I think that a 10 is a right score. Well is true that Metal Gear is 
 Metal Gear but Guerrilla just made 2 games and this is the third. The previous 2 games had a score 
 of not more than 8 - 8,5 and this is just perfect, so i think that the work made from Guerrilla's 
 team is great great.
  Well now if anyone of you can answer why this game doesn't get a 10 please answer me. Thanks for 
 your replies and i hope you enjoy this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhySoSerious300
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys its Whysoserious 300! I am not really good when it comes to writing reviews, but I will 
 try my best to write a review. I wasn't a fan of the original Killzone game back when it was released 
 in the year 2004. But after watching many gameplay videos of Killzone 2 and reading reviews... 
 I decided to buy Killzone 2. This game is amazingly orgasmic that you cannot take a break for even 
 10 minutes or so on. I pulled an all nighter and let me tell you this, it was totally worth it! 
 Killzone 2's SP/MP and its graphics is where the game shines and I give full props to Guerrila 
 Games Studio for creating such an amazing game. It took 4 years of waiting but it was totally worth 
 it. To all you 
  
  PS3 owners,
  
  If you do not buy Killzone 2, you are going to miss the best FPS game ever created in video game 
 history. I highly recommend you FPS lovers to buy this game because its just that amazing. Thank 
 goodness I traded in Call of Duty Modern Warfare and World at War for Killzone 2. It was totally 
 worth it. Please just please!! Do buy Killzone 2. You guys are going to love it! This game honestly 
 deserves a 10/10 because its AMAZING!
  
  Peace guys and remember, buy Killzone 2 it is better than any game as of right now. 
  
  - WhySoSerious300 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loudli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  I was squeptical about getting this game at first, but after playing for about 1 hour i fell instantly 
 in love with.
  For one the graphics are some of the best we have ever seen, the lighting is amazing, shoosting 
 hellghast in a thunder storm just looks so good
  The gameplay is just right, altghough the aiming takes a little getting used to if you are used 
 to other shooters.
  The story might be a little weak and the single player campaign can be a little short (finished 
 in about 7 hours) but in my opinion its very easy to over look seing the quality of the gameplay
 
  Aand last but not least, the multiplayer rocks face, its like mixing cod4 and TF2, way too much 
 fun, i cant wait for dlc.
  
  So for that i would recommend this game to anyone looking for a nice lasting shooter.................. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War4One
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Lets just see.
  The highly anticipated Killzone 2 has come out, and as a matter of fact it was worth the wait.
 
  The story is a slight dissapointment, with the opposite from what happened from the first Killzone.
 
  But, what pushes away the dissapointment is the gameplay. It is absolutely outstanding. With the 
 new set of controls to everyone, it is annoying at first, but after a couple of hours of playing 
 the game, the controls don't matter anymore :P.
  The graphics just blows your mind! Everything with the graphics is perfect. Especially with the 
 hit response system!
  The characters in the game are very well designed!
  Game score 11/10.
  It is too good to be true, it is more than your money's worth. The scenery 
 is outstanding. The Online play is amazing.
  The way you shoot people, the way the blood comes out and the way the helghast die is absolutely 
 satisfying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lalucar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  After playing Call of Duty 4 and World at War for about a year, at first Killzone was so different 
 I didn't like it. Five minutes later I new his was my new favorite game. With an excellent and 
 compelling campaign mode, only enhanced with the best online play sysem i've seen, make KZ2 well 
 worth 60 bucks. The biggest thing that I like about this game is it involves strategy and thinking 
 as opposed to he usual run in kill who you can then be killed FPS. Killzone 2 involves thinking 
 what you can best do to serve your team as a soldier. Classes are perfect for each one gives you 
 bonus' in that area, for example a medic can heal downed players and toss health packs, and scouts 
 can us invisibility and mark targets and allies from a distant view. Anyone who likes games, BUY 
 KILLZONE 2 !!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clientel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  At first Killzone did a game similiar to counter strike but did not have the right potential. Then 
 came Resistance : Fall Of Man and Resistance 2 which proved that provided large scale battles and 
 the works. Then came Killzone 2 , the works was the game meaning that it proved to be something 
 better than the original and upgraded R1 & R2 by a mile or two. Killzone comes with a fps formula 
 that is perfect for anyone who loves fps games. Next, the graphics are just plain AWESOME !!! Making 
 it a good game with even better graphics. Guns have detail on them, walls and cover has no tears 
 whatsoever, and graphic scale is so perfect. Thirdly, gameplay is one hell of a ride, making it 
 a perfect fit for the experienced fps players. Players would want to take it up and online and 
 shoot the **** out their enemies. Lastly, when it comes to guns , you will have "the same old song 
 and dancebut Kilzone is likely to differ , by using the Sixaxis function to turn handles and 
 aim it for the sniper making it an enjoyable experience. There is no reason why you should not 
 buy this game. Killzone 2 has done its best so far in terms of gameplay, online play , and or graphics 
 . Killzone 2 is a game worth buying. "The Helghan belongs to the Helghast..." Scolar Visari 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzik_mafia
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW.
  I bought this first day, and I knew I was in for a treat before I even left the store. Killzone 
 2 was a gamble, and I knew success was on the way when I got a flippin' hat. A little Killzone 
 2 beanie. 
  
  Then I popped it in. Instantly the game started. No install at all. The opening movie played, and 
 I was awestruck at the details on Visari's face. The music was sweeping. The rest of the cutscene 
 was damn beautiful.
  
  I started single player. For best results, try veteran the first time. The enemies are smart, VERY 
 smart, and hard to kill, which makes sense because of all their armor. It will make the game far 
 longer. I'm five hours in, and 45% done. 
  The graphics are surreal. I beat Crysis, and this comes close. However there are some loading hitches, 
 infrequent stutter, and a few whack textures, but graphics alone help this game. 
  
  Gameplay is another story. The cover is bloody fantastic, the guns are powerful, and for haters 
 of the controls, get real and learn something new. Theyre fantastic. Enemies will be fun to shoot. 
 Things blow up. Sprinting is joy. 
  
  Online is amazing!!! My only gripe is the lack of deathmatch. It's fun, furious, and in your face. 
 The leveling is great, and class distribution is bloody fantastic. By exercising medic use, you 
 can choose their specialty as a different class. Its quick killings, but not like COD where you're 
 2 shots. Maps are fantastic. Blood Gracht = Win.
  
  On the whole, this is a fantastic package, worth every day of wait, worth every penny. Buy it. 
 (The ending is VERY ridiculous, you'll never think it would happen in the sequel.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has been one of the most awaited and hyped games in a long time. The trailer first shown 
 at E3 looked to good to be true and has been the source for the massive hype and critic. Some claimed 
 this game to become among the best of the best and some had it's doubt in the high expectations 
 the trailer set. 
  
  All in all the games delivers to the fullest of what you can expect from a shooter like Killzone. 
 
  
  Fantastic graphics and very stable gameplay secure a pleasent ride throughout it's storyline. The 
 storyline may have it's problems but it all seems to be forgotten once you get to teh shooting. 
 The AI are really intelligent and avoids your grenades and goes to cover if shot at. This makes 
 for a rough and sometimes hard run through but it also makes you have a very fun one. The gameplay 
 is stable and different since it allows you to take cover which is a great addition to the FPS 
 genre. 
  
  The Multiplayer is also, if not better than the singleplayer, very successful. It really is enjoyable 
 to shoot your friends up in a great game like Killzone. The maps are great designed for each of 
 the game modes and you are forced to be on the move constantly for not being shot in the back by 
 the enemy. 
  The class system is also something that makes you come back over and over for better weapons and 
 cooler outfits.
  
  Killzone offers an extraordinary experience in both single- and multiplayer. Ratings are as following:
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9,4/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Story: 7/10
  Multiplayer 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitetiger3521
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  This has game has been hyped up a very long time and I actually thought it would live up to this 
 hype but boy was I wrong. I bought it on launch day and popped it in right when I got home. First 
 thing I played was Single Player and it kinda reminded me of a wannabe Star Wars hybrid game starting 
 out. The graphics are pretty decent but nowhere near jaw dropping. Now this is where I start to 
 get very very disappointed... 
  
  The game camera.. When you move around the camera is very slow and has very bad motion blur. Hell 
 even sometimes it seems like the camera is trying to catch up to my movements! Now this is something 
 that is unacceptable for a next generation game. Movements should be very smooth and consistant 
 but no not with Killzone 2. I even tried to turn up the sensitivity levels to see if that helped 
 but NO it does not help at ALL! The game camera is one of the MOST important parts in a First Person 
 Shooter and Killzone 2 is very poor in this department. 
  
  The game play is very stupid because it is centered around hiding most of the time. If you plan 
 on just jumping in this game and blasting dudes you better look elsewhere. Because this game is 
 far beyond just blasting dudes. 
  
  The story of Killzone 2 is very boring and nothing that had me addicted to want to know what happens 
 next. 
  
  The online multiplayer is very boring especially when compared to Call of Duty 4 and World at War. 
 Online game modes are boring and does not give you that accomplishment feeling like the Call of 
 Duty games do. 
  
  Overall I was very disappointed with this game and I feel very stupid that I even fell for the 
 hype. I thought gamespot did a very poor job with their review and they are misleading people with 
 a 9.0 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muskrat74
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to fall in love with game... but it seems like we will just be good friends. First 
 off yes I am COD fan, and all the reviewers were bang on when they said this is not COD. I felt 
 the controls were way to sluggish, and there lies the catch 22. If you up the sensitivity you can 
 move better but aiming control is really hard. Then if you lower the sensitivity its the complete 
 opposite, I can aim but I feel like I am running around with an elephant on my back. That being 
 said I did enjoy the single player using standard 1 scheme with the cover system. All in all this 
 is a good game. The graphics and music are stunning (however the out of focus effect in the menus 
 make me feel sick) I love the atmosphere and the details in the environment are amazing (Its cool 
 shooting chairs and watching little pieces of stuffing fly everywhere) 
  
  I would recommend this game for the single player campaign. If COD is your multiplayer FPS standard 
 then I would take a pass. The maps are huge and somewhat well designed but for me I prefer a more 
 tactical shooter. KZ2 is very "Run n' Gun" be prepared to die a lot. In some of smaller maps you 
 can get into situations were there are 12-16 players in a tiny room all firing in random directions 
 and tossing grenades. For me that can be fun when it happens from time to time, but in KZ2 it happens 
 to frequent and I find it pointless.
  
  So again, 
  Amazing graphics (maybe the best)
  Amazing music
  Great Single player
  Lackluster MP mode
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bababoy66
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best console shooters all time..
  
  Graphics-10/10
  Gameplay-10/10
  Sound-10/10
  Multiplayer-10/10
  
  I own both a xbox and a PS3, and I've 
 gotta say as a fan of both the halo and the COD series, this game beats them up in the dust. My 
 only little complain are the controllers. They are a bit too sluggish compared to others shooters, 
 but that ain't a bad thing, you've just gotta get used to it.. They are supposed to be a bit more 
 realistic, and in that part it has succed. Nothing more to say about it. If you own a PS3, and 
 if you are a fan of the FPS games, here is your new masterpiece created by Guerrilla.
  
  avoid the following:
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:17 am PT
Review:  Absolutely remarkable!
  
  I live in a third world country and managed to get my hands on this title two weeks before its 
 its official release. I was immediately impressed by its visual presentation and, seven and a half 
 hours later upon completing the campaign, was still drooling! I completed the campaign twice before 
 its official release date and am looking forward to taking this baby online to see what its capable 
 of. 
  
  The visual presentation almost sets it completely apart from its toughest rival, COD. The mechanics 
 also play a major role in how different this feels from ordinary FPS's. The sluggish, heavy movement 
 controls are fantastic as they give a real feeling of weight and add a sense of realism to your 
 movement. The enemy AI is the best I've experianced and can be frustratingly real as you have your 
 sights set on an enemy and they will sit tight until you burst fite somewhere else. The cover mechanic 
 is excellent and an important part of the overall battle strategy. Whats great about this is that 
 Killzone 2 really mixes it up in each battle scenario. some batt; les will see you fighting from 
 behind cover, some will have you run and gun, some will have you going from heavy turret to turret 
 taking down swarms of enemies. One battle will have you bulldozing Helghast troops in a mech suit 
 and one will have you shooting down waves of enemy fighter planes a la star Wars.
  
  The weapons are indeed modern and giv the feeling that Killzone 2 takes place in the not-too-distant-future, 
 with the exception of the lightning gun. the lightning gun is my favorite weapon although its only 
 offered use is in one one level. 
  
  This is a satisying game in almost all respects. I blasted my way through the single player campaign 
 twice and have absolutely no ide wha the story is... but I really couldnt care less. Any scenario 
 is fine with me as long as the frantic and varied play style is what it is.
  
  highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THORINATOR
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  If I had to choose one word to describe Killzone 2 it would be "stunning!", It's been a long time 
 in the making but it's been worth the wait. Right from the start of the campaign this game is intense, 
 with amazing visuals from the characters to the enviroment. Sev (your character) & his squad are 
 taking part in the Invasion of Helghan so as gameplay begins your thrown right into the heart of 
 battle. As part of the squad you'll be given certain goals to achieve, for example on the first 
 mission you'll have to escort a convoy through the devastated streets of the Helghan capital, obviously 
 enough you'll encounter heavy resistance from the Helghast forces as you have to open gates & provide 
 protection for the convoy. While you're progressing through the game you can't help to notice the 
 stunning enviroments all around, even though everything around you is destroyed & in flames, it 
 just adds to the whole experience. In the backgrounds you'll see the large scale of the battles 
 going on with explosions in the distance & aerial units zipping around in the sky. As the levels 
 go on the gameplay only gets better with the use of vehicles being added in on later missions (one 
 word... WOW!) They really have got everything bang on in killzone 2, so basically in campaign you'll 
 really feel the sensation that you're a vital cog in a huge machine. As for multiplayer the best 
 way to describe this is like they've taken some of the best elements of COD, Halo & teamfortress 
 & mixed them all together which gives you one the best FPS multiplayer games available, choose 
 different character classes, cloak, disguise, weapons... just amazing, I could praise this game 
 all day long, but my words can't express just how good this game is, if you haven't added this 
 title to your collection you're missing out on one of the finest games out there, It truely has 
 lived up to the hype building up to it's release... what are you waiting for, go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarquesGames
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  It's easy to be blinded by the sideshow with Killzone 2. Any platform exclusive is going to attract 
 the wrong sort of attention in the current console climate, and when the game in question is the 
 sequel to a poorly received last-gen title, the stakes are raised even higher. Sitting down to 
 evaluate it, you can feel the clutter hovering over your shoulder. Texture maps are scrutinised 
 for the slightest flaw, frame rates obsessed over, AI team-mates subjected to Mensa tests.
  
  Fortunately, Killzone 2 makes it easy to ignore them. Let those with vested interests debate 
 the pointless minutiae. For those pining for a muscular, aggressive military shooter, whose console 
 has the biggest balls soon becomes a minor concern. It swiftly becomes apparent that Killzone 2 
 isn't going to be pushing beyond the boundaries of its genre. That could be taken as lack of ambition, 
 but in context it feels more like creative focus - this is a game that polishes existing concepts 
 to a compelling shine, rather than colouring outside the lines in search of new patterns.
  
  So it is that you find yourself controlling Sgt. Tomas "Sev" Sevchenko, one of a quartet of 
 tough-talking space soldiers tasked with bringing down the despotic Visari and his Helghast armies. 
 Visari has stolen an experimental nuke which could turn the tide of the war, and you're in the 
 midst of the spearhead battling to retrieve it before the launch codes are compromised.
  
  Joining you are Master Sergeant Rico Velasquez, a grizzled veteran of the first game; Lance Corporal 
 Dante Garza, who fills your quip-happy good ol' boy quota; and Corporal Shawn Natko, the obligatory 
 possibly-psychotic demolitions guy. All could have been drawn from any shooter of the last five 
 years, and it's only the mixture of convincing animation and above-average voice acting that brings 
 them to life. The script certainly doesn't help much, since most of it seems to consist of people 
 barking "F*** dis **** and "Go! Go!" over and over.
  
  For much of the game, you'll be accompanied by at least one of these gruff stereotypes, but it's 
 far from a squad game. They'll react fairly intelligently to the situation, but their presence 
 ultimately only serves to remind you there's no co-operative mode, and Killzone 2 constantly feels 
 like a game designed for co-op. There are often multiple ways to approach each level, different 
 routes that take you up, over and through the crumbling Helghast architecture. Since you're unable 
 to tell your AI partner to take the high road, you'll inevitably wish for a human friend who could 
 really take advantage of these strategic opportunities. It's a baffling omission, and Killzone 
 2's most obvious weakness.
  
  Story may not the game's strongest suit, but all that's really required is enough information to 
 keep you pressing ahead through the military campaign that makes up the single-player missions. 
 Each stage flows into the next and, apart from a couple of deviations from form involving a gun 
 turret and a mech suit later in the game, the goal is clearly to create a tense, claustrophobic 
 experience that convinces you that you're pushing into hostile alien territory, one bloody, dusty 
 inch at a time.
  
  This is not the game to play if you want to be able to pop through a door, spray the enemy with 
 lead and watch them all keel over. The Helghast are armoured and (most of the time) they're smart. 
 Taking them down requires patience, cover and short controlled bursts of accurate fire. Sure, you 
 can probably take down a solitary grunt by peppering him with a wild spray, and if you opt for 
 the lowest difficulty then this tactic becomes a lot more workable, at the cost of your self-esteem, 
 but the moments when you'll be faced with just one enemy are few and far between
  
  For the most part, they attack in squads. They'll flank you. They'll use grenades to flush you 
 out. They'll take it in turns to keep you busy with suppressing fire, then wait for you to reload 
 and rush your position. Die, restart and take a different approach, try a different angle of attack, 
 and you'll see the enemy reacting to your actions rather than simply popping out of the same cover 
 spots like sideshow ducks. The landscape may not change as often as some would like, you're battling 
 the same enemies from the start of the game through to the end, and there are few obvious set-piece 
 moments, but that's because the gameplay itself is the set-piece. Battling your way across Salamun 
 Bridge may not sound particularly amazing in theory, but in practice it's the sort of seriously 
 meaty tactical challenge that too few shooters bother with these days.
  
  Weapons are realistic, with only one gun in the whole game - a Helghan electricity cannon - that 
 tips the scales a little too far into silly sci-fi territory. It is justified by the story, however, 
 and it's awesome, so it's not a criticism. Small arms are your best resource for the majority of 
 the game, and you soon come to trust the intuitive cover system, which automatically glues you 
 to whatever you're hiding behind and allows you to slide side to side and pop out to return fire. 
 Long-distance headshots are possible, but by no means easy, so the pride taken in each Helghan 
 downed is earned.
  
  In fact, so rewarding and dynamic are the firefights that it's the moments where the game slips 
 into videogame clich that let it down. A confrontation with a flying gunship wears the Boss Battle 
 template a little too snugly, requiring you to shoot electricity pylons to hold it still while 
 you break out the rocket launcher. Heavily armoured shock troopers must be shot in the face so 
 they turn around, allowing you to blast at the explosive tanks on their back. These scripted reactions 
 are unwelcome reminders of the genre's artifice, and rather than adding exciting peaks to the gameplay, 
 they feel like predictable troughs that must be bashed aside in order to carry on with the truly 
 fun stuff.
  
  Video in higher quality on EGTVThere are flies elsewhere in the ointment too. The dual-weapon system 
 forces you to think critically about your ammo reserves, where the risk of running dry must be 
 weighed against the perils of a dash across open ground to grab another gun. Unfortunately, your 
 default sidearm is always a pistol and a fairly useless one at that. Rare are the times when you'll 
 need to bust it out, effectively reducing your useful armament options to whatever else you've 
 found.
  
  It's also rather odd that, should another character fall in battle, you're able to revive them 
 with a handheld zapper. They'll pretty much writhe and call out in agony for as long as it takes 
 you to reach them - their location marked by a handy arrow - but you get no such benefit. If you 
 take enough hits that the red mist closes in, you fall down dead and nobody does a damn thing to 
 help. The revival system also makes a mockery of a later plot development, which I won't spoil. 
 Suffice to say that anyone who wondered why Cloud didn't just use a Phoenix Down on Aeris will 
 face a similar clash between the needs of the story and the mechanics of the gameplay.
  
  Such considerations are less worrying taken in the larger context, however. The internet will no 
 doubt rage for weeks as to whether Killzone 2 is the best-looking console game evah, but it's fair 
 to say that if there's a list, it's going to be near the top. What truly impresses, however, isn't 
 the obvious eye-catching elements but the smaller moments - little things that are so natural that 
 you often don't notice them; those little eddies of dust blowing around a deserted slum village, 
 the way you can be subliminally tipped-off to enemies by a subtle change in light or shadow ahead.
 
  
  Of course, when the game decides that it needs to get your attention, the results are phenomenal. 
 The brief gun-turret section takes you high above the caustic clouds of Helghan and finds you engaged 
 in a furious aerial battle, played out against a gorgeous sunset. The descent into Tharsis Refinery, 
 on the other hand, is a plunge into hell itself, a breathtaking ride on a speeding automated train, 
 where the wind snaps tarpaulins like bullwhips and the constant, infernal noise threatens to blot 
 out even the loudest gunfire.
  
  No shooter can survive on single-player alone these days, and as with the solo campaign, the online 
 element concentrates on delivering a brutally focused and nourishing experience within otherwise 
 expected parameters. Not much has changed since the multiplayer beta (which we covered in some 
 detail a little while ago) , so you get eight maps, drawn from the single-player campaign, and five 
 different game modes. There are variations on Capture the Flag, Deathmatch and Search and Destroy, 
 as well as base-capturing objectives and the enormously fun Assassination mode. There's no cover 
 system in multiplayer, as gameplay naturally skews more to the run-and-gun style of play than the 
 slower, more tactical main story.
  
  All maps and game modes can be mixed and matched to your liking, and online play is split between 
 Warzone, which supports the full 32-player line-up, and Mini-Frag, which caters for smaller matches 
 of up to eight. One on One is self-explanatory, and ideal for more intimate stalk-and-slay games 
 with a very special friend. Suitable maps are automatically chosen for the number of players, and 
 various factors can be modified by using different badges and medals, just as in Call of Duty and 
 similar shooters. It's all impressively flexible, within its rather narrow feature-set, and the 
 host can dictate the terms of any match, either by using preset conditions such as No Pistols, 
 or using on of six empty custom slots to fine-tune their own rule-set.
  
  Video in higher quality on EGTVIt's the sort of multiplayer experience that becomes richer the 
 longer you play. You start with just one character class, two rifles and a pistol. Each kill is 
 worth one point, with bonuses for meeting certain victory conditions, and provided you're halfway 
 decent you'll soon have ranked up enough to start tailoring your character to your preferred style 
 of play. It's really only once you've unlocked these options that the multiplayer comes to life, 
 feeling narrow in scope at first but offering enviable depth in the long term.
  
  For those without friends, or just wanting to brush up their skills, the Skirmish option allows 
 you to play against up to 15 AI bots on any of the maps. It's more enjoyable than it may sound, 
 simply because the AI is generally pretty dependable and scales nicely. An AI assassination target, 
 for instance, will automatically find a safe spot and keep his back to the wall, which is more 
 than can be said for some of the human players I've encountered. You carry your stats from the 
 online games into these practice bouts, but it doesn't seem to work the other way - you can't grind 
 your level higher by playing repeated offline games against easy CPU enemies.
  
  Taken as a whole, Killzone 2 doesn't initially seem to offer enough to justify the superlatives 
 that have been dutifully set aside by the PS3 faithful. Despite the often-stunning graphics, it's 
 often derivative of other titles and doesn't - on the surface - seem to have much that distinguishes 
 it from the herd.
  
  It's deceptive though. This is a methodical shooter that makes few concessions to those not already 
 interested in its single-minded approach to cover-based military action. I've compared it to Rainbow 
 Six in the past, but it also calls to mind F. E. A. R, another tough tactical effort that was often 
 misunderstood by those expecting a frag-happy spook hunt. Killzone 2 is a taut and muscular game, 
 a shooter that gives back more than you put in, provided you have the intestinal fortitude. It 
 may take its time revealing its true depths and pleasures, but the journey is well worth taking. 
 Between Killzone 2's unforgiving grit and Resistance 2's alien-bursting excess, the PS3 finally 
 has both ends of the shooter spectrum covered in grand style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx___RAZOR___xX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to tell all xbox fanboys to go back to play halo and gears, instead 
 of attempting to lower the score on this game, as this game simply wipes the floor with both of 
 them.
  
  Anyway, back to the game, and in my opinion it is simply out-of-this-world. The single player is 
 great as you are swept from one epic confrontation to the next, with the objective of capturing 
 scolar Visari. Also, Radec, the real badass in the game, is arguably the most awsome badass ever. 
 The boss battles in the single player mode are extremely challenging on the higher difficulty levels 
 and in my view, are better than resistance 2's bosses, which are too easy. The campaign on trooper 
 difficulty took me about 8 hours, while on elite it is taking me far longer, as there is a greater 
 need for skills, as the is barely any HUD (crosshair isn't there etc) . So, overall, the campaign 
 is really solid and easy to understand.
  
  Following on from that, we have the warzone. This is where you will spend hours on end earning 
 badges and promotions to unlock an incredible amount of guns and classes etc. There are 8 maps, 
 which is plenty enough for now. Each map has unique characteristics which are easy to get into, 
 provided if your a competitive gamer. Some guns are better than others on different maps, and you 
 will understand that as you gain experience with the game. I wont say much else about the warzone, 
 other than its addictive and in my opinion, the greatest online multiplayer since call of duty 
 4.
  
  Finally, you have the skirmish. This mode is exactly the same as online, but this time you can 
 only face bots. Before you go into the warzone, it is recommended that you try this first. This 
 will give you an idea of what guns to use and will also give you an insight on what all the maps 
 are structured like. The bots have the same difficulty levels as the single player campaign (veteran, 
 elite etc.) The ai are incredibly smart and will attempt to flank, rush and use a variety of other 
 techniques. I could say far more about the skirmish, but that all you seriously need to know about 
 it, and not to mention, its a solid part if Killzone 2.
  
  To conclude everything that i have mentioned, Killzone 2 is the most realistic shooter in terms 
 of presentation, graphics and gameplay. Some people will find it slightly difficult to adjust from 
 games such as call of duty 4 and resistance 2, as the recoil will make you bullets go everywhere, 
 unless you fire in controlled bursts. If you have a Playstation 3, there is no choice, Killzone 
 2 is a must buy whether or not you like first person shooters. If you dont have a Playstation 3, 
 maybe its time to bite the bullet and go get yourself one. Killzone 2 is a revolutionary game, 
 which will set and example to shooters in years to come. Congratulations Guerilla games, you have 
 earned your badge of honour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  Guerilla's so-long-waited FPS is finally here , to make you lose your sleep with endless hours 
 of multiplayer gaming!
  
  When I first played Killzone on PS2 I was thrilled by its surrounding environment and how its graphics 
 could make you feel like you were living the tension. Imagine how I felt when I inserted Killzone's 
 new title in my console, only to realize that its incredibly realistic graphics in combination 
 with its amazing sound made this game look ALIVE! And I'm mentioning the sound because I feel like 
 most people are praying only the visual result while ignoring one of the most important factors 
 in FPS games: how they sound. The screams of the opponents when you kill them along with the brutal 
 gun-fire sound quality add a lot to the game in my opinion.
  
  The story is not that hard to complete in any of the first three difficulties, but I have a hard 
 time finishing it on Elite. The AI of the Helgast increases significantly and I keep getting myself 
 killed :) The best part of it is the stage where you mount a robot destroyer. It's so much fun. 
 Other than that it doesn't add a lot to the final result. It's pretty much the same with any other 
 FPS.
  
  The strongest point of Killzone 2 though is its extremely entertaining multiplayer. The fact that 
 it only has team modes is not a disadvantage. Many people judged it saying that the fact it doesn't 
 include single deathmatch is negative, but that's totally NOT true. FPS games were created for 
 team play and Killzone 2 makes that absolutely clear. What's so fun in wandering around and getting 
 backstabbed by other individuals all the time without having someone to watch your back anyway?
 
  
  For the conclusion I want to say one things or two about the most discussed issue of this title. 
 Its controls. I keep hearing people complaining about how hard and heavy are the controls and that 
 there is a small delay in order to respond. Well first of all there is the option to change the 
 sensitivity in order to make the turning acceleration bigger. And anyway this doesn't make this 
 game less fun at all. Ok maybe I had a hard time killing other team members when I first played 
 it. But that's not a reason to reject it. I am a big fan of CoD games and I didn't instantly fit 
 in, but eventually I managed it and I only needed a couple of hours. So please stop whining about 
 controls and stop useless comparisons.
  
  JUST ENJOY THE GAME, HAVE FUN and that's all !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSithiSx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  **MP only**
  
  Killzone 2 is one for the ages, its so refreshing to play a first person shooter and not have someone 
 running around with blue m16s spraying and killing everyone they see. It has a very fun and habit 
 forming multiplayer, don't get me wrong it DOES get some getting used to and you will be killed 
 quite a bit if its your first time. Put the controls on alternate 2 (for people used to CoD buttons) 
 and tweak the sensitivity to your needs and you should have a blast after you get a feel for the 
 game. I hear some people complaining about the gameplay and controls but trust me, if your not 
 weak and your not a quitter play for about 30 minutes to an hour (maybe less) you will start to 
 love this game like I did. The ranking system isn't bad, you don't start out with many weapons 
 but theyre good enough to begin with. The only thing I really want more of in this game is weapons 
 and maps, give me a single shot rifle and ill be gravy. If you want your skill to be tested and 
 also want to have some fun, buy or rent Killzone 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donksyjohn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't going to get Killzone 2 straight away, but on impulse I got rid of Dead Space and Assasins 
 Creed to get this game. I played the demo and thought it was looking pretty sweet.
  I have only played for around 4 hours, Im up to the mission where the Helgast "raise the bridge", 
 after the shanty town debarcle.
  
  I gotta air some grievances before i say anything else. Why can't a huge ISA armoured soldier carry 
 two primary weapons? It has been annoying the hell out of me that Im carrying a 1970s 6 shot revolver 
 with infinity ammo in the year 2357 (or whatever) , yet I cant strap on an extra assault rifle. 
 Thats the great thing about COD4, you can ditch the pistol and carry two decent weapons. When your 
 done burning Helgast alive you can switch to the shotgun. Now I wouldnt have thought the it was 
 much trouble to allow us to do that. Secondly my squad mate (cant remember his name, thats how 
 forgettable the loser is) name starting with G, keeps running INTO MY LINE OF FIRE. Not only that, 
 but he follows me everywhere, even if it means certain DEATH for him! Then moans and pathetically 
 asks for a medic, or "someone" to help him. Dude, IM THE ONLY ONE HERE THAT CAN HELP YOU!! At least 
 try and involve me in your pathetic death!! So after a few times feeling sorry for him and zapping 
 him with the electric bullet wound fixer and then being gunned down myself in acts of unwavering 
 bravery, I decided to leave him die the next time he went down. After a few minutes, he GETS UP, 
 goes back to normal, though still calling for help, saying "Im down, somebody help' while he gets 
 up and wanders around. When I smacked him in the face with the butt of my assuallt rifle, he said 
 "dont shoot me, shoot them". I didnt shoot you. I used the L1 Mellee attack. One time he got blown 
 up and thrown down some steps, and he gets up and says "Ahhhhh, just gotta get my breath back".
 
  
  Whats with the load stutter? Please explain why the game loads and pauses in new areas? It really 
 jolts you out of your game face, makes you think well either my PS3 is crap, or the game programmers 
 don't really care that much about creating a seamless game experience. On Elite difficulty Im finding 
 the game a bit trying. The enemies can take a few rounds, and seem to be hard to kill. It doesn't 
 seem that bullets can penetrate thin corrugated iron either, like in COD4. Sometimes you have the 
 sights on an enemies head, like you couldn't possible aim any better and they just wont go down. 
 Im finding the grenade mechanics annoying also. May as well not bother cooking them because their 
 already well done. The explode so quick. I used the grenade launcher for a bit this morning, was 
 trying to watch the lob of the grenade to get my eye in, seems like you only get the trail of the 
 grenade sometimes. Seemed frustrating. Storyline is OK, just **** house voice acting and script. 
 The jokes about the a-hole smell and brownnosing stuff are just ludicrous. You pay 40 bucks for 
 a blu ray movie with the top actors and directors and storylines and you pay 109 for a game which 
 is artistically awesome but has no quality plot and acting. I reckon I could act those parts better. 
 Ok. Now I cant wait to keep playing that being said. Im looking forward to trying all the weaponry 
 and vehicles, because the turrets and weaponry are awesome. The flamethrower is not as impressive 
 as in COD5. The one tank scene so far was just brilliant. Firing the rockets and the machine guns 
 and the whole scene was REALLY GOOD. 10/10, The graphics are great to look at. Everytime I reload 
 I marvel at how cool the assualt rifle looks. The blood splatter is cool, both on the enemy and 
 on the screen, and when the colors fade and your gonna die.. The Helgast look awesome. The environments 
 for the most part are great. The cut scenes are impressive. The cover system is really good, and 
 the gun sounds and music are breath taking. Sometimes the battle sounds go quiet so you can hear 
 messages from Rico and them. That detracts from the intensity and excitement of the firefights. 
 The slow controls feel good sometimes, like you feel the weight of the armor slowing down movement 
 but it makes aiming and especially melee attacks feel awkward. Overall its been pretty fun so far, 
 and im looking forward to finishing the campaign and trying multiplayer. Its an impressive game 
 that could have been improved with a little more attention to detail. The sooner technically awesome 
 games like this get treated with a bit more 'storyline immersion' and plot so that you play and 
 enjoy the great graphics but also lose yourself in the story and characters the Better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerpintaxt31
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Generic weapons, generic scenarios and a bland storyline detract from what could have been a killer 
 app for the PS3.
  
  Admittedly, the graphics are awesome although this does little for people like myself who have 
 been gaming for a long time and do not judge a game solely on its paintjob. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, the single player campaign does provide the odd moment of exhilaration but, 
 unfortunately, there is a pervading sense of "been there, done that". When considering recent FPS 
 gems such as Rainbow 6 Vegas, Crysis, FEAR and Half-life 2, all games that brought something original 
 or fresh to the table, Killzone 2 stands out as a missed opportunity in next-gen gaming. The slightly 
 sluggish controls only serve to aggravate the average quality of this experience.
  
  Multiplayer, again, is competent although a rapid ranking system and generally more sluggish rate 
 of play does not generate the addictive "just one more go" element of ames such as Halo 3 and COD. 
 
  
  Although some may find it unfair to compare KZ2 to other FPSs rather than judge it on its own merits, 
 I only use other games as an illustration of how KZ2 has failed to capture the magic of a truly 
 great FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anth91
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is growing on me and after waiting two weeks to buy the game i kept on playing the demo 
 to get better and better! It was worth it because now i've gone straight into the campaign mode 
 and know what i am doing. This game offers the user to go online and play against other Killzone 
 2 owners and battle it out. The game also has a wide variety of guns. I just recently used the 
 sniper rifle... OMG it was realistic with the gun moving with every shot i took and the scope being 
 perfectly positioned with the line helpers. 
  
  In the game you will notice a lot of talking by your team members and also little scenes where 
 the man in charge, Narville, tells you what your next mission is and what you must do.
  
  I highly rate this game to ANYONE AT ALL!! it is quite easy to learn and there are different difficulty 
 settings so it won't be an easy game to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has had its share of hype. Lots of videos, some delays, and some PR has made it a number 
 1 game on a purchase list of pretty much every PS3 owner.
  
  And now that the game is out, you can easily tell that this is one of the rare cases when all the 
 hype was justified: the game is great! It has its own issues and weaknesses, of course, but nonetheless, 
 it's a great game. From the very moment you put the disk into the PS3 you can tell: a lot of love 
 went into the game, especially from the technical standpoint: the game looks and sounds absolutely 
 fantastic! The graphics beats Gears of War on the competitor's console hands down. Still, you can 
 see the level of detail popping every now and then, but you have to pay attention to notice it.
 
  
  The developers have paid a lot of attention to every detail, how ever small it might be - from 
 the title screens down to the killzone. com web site, where you can track your progress and do many 
 other useful things.
  
  I've spent about 1 hour playing online so far, and the multiplayer mode seems pretty solid, and 
 is tied well with the killzone. com website. You can even log into the web site and replay your 
 match in a map mode, where you can see your and other players movement across the map, so you can 
 see what was going on and, probably, plan for your future actions on that map.
  
  There are, however, some things that personally I didn't like. One of the issues is the controls 
 - specifically how the joysticks work. The movement is very inertious, so even if you move a joystick 
 just a little bit - you'll most likely overshoot the target. It's extremely difficult to aim with 
 such "wobbly" controls, especially if you compare it to, say, Call of Duty 4. Plus, the default 
 sensitivity is pretty low, so it takes a few seconds just to turn around 360 degrees. Sure you 
 can increase the sensitivity, but then aiming becomes a complete nightmare.
  
  The game freezes up sometimes, with "Loading" showing in a corner. Seems like it can't keep up 
 with loading the content from the BD disk, as the game has no installation option (which, by the 
 way, also results in pretty long loading times) .
  
  Also, I think that if a game has a tropy dedicated to "beating the final boss in less than 20 minutes" 
 - something is really wrong with the game. Beating a boss should be challenging, but it shouldn't 
 be an exercise in frustration.
  
  But those all are pretty minor issues. Overall the game is great, and it's very nice to see a game 
 showing a true potential of the PS3. Finally PS3 fanboys have something to brag about :)
  
  UPDATE: While the game itself is great, the KILLZONE. COM web site is another story: even a week 
 after the game has been released, it's still mostly down, with lots of problems, bugs, glitches, 
 error messages - you name it! It's amazing how clueless the site admins, apparently, are, when 
 it comes to heavy-traffic web site hosting. Worse yet, the link to the web site from the game itself 
 indicates that the site is not even designed to be used from the PS3 itself, as it shows incorrectly, 
 requests to install Adobe Flash 9 and overall is practically unusable. But then again, it's unusable 
 period, regardless of where you're trying to access it from. Apparently the SOCOM. COM fiasco hasn't 
 taught anyone anything... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacounciler171
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  In all my years of playing video games, which for me happens to be over 24 years, I have seen a 
 lot of good games, a lot of bad games, and only a hand full of games that are great. Killzone 2 
 just happens to be one of those games that make up my handful of games. It ranks alongside with 
 Final Fantasy 7, Metal Gear Solid, Super Mario Brothers, and Zelda. All of these games stir up 
 some kind of emotional connection, for Killzone 2 it just happens to be an extreme sense of urgency 
 (Gears and Gears2 came close) . From the moment you touch down the game kicks you in the pants right 
 away stringing together a constant bombardment of attacks. The minute you think your going to get 
 to run through a door, the Helghan are there to stop you dead in your tracks. This packed with 
 the score playing in the background and your squadmates yelling "sev get to cover" can really get 
 your heartrate up. 
  
  The visuals in Killzone 2 have almost a dirty feeling to them. You can stare in to the screen and 
 find the jaggies if you want to and say hey the graphics are not that good or you can look at the 
 whole picture. Dynamic lighting, combined with character models that offer realistic facial impressions 
 and a body language that acts true to life. 
  
  The Multiplayer is unlike anything ever experienced. The fact that matches are strung together 
 and they give you new objectives the minute your done one is totally new. Now some might say the 
 experience system has been done and yes it has. Call of Duty 4 and Call of Duty WAW do this very 
 well, but what they dont do is give you character classes with and experience system on huge multiplayer 
 maps that make you feel as if they laid out every object on the screen with such careful planing 
 and placement.
  
  Killzone 2 is I think is a new stage in fps games. It ups the level on almost everything that it 
 does. Games today need to stand out and dare to be great. Killzone 2 does this in almost everyway 
 and definetly goes on my handful of great games list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decro111
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, to begging with lets just say first the "bad things" of the game.
  
  No Co Op; OK, well I have been playing shooters since PS2 release I never EVER I played Co Op, 
 I did not mind, and I'm sure I am not the only one, but since a lot of players seem to be interested 
 in Co Op, I'll give them that one, they should have put CO Op. Controls; well, just like the Gamespot 
 review says "You will get use to them" besides, you can control the sensibility of the controls, 
 people dissing the game for the controls can only prove that they have played COD for too much 
 time, that they are afraid that something new may make them look bad. Story; Well I'm have way 
 through the game, it may not be the best story in the game, but it is understandable, and everyone 
 should like it. That is pretty much it for the bad things, can you say that graphics suck? well 
 im sorry if you cannot afford a tv that suppors HD, for that you are the one that should be complaining.
 
  
  
  Now the good things.
  
  Graphics, plain and simple, great looking characters, guns, maps, environments, everything, EVERYTHING 
 in the game looks fantastic. 
  
  Gameplay; Well I do not find the controls to be bad, on the contrary, it requires skilled players, 
 people that like to play video games to show you that they can be used. If you spent time playing 
 the game, unlike people who only played the game and didn't even try to change the settings to 
 their best fit, you will have no trouble playing it.
  
  Multiplayer: I just don't know what to say. On a scale from 1 to 10, I give it an 11. Everything 
 on Killzone 2's multiplayer is great and it has not been seen anywhere else, how? you can use bots, 
 place sentry guns, more types of class soldiers than Battlefield BC, and of course the all-in-one 
 game mode, you play different game modes in one game, that is unique.
  
  Environments: Everything that has to do with "Environments" in these game they rock.
  
  
 
  Overall: The game truly deserves a perfect score, people dissing the game, m it is clearly that 
 they either played the demo only, or are Xbots, or both, winning about really simple things that 
 we see in other games too.
  
  Now something I want to say to Xbots, all of you said that Halo 3 is was, and will be better, well 
 what do you have to say now? Better graphics? Killzone, Better guns? Killzone, Better gameplay? 
 Umm, you may say that Killzone is hard, well you can get used to, unlike Halo 3 who is Halo 2 with 
 better graphics and 3 or four more guns. Better Online? Killzone, come on, well agree on that, 
 nothing to discuss about that. Better Score: Halo 3, why? because we all wanted to see how a "good", 
 not great, but good story had a terrible ending.
  
  Overall: You Must Buy This Game. You will not regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FusionRain
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  UMMMMMM how can i put this this game is simply GREAT
  the motion is not a problem but it is noticeable when u first pop it in then after that it's all 
 good the guns are nothing to woot about tho u get pretty much ur stranded guns (sniper sux) and 
 with some really high and mighty guns like the flamethrower the lighting gun and the pules type 
 gun 
  
  the story is playable but is giving u the wtf feel of i don't care the difficulty is pretty much 
 where it needs to be and when u die u don't really go back that far to where if u suck u would 
 get annoying... so that means no getting all the way to the end of the stage after fighting a epic 
 battle and then u are just looking around and that last enemy kills u or u die exploring then start 
 from the middle of the mission. u can't really tell what mission ur on cuz it's so damn boring 
 u just do what u told the voice acting could have fit characters better too. plain out i only play 
 the story to get a feel of the guns and cover system (witch i hate)
  
  online multiplayer is the best thing about this game it have only 8 maps is all fine cuz the arrange 
 in size from bigg ass map to omg wtf i have to cross that gigantic map... map. the levels work the 
 same as call of duty u play u do good u lvl up... it's not all that fun running cross huge maps 
 trying to take out an objective when u know ur gonna die and have to get put back (lucky u can 
 sprint for a hella long time with little breaths in between) ... the modes are pretty slandered 
 so nothing new that u wanted to expect i believe theres like 5 all together. oh yeah when u die 
 theres a delay a big fat ol 7 sec delay till u can respon
  
  but i know we all love the satisfaction of killing someone but u don't really get that u onlt get 
 this like umm did he die or not thing... u can tell if he is dead by a bleep sound but still. 32 
 people can fit in a match and the rooms will be full most of all the time soo u will never feel 
 alone
  
  soo plain out what i think of this games is
  dot dot dot it's a great game one of the best fps ever made but they worked to hard on the looks 
 and scale of the maps and forgot key points like thrill and a true feeling that ur owning the everyone 
 the guns are not that good (sniper) but every thing els is like on a new scale of greatness setting 
 up teams like alpha and bravo is cool but no one uses it later on people may find a use on bigger 
 maps 
  
  bottom line this game brings amazing new things to the fps genre but dropped some of the best things 
 bout them in the proses 7.0 from me multiplayer makes up for every thing
  
  oh yeah the controls suck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bort44
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about intensity. Non stop action from the get go. Guerilla has been developing 
 this game for about 3 years now, and man did they ever hit a homerun with this one.
  First off this may be the best looking fps game of all time. The graphics are simply stunning. 
 Guerilla has pushed the ps3 to the limits and it really shows what this system is capable of.
 
  The AI is probably the best ever too. They are constantly trying to flank you so you are always 
 trying to stay a step ahead of them and get the upper hand. The story really isnt that good, but 
 thats not what this game is really about. The last thing you are thinking about in an all out fire 
 fight is the story. Who has time to think about the story when bullets are flying right over your 
 head. 
  The sounds of gun fire and grenades and everything else is jaw dropping, I have not heard sound 
 this good in any fps before. I suggest if you have surround sound is just to crank the hell out 
 of the volume and let it all soak in.
  Multiplayer is pretty good, thats what is going to keep this game going for some time.
  The overall 
 mechanics of the controls is a little slow, but im getting used to it. This is probably the best 
 60 dollars I have spent in quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigfredod
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  the game is the best shooter i have played it have it all, graphics, sound, gameplay atmosphere 
 the sense of reality you fell your "weigth" the great weapons are very well balanced the graphich 
 engine of this game give you full interaction with destructible enviroments, i am glad that the 
 people in guerrilla made his own engine an not use the so commonly Unreal engine that looks good 
 but is not very interactive, the history mode is a train of action incredible and we cant forget 
 about the hellgast AI forget about the generic shooters where they are almost sitting ducks, on 
 killzone 2 you have to use the excellent cover system and be very aware of the enemy movements 
 or they surely will surprise you and surely kill you man i can't stop playing this game, if you 
 have a ps3 it's a must if you don't have a ps3 sorry for you, now i must go back to helgan see 
 you there! to share lead with you guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is quite a major achievement for the series. I wasn't a very big fan of the first one, 
 but this game definitely knocked my socks off! The graphics are the best I have seen for any PlayStation 
 game so far! If you own a PlayStation this game is a must have!
  
  So let's talk about the good and the bad.
  
  Good: Amazing graphics, breathtaking atmosphere, 
 destructive weapons, intelligent AI, good story if you have played the first game; if you haven't 
 you may not understand a few things. Multiplayer is the best I've ever played, even rivaling Call 
 of Duty 4. The musical score is excellent!
  
  Bad: Short campaign; about 6 hours on medium difficulty. Voice acting on some characters really 
 sucks (i. e. Rico) . The ending was somewhat disappointing; but it could set it up for another game.
 
  
  Graphics Comparison (Killzone vs. Crysis) :
  I would have to say that Crysis is better looking because the game makes better use of it's engine. 
 Crysis is more colorful and diverse in it's environments. Killzone has ruffly the same environment 
 throughout the whole game, and the only color it uses is different shades of gray. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinc12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  the game is good, the graphics are amazing, I've been playing through the campaign here and there 
 but mostly sticking to the multilayer. Here's the review that no one else seems to have made. The 
 rumors of the controls being terrible are true. These are the worst controls in any FPS, the closest 
 thing you can get to a working scheme is ALT 2, the aiming in multilayer is bad but none of these 
 things really make you want to throw down the game in disgust, it just makes you realize how much 
 you love COD controls and wish that GG could have made the controls more to that, then the terrible 
 idea they came up with. The second problem i have with this game is the cover system. They decided 
 that it would be a great idea to map it to the "duck" key, so say if you just wanted to crouch 
 in an open area and fire, if you do so stay away from the walls because the closer you get to one, 
 the game will just slide your character against the wall and now your back is just going to get 
 lit up. Other than those two this game is great, i just wish they tested the controls first and 
 realized that there were still problems with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I really hate fanboys. When someone begins talking about how Halo beats the PS3 or how Nintendo 
 is the best of the best, I start to get annoyed. I don't get why people think it is such a big 
 deal that one console has better games than the other. As long as you know which console has the 
 right games for you, that should be enough. For those of you who think otherwise, congratulations. 
 You are probably a fan boy.
  
  So Killzone began a few years a go with a pretty mediocre game that boasted some unusual mechanics. 
 The turning/movement was as easy as in other shooters and weapons had pretty nasty recoil, meaning 
 you couldnt pick off an enemy from 200 yards with any weapon except the sniper rifle. However, 
 most people pushed it aside. Now, it's sequel had a new hook to keep people interested. It has 
 what are probably the best graphics of any game ever made.
  
  But before I talk about the gorgeous scenery, let's talk quickly about the story. There isn't one. 
 It has a story that I relate to the first Gears of War. Meaning, that it's nothing more than an 
 excuse to go and shoot things. It has to do with a war against these dudes called Helghast, but 
 thats all you need to know. 
  
  Now let's talk about the mechanics. This is what is going to throw some old-school shooter fans 
 off, because it doesnt handle like Halo or Resistance. Every weapon feels "heavy" because turning 
 and movement feel weighed down, just like in real life. If you are carrying around a big assault 
 rifle, you arent going to be handling it like a feather. All the guns have to some heft to them. 
 Furthermore, shooting without using the iron sights, or scope will usually lead to missing. Holding 
 down the fire button leads to some pretty intense recoil, you are going to learn how to burst fire, 
 or you are going to die alot.
  
  Now let's talk about the visuals. As I said before, this is one of the best looking games ever 
 made (if not THE best) . The details, tectures, character models, and weapons all look incredible, 
 and there is a good deal of variety to both the levels and weapons. You will find that not all 
 weapons work the same way, and you will probably end up going with your favorite most of the time. 
 Enemies also are pretty intelligent, using cover, blind firing and hopping on open MG's to take 
 you out. They also have this nasty habbit of flanking, and calling out locations to their squadmates. 
 This can lead to some pretty intense shoot outs.
  
  But of all the mechanics that will throw off shooter fans, none is as confusing as the online component. 
 The idea is still the same, go and shoot the other guys, but here is the twist. Unlike other shooters, 
 where you are playing one mode for an entire round, and then you can choose to change up game types, 
 one round of KZ2 will end up including several of the game modes. As the round progresses, your 
 objective will change, via a voice command. So, it may go from the standard TDM, to Assassination, 
 or even Search and Destroy. You never know whats going to come next, which will keep you on your 
 toes.
  
  So do I recommend this game? In short, hell yes. This game has a great single player mode (as long 
 as you aren't overly preoccupied with a deep narrative) , a great multiplayer component with some 
 deep advancement (leveling up to gain new weapons) , and the best graphics I have ever seen. If 
 you like FPS games, then KZ2 is probably for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultramarine777
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay people ,I will post my honest reviews on this game. First off, I was never a fan of the killzone 
 series because I did not like the first one and never had a PSP so could not play Liberation but 
 I must say Killzone 2 got my full attention. It is a fantastic and superb FPS with incredible "eye 
 candy" graphics and amazing environments and high quality sound. The gameplay to me has been very 
 enjoyable although a bit hard at first can be easy to get used to because when I first got on multiplayer 
 I was killed a lot due to not knowing it well but now I got used to it and have much more fun. 
 The best thing about multiplayer is the mix between awesome graphics, fun controls, and the great 
 new online mode called "Warzone". It is great because it truly puts you into a game made for teamwork. 
 The guns are quite fun and nice but you need a to rank up a bit to unlock many of them. The soldier 
 class system if very well made and the abilities are very fun to use. Now the single player is 
 also very fun with unlocking trophies and using vehicles is very nice but it wont last you as long 
 as the fantastic multiplayer. The story is okay and their are some cool characters. If you are 
 really into shooters and multiplayer then this game will truly satisfy you. And for those without 
 multiplayer ,you can play skirmish games with computer controlled bots with the same multiplayer 
 modes which is quite fun too. The maps are a big thing in this game. They are very balanced and 
 well made with every beautiful detail. I truly recommend this game to anyone that has a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antagonist8503
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It's come to my attention that there are some who bash Killzone 2 for every little fault that they've 
 "Heard" about. Let me assure everyone who has and will play the game, it is a great game. People 
 are entitled to their own opinions which is fine; I'm not bashing them. I'm calling out the peeps 
 who don't even own the game or probably haven't played it, or don't even own a PS3 for that matter, 
 but yet feel the need to harp on what has already been harped upon by reviewers. How do I know? 
 Nearly every review that I've seen that has given the game a 6.0-7.0 has said pretty much what 
 you've already heard about from internet sites and reviews. They don't go into much detail, because 
 they probably haven't even experienced the game. For instance, there was a recent review who gave 
 the game a 7.0 and said that the game's controls were slow and awkward. Yes, it's true, in single 
 player the controls seemed very heavy, but if that person had really played the game, he would 
 know that the game's multiplayer controls are much improved upon due to the bump in sensitivity, 
 but yet, no mention of that. If you just play the game and read through all the details of some 
 of these phony reviewers, you can easily see right through their bs. Killzone 2 may be a rehash 
 of some earlier titles, but its original in its own right because it does everything it set out 
 to do so well. "Nothing that has been done before, but nothing comes close to being done this well" 
 which pretty sums up the game. Granted, it may have not met certain expectations, but it certainly 
 has made an impact.
  
  Graphics - Awe inspiring, when you separate out the filtering, graphics, and animations, it may 
 seem like an average game. But when you put everything together, you get something otherworldly... 
 Killzone 2. 
  
  A. I. - Some odd reviews about the A. I. being bad further speculates how valid their claims are. 
 The A. I. are some of the best of this generation. They don't flank? I want to see these jokers 
 play the game on veteran and make them a bet they can't beat the game within 8 hours. 
  
  Variety - Killzone 2 doesn't have variety in enemy units? Apparently those who haven't played the 
 game can only go by what reviewers say. Oddly enough, if anyone has even played the game, they 
 would know that the enemy doesn't come in different shapes, just uniforms which is what I think, 
 the point Kevin was trying to make. Each uniform promotes a different form of action. The regular 
 foot soldier is the basic grunt: does cover mechanics, rushes from time to time and lobs grenade 
 while taking pot shots and blind fire. The lighter foes with the submachine guns rush and try to 
 knife you. The 4-eyed freaks are a bit tougher to bring down and carry a shotgun. Heavies = mid-boss. 
 There are several others in different scenarios that look different in uniform. Point being, you 
 can't expect some kind of alien unit to pop out. In Call of duty, did you see any aliens in that 
 game? Multiplayer may not have all of the mode types that some other shooters have, but it lets 
 you stream all of the types together for one match, name a game that can do that besides resistance 
 2.
  
  Story and Characters - sure, anyone can keep talking about how lame the story and it's characters 
 are. But, what do you expect of a game about war? The characters swear a lot, but the dialogue 
 and the witty bantering is still enough to give the game some sort of amusement. Story is pretty 
 simple, which is why there is so much bashing going about. You're given a reason to invade Helghast, 
 and you're there to take down Visari. What more do you need to kill Helghast? Maybe if square-enix 
 decides to make an fps, you might be able to find a decent story... Oh yeah, FF7-DoC was a third 
 person shooter. It has a pretty good story...
  
  Lasting appeal - This game will be played online until the next Killzone arrives... that's all 
 I have to say.
  
  Last note: Bottom line this game borrows many ideas from the table, but to just see that is obviously 
 misleading. It takes those ideas and creates a game that is fun (which is the point) and will keep 
 PS3 owners playing for hours, if not months. This game has undoubtedly set the standard for shooters 
 as many have said, and as an endnote, please, don't review the game if you haven't played it. I 
 can already see people doing a rebuttal and saying, but we've played the game, so we're not entitled 
 to our own opinions? Never said that. Just don't make it so obvious that other readers can tell 
 you're just repeating what others have said about the game on a general and vague basis, instead 
 of citing specifics. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankodefense
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic for a lot of reasons. The graphics are easily the #1 reason to own this 
 game. This is not a knock on the other aspects about the game but more so a complement for how 
 terrific the graphics are. The sound is a little quite, especially for online play (but I usually 
 play on mute anyway so I personally don't care) . 
  I am not far enough into the story to agree or disagree with gamespots review stating that the 
 story is weak (I am working on the third mission) but so far I am loving the single player campaign. 
 
  The online multiplayer is a mix of Warhawk and Resistance. It takes some of the game modes from 
 Warhawk and adds the fast paced action of Resistance. This combination forms a fantastic online 
 experience.
  Now on to the controls. Too many people are hating on these controls and I do not understand why. 
 I got the demo from EBgames about a month ago and after the second time I played through the demo 
 I had the controls down pat. This means it took about 20 minutes to figure out the controls. It 
 took me a hell of a lot longer to figure out the CoD4 controls to a point where I was comfortable 
 enough to play successfully online. So put your CoD: WaW game down for a couple days. Run through 
 some of the campaign. Then hit up some online and shut up. The controls for this game are fine. 
 Just because they did not steal CoD's control scheme does not mean the controls suck. It may take 
 others longer to get used to the controls than it did me, but stick it out because you will be 
 rewarded with a fantastic gaming experience.
  To be honest, I am not sure why I am giving this game a 9 and not a 10. I have very little negative 
 things to say about this game but I can not say this game is perfect just yet. Maybe once I have 
 played through the campaign. If it stays as much fun as it has been so far I will be adjusting 
 my score.
  Bottom line is buy this game. It is a must own for all PS3 owners and if you are thinking about 
 buying a PS3 for this game but are being deterred from it because of all the complaints of the 
 controls don't let a couple mistaken people alter your decision. This is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -excellent graphics and environments
  -great animations
  -solid multiplayer
  -nice sound effects
  
  The Bad:
  -clunky controls
  -not enough weapons
  -no offline co-op
 
  -terrible voice acting
  
  Before the original Killzone's release, it was hailed as the answer to the god of shooters, Halo. 
 While it was a functional shooter, nothing set it apart from the pack except being way too overhyped.
 
  
  Not willing to back down, Guerilla continued with their franchise, starting with a solid PSP title, 
 and now a game that could be called Sony's biggest flagship title this generation. After playing 
 Killzone 2, I'm grateful that Guerilla didn't throw in the towel after their initial failure.
 
  
  The game begins with an epic cinematic, with a defiant Visari, the Helghast dictator, lashing out 
 against the ISA. The Helghast have been wronged by the ISA, and have turned to a charismatic warhawkish 
 dictator to have their justice. It is a decent story that would be nice to expand upon. Unfortunately, 
 it merely stagnates enough to hint at a sequel.
  
  The player is introduced to his character, Sev, and his friend Garza as they prepare to descend 
 on Helghan. The player is able to see the heroe's face and hear him speak, which is rather rare 
 in an FPS. Though the voice acting for both characters, as well as the rest of their squad is mediocre 
 at best, it's a nice break from the mute, faceless hero of most shooters.
  
  From the moment that the squad leaves for the planet's surface in their flimsy open-roof hovercraft, 
 the player is immediately introduced to the intensity of the game. Other crafts are destroyed by 
 flak cannons as Alpha squad nears the surface. When the action starts, allies are shot down in 
 their trenches or set aflame. This only marks the beginning of an intense shooter that never lets 
 up.
  
  As Alpha Squad pushes farther into Helghan's capital, they run into an entrenched enemy desperately 
 defending their home. Pyrrhus City is mostly industrial complexes and slums, with few decorative 
 buildings. The gravity on Helghan is powerful and the atmosphere supports little life. The residents 
 have visibly evolved in response to this, with bulkier bodies and pale skin. When the squad makes 
 its second trip to the surface, another landing craft is destroyed by lightning harnessed by a 
 special gun that harvests the hazardous elements of the planet. The chaotic battles and gritty 
 environment make the campaign of Killzone 2 especially memorable.
  
  Graphically, Killzone 2 is among the best, both technically and artistically. The bleakness, combined 
 with a brilliant mix of film grain and saturation give this game a distinct feel.
  
  Combat in this game can be satisfying and frustrating. There is a bit too much input lag and most 
 firefights don't really have the intensity of some of the other shooters out there. The annoying 
 controls make long-distance firefights a little too tedious, but if you're able to look past that, 
 the close-quarters fighting is gripping and intense. Players seeking a traditional run-and-gun, 
 however, should look elsewhere. Whoever does not utilize the cover mechanic of this game do so 
 at their own peril. The enemy is tough, numerous, and you are easily wounded. The entirely first-person 
 cover system is done rather well, with the exception of most guns looking like cardboard cut-outs 
 while behind cover. Though that mechanic can also grow cumbersome, it makes it so that when you 
 do score a kill, it becomes much more satisfying than in most shooters. 
  
  Sound-wise, Killzone 2 is also pretty much a grab bag. The Helghast chatter and propaganda is interesting 
 to listen to, as it does enhance the atmosphere of the game. When using the flamethrower on the 
 Helghast, I found their screams convincing and saddening. For a moment, the combat in Killzone 
 2 made me think of warfare in a way I never had before. I wish Guerilla had kept that up, but unfortunately 
 the dialogue from your allies is painful in a very different way to listen to. From the moment 
 I first heard Rico, the squad leader speak, I wished he was dead. The unconvincing, testosterone-filled 
 speech is just pathetic. If the voice acting in Gears of War irked you, this will just be downright 
 pathetic.
  
  Multiplayer in Killzone 2 is rather standard-issue, but is certainly worth checking out. Players 
 can choose 8, 16, or 32 player games with a good variety of objectives and maps. There are some 
 problems, however: the lack of variety in weapons makes progression a lot less interesting than 
 it was in Call of duty 4, and there's definitely some problems with the scaling of game length. 
 If you play the standard death match in a 32-player game, you'll be lucky to get in two or three 
 kills before the match ends. Deathmatches can still be enjoyable, but I would recommend playing 
 them in small or medium groups of players. There is, of course, a sense of competition, but fortunately 
 not like in Halo 3. There are leaderboards and virtual rewards and the like, but no achievements 
 that are nearly impossible to get. Though Killzone 2's multiplayer doesn't bring much to the table, 
 competitive online players should certainly check it out. One other note: unfortunately, there 
 is no offline co-op, which is a shame.
  
  Despite Killzone 2's various problems, any and all FPS fans will find themselves completely immersed 
 in the game's intense action that never lets up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  More than four years ago, "Killzone" was released to much disappointment. Initially, the press 
 had dubbed it a "Halo" killer due to its early screenshots and gameplay ideas. However, I believe 
 Guerilla Games just wanted to deliver a really good game, not a groundbreaking one. Unfortunately, 
 the game was plagued by technical bugs, glitches and a horrible framerate. On top of that, the 
 campaign wasn't too thrilling. It was long and repetitive without much enemy variety, or solid 
 A. I. Online was decent, but nothing too special.
  
  Fast forward to a few days before March 1st, 2009 and their sequel matches up to the original ambition. 
 The gameplay may not be innovative, but it's fun and that's what counts. Visually, it's nothing 
 like the original "Killzone" in the sense that the graphics actually hold up. No bugs, glitches 
 and more importantly, NO SLOWDOWN!! And unlike the first, this one really does put you in the hotzone 
 of war. Like "Gears of War", it is visceral and bloody and doesn't hold back when it comes to fast 
 thrills. But it's too bad it's not co-op, that would've really been special. The pop n' stop gunplay 
 is right out of "Gears", but the chrome-like visuals easily recalls "Black".
  
  The online modes are very much like the original's except the ranking system recalls of "Call of 
 Duty 4". The more you play, the more you earn in weapons, customization and modes. It's great fun, 
 but nothing groundbreaking. Again, this isn't up with Infinity Ward's best, but it's enjoyable 
 and that's something I can't say of the first "Killzone", which was good, but flawed. Personally, 
 I think this along with "Resistance 2" prove that finally the Sony PlayStation can hold up with 
 XBOX in terms of great shooters. Oh, yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTR_FX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - I guess its similar to COD, but with it own style. Your character feels heavy, aiming 
 takes skill, enemies are pretty smart, weapons feel great. Only wish the response was faster, being 
 realistic doesn't have to make it feel sluggish. The ps3's joystick don't have that much resistance 
 to them, so aiming is a little difficult, but shouldn't ruin your experience. Cover system works 
 fine, the physics are amazing, its amazing the watching sh*t fly from an explosion, the animation 
 is unlike anything i've seen in a FPS, enemies just don't fall down and die, the animation is very 
 realistic. The Multiplayer side of the game is just heavenly. (Join SWAG)
  
  Graphics - Where do I begin, KZ2 is easily one the best looking games I played, textures are great, 
 best lighting I've ever seen, draw distance is impressive, and the atmosphere is perfect.
  Im not going to go as far as to say the its best looking console game though. Character models 
 are lacking, there is an over use of motion blur. Some of the effects are rendered at lower resolution, 
 an example would be the fire effects and flames from the flamethrower. And higher frame rate would 
 not have hurt.
  
  The story and voice acting is decent, though alot times I do feel their is excessive swearing, 
 alot of times its not needed. The enemy and level design is great, Helgast and Helghan were very 
 well designed. 
  
  If you own a ps3 you are doing a great disservice to your ps3 and yourself by not playing KZ2.
 
  
  Play it.................... nao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stooge55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have to start with visuals because that is the first thing that obviously many people notice 
 in a game. They are absolutely the best graphics ever for a fps and any game in general, so far. 
 The polygons in the environment and the weapons and action in motion are crisp and clean feeling, 
 even with the gritty, dark setting, it contributes more to a realistic war zone. It feels very 
 cinematic. The smoke and fire effects are not overdone and neither are the dark and shadowy areas, 
 even though the shadows and dark vicinities are frequent, which was what I was afraid of as I became 
 hyped for this game. The frame rate wasn't a problem because it only dropped for a second or two 
 while the levels loaded or auto saved. However, the character models to me weren't as topnotch 
 as the ones in MGS4. The physics in this game are great. Nothing feels cheaply done and I love 
 the weight of the game. People can naturally only jump so high and with all the armor, people tend 
 to jump less as high and move slower. Many would argue it sucks, but it feels unique and realistic. 
 Wouldn't you want to be as protected as possible during battles? To me the realistic feel in this 
 shooting game was added by the way bullets can knock off and wear down the enemies' armor, helmets 
 flying off, and the blood wasn't excessively done. Which was a really good thing to me, its nothing 
 like mortal kombat where every punch causes a bucket of blood to spill out of the enemy. The controls 
 at first were awkward but then I figured out I could change them to my preference, that was when 
 I enjoyed the game at its most. Any one that feels the game does not achieve greatness because 
 of the controls is either a fanboy or really sucks at playing the game because it's not like Call 
 of Duty. I started the middle difficulty for the campaign and even then the helghast seemed intelligent. 
 They seemed clever in their tactics and when I died and had to do the same part again, the fights 
 never felt the same, the impressive AI kept it fresh. I have to disagree with gamespot, the sixaxis 
 controls did not feel tacked on, I found them to be clever and more enjoyable than simply tapping, 
 or pressing a button or rotating the analog stick to achieve the same result. Just to add, this 
 game does support your own music to be played while playing the game itself. I haven't payed much 
 attention to the music but when I did I found it really contributed to the warlike, cinematic experience 
 presented. It flows with all the sound effects that grip you in an interesting way: explosions, 
 gunshots and the screams of pain. To end my review, I have to say the story is kind of lame and 
 somewhat cliched, I love games with good stories and this didn't deliver in that department, but 
 the online more than compensates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denveraic
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to right a long review on this game, but I'll get some points across. This is a pretty 
 good game. But it is not what it is supposed to be, and it is a huge let down. This game does nothing 
 that every other shooter hasn't done. The gameplay is the standard gun em down. The one area that 
 is different, is the enemies hide the hole time. You fire at them, and they cover up. You don't 
 just spray bullets, you pick your shot, and conserve ammo. If you just fire away you will hit nothing, 
 No, it's not great A. I. like everyone wants you to believe. It's just the way this game works. 
 They aren't smart, they don't outsmart you. They don't use strategy. They cover, and fire. No plans, 
 they don't flank. It's none of that. That really disappointed me, this game was billed as very 
 smart in terms of A. I. Including your partner. That is probably the most irritating part of the 
 game. I cannot stress how annoying your partner/squadmate is, they stand in your way, and block 
 you constantly. Say someone tosses a grenade at you, and you need to move, NOPE, you turn around, 
 and there he is, blocking you from getting out. Same in fire fights, any situation, there that 
 idiot is. The A. I. was supposed to be great, and it's the same as every other game. The creators 
 basically played it up, but it's a lie.
  
  Controls. The other terrible element of this game. They are horrible. and they don't make sense. 
 To zoom in, you are stuck using the Right analog stick, instead of the obvious choice, the left 
 trigger. This really is a pain, and it feels terrible. Pretty much all of the controls are clunky. 
 I was hoping I would get use to the controls, but it became obvious, that wasn't going to happen, 
 it wasn't me, the controls just suck.
  
  Graphics. Very nice. Not anything we haven't seen in our top games, but as good as any game out 
 there. The cutscenes are better then say a Gears of War and as good as any game you can think of. 
 The in game graphics are as good as any shooter for the most part. Done pretty nice, they are some 
 glitchy enemy deaths, but what game doesn't? They are some sputtering moments in the game, maybe 
 the framerate drops a little. But this game is very nice on the eyes. The environments are very 
 nice and detailed. The overall style reminds me of gears, it's dark and grimy, blood splatters 
 on your screen when you get hit. 
  
  Sound. The sound in some areas is very good. Others not as sharp. The actual fire fights sound 
 great, guns have never sounded more realistic in a game. Epic music plays during battles, adding 
 depth. The only issue I have with the sound is in game conversations between yourself and your 
 squad mates, often times what they are saying is faint and you can't make it out. This isn't the 
 first game to have that problem, Resistance 2 had that, but much worse then this.
  
  Overall a good game, but the controls really hold this game back from being awesome in my book. 
 I can't look past them. Less then great A. I. can be very irritating. Graphics are great. Solid, 
 but not what I had hoped for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eprohtd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought Killzone 2 today... What a masterpiece! I didn't really know what to expect as I never 
 played on the original Killzone. The graphics are tremendous and there is a real sci-fi atmosphere 
 with the lightning skis and the glowing red eyes of the opposition. The characters can sometimes 
 by confusing as they are not easily remembered. The gunfights are perfect length and there is a 
 good variety of weapons. The only slight annoyance is that at least once in every mission, the 
 game relies on you to move your 'SIXAXIS' controller to activate charges of turn wheels. This can 
 be quite confusing but is easy to get used to. The aiming down the sights of the gun can be a little 
 awkward but eventually you will get used to it.
  
  Anyone not sure whether to buy this game... BUY IT! It is one of the best (if not the best) FPS 
 (first person shooters) on the PS3. I would go as far to say that it even better the CODs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfaxD_Centauro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Another revolutionary Game, 4 Years and $60 Millions.
  
  Sony and Guerrilla made a great job. 
  
  Using 60% of Perfomance (the Processor) . 
  
  The 
 Campaign is very good, just the Controls, is different, because the weapons are more heavy (others 
 FPS like Call of Duty the weapons are not heavy and is more easy and unrealistic) .
  
  Multiplayer, Very good Support, again, Very Good Servers without lag with 32 Players. The difference 
 is that you can move more lighter. And is intense, good voice communication, Ranks, Trophies (some 
 very challenging)
  
  And Audio, very good Design, now, you can play it with 7.1 Surround Sound, is amazing.
  
  And 
 Graphics, everyone knows that is the best, very good Artistic and Technical Graphics.
  
  I tough Halo 3 or Resistance 2 was the best FPS on Multiplayer, now, it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all don't be swayed by the low reviews some people gave it, the majority are great 
 high scoring reviews, especially by the professional magazines, websites, ect. Now, you need to 
 get this game. Buy killzone 2. It's off the charts insane...
  
  The single player will never bore you. You know how you get a shooter and you think.. well, i might 
 give the single player a shot then i'm straight off to multiplayer. Guess what, I gave the single 
 player a shot, and I never was able to stop. The single player is gripping, fun, brutal, atmospheric, 
 and offers plenty of replay value. It's definitely a huge part of the game, and i love it. 
  
  The multiplayer is insanely crazy and fun. So much to do, so much to unlock, so much to work 
 for. Never a dull moment in multiplayer. It will instantly switch objectives in the middle of a 
 multiplayer game to keep things moving on. It's authentic and smart.
  
  The graphics in this game.. I mean, you guys have seen the gameplay, you've seen the previews. 
 But in the game, with the things that happen.. These graphics are, to me, by far the best graphics 
 i've ever seen in my entire life, which is big. They're just beautiful graphics. The lighting is 
 near perfect, you get a sense of heaviness when walking, everything just feels right and looks 
 right.
  
  If there are a few bad things, it would be... 1) the controls are like a normal shooter, but a 
 little altered. This isn't really a BAD thing, but it just takes time to get used to, maybe 30 
 minutes.. 2) ummmmmm, to tell you the truth i can't really think of another bad thing that i noticed 
 or didn't like.. So there you go.
  
  This game is a masterpiece, just as my classification suggests. It's a ton of fun, it's beautiful, 
 it has plenty of replay value, and it's original. This game is a must buy, worth the 64$ and change. 
 They've been working on this game for a while guys, and they've just about perfected it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maclehot
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the reasons I gave myself when I bought my PS3 about a year ago. My favorite 
 type of games are FPS and this and resistance were exclusives on the PS3 I had to play. I am hardcore 
 FPS fan as I enjoy everything from Halo, Resistance and Crysis. So I don't favor any platforms. 
 So If you are reading don't think I am just a 360 fanboy, because my PS3 collection is as great 
 as my 360's. The controls and weapons are Killzone2's greatest pitfalls. I was convinced I would 
 get used to the so called "lag" in the control after 30 minutes into the game but unfortunately 
 it has been 5hours and 47minutes and I just can't take it anymore. Weapons are very nice to look 
 at and shoot with but the accuracy is terrible headshots do not feel like headshots. Melee feels 
 like you are politely pushing the enemy. The game loads relatively quick presentation of the game 
 is nice. Now the graphics are what is selling this game, but I notice a dramatic change in texture 
 and overall look of the game when it transitions from cut scene to gameplay. The level design is 
 great but less then average gameplay makes it pointless. I will not complete this game because 
 I am at the point where I will need to take some painkillers to avoid the headaches Killzone2 is 
 giving me. So go ahead and say I am shouldn't score a game without spending at least 10+ hours 
 on it, I think If I had to spend more time on it the score would lower. So I end it now with a 
 unsatisfied 6.0 and will return it today before it loses its return value at ebgames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  (warning: opinions stated. May offend some fanboy readers.)
  
  If you dont know my review style, skip to the bottom of the page if you just want the qualitative 
 points.
  
  Picked it up release day and started off. I played the demo so I was a bit desensitized to the 
 visuals but, man, on my 720p TV it looked so good that it hurt (hurt so good, cmon baby make it...) . 
 Anyway, ran through most of the campaign, am at a final boss fight that is giving me frustration 
 so I moved onto the multiplayer. Now, I was a Warhawk addict in months past, put maybe 250 hours 
 into it, so believe me when I say, this multiplayer is very addictive. There are a few small issues, 
 hiccups, or simple glitches but they are quite minor and do not detract from the overall strength 
 of this game. Guerrilla put their heart and soul into this game and it shows, I am very impressed. 
 Killzone 2 has set a new bar of FPS excellence.
  
  Onto the actual review. 
  
  Graphics: (10/10) Do not let anyone else sway your judgment, this game looks stunning. I bet even 
 on a SDTV it would look pretty slick. There is camera blur giving everything a sense of depth and 
 perspective. Gun design and level design breaks the mold in a good way creating a believable yet 
 gritty universe that this is taking place in. There is atmosphere in this game more than I have 
 ever seen. Look at the screenshots, play the game for yourself. These are arguably the best graphics 
 in recent history and most probably the best graphics of any console game to date.
  
  Gameplay: (8/10) My qualms are here more than anywhere. I am not talking about the controls being 
 sluggish, which I think was a stupid claim to begin with. The controls give this game weight which 
 may take some getting used to, your character seems to be encumbered by the gear he is wearing 
 and the guns are rewarding and responsive when fired. If you are moving and trying to shoot anything 
 and grenades are pitched at wacky angles. I think my favorite gun is the mounted MG, nothing more 
 comfortable or powerful than this, it just feels right somehow. The hitches in this game are merely 
 nitpicking. The cover system has a few small bugs, there are brief pauses for loading, you can 
 clip into your teammates and enemies, and some parts are frustratingly difficult. Still that is 
 tiny in comparison to the obvious work that went into achieving this game/engine.
  
  Sound: (10/10) Can't say much more than; "wow, its war." Guns, explosions, dieing cries, vehicles 
 streaking low overhead, wind whipping cloth and wire hangings, crumbling structures... I could 
 go on but I do not need to, it could be beating a dead horse.
  
  Conclusion (9.5/10) I only have to say this about the multiplayer; if you play it you will love 
 it or hate it. It is difficult to get used to, some players are obviously much more skilled than 
 you and you start off with only a few weapons but, again, nitpicking. Its fun and rewarding, the 
 unlockables are many and helpful, the team/squad system is very logical. Fun fun fun multiplayer. 
 In my opinion this whoops warhawk hands down (even though I still own/play/love warhawk) .
  
  Thanks for the read, I hope you found it enjoying and informative. If I failed to mention anything 
 please PM me. If you are adverse to my opinions stated in this article you may go suck a duck. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  I'm still formulating my final opinion but here's my impressions so far. Obviously the graphics 
 are great if you haven't heard. They look just as good in multiplayer as in the campaign mode. 
 There were moments when I was observing enemies from afar and it just looked so realistic. The 
 sense of depth perception is amazing, as is the shading and lighting effects.
  I had to really mess with a controller setup that worked for me though. I think alternate 2 is 
 one most people will be familiar with, especially if you played any of the CoD games.
  One thing that bothered me a lot at first was this apparent feeling of controller lag that I noticed. 
 It almost seems as if you move the controller stick and your cross hairs are a split second behind 
 your movement. This caused me to over aim and generally have a hard time getting my sights on target. 
 Now I'm reading that this was an intended feature that's supposed to kind of slow the game's pacing 
 down a bit. It kind of forces you to crouch or at least stop moving and set up your shots a bit 
 more. If you try to run around like a madman , spraying and praying you ain't gonna hit jack. It's 
 taking me some getting used to, and I really hated it at first but I can sort of appreciate their 
 motivation for doing it this way. It's just that right now I have very little confidence that I 
 can actually hit my target when I see him. But for me this isn't a game breaker, its just something 
 that I'll have to adjust to.
  I wish they had added a lobby feature as well so you could group up with your buddies then join 
 a match. It's pretty easy to find your friends and join their game but there's a good chance you'll 
 wind up on the other team.
  At least your friends can create a game and you can play against them and still earn xp.
  When 
 you begin multiplayer you'll start off with almost nothing except for the two assault rifles. As 
 you rank up you'll unlock an smg and a shotgun. Then the ability to play as a medic, and then an 
 engineer, which can set up stationary turrets that will blast any baddies that come by. After that 
 I'm not sure what order the classes come in as I haven't gotten there yet.
  
  So far I've had plenty of fun with the game. Some of the controls and the overall feel of the controls 
 came as a bit of a shock though, but nothing most shooter fans won't be able to adjust to. I'm 
 pretty happy with it all in all. Just stick with it and it seems to get better and better as you 
 rank up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyjunxix
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:07 am PT
Review:  I know Killzone 2 is a stunner but I never expected it to be this awesome. When I first put in 
 the game on my PS3 I think I already know what to expect because I've already seen to much trailers 
 here in Gamespot but to the awesomeness of Killzone 2 my jaw drops for the first time and that's 
 just by witnessing the graphics. Its so life like and I never seen any character movement like 
 this in a game, they just move so fluidly like they could come out of the screen any moment. I 
 felt my head floating just by looking how gorgeous this game really is and realize it just there 
 how powerful the PS3 really is because of Killzone 2. And that's only the visual side of Killzone 
 2. The gameplay is so intense and epic and the AI of this game is the smartest in gaming history 
 it feels like your fighting against real human contender and you will have the feeling that their 
 actually thinking and talking with each other and strategize on how to take you out. For those 
 who already got their copy of Killzone 2, suffice to say that it already blow your mind. For those 
 who says negative comment about Killzone 2, we all know that you are all a liar who didn't even 
 play Killzone 2 or a disgrace to the world of video games because all you've done is solely to 
 annoy other users, instead of acknowledging the good games and give good recognitions to the great 
 developers who make a masterpiece that will set a new standard for FPS so the video game world 
 will evolve more.
  The online play is top notch. The modes on multiplayer are standard but the most impressive thing 
 that's been done here is that by stringing all the typical modes in to a single match is what makes 
 Killzone 2's online from great standard modes which are typical in FPS unto an amazing, just by 
 stringing all the typical modes unto one single match.
  But for me unlike on other reviews, the single player campaign is the heart of Killzone 2. The 
 campaign is just epic and this is the right way to judge or to review a game is through its single 
 player campaign because this is the heart and soul of a game. Online features are just a bonus 
 on a game. My only wish is that the single player campaign will never end or at least longer. We 
 gamers owe it to ourselves to at least experience this masterpiece. Treat your self and buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdum_pshhh
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  The first thing that grabs your attention as soon as you start the campaign mode is how awesome 
 the graphics are, this is easily one of the best looking console games I've ever seen, not just 
 on a technical level, but artistically too. With it's sci-fi futuristic look in the ISA cruisers, 
 to the barren wastelands of Helghan the game always looks fantastic. Couple the amazing graphics 
 with an amazing soundtrack, a slick and easy menu interface and you have one of the most well presented 
 games to date.
  
  As well as the very good presentation, the gameplay in Killzone 2 is also top-notch. While it brings 
 in a few things such as a first person cover mechanic it doesn't really bring anything major innovations 
 the genre. This however, in Killzone 2 doesn't really seem to matter because what it does, it does 
 extremely well. All the weapons from the handguns, to the flamethrower to the powerful bolt gun, 
 all of them feel extremely satisfying, and what make it even better are the very realistic and 
 at times very funny death animations. There are tons of different animations which the Helghast 
 (which are extremely clever) respond with, depending what weapons you use, and where they get hit.
 
  
  Once you boot up the multi-player you'll be entered into the easy to navigate lobby system, or 
 you can go into your community, and stat options. The online multiplayer comes with the basic MP 
 options in most FPS out there such as team death match, search and destroy, search and retrieve, 
 capture and hold, and an assassination mode. There is also a new MP mode called Warzone, this mode 
 can be setup to link different game mode seamlessly where the objective of the match is switched 
 on the fly without ever going back to a lobby or menu of any kind. You can also have custom ranked 
 matches in which you can choose which maps to use, which classes are permitted, which weapons are 
 unlocked, and how many players etc. are open to the match.
  
  The multi-player also features extensive stat tracking (also available at killzone. com) and a detailed 
 ranking system which unlocks different classes, badges, and weapon stat upgrades as you progress. 
 The 7 classes are split up using a total of 7 primary and 7 secondary badges which you can mix 
 up to suit your own style of play. All in all, the MP mode in Killzone 2 is very enjoyable and 
 addictive, once you get into matches (especially warzone) you'll lose a lot of time, which you 
 probably won't realize while you're playing wither, and in my opinion there will be a very large 
 active community for a very long time. 
  
  All things considered Killzone 2 is a very fun game but not perfect, with the only negatives being 
 a short campaign which although has some incredible set pieces can be quite forgettable, it also 
 has en ending which has been very blatantly set up for a sequel, it has a weak story and provides 
 no real satisfaction after completing the single player campaign. However, the pros still heavily 
 outweigh the cons in this game.
  
  Final word: Killzone 2 is probably one of the most hyped games for the PS3 and in recent years 
 all starting with the now infamous CG trailer at Sony's 2005 E3 press conference.
  
  Do I think Killzone 2 has matched it's incredible amount of hype? Although incredibly close, the 
 ultimate answer is NO.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:37 am PT
Review:  First of all, i was very skeptical going in to buy this game. I thought all of the hype was overdone 
 and this game wasnt going to be as good as everyone was making it sound. However, let me tell you, 
 i was wrong! THIS GAME IS SIMPLY AMAZING! If you have a PS3, then this title is a must have!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Even though this game only displays up to 1080i, it has some of the 
 best graphics that i have ever seen in any video game. The opening scene is really amazing. My 
 jaw was dropped the whole time. Next to MGS4, this game has the best graphics of any video game 
 title.
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  The story is pretty good, although it can be developed a bit better. Also, for those of you wondering 
 if you had to have played the previous Killzones, dont worry. Nothing is confusing about the story, 
 Go ahead and buy this game if this is one of your worries.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  At first, i thought the controls were very hard to get used to since i had been playing CoD a lot. 
 But, the longer you play, the more you will get the feel for the controls and they will become 
 enjoyable. I was gonna change the controls to a "CoD type of setting" but i found that i didnt 
 need to after playing the first few levels of the campaign.
  
  Weapon Selection: 10/10
  
  Overall, just a great weapon selection. The weapons have a very life-like feel to them and 
 arent too over powerful. From snipers to flamethrowers, to your standard battle rifle, you wont 
 be disappointed here.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: 10/10
  
  Killzone 2 is simply amazing in this category. This game is worth the buy for the online alone. 
 There is full clan support and messaging. You can also take the battle offline and play against 
 bots. Online has a very good ranking system similar to that of the CoD games. The game modes are 
 very fun, and the maps are really nicely laid out. This game has the best online mode of any titles, 
 right up next to the CoD games.
  
  Synopsis:
  Overall, Killzone 2 is just an amazing game! If you have a PS3, then you have to get this game. 
 The online play, the amazing graphics, and the fantastic campaign will supply hours of fun to you. 
 GET THIS GAME!!! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlinedaddy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  If you DON'T buy this game and YOU OWN A PS3 you're an idiot. THIS GAME surpasses the hype. I got 
 baggy eyes for playing it so long because I could NOT put it down , it is truly the most intense 
 game to come out since the original HALO. MAXIMUM KICK ASS AWARD GOES TO GUERILLA GAMES , job well 
 done.
  
  Sad thing is all the other software companies will have to match the quality of this game which 
 won't be an easy task by any means.
  
  For those upset about slower controls , lets face it , in real life guns have weight and there 
 is a little thing called gravity. I am very impressed with new GAMESPOT editors for there brutal 
 honesty and non bias , another award goes to GAMESPOT for their editors.
  
  And for you bias pc owners "chill" , I build computers and have CRYSIS running at highest setting 
 with all details on full AND still there ARE certain things that look better on KILLZONE 2 like 
 it or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Simply put this game is worth the money. It has beautiful graphics, some of the best I have seen. 
 The online is a blast to play though the lack of some options is disappointing.
  
  Warzone, where you play several games types against another team is an orginal idea. You go from 
 one type to another seemlessly, there is no respawn or loading. Once one game type is done, you 
 immediately start the next. Which ever team wins the most, wins the entire match. 
  
  Unfortunately, Warzone brings my biggest complaint. If you just want to play one game type, say 
 BodyCount, you cannot set a time limit or a kill amount. If someone is hosting a BodyCount only 
 game, the games literally last only 5 minutes. You spend just as much time going to the next map 
 as you do playing. You should be allowed to change this.
  
  What's even more annoying to me is that you cannot play an offline game against bots for just one 
 mission type. You have to play an entire match with all mission types. This is one area where Gears 
 of War 2 has it beat, GOW2 allows you to setup the specific game type you want to play as well 
 as the victory conditions.
  
  Killzone 2 has GOW2 beat in several areas. The bot AI in KZ2 is 10 times smarter than the one in 
 GOW2. You will not see the AI in KZ2 killing themselves with the big weapons and you won't see 
 them just standing there doing nothing. 
  
  The graphics in KZ2 are nothing short of beautiful, the surrounding effects like lightning in the 
 sky or sand blowing across the ground add a lot to the immersion.
  
  The weapons that I have used so far don't work as well as I would like but I am hoping this will 
 change as I rank up. I have more trouble killing guys that are standing right next to me than the 
 guys I can zoom in on 300 feet away. Also, the fact you start off with just 1 grenade is annoying, 
 though you get more as you rank up.
  
  This game has a lot to offer and certainly has enough replay value to justify the purchase. While 
 I wouldn't buy a system just for one game, this game would push you over the edge if you are even 
 close to thinking about buying a PS3. 
  
  You owe it to yourself to try this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andele77
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  I hate how ppl complain about it "bringing nothing new"... WTF? did you want unicorns shooting rainbows 
 out their ass? its a first person shooter and a hell of a good one. Also dont give the game crap 
 for its controllers, not every shooter is gona let you jump around a like a girl while shooting 
 making it retarded when playing online. There is nothing more annoying than playing a game like 
 resistance 2 or halo and having some dude jump up and down while shooting you...... and if its 
 the button layout you dont like... then change it? sorry ppl r just stupid. NOW for the review, 
 I gave it a nine because of the story mode... its fun and all but it doesn't top others like MGS4. 
 buuuut if I was only to rate this for the multiplayer then it would have got a 10 easyyyyy. The 
 online is so freaking good. Its hard to review the online just because it brings so much to the 
 table. so if your not a puss bag.... go get this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has many brilliant points about it, but the most obvious are the graphics. I have never 
 witnessed intense, clear graphics like Killzone 2 has to offer ever before. Every level is beautifully 
 designed and really makes it look like a warzone. The lighting effects are amazing, especially 
 with all the lightning raging above you. The cutscenes look very realistic and make you feel part 
 of the action.
  The opponent AI is also very good, with them taken cover effectively and proving at times, quite 
 tough. The voices also have the evil influence of the helghast.
  The weapons provide good variety, but unfortunately you can only carry 1 main assault weapon and 
 a pistol. However you will be switching regularly anyway with so many to try out. From the combat 
 shotgun to the bolt gun (that sticks enemies to walls) , there will be good bloody effects with 
 each.
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 5/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 4/5
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 3/5
  
  Good Points: Absolutely 
 amazing graphics, Great weapons, Level design, enemy and teammate AI, Great Multiplayer game, Feels 
 like your in the action.
  
  Bad Points: Enemies are tough and there is loads of them, Can be frustrating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  Stunning visuals and great surround sound would seem to make an immersive experience, but the story 
 is so intangibly connected and the characters are so forgettable it makes you wonder what the purpose 
 of your mission is.
  
  You start with a set of fantastic cinematics and are straight away into the action. The graphics 
 will instantly blow you away. But past this you'll notice very familiar gameplay mechanics, with 
 a cover system, typical aiming controls and similar weapons. There are some six-axis parts, however, 
 but these feel slightly tacky.
  
  The most noticeable aspect of the gameplay is the controls. Moving your player around, they will 
 move at a slower rate to begin with and then increase in their turning speed. This also applies 
 to the aiming, making it frustrating and a long time to get use to. This also makes for a slower 
 pace to the game, rather than a typical run and gun shooter, such as Call of Duty. This is not 
 helped with the enemies taking a peculiarly large amount of bullets to die.
  
  The campaign isn't particularly long, but there are 4 separate difficulties and there are some 
 varieties in the gameplay, such as tank sections and large enemies. The guns feel realistic but 
 it is annoying only being able to hold one main gun at a time. Overall, it is full of action, but 
 the severe lack of story and originality make for a lackluster and underwhelming experience.
  
  Playing online, you can join battles with up to 32 players and can choose your own set of guns 
 or select a class, such as medic, scout etc. Cover is not allowed in online and adds to the flow 
 of the game but the unusually aiming and the large amount of bullets needed to kill an opponent 
 still remains. There are a handful of maps, but they lack a certain polish, making for a pretty 
 ordinary online mode.
  
  With the many stunning screen shots and videos that were shown pre-release, it looked as though 
 Killzone 2 would be one of the best shooters this gen. However, with no originality whatsoever, 
 frustrating aiming and a poor story, Killzone 2 turned out to be, despite its wonderful visuals, 
 a very bland and ordinary first person shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasbezzun
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  im not really a fan of fps but killzone 2 make me want to start play them!! killzone 2 is a very 
 addictive fps and multiplayer make u want to never stop playing, killzone 2 start the multiplayer 
 saga like halo but this time on ps3 and its works great as multiplayer online! the visuals is the 
 best i ever seen, the graphics are very very nice and the guns looks real and shiny, the water 
 looks like real, the gameplay is very good and better then crysis game. the guns are amazing and 
 the explosions are amazing too and when the buildings fall its superb u will be impressed!!! the 
 game is not short and will keep u playing for long time with all difficulties + online
  
  If u own a ps3 and like fps play this game!! i see cod and halo and others but no one can stand 
 killzone in my opinion even killzone 1 was amazing imagine this now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehouser
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is a "Highly Intense Cinematic Drama" A pulse-pounding ride full o f hectic action & 
 drama, that puts you in the middle of an epic movie. The gameplay is accompanied by one of the 
 best soundtracks ever created for a game. This game is what HALO should have been and wishes it 
 could be. Its the ultimate HALO killer. And for those that have played the "Call of Duty" series 
 and you thought that was hectic & action-packed? Forget it! It pales in comparison to KILLZONE2.
 
  
  Everything pales in comparison.
  
  This game beautiful to look. I found myself gazing off at awesome billowing volumes of smoke fading 
 off into the horizon and suddenly found myself dead. Its easy to get caught up in the visuals while 
 trying to find a rocket launcher to destroy a tank bearing down on your team. Enemy AI is awesome, 
 don't think your going to lull the enemy to sleep or into a trap. They're thinking two steps ahead 
 of you.
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen ever. They are so good you can't tell the difference between 
 cut scenes, and actual gameplay. The one player campaign is so intense I have yet to put it down 
 to try multi-player, sorry if your looking for some mulitplayer info. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  I got it last night this is the best action shooter i've EVER played that includes Halo and call 
 of duty must have game highly recommended .
  This is one of the most impressive games I've played. frame rates are really smooth and the immersion 
 is better than any. Graphics are amazing , cinematics also. Multiplayer maps are reallly nice . 
 SOME OF THEM ARE HUGE. but i like them anywayt. of course all ps3 fps take the reference of COD4, 
 but this game is amazing just like the cod4, you know. intense gameplay and tactical gaming is 
 require for the single player mode. single player takes from 10 to15 hours but when you finish 
 the game, you gonna say... I played only 3 hours. jNOOOOOOOOOOOOOO. for killzone fans, this is 
 an amazing games. Sound details is awesome, 7.2 system it's amazing. so. enjoy it!! !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  All the hype behind this game could of been some what a negative to the game. To some maybe, But 
 this games hype was all true and yes this game delivered. You start off in the campaign looking 
 in to a Mirror, Nice. You then have a wonder around and a talk with a pal, Then next thing you 
 crashing with squad in a squad vehicle, Take in mind you crash on the ground coming from mid air, 
 Yes you are flying. Ok, The action starts and you already see the great fluid graphics with basically 
 no glitching in that department. One thing that has been a big talk on many forums concerning Killzone 
 2 is the fact that game feels 'Sluggish' or 'Laggy'. That is true if you want to be so tasteless, 
 This game is not like every other FPS where you can get a gun, Run, Jump and shoot every 5 seconds. 
 It takes some getting used to, You can also change the sensitivity of your controls if you do feel 
 the game is sluggish, You won't ever get rid of the movement 'lag' if you want, But you will find 
 it much better. But to be honest, It's not lag or Sluggish, Its realism. End of story. Now the 
 Campaign is fun, In no way boring and does not feel repetitive. Plus a bunch of trophies for those 
 who collect them, With a nice collection of weapons from Electric shocking guns! to Snipers to 
 whatever you can think. The Enemy A. I is quite intelligent, Very smart and does not walk in to 
 your bullets, They run and take cover like anybody would do. Its great in CQC when you can bash 
 them with your gun a few times and they will drop dead, Or you can shoot them then bash them, Its 
 a combo now. 
  The Campaign is great and fun, But the story itself isn't something I'd call Blockbuster. 
  
 
  Now the Online Multiplayer, This is where this game shines. Apart from the few errors some people 
 may of got while trying to play online, Which has now been patched, This games servers are pretty 
 much perfect. I can get a game very easy with no Disconnections and no lag in games either. The 
 selections of weapons are great, But at start you can choose between 2 of the great weapons provided, 
 Along with a grenade. As you progress online through unlocking Ribbons and doing what they say, 
 You can unlock things like, More grenades at spawn, More Ammo At spawn, And various other things. 
 It makes the game more rewarding if you ask me. In a lot of previous FPS shooters, Spawn Killing 
 was a big and annoying problem, But what do they do In Killzone 2? They rule it out. If someone 
 from the enemy team tries to camp on your Spawn Point, Your Teams AI Bot which is a machine with 
 guns, Will shoot them with ease. Its the same if you try and camp on their spawn, Obviously. The 
 Maps are simply amazing, I think I can play on each one without being bored, They are all so different 
 with fantastic design. Their is so much to unlock and talk about, Thats why its best to see it 
 for yourself. I could be here all day just talking about the unlockables. Overall this game is 
 one of the best games of all time, Easy in the top 10 for best fps games ever. You can not miss 
 this game, If you have a PS3 and some spare cash, Go grab it.
  
  Graphics - 10
  Gameplay - 9
  Weapons - 9
  Sounds - 9
  Campaign - 7
  Multiplayer - 9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachmagik
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The opening scene is just fantastic. It really brings out the emotion when Visari gives his speech, 
 even makes me want to play as a Helghast:) I booted the game, and went straight to multiplayer 
 to check it out. It is so much different than CODWAW which I've been playing since January, but 
 once you get used to the pace and what the objectives are, it is SO DAMN ADDICTING! The maps are 
 the most incredible I have seen. Dust storms, lightning flashing, an ominous dark sky... This is 
 Killzone. I am so happy for Guerrilla, the long journey they have had since revealing this game 
 and exceeding the expectations, this game is phenomenal. From graphics, especially the sound, and 
 the gameplay make this feel like such a different game in regards to the mood it presents. Move 
 over Call of Duty, there seems to be an up and coming star in the first person genre. Why am I 
 not playing this very instant?! See you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murso24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has a lot of great things going for it. certain points that make the game great, and 
 a few that short the game from perfection. as a Gamer, the user, everyone has gripes, and i'm not 
 one to nitpick, but they stand out.
  
  Graphics: great graphics is what makes a game attractive, and great to look at while playing. Killzone 
 2 is almost revolutionary in graphic detail. the lighting is amazing. the contrast from dark scenes 
 and the flash from the the guns, pop out. the. the blood splashing across the screen as you light 
 the helghast up. and over all, i've never seen a game (at least on a console) look this amazing. 
 in my opinion, it looks and feels better than crisis. the particle effects, the dust blowing and 
 explosions never looked so great. 
  
  Gameplay: its what makes the game. shooting someone never looked so good, so how does the game 
 match up in gameplay? the ability to take effective first person cover, is awesome. some people 
 say that its too sticky, but i never felt that all. it was very effective and is easy to use. the 
 rocking on the screen, makes it feel like you're looking through a camera, and sometimes it can 
 be difficult do to the slow sensitivity of the control. making turning to shoot someone a little 
 slower, but it does not take away from the great feel of the game itself. 
  
  part of gameplay is the modes the game delivers. i like the ability to add AI bots to the game, 
 making a private match possible. and the games modes being tied into one game, makes switching 
 from gametype easier than the likes of COD. 
  
  my biggest gripe about the game, is no split-screen. i love to play games with my friends and some 
 of my friends i like to play it on the same tv. thats frustrating. 
  
  multiplayer has never been more fun though. it looks great, great framerates throughout and multiple 
 game types in the same match are great also. 
  
  bottom line:
  
  The Graphics are amazing. the sound is amazing, and the gameplay is extremely satisfying. if they 
 added split-screen mode and added an ability to change the sensitivity to turn and move faster. 
 it would be a perfect 10. though the gripes dont take anything away from the game, there's room 
 for improvement. i'd like to see a Killzone 3. a great game, thats alot of fun and a "Blast" (pun 
 intended) to play. 9.5 is the final score due to the missing features. but i'd say, BUY THE GAME 
 ASAP, YOU WONT REGRET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORMOIST
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Highly addictive shooter with vast weapons to torture your opponent. Good visuals. Online 
 games seem to run smooth and are innovative in some ways.
  Cons- Although graphics are good, the still do not live up to PS3's graphic potential. Hard to 
 get used to the slow turning control scheme when compared to Call of Duty 4's quick control response. 
 Minor irritations: The word dialogue between characters in story modes are delayed and the story 
 itself is a bit cheesy compared to the Gears of War series.
  
  
  I recently picked up the new shooter, Killzone 2. Initially, I was pretty pleased with the guns 
 and other weaponry that used to blast away the bad guys. Reloading and recoil of the machine guns 
 were nice in addition to also owning dual shock3. The enviroments were also pretty nice with all 
 the dust that flies, explosions, and flags that flap in the wind on enemy territory. 
  Like most FPS games, KZ2 performs like a typical game of its caliber should. 
  My only complaint 
 about this game is that even as good as it is, it is somewhat outdated. Before I start, let me 
 say that I am a fanboy of all 3 "nex-gen" consoles. However, I must compare this game to 360's 
 Gears of War. Although KZ2 is 1st-person and GOW is in 3rd person, the 2 games reflect each other 
 in many ways with game play. KZ2 has kind of taken ideas from this GOW in ways that make the game 
 outdated such as: running mode where you speed up and your periphrial vision begins to blur, blood 
 splatters on the screen when you are damaged. Even the characters kind of have the feel of a armor-naked 
 COG soilder from Gears with their curse/swearing one-liners. For these things, I cannot forget 
 about how this game reminds me of a game I got near the 1 yr anniversary release of 360. Hey, maybe 
 Gears copied Sony's platform game years back before Gears was even released. Only problem, even 
 if that were true, Gears developers did their homework and got their game out quick. Killzone2 
 has been in the making for at least 3 yrs with their first amazing pre-rendered graphics of the 
 game at E3. Unfortunately, Gears enviroments, character designs, opponents, gameplay, and storyline 
 are still better. This is not a debate to declare that a 360 game is better. All I'm stating is 
 how "So-So" the game appears to me because I've been playing these "cookie-cutter" FPS in nex-gen 
 for a while now. This game should've been released years back to get maximum glory. However, Killzone 
 2 is definitely worth its 65 dollar purchase because its online session do put a new spin on some 
 of the online gameplay through missions. Bottom line: Killzone 2 is a great game that is an EVOLUTION 
 rather than a REVOLUTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michformer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  I got this game 10 days before the official release date, but I decided to wait for the official 
 release to review this AAA title. In a word: Fantastic. There are some flaws that keeps it from 
 being a perfect game, but it is the ONLY FPS honestly that rivals Halo (I love Halo) . First, the 
 visuals are amazing. From the gritty textures to the flying debris, you really feel that you are 
 a part of this war from a technical perspective. The gameplay is... unique and solid, if not a little 
 too realistic for the average gamer. The guns are fun to shoot and the cover system is very natural, 
 but good enough to rival Gears Of War's basic cover system. The campaign is 10 hours long and it 
 is very intense, so it's not too short nad offers slightly more punch than COD 4's campaign. The 
 multiplayer is awesome. 32 players can play online. You start basically suited, but as you rank 
 up, you get better equipment, better weapons and more experience. It's deep and really keeps you 
 on your toes. Killzone 2 might have some minor flaws, but, that doesn't stop it from being a near-perfect 
 achievement. It's the ultimate Halo rival that PS3 owners have been waiting for. Do yourself a 
 favor and buy this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Apart from the terrible storytelling. ugh. my skin crawls watching the story. its a good game. 
 well i did Enjoyed the 1st KILLZONE. and well. KILLZONE 2 is better. much better than the 1st.
 
  
  and yeah. this is no Call Of Duty. if you're the kind of people who'd Run and Gun and think that 
 this game would kick ass. you'd get it all wrong.
  
  the gameplay is all about REALISTIC WARFARE. where the soldier you're controlling is definitely 
 not your average FPS super-soldier. sides. the controller do not feel sluggish at all. its just 
 that the game is made that way. when you run, your maneuverability falls. as in, you cannot run 
 in mad circles like you can in Call of Duty. and when you aim. there's no Guide to keep your reticule 
 fix on the enemy. and when you jump. it feels so different. so i'd have to say. the game's pretty 
 realistic enough with many limitations to the Soldier.
  
  and the graphics. well. looks like its good. damn good actually. its the next best graphic looking 
 game after MGS4. and its good enough to make the PS3 lag. and cause hiccups here and there. and 
 hiccups is a lil bit unnecessary.
  
  then again. its a good game. really good game. its no Halo-Killer. and don't think that Halo is 
 a Killzone-Killer too. its a separate game. and Killzone is good enough as it is. and stop with 
 the Trolling Comparisons.
  
  PEACE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevaldefer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphic 8/10 It is good but i have seen better.
  Sound 9/10 
  Gameplay 7.5/10 
  
  I played so far, about 6 hours of none stop action, I got bored, trigger happy will be very please 
 with this game, but if you like tactical shooter stay away from this one or just rent it dont buy 
 it or do whatever you want with your money. 
  
  OK I have been waiting for this game so long to find out that I will sell it back very soon LOL 
 it is true
  
  AI is ok better than must of the shooter that ive tried.
  The story itself is not very immersive so far, too much fast pace and blowing around, The cinematic 
 at the begining is very good it take you right in but as soon as you start playing, wow I was like 
 what the ..... they did for the last 6 years or so.. Big let down for me, like most game since they 
 build the PS3
  
  I like realistic FPS so when you need to unload an entire clip to kill the enemy, well it is not 
 my cup of tea..
  
  I think giving a 9 out of 10 for this game is way too much and a 10 is not possible, just because 
 there is always room for improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanine_28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that the experiance was good but my over all reaction was.. well blaa. I'v been waiting 
 for a game that really shows off what next gen gaming is all about. I dident find it here with 
 Killzone 2 .Im am really disapointed . I wasent impressed at all. The controls are plaged with 
 issues . Its really hard to lkine up a head shot . Its a strugle and you wont get used to it . 
 The controls litteraly feel like there 1 sec delay in them. I mean come on. 1 sec delay, how could 
 they release a game thats been in production for 3 years and still have control issues.
  
  The Graphics are good but compared to whats all ready out there i was expecting more. I found that 
 the graphics looked like a crayon box filled with gray, brown, black and more gray puked all over 
 the screen. Very blaa generic graphics and colours. There is nothing vibrant about this game at 
 all. The lighting effects are good . 
  
  The main story has good acting in it but besides that i really walked away from this asking .. what 
 happend.
  
  Clearly there is a resetion and i can see that the game industry is desprately trying to sale magazine 
 and bump there hits on website , i know that this will effect game ratings but this game does not 
 deserve anything higher then a 7.5. 
  
  My advice absolutly do not buy this game until you have played the Demo.. Pls download the demo 
 first !! this will let you better understand what im talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 has to be the best game I have ever played! It is the best next-gen shooter out there. 
 The best part about it is the mulitplayer!
  
  The multiplayer is the best thing in Killzone 2! It's even better than the story 
  ( But the 
 story is good too ) and the graphics are just as good! The gameplay is great and the maps look 
 awesome! The game modes are great too and they pass from one to another seemlessly in one game. 
 Also, Killzone 2 supports full clan support and the ranking system is easy to follow!
  
  The other thing about Killzone 2 is the stroy. The story is not as good as the multiplayer but 
 it is still very good! There are many levels that carry the battle against the Hellgast smoothly 
 and the graphics are great! The combat is enjoyable with many big fights placed across every level 
 and the goals and objectives keep you going forward.
  
  Killzone 2 has to be one of the best FSP shooter ever made! I love it! Everything about it is awesome! 
 This is a must have game for any PS3 owner so go and get it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing, I was blown away. The game is, no doubt, the best shooter for the 
 PlayStation 3. Best of all, it's exclusive to the PS3. In my opinion, Halo is inferior to Killzone 
 2. Sure, Halo is a great shooter, but if I was given a choice to choose Halo and Killzone. Killzone 
 2 is it. Killzone 2 demonstrated how much power the PS3 has and it truly was worth the 4 years 
 wait even though I never heard of this game until E3 2008. 
  
  The Graphics are amazing. There's so much detail and I can't believe what I was seeing. The atmosphere 
 is truly amazing and it feels as if you were there. There's a lot to see in the background, but 
 looking around isn't the point of the game. Sure, sometimes it gets distracting, but your surroundings 
 are just so real. The game is displayed on 720p/1080i. It would have been nice if it was 1080p, 
 assuming that they already started developing before E3 2005.
  
  The story is okay. You don't exactly need to play the first game to understand the story. It's 
 quite simple. For those who need a refresh, in Killzone 1... the Helghast attack the ISA. Basically 
 in killzone 2, you attack the Helghast in there home planet, Helghan. 
  
  The controls are pretty candid. They're pretty much standard FPS controls.
  
  The cover system 
 is awesome. It makes this game more unique, as there aren't many FPS with many cover systems. In 
 fact, I think this game is the first FPS to feature a cover system. Without the cover system, this 
 game would have been totally different.
  
  The pacing of this game is just great. There are many chaotic and intense battles as you progress 
 from level to level and I think that just makes it extremely fun to play. 
  
  There are many weapons. I find the standard gun to be a great weapon to carry around. It feels 
 and shoots right. The pistol is also not too bad. 
  
  There are boss fights too. You'll need to listen to your team members as they tell you their weak 
 points.
  
  Online is extremely fun. There are many matches to play, but even though R2 may have more people 
 to play against... Killzone 2 is still fun. The online mode is even better than R2's. There are 
 just so many people online that most of the matches are completely full. The online matches in 
 R2 isn't as chaotic as Killzone 2 and I think that this is worth exploring.
  
  Overall, I think this game is a masterpiece. The 4 years of development was not a waste and I think 
 this game isn't a waste of money. The online matches are just amazing and the campaign is just 
 amazing. Too bad there isn't a co-op option, but this game just set the FPS bars higher. The game 
 is priced right and I think it's worth the $60. The game is even better than Resistance 2. Killzone 
 2 is just a must have and the best PlayStation 3 Exclusive so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddy_head
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is a game which will amaze you right after putting the disc into the drive and firing 
 it up. It will shock and awe with it's dynamic AI, lush graphics and intuitive duck and cover system. 
 Yes, it might seem perfect.
  
  But to the experienced FPS player (or a person who has logged over 15 days worth of Call of Duty 
 4, not to mention by CoD 2 days) , the controls might seem clunky and slow at first. But no fear! 
 With a slight sensitivity adjustment, and a while of playing it, you get used to the slightly sluggish 
 controls, designed to simulate a more realistic shooter.
  
  Well, as realistic as it's setting, which takes place on the stormy planet of Helghan, with the 
 ISA taking the fight to the Helghast home world, after the events of the previous two games. With 
 unworldly invented weather conditions, the likes of which can rival Star War's many planets and 
 a sprawling metropolitan area to fight through, the game's atmosphere presents an engaging environment. 
 The characters themselves are quite likable, with the protagonist Sev, the strong and silent type, 
 occasionally saying witty things. The enemies (Helghans) are bland in comparison to the colorful 
 ISA, routinely shouting phrases such as Fire! Kill the invaders! and such. The game itself has 
 colorful and unique bosses, albeit sort of easy, sprinkled liberally at just the right time throughout 
 the games.
  
  After playing through the campaign, most people like to try out a little thing called multiplayer. 
 Killzone delivers a seamless multiplayer experience, streaming from Body Count (a team deathmatch 
 esque mode) to Search and Retrieve (a new take on capture the flag, with the flag being a "propaganda 
 speaker") easily. The one thing that might irk some of the more casual players is the fact that 
 it takes a bloody hell long time to unlock anything that would be usefull online. Unless your willing 
 to put at least a few hours a day at the most to unlock all the weapons, badges, and classes, it's 
 gonna take a long time for the casual player to unlock all the perks of the online experience of 
 Killzone 2.
  
  A couple of issues plague an otherwise almost flawless game however. These include the aforementioned 
 dreary multiplayer unlocks, sketchy frame rates when loading a new area in the campaign, and long 
 loading screens. But aside from these minor downsides that hardly mar the shiny paintjob that revived 
 the Killzone franchise, the game sets the new standard of next-gen shooters.
  
  All in all, the game itself is awesome, redeeming itself for the wreck that was it's predecessor 
 and going above and beyond, shall I say, the call of duty. This is truly a visually stunning piece 
 of eye candy, coupled with immersive game play, which clearly establishes itself as a game, but 
 somehow manages to convey itself like a blockbuster Hollywood action film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sither11
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  i find this game amazing, from graphics to gameplay and to the infamous online it will have you 
 at the edge of your seat form start to finish and beyond, flawless. from the time you start you 
 will fell as this is what real war is like as the death of your team and the gore and AI keeps 
 you on your toes, GG couldent of provided games with a more thought out game that revoultionizes 
 this industry beyond normal standards.
  
  Now the story is defiently the best story in a fps to date, visaris speeches make you trembel as 
 he enduldges your mind with brillant well thought out speeches. Now the level design really cathes 
 my atention as there are tons of lighting effects that a on to the beauty of the game as your trudging 
 through streets or piolting a walking death mech you will never be disppointed by the visuals. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_Bleed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this is only the second game I've ever purchased on release day (the other being GTA 4) but 
 I simply couldn't wait to my hands on it and I'm glad I didn't wait. As soon as the first cinematic 
 came on and I was dropped onto the battlefield, I knew I was in for one the best gaming experiences 
 ever. Killzone 2 is just everything you could really want in a shooter. The graphics are stunning, 
 gameplay is excellent, AI is actually fairly intelligent, and it's got some of the best sound effects 
 I've ever heard. The Helghast are also some of the best enemies ever. They actually work together 
 with eachother to try and take you down most are smart enough to take cover and constantly move 
 to try to flank you rather than just stand in the open firing blindly. And lets face it. They look 
 awesome and sound pretty intimidating. Well at least until they get shot in which case some of 
 them scream like little girls. Just be prepared to die quite a bit because this game is also very 
 difficult. 
  
  I highly recommend Killzone 2 to really anyone who has PS3. You'd have to be crazy to miss out 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emteedoubleu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Our glorified Blu Ray players finally get a work out with this one. The campaign, although lacking 
 an in depth story (at least as far as I played) is still a very polished, fluent, exciting, fast 
 paced warzone. It gives the players a good chance to hone their skills for the real "warzone" that 
 is online!
  
  Online play is, surprisingly, AMAZING. Finally a PS3 game can come out of the gates claiming it 
 works, looks good and plays well, and actually deliver! Graphics are just as good as the campaign 
 online, the levels are full of detail and depth and vertical aspects reminiscent of Halo, however 
 this is far from Cortana and the Master Chief. 
  
  Not only has this thankfully renewed my faith in the PS3, but I think this one will hold my interest 
 longer than any shooter I've played in a LONG time, including the latest additions to the COD series.
 
  
  Fallout 2 will not be falling out of the line up anytime soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natemic18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Well I have spent about 5 hours total on this game, because I just got it last night, probably 
 an hour in campaign, i've been through 3 missions total so far, and about 4 hours online. I must 
 say that this is one of the greatest games I've played so far.
  
  The visuals are amazing, they did an excellent job on the blood splatter, the textures, the weather, 
 just about everything you can think of almost. Little things here and there but nothing too bad.
 
  
  The controls are pretty easy to get used to, and I'm sure most of you have been playing call of 
 duty so you can just as easily switch the controls to call of duty style by changing it to alternate 
 2.
  
  The guns from what I have seen are pretty fun. They have quite the assortment of guns which makes 
 the game even better. I have yet to try out that bolt gun, the electric one, and the flamethrower, 
 but I'm sure I will get my hands on them very soon. 
  
  The online play is great. So far I haven't had any lag problems at all, which is really nice, cause 
 we all know how that can be annoying. The class system is very interesting, and I like how they 
 make it a little tough for people to get the badges and other things, it makes it enjoyable because 
 you really have to work for some of the unlocks. One thing i've noticed is sometimes when you kill 
 someone, it can hesitate in a sense, like they won't go down right away, but you'll get the kill 
 for it no doubt, it doesn't effect the gameplay though, that's just something I noticed.
  
  Overall this game is definitely a must for those out there that like first person shooters, and 
 feel as though they want more of a challenging type of game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: idill23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is certainly more of an evolutionary leap in shooters than it is revolutionary. It is 
 true that it does little new. Outside of the first person cover system, the hit detection system, 
 the added sense of realism and the rather comprehensive multiplayer mode, it is underneath it all, 
 a slightly standard fps affair. In that it chooses to stick to the underlying mechanics previously 
 explored in the genre.
  You will go from certain box or corridor like areas to another, in sequential order as you defeat 
 waves of enemies. You will go along a relatively linear and controlled path (there are however 
 numerous levels that allow you some degree of freedom to how you approach a particular area or 
 gun fight) , it does have a linear story with fairly straightforward progression. However, none 
 of these things necessarily take away from the game or the merit of how well it does these things.
 
  
  What Killzone 2 does is take all these elements previously found within the genre, and execute 
 them with such cinematic splendour, realistic tactility, aesthetic beauty, technical wizardry, 
 rewarding satisfaction and polish, that it ends up defining its own little niche. This is the true 
 Hollywood multimillion dollar blockbuster come to gaming, but with an added raw and cut throat 
 pang.
  Whilst you may have done similar things in other shooters that you will be doing in Killzone 2, 
 the chances are you will have never done them quite like this.
  Take shooting a shotgun for example, a common weapon in most shooters. I've not found one of them 
 as satisfying as the one in KZ2. The moment you pull that trigger you become the harbinger of death. 
 Heads will fly; blood will gush out in an over exaggerated spherical explosion, you will hear the 
 crunch, crack and squelch of battered body and you will see the enemy fly back in completely believably 
 fashion. And you will love it. And you will want more, and more. And that is what separates KZ2 
 from other shooters. It is true gun porn.
  
  This is the most realistic, cinematic and tactile shooter to grace a system. And while it may have 
 its flaws, it's polished to such perfection that you'd be hard pressed not to forgive most of them. 
 Aside from the lack of co-op (a sorely missed feature, but one made up for with everything else 
 on offer) , there's an engaging highly repayable epic SP campaign, an extremely sophisticated and 
 comprehensive online multiplayer component, numerous unlockables and more. This game is fantastic 
 value for money, and stands a chance at being the PS3's "it" online shooter for months if not years 
 to come. It's also the best show piece graphically for the console yet, so as long as you're not 
 expecting anything overly innovative and not expecting Oscar winning performances, go grab the 
 game now. In my honest opinion it is one of the, if not the best shooter of the generation and 
 I say that after completing the game 4 times and putting in over 100 hours in the multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Box_Assassin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  The campaign of Killzone 2 is much like Killzone (1) ... forgettable. BUT, there is hope in the multiplayer! 
 Let's get the junk out of the way first though.
  
  Killzone 2 takes place sometime after the first game, with the human race going into the world 
 of the Helghast. Starting off, this game puts you in the middle of battle and doesn't let you go 
 very often (if at all) . Although the battles are fast paced and exciting, the story doesn't go 
 into the characters' lives, and you never really feel connected to them. It's almost like it tries 
 to develop a story and has a main idea, but it never really follows up on that. There aren't real 
 "boss" fights, but there are plenty of tough Helghans and other enemies that you will encounter. 
 So, although no collasal fights with you against a giant bug creature, you will have epic firefights 
 that keep you thinking and developing strategy to finish your objective. The enemy A. I. is actually 
 well done, and this is what makes for some good fights in the story mode.
  
  Now for multiplayer (which redeems a lot of awesome qualities of the overall game) . Starting off 
 with basic weapons the farther you progress in level and rank online you get ribbons which in turn 
 when you have enough give you medals. Medals are basically stat boosters for you when doing a particular 
 match type (e. g. The "Body Count" medal allows for you when playing BODYCOUNT to get an increase 
 in points for your kills.) Ranking up takes time once you get to the higher ranks, but for the 
 most part when starting out it is a painless process. The higher your rank the more weapons and 
 things you unlock. It's the simplicisty that wraps multiplayer together though. Fulfill the objective 
 and win or lose... pretty simple. This is why games like Call of Duty and Halo are so huge. It gives 
 you something to do and you do it, but of course other things start becoming part of the picture 
 as well. In time I feel that this game will grow on people and it will start living up to the hype 
 a little bit more. A great game no matter how you look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 981Master
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Got this day one and love it. Best graphics on any console and the best FPS shooter this gen. The 
 graphics are whats going to amaze you. I get amazed every time i play it. The sound is also ace 
 and you fully feel like your in a war because its sucks you in hard. The controls are good but 
 i play using alternative 2 coz i find it easier but they still fit so well. Single player is intenese 
 and has some sick battles but some of the trophys (if u dig tying to get them) are impossible as. 
 And this game is hard. Im playing on the 3rd difficulty level and im getting carved up. But its 
 still fun and you get alot of enjoyment
  
  Online tho is where its at. Theres so many things that yoou can try and unlock such as ribbons 
 and medals and the like. Its also has no lag at all. Well i havnt experienced none but sometimes 
 ive been disconnected out of games so it might just be my connection.
  
  Anyways this game is phat and you just have to play it to see for yourself. 9.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMethot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game a while back, which I hate to do because I tend to have major expectations 
 that don't live up to the hype. However, this game's visuals just knock you out right away. I'm 
 not crazy about the fact that every shooter has to have its own control lay-out, but it didn't 
 take long to get used to. The multiplayer could be the best online experience out there, with giant 
 rooms and even bots that can be added to even out teams. Even the way you take out enemies seems 
 more realistic as they seem to go down as if they were actually shot, whereas other games have 
 enemies that simply fall like a robot might.
  Overall, I'm surprised how good this game turned out to be. Best shooter by far for the PS3. I 
 know XBox fanboys will point out every flaw this game has, but the list should be short. Don't 
 hate it until you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjsmoke63
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  "Killzone 2" is, in a word, a masterpiece. Right from the opening of the game it takes hold of 
 you and doesn't let go. Graphics are excellent, as is the sound and voice acting. The controls 
 are spot on and fluid. The default setup works great, but you can alter it if you like. The firefights 
 are suitably intense and the amount of carnage and destruction you can cause is immensely satisfying. 
 A vast improvement over it predecessor, this game is just a blast to play. An absolute must buy 
 for FPS fans! If you haven't done so, then go. Get this game. Begin your own invasion of Helghan, 
 and have fun! Just don't forget to duck. This is no run and gun shooter. If you don't use cover, 
 you will die. Quickly and bloodily. The cover system works well with a hold of the L2 button. The 
 enemy AI is fantastic, and never reacts the same way twice. Expect the same pattern after you die? 
 Not in this game. The Helghast will challenge you, hiding, rolling, and firing blindly from cover. 
 If you're not careful, they will flank you. It's best to keep moving and use your aim often (click 
 on R3) . The enemies take a fair amount of damage, but headshots work to do them in quickly. Even 
 when your enemies get the best of you, the deaths never feel cheap. If you die in this game, it's 
 your own fault, not the game's. Still reading? Why? Go get this game now! You won't regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertx33681
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game should get game of the year, at least so far. Since I've had PS3 and played Xbox 360 
 this game had me coming back for more and it never gets boring for one reason is cuz the 32 player 
 massive online gaming is incredible like no other game I have ever seen! It is definitely a winner 
 to me and to all the friends I've talked to that have been playing it! Killzone 2 has only one 
 problem that I can find no madder how hard I've looked and it is the way the character looks left 
 right up and down. That part they need to update it so it is not so irresponsive. But other than 
 that this game totally lives up to the hype and I think it is better than the hype cuz they only 
 gave it like a 9.5 and I think gamespot gave it a 9.0. All in all this game is the best of the 
 best games out there! I am a COD4 and 5 fan big time but I would much rather play this game over 
 thoughts any day so, go out and get you a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pridex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  I only played 3 levels of this game. I'm enjoying it so far. Looks great. I even traded Gears of 
 war 2 for this and so far its doing better. I don't have to much gripe about this game besides 
 the control set up. I'm having a huge difficulty just getting use to them. Yes i've gone through 
 the different set ups and the one i feel most comfortable with is alternate 2 but then your stuck 
 with the cover and zoom on the L1 and L2 buttons and that doesn't work to well using one finger. 
 I think the control scheme for gears of war would have fit just right with the cover system or 
 screw the cover system and go with a typical fps set up. Maybe they will do an update that will 
 allow you to set each button. Anyways so far a great game. The weapons seem the same as other fps 
 but with the axis speed is slowed a bit from normal fps with a small delay from first initiation 
 of movement. I do though like how turning speeds up slightly when holding down. That doesn't really 
 help with the point i'm trying to make about the controls just that makes it seem a slight more 
 realistic. I agree with the review about the game story being forgettable but thats made up by 
 game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wucasella
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Breathtaking. Visuals, Audio, Gameplay, this game is the best yet in its Genre. So the plot is 
 a little thin but thats fine, I would imagine that your average soldier fighting in a war would 
 tell you that its just bloody boring anyway, just look at films such as Jarhead, We Were Soldiers, 
 No fairy Tales involved, Spot On. This Story is about the invasion of a Hostile Planet, which entails 
 1 goal, wipe out the enemy and thats all you have to do in KZ2. .
  
  Ive only gotten about 1/2 way through the single player mode and the action comes at you like a 
 KFC family bucket to yourself hits to the toilet, Thick and Fast. The cut scenes have come in at 
 the right moment and the invasion going on around seems very realistic, which I would gladly sit 
 back and watch from a high viewpoint (the trek up to destroy the lightning cannon) , if it werent 
 for the Helghast taking popshots at you. 
  
  The enemy AI is the feature that sticks out most for me, and I enjoy the rattle of my Assault Rifle 
 as i'm pumping round after round into these worthy advesaries and delight in the splatterings of 
 blood as they do a CR 7 all over the place. Finally, a FPS the PS3 can be proud to call its own, 
 and congratulations to Guerilla for an outstanding achievement. 
  
  And I've yet to taste the multiplayer, heeheeheeheee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEvolution2005
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  Game is tha **** If you don't own a ps3... quit hating, swallow your pride and go get one along 
 with a copy of this game. Your 360 is probably about to die anyway. Don't wast your money again. 
 Our online gameplay is free and just as good. 360 fanboy haters are the only reason this game isn't 
 ranked a perfect ten. Read the reviews and you will see. COD, HALO, etc. are stale and repetitive, 
 and now we have this next gen fps to set the bar higher. Graphics are simply amazing and the online 
 gameplay is extremely well balanced with nonstop action. There is no pause between mission types, 
 you just keep going. Tactical teamwork and communication are vital for success. I will be playing 
 this for the next year at least. A near perfect exclusive for the PS3. Go get it today. Look me 
 up and we'll play. MREvolution2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joman1000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is easily the most visually impressive, adrenaline-fueled first person shooter on the 
 Playstation 3. If you can get past the occasionally cheesy dialogue and the slightly loose aiming 
 controls (which, once you get used to them, simply add to the realism) you'll find yourself completely 
 immersed and smiling at just how intuitively designed and smoothly polished this masterpiece is. 
 I was somewhat annoyed at having to play the demo level AGAIN, after I'd already beaten it like 
 a dead horse before the game's release, but as soon as I was past it the action just continued 
 to pick up... Usually when it comes to some shooters, having to kill the same uniformed enemies 
 in one grey, wartorn environment after another gets repetitive; in Killzone 2, it's so convincing 
 and brutal, and the A. I. is so fierce and believable that I never had a dull moment throughout 
 the game's entire single player campaign.
  
  I recommend anyone looking for the truly next-gen experience to pick up a copy of Killzone 2 A. S. A. P. 
 You'd have to be crazy to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LB_1911
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  now im not just a PS3 fanboy, i own a 360, but this game killz anything the xbox has. This game 
 will never get boaring, it is that good. The campaign is just amazing (and i've only spent 20 mins 
 on it) . The online is what realy makes this game fantabularsuperistic. 16 vs 16 amazing. Does xbox 
 got a 32 player game? i cant think of any except that gay THQ frontlines fuel of war which had 
 lag like no other. O yah, this game has no lag whatsoever. No games on playstation 3 have lag except 
 the old ones like motorstorm 1. I will be playing this game non stop until monday when i have school, 
 but when i get home ill be playing it until 11:00 (which is when my mom wants me go to bed) . I 
 wanna get the highest rank which i dont know what it is. In conclusion, THIS GAME IS AMAZING AND 
 IS A MUST HAVE FOR ALL GAMERS WORLD WIDE THIS IS A DEFINATE GEARS AND HALO OWNER, trust me i have 
 them both Well im ganna go get back to playing it, so add me if u wanna play LB_1911 and ill play 
 with you cya in the game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TowlsonPS3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it 
 constantly lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love 
 it. Im on it constantly lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so 
 awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. 
 It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to 
 be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly lol. This game is an amazing game 
 just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly lol. This game is 
 an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly lol. This 
 game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly 
 lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on 
 it constantly lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It Is so awsemoe i 
 love it. Im on it constantly lol. This game is an amazing game just waiting to be unleashed. It 
 Is so awsemoe i love it. Im on it constantly lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldine
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about playing this game. Let me say first the graphics are great, the shadows 
 are spectacular and the lighting is amazing, But graphics alone do not make a good game, the thing 
 that makes a good game great is gameplay and story.
  Not at all saying that this games gameplay is bad, no no no. Like in the gamespot review it feels 
 sort-of heavy, this can be annoying at first but you get used to it fast. And now for the story, 
 what story? Bassicaly you are part of an army that is attacking the bad guys planet, and its not 
 much deeper than that. A few of the characteres from the first game have references or small appearences 
 aswell, but it doesnt matter all the characters are bland. The game has more of a "Let me blow 
 stuff up and tel me whats happening in-between levels" feel to it. But, thats one of the best parts, 
 the weapons are cool and are extremely well animated (save maybe the flamesthrower) , they are also 
 fun to use and have lots of variety. The vehicle levels are fun but they could have made the environment 
 a little more destructible if i was driving a tank. 
  Anyways, this is by far one of the best games on PS3 and could easily called the "Playstations 
 Halo". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Hale
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is not a perfect game... but it has come a lot closer than any other FPS I've seen on 
 a console so far this gen. It makes use of the common gameplay elements found in many FPS titles... 
 but it also does it better than almost all of them!!! 
  
  There is something to be said for the way that it actually conveys the adrenalin pumping action 
 in a way that makes you feel you are actually part of a warzone.
  
  I rarely ever right a review... MGS4, Uncharted, Gears 2, Fable 2 all passed w/o me feeling the 
 need to share how I felt... Enjoyed them all, but with the possible exception of MGS4, none actually 
 SURPASSED the expectations I had for them going in. 
  
  The visuals are hands down the best I've seen so far... but that's not what does it. I really did 
 not expect for the enemy A. I. to be SO good. The Helghast really do use strategy to try to take 
 you down, and they keep you on your toes. It adds to the tension and the warzone feel. Really, 
 the only thing that could have made the game any better would have been co-op, but it's not enough 
 to detract from the game... especially as I really wouldn't have wanted split screen co-op to begin 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  Bringing a building to its knees with a turret; nailing a gas canister and watching it spiral out 
 of control; pinning a Helghast to a wall with the bolt gun and watching him writhe in agony; letting 
 rip with the superb flamethrower; watching hundreds of bullets whiz and ping, sending chunks of 
 concrete flying off of pillars and exposing electrical cabling underneath; marvelling at the most 
 stunning, eye-catching war torn backgrounds and skylines your gaming eyes ever did see, makes Killzone 
 2 the best looking game ever made - a jaw dropping graphical showcase from start to finish.
  
  Then there are the animations. Oh, the glorious animations. In many ways, the Helghast, or 
 "cockney Nazis", steal the show from Killzone 2's disappointingly generic Alpha Squad. For one, 
 you see them more often than you see yourself, the personality-starved Sergeant Sev. Two, when 
 you do see them, you're almost always shooting them, which results in more satisfying limb jolting 
 and spine spazzing than in a Rambo flick. The weapon reload animations are a work of art, often 
 distracting the eye when you should be paying attention to what's fixed squarely in your targeting 
 reticule instead. Some take what feels like ages - the grenade launcher, the flamethrower - but 
 they're all worth it. In fact, when new weapons are introduced into the game, it's just as much 
 fun finding out what they look like to reload as it is to discover how destructive they are.
  
  Perhaps most impressive of all, though, is the AI. The Helghast are smart, to the point where 
 they're actually genuinely hard to kill. Your typical fire fight in Killzone 2 plays out like this: 
 move forward into a new area of war-torn Helghan, the Helghast home planet, get assaulted by numerous 
 Helghast, find cover, fight for your life. The Helghast, with their creepy red eyes and gas mask-filtered 
 voices, aren't dumb. They use cover at least as well as you do. They flank at least as well as 
 you do. They fire at least as accurately as you do. They use grenades at least as appropriately 
 as you do. They retreat, they regroup, they assault, they suppress, all at least as well as you 
 do. In short, they're bastards who don't pop their heads out of cover just so you can whack-a-mole 
 them on the head. If you try run and gun in Killzone 2 you're going to get your ass handed to you. 
 You need to think. This is not mindless violence, just... war. Killzone 2's stupendous graphical 
 effects combine to provide an incredibly realistic experience, despite the fantastical sci-fi premise. 
 Realistic and relentless. For some, working through the game's somewhat brief 10 mission campaign 
 will feel like a slog. That's not a slight, but a deliberate move on Guerrilla's part. The game's 
 levels are designed to play out like a series of intense fire fights that need to be battled through 
 in order to progress, with few set pieces or breaks in pace. From the moment you're spat out onto 
 the battlefield from one of those now infamous flying soldier carriers to the game's last, adrenaline-pumping 
 battle, Killzone 2 is a roller coaster ride of endless death.
  
  That Killzone 2's campaign feels like the opening 20 minutes of Saving Private Ryan is in part 
 due to the incredible graphics, but there's also a more subtle technique at play. Killzone 2's 
 perspective is set slightly lower compared with other FPS games, to the point where you sometimes 
 feel like a midget when you're fighting alongside other members of Alpha Squad. The view seems 
 significantly narrower than in other games as well, almost as if someone's pressed the zoom function 
 on your TV remote and not told you. As a result, Killzone 2 feel more claustrophobic, more intense, 
 more heart-thumping. When the HUD drains of colour and blood covers half the screen, you feel very, 
 very alone, but very, very involved. Then there are the controls, which will perhaps prove to be 
 more of a deal-breaking factor than any other for some gamers. At first, the controls feel terrible. 
 There's an almost sluggish feel; a tiny but noticeable delay between pressing a direction with 
 the Sixaxis thumb sticks and the shifting of the targeting reticule. Sev's not fast, and he's no 
 super soldier. He can't jump 20 feet in the air, like Master Chief, or roadie run as if a speeding 
 bullet, like Marcus Fenix. Guerrilla's gone for a more considered, realistic approach, grounded 
 in a semblance of reality. Having to snap to cover with the L2 button, (the default control set-up) , 
 forces your left hand to do things it really wasn't built for. The sniper rifle highlights this 
 perfectly. As you'd expect, you zoom by clicking in the right thumb stick. However, to get the 
 maximum zoom you then need to press up on the d-pad, which, when you're pressing L2 to stay in 
 cover, can be more mind-melting than an episode of the Krypton Factor.
  
  The point though, is that you do get used to Killzone 2's unique controls. Eventually your brain 
 starts to catch up with the game, and you find yourself compensating for the delay in movement 
 and accurate targeting. You come to know that Sev takes a while to turn corners when you're clicking 
 in the right thumb stick to sprint. After a while, perhaps by the second or third mission, it all 
 starts to come together. Perhaps Guerrilla Games' greatest achievement is that the Amsterdam development 
 studio has somehow managed to make a game that, at times, not only reaches the graphical fidelity 
 of that E3 2005 trailer, but even surpasses it. A debate has raged in the VideoGamer. com office 
 in the last month: are Killzone 2's graphics better than Crysis'? In many ways, it's an unfair 
 comparison, since Crysis is open world, but it's fun to argue about that sort of thing.
  
  Killzone 2 has been called many things: Sony's Halo killer, better than Gears of War 2, that sort 
 of nonsense. Why Halo? Because it's a first-party FPS, a system seller, a reason to fork out 299 
 on a PS3. Why Gears of War 2? Because it's grey. Comparisons with Halo are silly, so different 
 are the experiences. Comparisons with Gears of War 2 are equally pointless. Killzone 2 has this 
 perception of being grey, like, some people reckon, Gears of War. Yes, it's dank and gritty and 
 war torn and depressing, but that's only telling half the story. After mission five Killzone 2 
 moves from the urban street battles of the Helghan capital city to more expansive, colourful environments 
 that not only add variety to the scenery, but add much needed changes in pace and gameplay. There 
 are ridiculously fun turret-centred levels, tanks to play with and, get this, even a mech level.
 
  
  Really, Killzone 2 is more like Sony's answer to Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat, without the invisible 
 enemy spawn-ending barriers. The single-player campaign has that same visceral, in your face, fast-paced 
 feel to it. Each fire fight pits a set number of Helghast against you that need to be killed before 
 the saving symbol flashes in the top-left corner of the screen and relief washes over you. Defend 
 an area against waves of enemies; attack a heavily defended position until there's no-one left, 
 that sort of thing. Then auto-save, move forward and repeat.
  
  There's a moment towards the end of the game when this gameplay technique reaches its fun-filled 
 peak. Sev and the rest of the ISA invasion force are storming a heavily guarded structure. At the 
 start you think, there's absolutely no way I'm going to do this - there's just too many of them, 
 and they're too dug into cover. But you inch forward, suppressing, flanking, taking out Helghast 
 one at a time. As bullets whiz by your head and cover gets torn apart by mini-guns, as grenade 
 explosions rock the earth, as the whole world seems to be coming down around you, you slowly but 
 surely gain ground until suddenly there's no-one left to kill and the game saves. Sit back, inhale, 
 exhale, notice your heart racing, a ringing in your ears, your palms sweating, your fingers shaking. 
 This is what you bought your PS3 for. The graphics, then, are what make Killzone 2. They're what 
 make it the triple-A title it is. They're what made forum goers across the internet salivate over 
 animated gifs torn from snippets of gameplay footage. And they're what make the game great despite 
 its obvious failings. You retry after every frustrating death because every single Helghast kill 
 feels as if it's too good to be true. You soldier through the repetitive mission objectives because 
 what you're looking at feels as if it's being beamed in from a console from the future. You ignore 
 the linear design because the levels slap you in the face and refuse to let you think about anything 
 else. The graphics, the sheer technical monstrosity that is Killzone 2, unequivocally make up for 
 its failings.
  
  Which are, in no particular order, story, dialogue, personality and the complete non-event that 
 is the promise of skewed morality. First, the story. The premise is that the ISA has invaded the 
 Helghast home planet in a desperate, last-ditch attempt to capture Scolar Visari, the Hitler-esque 
 dictator who's got his trigger-finger on the nuclear warheads he nabbed at the end of the PSP game, 
 Killzone: Liberation. The plot might have been interesting, but really it's not. You don't care 
 that the Helghast has some kind of secret weapon up its sleeve. You don't care about any of the 
 human characters, whether they're from the four-man Alpha Squad or the ISA at large. Indeed the 
 game almost admits that the plot isn't the point right from the off - there's little effort at 
 explaining what's gone before, what's going on as you're playing or what effect the anti-climactic 
 ending has on the story as a whole. The point, rather, is to point, shoot, kill, and be impressed. 
 The dialogue is another bone of contention. Testosterone-fuelled, profanity-filled one-liners have 
 grated for a couple of years now, due in no small part to the popularity of the Gears of War franchise. 
 Although not as ridiculously meaty as Delta Squad, Alpha Squad's members are just as stereotypical 
 - muscle-bound US marines with personalities so devoid of complexity that they make WWE wrestlers 
 look like Oscar-winning actors.
  
  That's to be expected, perhaps. A necessary gaming evil, maybe. What's more disappointing is how 
 Killzone 2 completely ignores the promise of moral ambiguity Guerrilla made in the run up to the 
 game's release. This won't be a clear cut, black and white, good guy versus bad guy yarn, we were 
 told. Are the Helghast simply misunderstood? Should we be surprised they've got issues when their 
 home planet is ravaged by relentless gales and terrifying electrical storms? Is Scolar Visari just 
 doing right by his people? None of these questions are even given a cursory glance until the game's 
 last moment, an event that feels more like a primary school right and wrong lesson than philosophical 
 beard scratcher. No, forget tear-jerking drama or shocking twists, Killzone 2 is all about blowing 
 stuff up and looking great doing it. It's no more complex a conundrum than that. Anyone expecting 
 any more from the game will be disappointed. Anyone expecting any more from the game is missing 
 the point. The multiplayer is absolutely class. It's called Warzone, a mode that pits up to 32 
 players in an ISA versus Helghast kill-em-up broken up by dynamically switching five-minute objectives. 
 At the end of a Warzone match, which can last up to half an hour, whichever faction has won the 
 most missions wins the round, and experience points are dished out accordingly. Killzone 2's got 
 an in-depth progression system as well as seven playable classes to sink your teeth into. Think 
 Team Fortress 2 spliced with Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare and you're halfway there. It's all 
 a bit confusing, but about as good as anyone could have hoped for. Much of the appeal won't be 
 known for a few months, of course, but Warzone could be the best online experience on the PS3.
 
  
  Why isn't Killzone 2 a perfect 10? The lack of a co-op mode is the biggest reason. It seems an 
 odd choice, not just because co-op is modern day shooter de rigueur, but because it feels as if 
 the game was built for it and then, right at the last minute, the feature was cut. For about 90 
 per cent of the game you're playing alongside at least one other member of Delta Squad. More often 
 than not it's two of you versus the world, or a boss. There are times when you'll play Killzone 
 2 and think, wow, that would have rocked with a mate, and then feel a little sad because you're 
 not. Even if the game's too demanding to allow two players to take on the Helghast on one console, 
 why not facilitate the feature across PSN?
  
  Killzone 2's been hyped waaaay too much, of course. And, no, it doesn't live up to the hype, because 
 if it did it would be the greatest FPS of all time, which it isn't. But it is the best PS3-exclusive 
 to date. Better even than LittleBigPlanet and Metal Gear Solid 4. Two years into the console's 
 life cycle, the undoubted graphical potential of the machine has been realised - Killzone 2 unleashes 
 the power of the PS3 - nothing on any console comes close. The sheer OMG!-ness of the experience 
 makes Killzone 2 worth buying a PS3 for. And, given how much they cost, that's one hell of a compliment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nabz034
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  I just completed Fear, beat all COD's, Brothers in Arms, both Rainbow 6's, Etc... And no shooter 
 game that I have played even comes close to this... I guess you could say COD 4 was close, but at 
 least 1 level below. The graphics are amazing, the game play is phenomnal, and if I could change 
 one thing, it would be the controls. One thing that did bother me was the zoom in for the shooting. 
 I like some of the other shooters zoom, this one seems like it was made in 2004, but other then 
 that, you couldnt of made a better game.
  
  Fear 2 was pretty good, and was the most recent shooter I played, but it couldnt ride Killzone 
 2's coat tail. So i guess this review has to be 800 charecters long. I hope it is now, let me check. 
 Not yet, 697. I guess its safe to say that this is the best shooter that I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  I earlier wrote a more scathing review of this game. I am here to do say I was wrong.
  
  Go get this game. Initially I wrote that the game was nothing new.
  
  I may have been over 
 hasty in my review since so many other games were demanding my attention. Outside of Halo 3 and 
 CoD 4, I can't think of another shooter that has more polish. The physics are amazing. The graphics, 
 while not utterly breathtaking, are very good.
  
  The speed of the game combined with a good single player and amazing multiplayer make the game 
 wonderful.
  
  Given that developers have not really made a great deal of FPS games for the PS3, this game really 
 stands out among the smallish crowd. It is right up there with the best shooters on the planet 
 regardless of system or era. Online has FAR to many cheaters and should be regulated more. It is 
 a shame that Sony's online service is not as tight as Xbox Live. That helps cut down on cheating 
 if not boosting. Still, the cheating is not so bad that it ruins the game.
  
  Do yourself a favor and go get this game. It will not dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkeley0
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  Back in E3 2005, Killzone 2 was only a goal speaking in sotto voce, simply said, without being 
 too verbose about it, Killzone 2 is an epic masterpiece. If Halo set new standards for gaming, 
 Killzone takes it to new heights, that the industry should remember Killzone 2, as a huge step 
 forward in this generation of gaming. Not only did Guerrilla manage to rid themselves of the ugliness 
 from the first title, but proved to the world that Guerrilla is here to stay; the game receiving 
 criticism about being able to recreate something so ambitious back in E3 2005. The hype has been 
 immensely big, and so is the game.
  
  The story of Killzone 2 takes place in Helghan, the pukka planet belonging to the Helghast, where 
 the previous game left off. From the instant you arrive you will witness the chaos and beauty that 
 Killzone 2 is. The atmosphere of the game is the most realistic I have ever seen, the sound of 
 bullets, whirling explosions, thunderous lightning, hovercrafts exploding and flying all over you; 
 the atmosphere is truly a realistic one. When a man falls down you know that you need to go all 
 out, your spirit must not be broken, you must succeed. Killzone 2 manages to bring all this lifelike 
 realism, right into the comfort of one's living room, and you must fight for the whole human race. 
 The story of Killzone 2, a stentorian one, really brings us into the deeply troubled world of Helghan, 
 and its story telling lets one know that the Helghast are fighting not just to win, but to find 
 a panacea for the pestiferous race known as humans. They want to win just as bad as you do and 
 the war won't be over soon. One can't help, but think that this war is reticent of something not 
 too far into the future, like some sort of foreshadowing or warning of war and humanity. 
  
  The graphical power of Killzone 2 is without a doubt the best I have ever seen. There is much 
 more colors than what most see in the previews for Killzone 2, and the full look of Killzone 2 
 is much more varied. Every single detail is so hard to appreciate when Helghast are running towards 
 you with their big beady, red eyes, that you soon learn to appreciate, as your main target for 
 a perfect head shot. One must stop to think and look around and observe just how much is actually 
 taking place. To the buildings and bridges that lay in ruins, to the blood of enemies spurting 
 everywhere, with the mastication of metal and bullets in the background, the game never fails to 
 miss a single detail. The lighting effects and the amount of effects taking place is visually stunning 
 and one can't help but feel jocund. 
  
  And the Helghast enemy is a remarkable one, as the AI works brilliantly to not feel the same every 
 time. These humanoids will hide, will run, and duck in forms of either single enemy or an ambuscades 
 stopping at nothing in order to tear you into pieces. Simply running head on wont be enough, because 
 your brains will be necessary to bring down this terrible ghastly foe down. Sometimes the pen is 
 mightier than the sword and sometimes ducking for cover, and reentering the scene will do you good 
 in order to deal damage to the smart enemy. 
  
  
  
  
  The game play is smooth and the action seems to increase as the game progresses. Each new environment 
 adds new excitement and thrills. Whether if its on foot, in the sky highs, or on new heights above 
 in the Metal Gear-like machine, the game play never feels out of touch. The game supplicates one 
 to keep on playing by indulging us into new experiences one at a time. With over a 100 ways for 
 the opposite force to die, its quite hard to grow tired of the high intensity action, that is, 
 Killzone 2. The innovative cover system works impressively with the game, allowing you to cover 
 behind almost anything, and only adds more to the Shooter genre. Some parts of the game, require 
 maneuvering of the sixaxis to open doors, intelligent thinking to avoid, or like the giant armored 
 Helghast, sharp shooting skills. By the way this enemy make Marcus look like a twig. The second 
 part of the game should not be spoiled and as well as the climatic, quixotic ending, most certainly 
 shouldn't be spoiled. Overall the game play is top notch and the main game can be completed in 
 10 hours (through a number of tasks and missions) and there is still plenty to explore for the 
 wanderer, collecting Intel and earning trophies. 
  
  In order to take down the Helghast, the game does a really great job of offering a wide array of 
 weaponry, because weapons are the single most important utility in order to survive. The game allows 
 the player to hold 1 weapon, besides your standard pistol and knife. This gives the player the 
 exciting realism of using the perfect gun for each situation and one soon realizes specifically 
 what each weapon excels at. You never feel awkward with a weapon because weapons are scattered 
 ideally for each situation, meaning that there are also many opportunities to pick up the weapon 
 that you favor the most. Each weapon feels and sounds unique, and different. The Sniper offers 
 a nice way to shoot with the sixaxis. Keeping your hand steady is the perfect way to take a Helghast 
 down with the sniper rifle. And the VC1 Flamethrower gun provides awe inspiring moments, watching 
 the Helghast roast in pain. I however, found myself to propitiate with the Arc Gun (blasting bolts 
 of electricity) which proved to be the most satisfying for me.
  
  And if that still is not enough for gamers, Killzone 2 offers a very addictive online multiplayer. 
 It is extremely responsive as an online shooter (featuring 32 player online) and is very versatile 
 for any type of player. It plays as a perfect speed shooter, not too fast like Unreal Tournament, 
 or too slow, but just right. The badge system is clever, allowing you to play as 6 different types 
 of classes. You can even mix two classes; for example play as an engineer who is also a medic. 
 It offers so much in the multiplayer and the respawn points are just perfect, allowing the player 
 to respond with the clan leader if they want to. It offers many missions that are exciting to play 
 on and best of all there are no load times between the different missions. The online seems to 
 get better as you gain honors, because it unlocks a lot more every time you do, so you feel rewarded 
 when you realize just how much to unlock there really is. For those who can't wait to play online, 
 the online features hours in front of the Plasma screen, that will keep us busy for most of the 
 year. The online is well, a gem at getting it just right .
  
  However, Killzone 2 is not without its certain annoyances or flaws. While the story, graphics, 
 game play, and sound, is first class, some performances are not. Especially from the soldiers who 
 drop the f-bomb a handful of times, but not without its awkward moments. Oh, and can the Helghast 
 not all have British accents. I know Guerrilla is a company in Europe (Netherlands) , but come on, 
 more Metal Gear Performances would of been nice. The knife doesn't feel like a winner feeling a 
 tad bit dull and weird. In terms of revolutionary, there is some, but it feels like a very well 
 put together, polished shooter, rather than being hugely revolutionary. Nevertheless, it can stand 
 tall and proud as one of the best shooters ever made with the heights of Halo, Gears of War, and 
 Call of Duty 4. Having no co-op is a little disappointing, but other than the few annoyances, Killzone 
 2 is an amazing shooter with plenty of achievements in gaming. It doesn't live up to Half Life 
 2 status, but with a shooter with this kind of presentation, its so hard not to like.
  
  After many vicissitudes over the years Killzone 2 will arrive exclusively for the PS3 
 February 27th, 2009. For those who still don't have a PS3, Killzone 2 is a no brainer and should 
 at least check it out. From beginning to end it never eases to impress, feeling like an agglomeration 
 of many brilliant minds who sought to create one of the most unforgettable FPS in gaming, refreshing 
 the FPS genre like it so desperately needed. Killzone 2 features hours and months of game play 
 and should not be missed by any PS3 owner, as it easily run for Game of the Year and is simply 
 the most atmospheric FPS ever made. It will aggrandize the expectations for all games and developers, 
 creating a new standard for games, many who will want to follow in the footsteps of Killzone 2.
 
  
  
  Final Score:
  
  9/10 or A- 
  Not an average score 
  
  Replay Value: 9.5
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Game play: 9
  Story: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalarianChemist
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  2009 is the year that finally sees Killzone 2 released after four years of development. Generally 
 speaking, when a game spends that long in development it tends to include new features and set 
 new standards for a videogame. Unfortunately, that is not the case with Killzone 2. In fact, Killzone 
 2 fails to live up to the videogame industry standards in place for 2009, which really is a big 
 disappointment.
  
  I want my review to guide you through Killzone 2 based on how I played it and what I was exposed 
 to as I played it. I will divide this review into pro's and con's.
  
  Prior to playing Killzone 2, I was aware of the fact that Killzone 2 did not include any form of 
 co-op mode. This was a surprise, because the videogame industry standards for 2009 cause gamers 
 to have a 100% expectation that a shooter will include a co-op mode. Launch games on the PS3 such 
 as Resistance did not include a co-op mode, but the sequel to Resistance (which launched in 2008) 
 did include a co-op mode. This is why it was such a disappointing surprise to find out that Killzone 
 2 is the only shooter being released in the first half of 2009 that does not include a co-op mode.
 
  
  When I first started playing Killzone 2, I immediately notice another big disappointment. Lack 
 of install is an unexpected disappointment with Killzone 2. Most PS3 games let you install the 
 game to your hard drive in order to increase the speed of load times. But Killzone 2 does not let 
 this happen. This is a big disappointment because of the fact that the PS3 only reads data off 
 of the disc at a rate of 9 per second, which is very slow. As a result, there are times in Killzone 
 2 when the game will pause for up to three seconds in what looks like a very long framerate problem.
 
  
  Once I started playing Killzone 2 I was looking forward to seeing how the actual graphics turned 
 out. The graphics vary from scene to scene. There is no doubt that the indoor graphics look very 
 nice due to the way the game is designed. The programmers should be given credit for this design, 
 since they overcame the Playstation 3's lack of polygon power from the graphics processing unit. 
 The developers deliberately kept the lighting low in order to decrease the amount of detail needed 
 in the background, which allows detail in the foreground to be increased.
  
  Outdoor graphics are an area that Killzone 2 has some problems with. You can clearly see the shading 
 and lighting have problems further in the distance, particularly in these outdoor environment where 
 greater detail is needed. The Playstation 3 doesn't have the ability to display that much high-resolution 
 detail, so the resolution of the characters shadows lose a significant amount of detail. Using 
 the flamethrower weapon is an excellent example of this in any environment.
  
  The outdoor environments also include quite a bit of graphic pop-up problems with the detail in 
 the distance. If you take a few steps forward, detail will pop up. Take a few steps backward and 
 it will disappear. This is probably the reason why most of Killzone 2 is set in indoor environments 
 and outdoor environments with things like smoke that prevent the background from being seen particularly 
 far into the distance.
  
  Sound is an area of Killzone 2 that is mixed. The music isn't anything special, but the sound effects 
 are fine. Voice acting is an area that is very disappointing. 
  
  Gameplay involves several different area that I will now talk about.
  
  First, the storyline 
 is a bit disappointing. Fans of the original Killzone will probably be interested in what is being 
 told, but I would tend to think that most people won't care at all.
  
  The storyline is simply used to set up your instruction for the next level that you play through. 
 The difficulty increases as you pass through the game, but I was very surprised how short the game 
 was. I looked all over to try and find items in the game, and I was still able to beat the game 
 in about nine hours. This is the reason why I highly recommend Killone 2 as a "rent it first." 
 There is no doubt that you will easily be able to beat Killzone 2 by renting it.
  
  I was disappointed to see that there are so few enemies, and the lack of diversity with those enemies. 
 I was surprised to see the Playstation 3 using an Atari 2600 style artificial intelligence for 
 difficulty with some of the enemies. For example, some of the enemies look exactly the same, except 
 they are a different color, depending on how tough they are to kill or how fast they move. This 
 really did remind me of Pac-Man the way that different enemies of different color moved faster 
 or slower.
  
  The way the six-axis controller is used is interesting. There are times when you need to rock it 
 back and forth in order to accomplish your mission. I personally don't think this adds anything 
 to Killzone 2. In fact, I think this can be frustrating at times due to the lack of precision in 
 the controls of Killzone 2. You might take two or three steps forward in what you are asked to 
 do with the six-axis feature, and then take one step backwards. It obviously isn't that hard in 
 real life to spin something in the correct direction.
  
  After I quickly beat the single-player part of Killzone 2, I thought it would be a good idea to 
 give the multi-player part of Killzone 2 a try. Multi-player is the best part of Killzone 2. There 
 are lots of different classes and modes you can play with. Even if you can't find anyone to play 
 with, there are still ways to set up the CPU to keep you busy.
  
  Multi-player does have some problems, though. I have to say that I did experience problems waiting 
 for people to play with online. I also experienced random framerate problems while playing online. 
 Killzone 2 is a game that runs at only 30 frames per second, which means if the framerate drops 
 online you aren't given much forgiveness before the host and people with stronger connections see 
 advantages over you.
  
  Weapons are an area of Killzone 2 that have two different points of view. On one hand it is nice 
 that there are a lot of different weapons. On the other hand, the different weapons have virtually 
 no specialty when compared to other weapons. For example, it doesn't matter if you use a gun to 
 kill an enemy or a flamethrower, and there are no special enemies that demand a certain weapon 
 to kill. 
  
  Overall, my rating of Killzone 2 penalizes the game for failing to live up to industry standards 
 that gamers come to expect. Lack of standard features such as "install" and "co-op" really do make 
 Killzone 2 a game that should be rated lower than other Playstation 3 games that do include those 
 features. The fact that the poorly written single-player mode of Killzone 2 can be beaten so quickly 
 and has very little replay value is also a reason why I rate the game with a low score. Killzone 
 2 is a game that really should be rented first in order to see if you like the multi-player mode 
 enough that it will give you continuous replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stagga99
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  I was one of the few who managed to get this game several weeks ago and have spent considerable 
 time with it. 'Lord_Lykouleon' makes several point in his 'review' that seem unfair.
  
  LL states that this is 'by no means the most technically accomplished shooter'. If we're talking 
 about console games then that statement has already been proven untrue many times. If we include 
 PC then there's still only one game that betters it.
  
  The single player campaign for me was never close to 'more than forgettable'! Although I felt it 
 could have had more variety I never once got bored, the firefights were always intense and the 
 atmosphere always immersive. It's certainly one of the better examples of a single player FPS experience 
 to my mind, and I've played a LOT of FPSs! I agree that it could have had some more stand out moments 
 but the feel of the gunplay would often make up for the lack of variety in enemy types. One thing 
 LL is correct about is the terrible voice acting and 1 dimensional characters.
  
  The shooting itself can be difficult at first. Single player lends itself to getting a good cover 
 spot and picking the enemy off with well placed, careful shots. This doesn't work so well in multiplayer 
 as the cover system is removed so up close encounters can feel a bit 'spray and pray' with no aim 
 assist. That being said I've only had a couple of days play on MP and I've improved every game 
 so it seems something that will take some practice and genuine skill to be good at. The maps have 
 a nice variety, are usually a lot bigger than CoD4's and the game provides a very different gameplay 
 feel to that title. Which for me is a very good thing since why would I want another version of 
 the same game! LL complains that connectivity is hit and miss. I heard there was a server problem 
 a couple of days back but any problems I had with connection were fixed when I switched my PS3 
 to a Wired connection so it seems my crappy modem was more likely the cause!
  
  LL complains that he doesn't like it when the game mode switches on the fly. For most people, including 
 myself, this is a revolutionary (geddit?!) concept that I expect to become standard in FPSs in 
 the future (and they say that Killzone 2 brings nothing new?) but LL if you really don't like it 
 then choose a single game mode. The option is given to you right there in the MP menu screen!
 
  
  Overall I had great fun with the single player campaign. Yes it could have had more perhaps but 
 when playing it I never felt short changed and the multiplayer looks to be one of the best and 
 longest lasting on PS3. Well worth your 60 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 is here and personally I think it looks better than the pre-render trailer we all saw 
 at the 2005 E3. I decided to watch the trailer before writing this review. I've noticed that everything 
 that was shown on the trailer represents the intense fire fight that you will be encountering in 
 the game. The pacing of the game is great. You're always on the move but never feel like you're 
 overwhelmed either.
  
  When you first pick up the controller you'll notice a difference as soon as you start to move around 
 the environment. There's a heavy feeling when you're moving around with your rifle. If the sensitivity 
 feels off you can always adjust it and also you have a couple of different button layouts. Once 
 you adjust yourself to the control settings and the sensitivity you'll get use to the style of 
 this game in no time. 
  
  The story of this game is very clich. In the first Killzone your planet was attacked by your enemies 
 that are known as Helghast. In the sequel you'll be invading their planet and returning the attack 
 on their own turf. The presentation in this game is unmatched and I've played a lot of First Person 
 Shooters in my life and I don't think even Crysis can come close as far as graphics and presentation. 
 This proves that games like Crysis can be done on the consoles. I think Guerrilla has raised the 
 bar for what people can expect from a First Person Shooter. The sounds of the weapons all sound 
 great; with each weapon having their own unique sound. The weapons in this game are all fun to 
 use especially the Lighting gun. You'll find weapons all over the game and there will be times 
 that you'll have to use these specific weapons to advance in the level. 
  
  This game also offers online multiplayer with a leveling system that will keep you coming back 
 to see what new weapons and perks you have unlocked from playing online. Also if you're just in 
 the mood to figure out the maps you can play online with bots to play with you or against you. 
 That's always a good way to start so you can get familiar with the maps. This is a must buy game 
 if you have a PS3 and if you're a fan of Shooters. I really think this game belongs up there with 
 the big dogs when it comes to FPS. There's no way you will not have fun if you play this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review did a good job of highlighting many of the better aspects of Killzone 2, but 
 it feels more like an advertisement, and in their haste to sell you the game, they didn't mention 
 several of the flaws that are present
  
  The singleplayer game is much more than forgettable, and the voice acting is laughable. 
  
 
  The graphics are nice, but this game is by no means the most technically accomplished shooter. 
 It seems the closer and closer games get to realism, the more and more the color palette becomes 
 brown, gray, and a heck of a lot of HDR Bloom.
  
  The shooting feels a little clunky, and you never get a sense of precision with your movements 
 and shots compared to contemporary shooters. 
  
  Multiplayer connectivity can be hit or miss, and there isn't a variety of maps. 
  
  Also, while 
 some enjoy the way a map can switch game modes on the fly, I found it to be frustrating, because 
 certain game modes lend themselves to ranking up and getting more badges, and it can be annoying 
 when the game mode you wanted to play suddenly becomes something else
  
  Don't let these flaws fully dissuade you though, Killzone 2 is a gripping epic shooter that will 
 keep you coming back. Just be prepared, there are several annoyances, and they can ruin any player's 
 enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: team-mazda3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  
  Ok Im going to start with the down sides .
  
  First , the stupid AI (the friendly AI) , I got killed a lot of times because Mr. good guy can't 
 get in cover , and some times I fight alone !!!! , where is he ? He is waiting some place else 
 !!! , and I kill most of them , so why is he with me ?
  
  and why u can heal ur friends , but the don't heal u !!!
  
  
  
  Second , the story is .... 
 (Nothing) ,and this is the most disappointing thing really, what I mean is its not like gta or 
 mgs4 , but even with the bad story u get addicted to play it for killing XD .
  
  
  
  Third , the game lags when its saving , its OK , but I noticed that the first time I played the 
 game , and I noticed that there is a lot of dark places , so u will need a flash light , and u 
 can use the guns that has the night vision , but I would prefer if there is flash light .
  
  
  
  Ok enough of badsides , now for the goodies of the game .
  
  
  
  1-The graphics 
 is really good , the best on ps3 I think, the details is really good they didn't leave anything 
 out , Im shocked !!! How can the ps3 run it !!! .
  
  
  
  2- The control is really good too , I liked the sixaxis thing , and weapons acts well too .
  
 
  
  
  3-And , u actually can play music while playing !!! .
  
  
  
  4- Sound is awesome , u can hear the guns go mad wooooo .
  
  
  
  5- The online is awesome 
 and there isnt alot of lag .
  
  
  Ok now IM going to rate it .
  
  
  
  Graphics , 10.0 .
  
  Gameplay, 9.0 .
  
  Online,9.5 .
  
  story, 8.0 .
  
  
  
 
  And the overall rating is 9.0+ , it would give it a lot more if it wasn't for the story and the 
 stupid friendly AI , and don't tell me I was harsh on the game , because mistakes like this kills 
 the game , but I hope they improve it by updates (for the AI ) .
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonstalhein
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:06 am PT
Review:  Hype swirls around this game like the squalls of dust spat and ragged run by torrents of lead from 
 Helghast rifles. Spotted by red-eye we duck and roadie run through deathly trench and sun-beam 
 lancing through windows as pain lances through, sunlight shafts punctuate eerie calm before the 
 storm brewed by towering tesla.
  
  At times, the game is poetic in its beauty and the way in which it immerses you in the game-world. 
 This review is going to be kept succint becase, in a very rare case, I think it's a game that everyone 
 should experience with as little prior judgment as possible. By no means do I imply that everyone 
 will enjoy it equally, or perhaps at all, but to approach what is indisputably a milestone in both 
 graphics, immersion and a long-lost sense of inertia in First Person games with the notion of 'good', 
 'bad', '10/10' or 'over-hyped and a letdown' is to do a disservice to both the developers and yourself.
 
  Yes, the game has flaws. The dialogue is comprised of an endless stream of machismo expostulations, 
 and the cast are instantly forgettable. What has been said about the over-arching plot is a little 
 myopic however, as without giving anything away it does touch on an interesting topic and issue 
 of conflict and invasion. 
  
  Just play it. Rent it if you're not sure. One way or another this game is history in the making; 
 like Edge has said, it's testament to craft and creativity, as one is near-perfect and the other 
 non-existant. I think developers can learn exactly and precisely what to do and what not to do 
 from this game, and it has me smiling broadly in anticipation of where the highlights of the genre 
 will go from here.
  
  Nny
  x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devoid27
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:41 am PT
Review:  Yes! Guerrilla games finally did it. They killed the gamers, as well as they killed the reviewers.
 
  All this hype for over 4 years of waiting for such a visually stunning graphical shooter.
  It's been a long time that I have been waiting for a game that will destroy the video game franchise 
 and set a new dimension in video gaming.
  
  Okay, at first i will list the good/bad aspects:
  
  The Good:
  
  - Great fast paced multi-player 
 with over 30 gamers in one match. 60 might be too much, but 30 is just about right to avoid the 
 server being over flooded with players. 
  
  - No lags whatsoever during on-line matches, no matter how many players there are in a match.
 
  
  - Amazing set of weapons. Te guns are varied along the story mode and always give us an opportunity 
 to experience the tremendously powerful firepower on an enemy vehicle or an enemy it self. 
  
  - The action is always varied throughout the story mode and never appears to have long pauses 
 like the mission briefings in MGS4 (Wicked game!) . 
  
  - The cover system is useful and gives us a chance to survive an enemy attack and place some accurate 
 head shots!
  
  - The game stays always challenging which basically means that it doesn't happen that you just 
 get stuck in one act killing the same enemies.
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  - No Cover System in the multi-player.
  
  - The story is very vague and lacks in depth unlike 
 MGS4 (Sorry if i have to compare but MGS has a great story) . The only thing we know is that we're 
 killing Helghast for some weird reason.
  
  - No Vehicles in the multi-player
  
  
  
  What else to say?? Great Game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  But is that all the game's got? Putting aside the fact that the main characters and the story are 
 pathetic at best (we'll come back to that later) the main presentation of the game, the weapons 
 selection, and the action you are thrown into makes Killzone 2 one of the best shooter around.
 
  Unfortunately for me, I very much rely on the storyline. I like to get attached to the main characters 
 of the game, I like to be swallowed into the story. That is where Killzone 2 failed miserably. 
 I am probably not going to finish the game unless I have nothing else better to do. Had the story 
 been more engaging, and the characters been more lovable, I do not think I would have been able 
 to put my joypad down, I would have wanted to see the game through.
  Killzone 2 is for me a generic FPS with superb graphics, nothing new has been done here, we've 
 pretty much seen it all before.
  Should it be considered a must have? Well, if you do not own Resistance 2, yes it should, otherwise 
 just rent it, try it and judge for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  So here we are, Killzone 2 has finally arrived! And i was lucky enough to get it a day early, I 
 thought this would be a perfect oppurtunity to hammer through the single player.
  
  Upon completion, all i can say is... Wow. This game really is a masterpiece of epic proportions. 
 If you ever thought this game was too hyped, then you are wrong!
  
  Where to start? The story is something that you'd expect from this type of game. You play a sergeant 
 of A company and you are bringing to war back to the Helgasts and to try and stop this conflict 
 once and for all. I never played Killzone 1, but the story was explained well enough that i didn't 
 have to.
  
  The controls are very tight and fluid, and also suprisingly realistic. You constantly feel like 
 your are held down by a lot of weight from your armour and weapons, and it shows as you try to 
 fling yourself desperately behind cover. Oh yes, the cover system! I thought it was brilliant and 
 something i havent seen before really in a FPS. you hold R2 to crouch in the game, but it also 
 sticks you to a wall or piece of cover if you need it. This is very effective because you can't 
 actually see over the cover when crouched behind it, so you're forced to risk health to peek over 
 and try to take some blind shots to pin down the enemies.
  
  The Ai is ruthless. I played through the campaign on Mediumish difficulty and i died MANY times. 
 The enemies come in very large packs and take an awful lot of lead to kill. Theres also several 
 times where you've knocked or shot down a Helgast and he's actually got back up once you've let 
 your guard down. They flank you at every oppurtunity, throw grenades, stay behind cover for aaages 
 and will even run at you in attempt to knock you down. You will be tested and on your toes from 
 beginning to end.
  
  Now the one many people ask me about... the graphics, and yes they are spectacular. This is probably 
 the best looking console game i've ever seen and theres many moments where i've stood still for 
 a moment just to admire the scene. The artistic style is almost more impressive than the graphical. 
 Helgan is a horrible murky place. The sky brews storms and clouds gloom over the entire game, you'll 
 run around and notice the wind howling and it just looks so amazing. The lighting aswell is also 
 brilliant, as now and then you'll see rays of sunshine peek through the black clowds, and the torch 
 and lamp effects are also something to admire. They even paid attention to very small things such 
 as the pool of blood continously flowing from a dead helgans body, and even the sparks that bounce 
 from metal sheets as you shoot them. It's a graphical masterpiece, with production values higher 
 than Gears Of War 2.
  
  The sound is just as impressive. Think back to the Call Of Duty games, only better. The sound of 
 war has never been so disturbing as you'll run frantically for life, with explosions and bullets 
 coming from all angles, you're team mates shouting orders and mocking the Helgasts, and even the 
 Helgasts desperate screams for life as you fill their bodies with lead. If i had surround sound 
 i would have an eargasm from beginning to end.
  
  My only complaint really is that it ended, and quite quickly i might add. You'll probably get through 
 the game in 6-7 hours, although it's a heck of a rollercoaster. The trophies are addictive and 
 they'll add some replay value as you go through the campaign again in hope of getting the 'Kill 
 1500 Helgasts' trophy. But of course we know that the real replay value with Killzone 2 is with 
 the online, and i've been on it for about an hour now. Expect a review for the multiplayer in a 
 week or so.
  
  In a nutshell, get this game. This is the second game to truly show the potential of the PS3 (uncharted 
 was first) , and the campaign whilst short, will leave you breathless and entertained from beginning 
 to end. An amazing game that i can't recommend enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWarMachin3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Been playing for around 4 hours now and so far its lived up to the hype. I find the controls a 
 bit fiddly but the action and game play are spot on. Enemy AI is very impressive and they keep 
 you busy in firefights. Skirmish mode is good fun to play as well, i have checked out a few maps 
 and they are designed well to keep the killing frequent and fun. Interesting choice of design by 
 only allowing the player to carry a sidearm and a main weapon. In frantic firefights you can use 
 up most of your ammo and then have to rely on your pistol to get you out of trouble... would have 
 preferred the ability to be able to carry your choice of primary and secondary weapon. Anyway i 
 say if you own a PS3 check out killzone 2, i give it a 9/10. Its a fantastic game but isn't revolutionary 
 like half-life was in its time or COD4. Regardless, you will be impressed. I can see 2009 as being 
 an awesome year for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ewangotkool
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Killzone 2 really is the best of the best of all the shooter games and to me is defenetly a halo 
 killer. This is the first day i've played the game and i have not yet played the campain but i 
 have played the demo campain and its amazing in the fact that the graphics are brilliant and the 
 scenery are grwat and all thoughs little things are all great.
  I have though played the multiplayer or warzone for about 4 hours and so far its the best multiplayer 
 experience i've ever had and could be said that its better than COD5 multiplayer and the graphics 
 are amazing and gaming experience all together is amazing but the only enoying thing about it is 
 the disdence were you respawn is far from were the action really is and dying is easy but so is 
 killing thats a bonus.
  If your a playstation 3 fan and a shooter fan this is one of the best shooters and you should defenetly 
 buy it and as i said in the start its as good as halo 3 and CoD 4&5 and maybe even better. :)
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
