-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lair
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/lair/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strong production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abysmal controls and targeting are a constant struggle and crush every aspect of gameplay, from flight to combat.
 The cinematic camera causes you to lose your bearings by zooming around every which way.
 Timed mission objectives require too much precision.
 Action is shallow and unrewarding.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 3,424 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Factor 5
Genre: Action
Date: Aug 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lair is a beautiful disaster. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Lair Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The Good            Strong production 
 values.                The Bad            Abysmal controls and targeting are a constant struggle 
 and crush every aspect of gameplay, from flight to combat  &nbsp;      The cinematic camera causes 
 you to lose your bearings by zooming around every which way  &nbsp;      Timed mission objectives 
 require too much precision  &nbsp;      Action is shallow and unrewarding.                     
  After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Improved Controls 
    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 10:00 am PT      In April 2008, an option to fly Lairs dragons using 
 the left analog stick rather than the poorly implemented Sixaxis support was added via a free update 
 that also included a couple of new dragons. To find out what we thought of the update, check out 
 our  reviews blog entry  on the subject. &nbsp;               

  You shouldn't play Lair. Not unless you have some morbid interest in experiencing what is quite 
 possibly one of the worst control schemes ever devised. It's a shame because as a cinematic experience, 
 it's stunning to watch. As a game, it's a nightmare and an embarrassment. It sounds like a fantastic 
 idea: You fly around on a dragon, spewing fire and clawing at other reptiles while generally wreaking 
 havoc. Too bad you're forced to use Sixaxis controls that destroy the possibility of fun and replace 
 it with the constant need to scream expletives at your television screen.  

           Go right, dammit.      

  You play as Rohn, a dragon rider in the Asylian army fighting 
 against the supposedly evil Mokai. You can sense from the start that there's something creepy about 
 the religious dedication of the Asylians, so the story twists that appear later aren't exactly 
 shocking. However, the cutscenes that move the story along are terrific, giving you a real sense 
 of the culture and backstory. They are also frequently intrusive, interrupting gameplay every two 
 or three minutes with a brief clip to remind you of your mission objectives, as if the last four 
 cutaways would let you forget.  

  You might think that flying around would be the easiest thing to do in a flight sim. Well, not 
 in Lair, unless you're flying straight ahead in wide-open skies, without needing to turn or get 
 close to anything else. It sounds simple enough: Accelerate by tapping X, pull back on the reigns 
 with R2 or L2, and tilt the controller to steer. But flight is a mess. You can't make tight turns, 
 yet you're constantly placed in levels with narrow canyons, looming towers, and a ton of enemies 
 in the air, at ground, or at sea. All of these things are surrounded by an invisible, slippery 
 wall that pushes you off to the side, or up, or down if you bump against it. So if you get too 
 close to anything during any of these stupidly wide turns you're forced into, you'll be sliding 
 off of stuff and into a direction that bears no resemblance to your actual destination.  

  In theory, you can lock on to other flying enemies and spew flames at them or dive into them from 
 a fair distance. But the targeting system is a tragedy. You can't choose what to lock on to, so 
 all you can do is keep an eye out for the fuzzy white circle to appear on an enemy dragon. From 
 here, you have a couple of equally unappealing choices. Possibility one: You press circle, at which 
 point, you zoom headlong into your enemy, which normally kills it instantly. It's like Joust in 
 3D, only shallower. During the kill, the game goes into a dramatic slow-motion mode, but the tilt 
 controls stop steering your dragon and now inexplicably control the camera.  

  During this period, you can tilt the camera around and pray that another dragon in view gets the 
 magic white circle plastered on it, in which case, you can make it a combo kill. But there are 
 multiple insane issues with the setup. One is that during slow-mo, you can only pan the camera 
 horizontally, so you can have foes above or below, but no chance of stringing them into a combo 
 because you can't lock on to them. The other is that once the kill is done, the tilt controls go 
 back to steering your dragon. This forces you to constantly adjust and invariably results in your 
 dragon going off somewhere you don't want it to go. All the while, the camera moves from the cinematic 
 kill angle to its original position and you have to figure out what direction you're facing. It's 
 frustrating and dumb, considering that the analog sticks control the flight camera at all other 
 times.  

           No, you idiot -- the other right.      

  Possibility two: The targeting circle appears, and you press L1 or R1 to initiate the lock-on function. 
 Once you're locked on, you can spew fire toward your enemy, which works reasonably well. Or you 
 can fly alongside and whip the controller toward your enemy to ram it. This usually works OK, but 
 there is a delay between your own motion and that of the dragon onscreen, so it makes the sideways 
 bash rather unsatisfying.  

  The lock-on and auto-targeting function works with aerial enemies, as well as enemies on the ground. 
 Missions often require you to lock on to a specific target to take it down, but as already mentioned, 
 you can't select your own target. For instance, you may need to take down one of the elephantine 
 creatures on the ground by locking on and hitting triangle, but you may end up getting a lone soldier 
 instead, or a turret, or a dragon. Then, you'll need to struggle to circle around or try a 180-degree 
 turn to head back, which requires you to pitch the controller upward and doesn't work half the 
 time anyway. Amazingly, these ultraprecise mission objectives are coupled with a time limit most 
 of the time, which just makes you feel that much more out of control.  

  You're not stuck in the air. You can land and set fire to ground troops, or eat them, or whip your 
 tail around. Here, you use the analog sticks to move about, which is a welcome relief from all 
 the gesticulating you'll be doing most of the time. Supposedly, tilting the controller moves the 
 camera while you're on the ground, but it never seemed to do much of anything for us. The moments 
 on the ground don't last long because as soon as you get used to the more intuitive analog controls, 
 you'll need to switch your brain back and head to the skies.  

  You're fighting all of this madness all of the time, and it detracts from the moments that prove 
 Lair could have actually been good in some alternate dimension. Sometimes you'll engage in melee 
 combat with other dragons. During these times, the camera zooms in close, tribal music kicks into 
 high gear, and you're teased with the momentary thought that, yes, this could be cool. But after 
 some brainless button mashing, you kill your foe, the camera zips around in some ungodly fashion, 
 and you're back to the struggle to retain sanity. There are some other context-sensitive kills, 
 where Rohn hops off his dragon to perform some spectacular feat of derring-do while you shake the 
 controller up and down or press the left stick in any direction you feel like. It's awesome to 
 watch, but your part in the onscreen action is remarkably limited.  

           Alright, fine. Go left instead.      

  It's obvious that all the development effort 
 went into Lair's production values, rather than into making it fun to play. It's often a stunner 
 to look at, with environments that are huge and richly detailed. Its artistry is also dripping 
 from every nook and cranny. Rolling hills, arid deserts, rocky seaside cliffs: All of these elements 
 are rendered beautifully. When you throw in the splendor of distant aerial battles, undulating 
 seas, and lovingly crafted dragons, you've got a gorgeous way to enjoy your high-definition display. 
 But all this beauty comes at a cost. The frame rate dips and rises erratically -- not enough to hinder 
 gameplay usually, but it's an annoyance nonetheless. You'll also be treated to occasional screen 
 tearing, seams in the geometry, and plenty of pop-up as objects get closer. The soundtrack is quite 
 lovely, while the voice acting and sound effects are good too, so at least there is a lot here 
 to please the senses. But the constant voice-overs reminding you of your mission objectives are 
 repeated so often, you'll be screaming that yes, you know you need to destroy the navy ships, but 
 you can't get your dragon to fly in the right direction.  

  But great visuals and sound mean absolutely nothing in Lair. Factor 5 should have made a movie -- not 
 a game. This is the ultimate example of how gameplay suffers when all the work goes into making 
 everything look pretty. There is nothing fun about it, so forget the online leaderboards and don't 
 worry about unlocking a few dragons in the stable or gunning for a high score. Forget Lair entirely. 
 It really seems like the developers forced themselves to stick with a barely-workable control scheme 
 just to make use of the PS3's flashy new tilt sensor support.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (311 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  Music: 9.0
  I liked the music actually, probably the best thing about the game.
  
  Sound: 6.0
  good sounds but dragons screaming can get to you.
  
  Gameplay: 3.0
  Weird, 
 bad gameplay. I sold this game before bothering to finish it. It's probably the least addictive 
 game in the history of gaming and it could have been really good. This game looked so promising. 
 You start walking around on foot and you see a big dragon so you press triangle to go jumping onto 
 it with your mace thing. then you start flying around which sucks and isn't too responsive. The 
 only good thing about the gameplay were the takedowns, they were wonderful. Thats it.
  
  Story: 8.5
  Great story of betrayal and everything. I won't spoil it if you ACTUALLY want to 
 buy this game. (Don't) .
  
  Graphics: 5.0
  Good visual style, horribly horrible grainy graphics. The lighting seems a bt screwed up and on 
 the edge of rocks and stuff you can see pixels! A PS3 game (let me rephrase: exlusive) with PIXELS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 This is horrible. But the style was great.
  
  Replay Value: 0.0
  Least addictive game I know behind WarHawk (Weird game by the way) .
  
  Value: 6.0
  I got 
 it for $30 AU new and it's still hardly worth it.
  
  PROS:
  Great Soundtrack
  Great Story
  Fun Takedowns.
  
  CONS:
  Pretty much everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8TwilightAngel8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  LAIR was a highly anticipated game by Factor 5 for the PlayStation 3 System. Unfortunately, due 
 to very poor controls the game was heavily bashed and criticized. The control scheme is awkward 
 and quite annoying at times, but I still really like the game.
  
  So lets look at the good first. The graphics are spectacular. Its just like watching a movie, but 
 your the star actor; a dragon rider destined to save the world from the evil diviner. Sometimes 
 there are glitches, like your dragon can get stuck under a bridge or manta. Other than that, there 
 are no problem with the image.
  
  The story is excellent! Ten out of ten on that. But its really typical. I've heard similar stories 
 before in books and in some movies. The idea of betrayal by a trusted friend, the death (s) of comrades 
 and friends, and the inevitable defeat of the true evil behind everything. Its all bin done before. 
 It still has some unique qualities; new creatures, and amazing new environments like the maelstrom. 
 That level is my favorite.
  
  There are tons of extras to unlock as you play the game. This includes a production gallery, concept 
 galleries, credits, trailers, the making of LAIR, music, combos and a commentary (you get this 
 at the end of the game) .
  
  Okay, now controls. Very hard, not well laid out and physically tiring. Shaking the controller 
 up and down fiercely is exhausting, especially if you get knocked off and have to go back and do 
 it again. Moving your dragon with the Sixaxis controller is pretty cool. When you have to do maneuvers 
 though, it gets complicated. Preforming a 180 degree turn (pitch up) is very difficult to preform 
 spot on every time. Most people find that when they try to do it, instead they end up preforming 
 the dash maneuver (thrusting the controller forward) . The reason for this mistake is not only because 
 of poor control layout, it is also the gamer 's fault. When you try the 180 degree turn, your supposed 
 to hold up the controller for a second, and when you lower it back to a normal position, do it 
 slowly. Snapping the controller will cause your dragon to dash.
  
  NEW CONTROLS, NEW PROBLEMS
  
  So a patch was made by factor 5 to add in analog controls and 
 to also give players two new dragons and a flying car to control as their mount during a mission. 
 I am glad they decided to add in the option for analog, but it should have been there from the 
 start. Using the analog is not that much different than using the Sixaxis. Moving your dragon while 
 trying to look around using rage view is extremely hard to do. In the tutorial, it does not even 
 tell you how to do the dash maneuver, as pushing the controller forward does not work anymore. 
 Moving the controller while flying strait will cause the 180 degree turn. So now preforming that 
 maneuver correctly is guaranteed. To do the dash now, you must press the right arrow on the d-pad 
 (you can also do a 180 with the left arrow) . I suggest that when you get the analog controls, go 
 to the Dark Lands Training ground to practice.
  
  NEW DRAGONS AND A FLYING CAR?? - COOOOL
  
  I am really impressed with the new dragons and their 
 new take down techniques. That was a good add on, especially since a lot of people thought when 
 they first bought the game that they would be able to use all of the dragons in the missions once 
 they beat the game. But no, we could only choose two, with not much variance between them.
  
  With the new dragons -poison and wind- you can feel a difference in weight. The Wind Dragon 
 is small and fast, so movement with the controller or analog stick is very sensitive and very quick. 
 It easily can overshoot potential targets, so it would not be good for bombing runs at all. The 
 Poison Dragon on the other hand is very large and heavy. It is a bit sluggish, so some maneuvers 
 are a bit slow. Other than that, its probably one of the better dragons to use. I don't have the 
 flying car yet, so I don't know how it handles.
  
  TO SUM IT UP
  
  Overall, the game could have been done so much better. A review of the control lay out is needed 
 desperately. Story and graphics are fine, even the new dragons have barely any issues with movement 
 and graphics; which was unexpected.
  
  One thing I want factor 5 to do, is once again increase the number of dragons available in the 
 stables. They don't need to make anything new, but I would like to try out some of the other dragons 
 (especially the flame dragon) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatkins1177
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:39 am PT
Review:  I never got the chance to play this game before the control patch, so I'm only able to speak from 
 that perspective. From what I do know of the Sixaxis control, my feelings about this game would 
 probably be quite different had they not incorporated analog stick controls. I wish game designers 
 would stop cramming new control schemes down our throats and stick to what works. Touch screens 
 and motion sensors are perfect for certain purposes, but just because they exist doesn't mean you 
 need to invent a use for them, But I digress.
  
  Despite the reviews, Lair is not a terrible game. It looks pretty good, with nicely designed graphics 
 and generally smooth animation. The story line is also decent and for me the fantasy concept of 
 dragon riders is a nice deviation from typical aerial combat games. The objectives are not terribly 
 inventive (destroy such and such targets, protect this, defend that, and so on) but they serve 
 the story. In my opinion, the worst part is the hand-to-hand (or maybe claw to claw) fighting while 
 flying. It can be very difficult to tell what is going on and how to attack or defend. Maybe with 
 more practice I would get used to it, but I really would just rather stick to fire breathing. One 
 nice feature is the ability to land to attack units on the ground. Landing in front of a hundred 
 enemy troops and frying them to ash can be pretty satisfying. In terms of replay value, Lair has 
 a ranking system for each mission so you can attempt to better your score, but other than that 
 the dozen or so stages are all the game has to offer.
  
  At best, Lair is an average game worth a look (or a second look if your only experience with it 
 was with the motion control scheme) but it's lack of replay value and multiplayer modes certainly 
 keep it from being great. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Take any air combat game and replace the planes with dragons. Throw in some inspiration from God 
 of War. Now rush the development and toss in some terrible controls and you have Lair.
  
  The idea behind the game is awesome. In an alternate medieval universe, knights ride dragons instead 
 of horses. The game doesn't seem able to decide if it wants to be a mindless action romp or a fantasy 
 epic. The story is intriguing but some of the missions seem thrown in just to make the game longer. 
 You are given a set number of lives each level which, good or bad, gives the game an arcade feel. 
 Each level keeps track of your statistics (such as how much you destroyed, how may lives you used, 
 or time to complete the level) and awards you medals based on your success. Going back to get all 
 golds really adds to the replay value of the game. There are a few levels where you will completely 
 be lost in the action and be having a great time. Unfortunately, these moments are few and far 
 between and don't begin to make up for the game's shortcomings.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the controls. Tilting the controller to steer your dragon 
 works great and really draws you into the experience. The rest of the motion based controls worked 
 for me less than half the time. Jerking the controller up is supposed to make your dragon perform 
 a 180. Most of the time I had to do the action three or more times to get him to do it. Jerking 
 down makes the dragon boost forward. This worked more often, but when it didn't the dragon nosedived 
 toward the ground. During normal flying segments, these weren't huge problems. During the scripted 
 action sequences, the game becomes almost unplayable. Much like the button-press boss battles from 
 God of War, you have one chance to perform the action. In many battles in this game, if you fail 
 the action, you die. When many of the actions have less than a 50% success rate and you must perform 
 five or more of these actions during a segment, the game becomes nearly impossible.
  
  The graphics are pretty much what we have come to expect from the PS3, which is not good. The water 
 looks great and the dragons and riders are decent. The particle effect, on the other hand, are 
 almost nonexistent. Shooting a fireball at the ground or a wall and seeing a crappy explosion and 
 no debris really doesn't make the game seem believable. Many of the levels have in game cutscenes, 
 but the screen will unexpectedly go black and the music cuts off as the scene loads. This completely 
 breaks up the action and snaps you right out of the game. Some of these scenes you aren't allowed 
 to skip, no matter how many time you have seen them. For example, in one level you must protect 
 mantas (think living airships) from a giant sea worm. Every time the worm reaches a manta, a really 
 terrible looking cutscene shows the worm destroy the manta. You may be forced to watch this exact 
 same scene 4 or more times unless you are moving as fast as possible through the level.
  
  About halfway through the game, I quit playing. Some people may think that if I am going to write 
 a review, I should at least finish the game. The way I see it is if I don't want to play anymore, 
 that says a lot about the game. If you love dragons and are looking for a game where they are finally 
 on your side, this may be worth checking out. For everyone else, the controls will be too frustrating 
 to be worth struggling to the highlights of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperdollparade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Lair was mostly overlooked due to a number of scathing reviews that bashed the games mandatory 
 sixaxis controls. Well Contrary to popular belief the controls are quite responsive and incredibly 
 satisfying. . . If you are willing to spend the time to learn them. Also laying underneath the 
 muck the media pummeled Lair with there is a fun captivating game to be had.
  
  Let's begin with the controls since that seems to be the main point of contention. If you are interested 
 in playing Lair, LEARN TO USE THE SIXAXIS CONTROLS! Yes analog controls are available now, but 
 you are not doing yourself any favors by using them. The analog controls feel unnatural at best. 
 Especially after getting the hang of the sixaxis. Lair was not designed for analog, it was built 
 for the sixaxis and it does a damn good job using them! If you have an unwavering hatred for the 
 sixaxis and refuse to give a new control scheme a chance, stop reading, forget you where ever interested 
 in Lair and move on. 
  
  For those of you still interested it will take you about 15 minutes to get use to the sixaxis controls, 
 which is about how long you will spend in the tutorials, but it will take hours of game play experience 
 to master them. It's all very intuitive but what will take you the longest time are the subtle 
 adjustments/movements you will need to make with the controller. You may even have to go back to 
 the tutorials the second time you pick up the game to re-adjust your self to the controls, but 
 once you have a good grasp on the controls you won't want to play another flight sim any other 
 way.
  
  The game is divided into separate Missions/Chapters which you select from a pseudo-world map. After 
 completing a mission you will be awarded a medal based on your performance (no medal will be awarded 
 if you performed really horribly) and will be shown what you need to do in order to get the next 
 best medal. You can return to any level you have beaten at any time whether it be for fun or in 
 order to get better medals. It is worth mentioning that earning medals will sometimes give you 
 stat bonuses like more health.
  
  While in each mission there will be a string of objectives given to you usually given after completing 
 the prior objective, but sometime they will overlap leaving you to prioritize. These are given 
 to you by either a fellow combatant giving out an order or directly from the main character both 
 through spoken dialog. There is also an arrow that will point you to the next objective, however, 
 it is sometimes unclear how to go about completing the objective and you'll need to be quick.
 
  
  Lair can get pretty hectic at times and if you weren't too busy fending off Rhinos, taking down 
 enemy dragons, slowing the advance of the enemy army and devouring soldiers, your jaw would probably 
 drop at the sheer number of things going on. the constant flow from one objective to another and 
 the juggling of multiple objectives as well as the screen being filled with hundreds of enemy's 
 leads to a great sense of urgency on the battlefield as the game should have given the setting/story. 
 There won't be a lot of time to relax and enjoy the scenery as every second counts. 
  
  As for the story, Its not groundbreaking in any way, but it is executed very well, the voice acting, 
 graphics, dialog are all great and the story is interesting enough to push you forward in the game. 
 The musical score is fantastic and what you would expect from a game involving dragons. It certainly 
 contributes to the epic tone of Lair.
  
  Lair is not without flaw though. Sometimes there will be frame rate slowdowns while going through 
 one of the more cinematic take downs though it was never game breaking and rarely happened. One 
 of the biggest flaws was, I believe on mission 10 or so, where every time you would take down a 
 large beast during the short cinematic the screen would tear. After the cinematic though every 
 thing would go back to normal and it never ended with me losing or dieing. It was still rather 
 annoying. Some of the transitions from regular game play and the more cinematic take downs could 
 have been done more smoothly as well.
  
  If you haven't figured it out yet Lair is no pushover and you are going to have to work hard to 
 get better than that bronze medal at the end of the mission let alone beat the mission. There are 
 a number of missions where it will take you multiple attempts before you succeed and there will 
 be times when you may want to throw your controller at the TV, but for those brave enough and willing 
 the experience will be like no other. Lair, even with its flaws, offers a uniquely satisfying experience 
 and is one of the few games that has a truly "next gen" feel. If you are interested and have yet 
 to be persuaded by the mass media hate, you should definitely give Lair a try, but remember to 
 keep an open mind and, if you must, have realistic expectations.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  PlayStation 3 owners have been patiently awaiting Sony to release a game designed to take advantage 
 of the grossly underutilized Sixaxis controller's motion capabilities. Ironically, after nearly 
 a year's time since the console's debut, two of them have been released into the wild a week apart 
 from one another. The second, Lair, is an ambitious and risky new intellectual property endeavor 
 relying entirely on the Sixaxis to re-create the uncharted gaming realm of realistic aerial dragon 
 warfare. Lair's story unfolds cinematically through the eyes of Rohn, a Mokai dragon rider finding 
 himself caught in a war between two civilizations that once existed as one. Players must step into 
 Rohn's shoes and fend off increasingly brazen Asylian land, sea and air offenses in a combination 
 of structured chapters objectives and more open sandbox-esque locales. 
  As Hollywood has shown us in Reign of Fire and Dragonslayer, dragons are vicious creatures that 
 soar through the air at incredible speeds and torch anything that tickles their angry bone. These 
 motions are duplicated in Lair with a self-propelled dragon controlled by steering its movements 
 entirely by motion with the Sixaxis controller. The only physical button required to maneuver a 
 dragon are the L2 and R2 shoulder buttons, which when triggered together, initiate an air brake. 
 
  
  Aimlessly soaring through the open sky with the Sixaxis is an exhilarating ride. Stopping to engage 
 the enemy, however, instantly kills the rush.
  
  The Sixaxis in Lair is extremely sensitive to motion, akin to flying a plane with a loose yolk. 
 This looseness makes lining up an enemy a Herculean task to properly achieve. Compounding the flaw 
 is the game's design to rely heavily on pulling the shoulder buttons to slow down and even stop 
 before engaging enemies. It's extremely awkward to keep both buttons continually depressed while 
 maintaining a steady hand to not throw the aim off with an unintentional movement. 
  
  A complimentary Rage Mode slows down time a notch and highlights enemies against the sepia-toned 
 environments as an aid device. It's only good for a handful of seconds until the Rage Meter is 
 emptied and in need of a refill triggered by destroying objects on the ground. An option to always 
 have Rage Mode active would have been a welcome addition to help curtail control inadequacies. 
 
  
  An alternative means of attack, especially for enemy light, medium or heavy dragons near impossible 
 to fly behind, is to lock onto a target and strike it. This motion sends your dragon flying into 
 the other like a heat-seeking missile. The approach is effective against smaller, light dragons 
 and ground forces as they can be wiped out with a single strike. However, little enjoyment is found 
 in mindlessly locking onto and striking wave after wave of enemies. 
  
  Heavier dragons require a more intimate approach as striking them is a fruitless act of aggression. 
 When your dragon is close to a heavy dragon, a Fight Mode initiates pitting each behemoth against 
 each other in a physical brawl. Combat is enacted via the four face buttons mapping to block, claw, 
 bite, and flame attacks. This mini-game of sorts is a welcome diversion from struggling with Sixaxis 
 controls and plays a more prominent role as the story progresses. 
  
  The dragons in Lair have been designed with a couple nifty tricks that round out the inclusion 
 of every imaginable dragon ability. In addition to shooting flame and the aforementioned fighting 
 styles, dragons are able to pick up and drop numerous objects -- including enemies and bombs, rip 
 and tear into objects -- like rope, and even bump other dragons without engaging in a fight. The 
 lack of tight flight controls hinders fun coming from executing these moves. 
  
  Riding dragons in Lair is simultaneously one of the most satisfyingly unique and frustratingly 
 impossible gaming experiences of recent memory. And that's a monumental shame, because Lair is 
 a sweeping epic with massive battlefields, gorgeous albeit monotone sepia art design, crisp visuals 
 running at 1080p, and a thunderous Dolby Digital 7.1 soundtrack that shakes the floorboards whether 
 an A/V receiver is capable of decoding the extra two channels or not. Toss out the mandatory Sixaxis 
 controls, and Lair marks the dawn of a potential new franchise. But saddled with Sixaxis, Lair 
 is worth only a short test flight before turning back in anticipation of a brewing storm. 
  
  Overall, a dissapointing game. 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cody13_2012
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I rented Lair and brought it back today and I played through the first 11 levels (I've heard that 
 there are only 14 levels in the game) . Gameplay started off rough at first but became more natural 
 feeling after a while but the controls still felt very sloppy. 75% percent of the time when I tried 
 to do a 180 degree turn I would have to try multiple times to accomplish it. It also did a poor 
 job of tackling the enemy dragons and I would have to try several times to do so. The worst control 
 they put on the game is jerking the controller up and down to kill enemys and rip things out. This 
 control is not very effective and very annoying (not to mention that it just looks wrong) and they 
 should have removed it in the control patch.
  The difficulty is very uneven. The first mission or two I went through easily but then the next 
 two were very difficult then a few easy ones and then and extremely difficult level and it just 
 felt like the game was trying to discourage me from playing. Any level where you had to rely on 
 teamates was hard and very frustrating. The AI is terrible in the game and it makes you have to 
 do Everything by yourself. Your teamates would rather tell you whats happening and what needs done 
 than doing it themselves. It takes them about 3 minutes to kill one enemy dragon while you are 
 expected to kill about 5 every three minutes on top of destroying enemy ships, rhinos, elephants, 
 and killing there troops. The game had me yelling at the screen "do something you Idiot!". Don't 
 get me wrong there are some fun points in the game but they are few and are spaced out. Absolutely 
 do not buy the game unless you can find it for 5 bucks or something, This game is barely worth 
 5 no way it's worth 60. If you feel you must absolutely play it, simply rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dare2devil737
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  The review here is very negative. I rented the game on a whim and found it to be very playable. 
 The storyline was good and the idea of using dragons for air-combat - well, I have never played 
 that before; so I thought it was executed very well. The controls are on the harder side, but you 
 can get used to it through the first few levels. The on-screen prompts for helps should be better 
 as they dissappear very fast. all in all - I gave it a 10/10 more to bring the average up, since 
 I think its a pretty good game.
  
  Trophies would be a good addon. Also it would be good to have a sequel to the game or some other 
 developer to pick up on the theme. I think there is good possibility for some good games here. 
 
  
  If anyone knows of similar games - I would be interested. The medivial twist to an air combat game 
 is definately very nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chalunaa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Look i like this game because is fantasy different from the other shooter games, its not bad is 
 a new form of gameplayed. Many people dont like it because it doesnt have too much gore, its not 
 a shooter game and because you have to use the sxinaxis (or whatever it is called) great if it 
 has sxinaxis at least you do "something productive" whiel playing the game, not just sitting there. 
 It has good graphics, a good lenght of playtime, good storyline so buy this game is worth playing 
 it. There are people how put 1 or 2 out of 10 to the game, i really think this game diserves an 
 8 considering all of the game graphics, storyline, challenges, controls etc. yes i agree it could 
 have been a lot more better if you could play longer as a person in 3rd person view, and sometimes 
 you get frustrated in some parts of the game. The game isint that bloody like Dead Space or Gears 
 fo War so that is a good thing, it shows blood but not too many as in other games. Anyway final 
 point a good fun game to play and pass time. So buy this game i do recomend it is not the best 
 ps3 game ever and its better than Metal Gear Solid 4 but a fine game, it is different than others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odrick
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game how another start with problems, even its using a new technology, so if you are a fat 
 player that doesn't like to move more that just yours poor fingers, this game would not the Best 
 game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game 
 ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever 
 Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best 
 game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever.
  Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best 
 game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game 
 ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever.
  Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best 
 game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game 
 ever Best game ever Best game ever Best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DataDream
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  So I have had Lair sitting on my games-shelf for awhile now.
  
  I was getting ready to play a new game yesterday - and had narrowed the decision down to either 
 Lair or Uncharted.
  
  Now even before beginning to play I had no doubt that Uncharted would be the better game.
  
 
  However at this time I wasn't neccessarily looking for the "better" game between the two - instead 
 right now I wanted to play a game that I already owned but the one with the shortest campaign.
 
  
  It was just about even with reccomendations between Lair and Uncharted - for length of play that 
 is. I didn't want to hear about how bad Lair was because I already owned it and that wasn't the 
 point.
  
  I was naive. Lair is so beautiful with so much potential - yet is so horrid that it may honestly 
 be the worst game I have attempted to make myself get into. even with the focus being on the shortest 
 campaign (which Lair may have) it is not worth playing for even 5 minutes.
  
  I have played allot of games - and I do mean allot by anyones standards - I just don't post much 
 about it and I play offline quite often so my gamer-score and trophies don't always reflect my 
 experience. I am trying to get out of the habbit of doing that by the way. Plus I play allot of 
 PC games.
  
  Anyway - all I can say is that as most of you already know - Lair is horrible. I am very liberal 
 with the games I like and quite often reviews and my opinion couldn't be further from the truth. 
 I have not too often played a game that i would consider "bad". That is not the case with Lair 
 - the reviewers are spot on.
  
  So about the patch.
  
  I played the first couple levels of Lair first with Six Axis only - then I replayed the same levels 
 with the patched controls using the analog sticks.
  
  While it was slightly - and I do mean slightly - more enjoyable for a first time player to use 
 the analog controls - it did little to improve the overall experience.
  
  The cut scenes and story were promising - but the game play is completely unacceptable. It is so 
 difficult to do what you intend to do in the game that it is a completely unenjoyable experience.
 
  
  And if a game is unenjoyable and not fun to play, well...
  
  then what's the point?
  
  So my final reccomendation is to avoid Lair at all costs (even at it's current $15 used price) .
 
  
  Unless you are looking for a challenge akin to digging ditches for a living - stay away from this 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THOMJOHN3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game as a used game, and what a deal!! I didn't play the game prior to the update 
 for the controls, so I can't commment on how the game was inittially shipped. However, I have played 
 Lair nonstop and have been unable to put it down. It is a mix of contextual buttton/controller 
 movements like God of War, mixed with the awesome flight scheme from Rogue Squadron, and finished 
 off with a great story and sweet graphics. Combat is broken down to either one on one against another 
 dragon, using combo moves to kill your enemy, or attacking aerial and ground targets. A special 
 attack meter called Rage fills up, allowing you to kill for more carnage (game points) . OOverall, 
 I am blown away by the music, sound effects, and graphics. If you can find this game like I did, 
 for $29, then it is a must have for all PS3 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan303
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Lair, a game clearly underrated and overlooked by many individuals and game critics. My purchase 
 of Lair came after the release of the analog and dragons patch that allowed for analog controls 
 and two new playable dragons. The patch allows for individuals to bypass motion control in favor 
 of a more classic dual joystick feel. However, not all of the motion control is eradicated, as 
 much of the games attacks and flight sequences require minute flicks of the control to execute 
 flashy take downs. The analog option brings the feel much closer to faction 5's rogue squadron 
 series that it has become so well known for.
  
  Now for the real meat of the game: the gameplay. Lair has been often criticized for lackluster 
 dull gameplay. However, Lair does offer varied and immersive gameplay. Many of the early levels 
 are spent flying above vast cliff side cities and catapult lined rivers. As you fly you fight ships, 
 catapults, and multiple kinds of dragons. As the game progresses it gets even better, as the later 
 levels showcase thousands of troops and rhinos marching in huge columns across bridges and through 
 valleys. The game can be approached in two manners: reigning death from above, or terrorizing on 
 the ground. Each has its merit and each has its fun. Flying and spewing fire allows for quick deaths 
 but imprecise targeting. Often your own approaching column of troops will be made up of swordsman 
 or archers who often do not fair well against spear men. This makes ground assaults preferable, 
 allowing you to take out specific enemy ranks that your legions may be weak against. The gameplay 
 is often reminiscent of the old rogue squadron games but with a lot more flash. As you fly you 
 can shoot fireballs at other dragons, spew streams of flame, and even engage in takedowns. Most 
 players will probably default to fireballs for the common dragon but the occasional bull or dark 
 dragon will require a takedown or in flight battle. a takedown consists of building up your rage 
 meter and then initiating a button sequence, which if done properly will result in an instant kill. 
 The in flight battle has both dragons falling from the sky as you bite, claw, and spew fire at 
 the other dragon. Both methods are fun and intense. The gameplay across its many levels never fails 
 to deliver.
  
  Of course the graphics are important as well. Lair truly shines in this area. Lair has lush and 
 beatuiful graphics and effects that many new ps3 games do not even showcase, the graphics are second 
 only to mgs4. Lair has varied environments, from snow capped mountains, to river fjords, to sullen 
 fortresses, to desert valleys, and even mystical sky fortresses. Every area is as beautifully rendered 
 as the next. Dragons are incredibly detailed allowing for the player to visually discern their 
 strength through the visuals alone. Effects and motion blur only add to the cinematic presentation. 
 Lair is masterful in its visuals.
  
  Many individuals often complain about the camera. In fact the camera is quite ingenious. It follows 
 a cinematic sweep allowing for you to maintain a eye on your target. The complaint is when the 
 target is terminated the camera snaps to your front view rather than where you are looking. However, 
 this is easily remedied by holding the right analog stick in the direction you want to look and 
 performing aerial maneuvers to snap around. What seems like a hindrance is actually the ability 
 to create what makes lair great: quick flashy gameplay.
  
  The music. The soundtrack for lair is absolutely fantastic. It rivals that of heavenly sword, Halo, 
 and World of Warcraft. The music also changes with the environments. The beating of tribal drums 
 can be heard when playing with the savage moki, airy flutes are played in the high cities of the 
 wealthy, and harmonies are sung in the crisp snow of the mountains. The soundtrack is worth listening 
 to outside of the actual gameplay, and Lair recognizes this by offering a music player in the rewards. 
 The music and sound only furthers Lair's greatness.
  
  Lastly, the story. Its a classic story of betrayal wrought with moral dilemmas and moments of discord. 
 The story is often predictable, but it managed to keep me interested and willing to play a second 
 time. If anything brings lair down it is the story.
  
  All in all Lair is truly an epic. It may lack some story, the camera may annoy some, and the gameplay 
 style is not for everyone. But for those who possess an open mind and a love for dragons will find 
 more than a good time in Lair. They will find a gem worthy of a special spot on the gaming shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  okay. here we go with lair. this game was nothing but a complete mess. very big upset. the graphics 
 were amazing. that's pretty much the only good thing about lair. the story was okay. the gameplay 
 was horrible. you had to control everything with your controller. half of the time your dragon 
 went the opposite way that you turned. that made everything just out of whack. and yeah it got 
 really annoying. so much that i wanted to just break my controller. they should of made this a 
 movie. not a video game. the difficulty was just down right hard. im telling you this game is going 
 to test you. if only you could use your joystick. not really long story mode. no more then 7 hours. 
 i think when sony released this game. they wanted to show how great there graphics are. i guess 
 they forgot about the gameplay completely. you really should not waste your time on this one. nothing 
 more then a huge headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game was very good But at the start of the game you will think it is boring but after a while 
 about 20 mins you will start to enjoy it and will try and complete the game as there is a bit to 
 do in the game. The good thing about this game is the graphics its awsome and the water is so good 
 it is unbelievable. The dissapointment in this game is that you can not jump of the dragon and 
 fight as the man i know the story is about the dragon but it could still make a better game if 
 you could fight with the man. There are a lot of different types of moves you can do with the dragon 
 for example fireballs can go lot more powerfull and you get a huge fire beam and a lot of fighting 
 moves. I find this game very hard indeed and i really enjoy games that i get stuck ond because 
 the game will last longer and i bet you people out there like hard games aswell. If you like games 
 like the heavenly sword and conan and beouwolf you will enjoy this game its very good so if i were 
 you i would get this game......................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perrito59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Lair has beautiful graphics for the time that it came out. The gameplay is amazing the first game 
 that I have played in a long time that took me more than ten minutes to get the hang of. It makes 
 you want to master the controls to see what other cool things that you can do. The good and bad 
 of this game is the shortness of the game and each level. Once, you do master the controls this 
 game can be completed in no time. But it is also nice in the fact that each level is action packed 
 till the finish. The action of the game is awesome as well with the taking down of dragons. and 
 ground fighting ripping people to shreds with a dragon never gets old. The story is a little under 
 developed the cut scenes had more to be desired (they looked good don't get me wrong) . However, 
 story did not have a lot to it a 10 minute story drug out into a 6 to 8 hour game. Some people 
 will immediately get frustrated with the game from the controls take the time to get used to it 
 because it is so nice to be able to play something that has never been done with a flight sim. 
 Overall, the action is amazing with a short simple story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drluv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot really missed the mark with this one. Even pre patch this game was waay better than a 
 4.5, but now it should be awesome for everybody. I play with the six-axis and really think the 
 controls are good and a lot of fun (especially now since they mapped dash and 180 turn to buttons) 
 Although you aren't going to be able to get gold medals with the six axis it makes the game a lot 
 of fun, and a very different experience. 
  
  What game spot missed is six-axis is next-gen and sometimes next gen controlls are hard. Think 
 back to the first time you used an analog stick instead of the 4-directional buttons, or the first 
 time you played a FPS on a PC with complete mouse look- both of the previous were very akward for 
 me at first, but I can't imagine gaming now without them. I think the same will hold true for the 
 six-axis a few years from now. That said, if you are just renting the game, or mind a learning 
 curve- save yourself the trouble and use the new analog. Additionally, there are plenty of training 
 exercises to get you familiar with the controls- but they aren't manditory.
  
  The combat is great, the graphics are spectacular (grainy on a normal TV- but truely awesome in 
 HD) , the story is amazing, the voice acting is up there with square games.
  
  The only thing I'd change is the lack of information (things you have to figure out yourself) . 
 For example- the 180 turn is now mapped to the left d button (something you just have to figure 
 out) . There are 4 dragons to choose from- but it doesn't let you know the stats in the stable, 
 (you just have to try them all out) - And even though there is abundent (and fun) training, people 
 who hate the game probably never found out about it. This is because you do some very basic and 
 insufficent training at the beginning of the game and can't do the rest unless you pick to redo 
 that origional training mission. At that point you get a menu of what training you'd like to do 
 (and unlock more and harder training by completeing lower ones) - but most people will probably 
 never select to go back to it, because they'd think it's just the origional obstical course.
  
  On top of that you can easily ebay this game for around 20 bucks now, which makes this game 
 easily worth it.
  
  All in all hard (not Ninja Gaiden hard) , frustrating at times, but completely awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  It's a terrific tragedy story that Lair is. Lair is a game that is actually pretty outstanding 
 game buried under this otherwise rushed and tremendously flawed package. Lair's otherwise pretty 
 engrossing narrative should shape Lair up to be an epic tale in gaming, but however, Lair is another 
 completely sordid dragon all on itself.
  
  The story of Lair is engaging, big and presented tremendously. Lair takes place in a society and 
 a kingdom, but a volcano pollutes the whole kingdom. Now, the society is immediately split into 
 two, one kingdom called the Mokai, who's land is destroyed and highly devoid of services to help 
 them, and then there is the Asylains which live in a peaceful green valley. The Mokais attack the 
 valley of the Asylains, in hoping of gaining the valley. Both kings share a strong hatrid for one 
 another, and then a colossal war brakes out between them. It's up to you to play as the Mokai dragon 
 and help them win the Asylain's valley. The story in Lair is presented within visually spectacular 
 and a generally cinematic cutscenes, and sharply delievers that big and bracing tale the PlayStation 
 3 has been begging for. This is where Lair partially becomes a good game, however, the gameplay 
 tells an entirely different case.
  
  Lair's gameplay sorely relies on SIAXIS Sony controls, which is entirely motion sensitive. You 
 have to shake the controller up and down and match certain button combinations in order to create 
 the dragon's commands. Factor 5 were most certainly creative whilst exploring this control technique, 
 but it is confusing, finicky, and incredibly unresponsive. However, when you master the control 
 scheme, Lair's otherwise busywork gameplay becomes a surpsrinsingly fun experience.
  
  Underneath Lair's rough surface, a truly unique and outstanding game Lair actually is. If the control 
 scheme was more well presented, Factor 5 could've made Lair the great game we were all be waiting 
 for, and if they focused less on the visuals, Lair's experience could of have truly been something 
 special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  An ancient and wealthy city has been attacked. Roan must join his comrades of the Sky Guard to 
 defend Asylia from the Mokai.
  
  Gameplay 8- Lair is not a game where you can skip the tutorials and expect to know what to do for 
 the controls. I honestly dont understand all the reviews bashing the tilt functions. They work 
 just fine for me, haven't had any problems. Flying the dragon is like flying an airplane, you have 
 to be gentle and have patience.
  Ravage your enemies from dragonback; burning, eating, biting and clawing, even doing takedowns 
 its all part of the action of the game.
  
  Graphics 10- Outstanding. This is the kind of 3D graphics that make your jaw hit the floor with 
 the detail and the lighting.
  
  Sound 8- Music fits well with the tone of battle, and effects are what you would expect from tearing 
 things apart or blowing them up.
  
  Fun Factor 8- Once all the conroller motion functions are learned, Lair is very fun to play. In 
 case you dont like the tilting, there is a free patch you can download that adds control with the 
 joysticks. I tried this and it just didnt feel right for this kind of game.
  
  Replay Value 7- How much replay the game has depends on how determined you are to get gold medals 
 on all the stages.
  
  My Final Score- 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Lair seems to be one of the most unaprieciated games that I have ever seen. The only control of 
 the six axis was an awful idea to make that the only way to play the game. You have to constantly 
 be busy with leaning the controler left, right, up and down which can get quite annoying very quickly. 
 The story itself is very interesting and is worth getting into. The graphics are fantastic and 
 make you just want to stop and look and forget about leaning your controler. The fighting is great 
 and with your dragon you want to just take out the entire army that the infantry is battling. Although 
 you cant with the series of objectives you must complete such as taking out ice dragons or others. 
 Taking down seige equipment to many different things. The cinematic camera add more enjoyment to 
 the game making you feel as you are really into the action. If you can get over the six axis control 
 lair is a great game and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaystFreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game at first, (before the update) was not any good. But then when the update came out it 
 was really worth playing. Before the update this game had below average controls no crosshairs 
 for the firing and few dragons. But then the update came out and it changed the game completely 
 because it gave the game in depth crosshairs, a new dragon, and a more handle friendly optional 
 control scheme. I think this game is worth renting and maybe worth buying if the price went down 
 to about $40 or $50. This game really does take control of the Motion Sensor and the Vibration 
 functions of the controller quite nicely. There is not more i could ask from this game except maybe 
 an Online with a few people just dueling and maybe making the game with an upgrade system where 
 you can upgrade your powers of fire or melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStar
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that failed due to good intentions, with untested technology. All of it fixed with 
 a patch (add-on) . I normally don't write reviews but I feel I should speak for this game. I know 
 you get one shot, and that one shot means everything. So with a 4.5 I passed this game up. 
  
  A few days ago I saw they had this patch about 2 new dragons and the flight control can be 
 used with the analog sticks. So I said to myself what hell, used at game stop it was less than 
 20 and I couldn't go wrong. 
  
  I never played this game with the sixaxis, and I'm glad I never did. The few parts that have sixaxis 
 controls, are difficult and sometimes slow to respond. But thankfully they're not used much unless 
 you initiate a certain type of combat. 
  
  I'm not good at writing a review, but I'll say this, with the analog option to control your dragon, 
 this game is very playable. Sadly, this game isn't very long, only running about 2-3 hours first 
 time through. Replayablilty is high if you try to go for the gold (certain time to beat, how many 
 x's you save, friends lost etc) . So only buy this if your a hardcore dragon fan (Girlfriend and 
 I are) .
  
  There is so much potential with this brand it's almost sad to say with the review it got we might 
 not see a second Lair. I just jope Factor 5 learns from it's mistakes, no matter how small (if 
 there was only an option to have analog flight) . 
  
  Here's hoping for a Lair 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PStringa
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game isn't too bad, just not what I expected. I kind of agree with most of what the Gamespot 
 review says except they are a little to harsh. It is a fun game to play and has got some good points 
 which people seem to forget i. e. the graphics are nice and the idea is great. You also have to 
 remember that it was really the first proper game to fully incorporate Playstations SIXAXIS controls 
 and so was always going to be a little ropey and so the sheer difficulty of grasping the efficiently 
 of how to lock onto a target and bring it down was it's major downfall. The dialogue in the game 
 in my eyes was also a little cheesy and just didn't quite work, I can't really put my finger on 
 why but just seemed rushed and basic. Overall I would suggest buying Lair if you happen to find 
 it in a bargin bin or as a low price pre-owned but don't go shelling out full price for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cereo1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  First off, I saw people reviewing this game in the last few weeks that don't seem to realize they 
 made a patch to update the controls; you can use the analog sticks now!
  
  As for the review:
  
  I had high hopes for this game and they failed initially. I read all 
 the reviews and didn't buy it because of the control scheme. But since they patched it, this game 
 is all as good as heavenly sword. The story is mildly shallow but the production value is really 
 quite good. The game is fast paced, interesting, and easy to pick up and lay down in short bursts 
 if you don't have a lot of time.
  
  The graphics are excellent and the takedowns are amazing at times and I rarely saw the same takedown 
 twice. It has its little bugs and it's a very short game, but it does have the different levels 
 of completion you can achieve on each of the 15 levels.
  
  Simple but interesting story, great game play, awesome graphics, great sound, and now the OPTION 
 for motion sensing or not = a good game. A 10? Definitely not. A 4.5, definitely not anymore. With 
 the terrible controls, maybe a 6.0 was due but this game is WAY UNDERRATED, rent it at least and 
 you won't be disappointed. Just make sure you update the game so you can fly without motion and 
 you'll be glad you played it. Also, you can skip the cutscenes, but it does make you watch 10 seconds 
 of so of it before you can skip it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyuubiEyes
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  All I've heard from LAIR is how stupid, lame, and crappy it is. I own LAIR. I've beaten LAIR. And 
 I thought it was a pretty cool game. Sure it takes a while to get used to the controls, but everyone 
 who's played this and complains about the controls either hardly play video games or gave up on 
 this game too fast. Sure it would be a lot easier if you could change the controls, but it's much 
 funner this way. So I suggest plugging in your PS3, putting in LAIR, and playing it to see that 
 it's not a crappy game, you just suck at it. Either that or you're just too lazy to turn your arms 
 so that your dragon will turn. If that's the case then that's just plain sad, but once again, it's 
 not the game's fault. Just because you're bad at a game doesn't mean that it's a bad game. There 
 have been plenty of bad games through the years, but this isn't one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJayDaddy
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I saw the previews and was ready to get my hands on it! Look like and outstanding game with great 
 graphics. That was until the day I opened it and put it in. The controls are the worst! You get 
 lost in trying to figure out what to do, is it a button or do I need to shake it all around?? The 
 angles go from one to another that you get confused were you are and where your going. All this 
 leads to horriable game play thats gets you mad rather than wanting to play. I was surprised how 
 bad it was and lost all interest not even half way though the game. The graphics are pretty good 
 with a good few cutscenes that make you want to keep playing....... that is until you get back 
 to playing! I would say do not waste any money on this game! If you want a game that is going to 
 keep you wanting more with great combat and awesome story line.... this one is not it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icewiener
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  The story is good but the mechanics could be better. The trailers for the game seemed incredible, 
 but only because the cut-scences in the game are incredible. However, it is very difficult to effectively 
 execute some of the key movements of the dragon (particularly the u-turn) . the constant gameplay 
 cutscenes prove to be quite annoying. the missions vary enough to be exciting but the length of 
 some of them are disappointing. the overall length of the game is short (approx. 4 hours of actual 
 gameplay) . i was also disappointed that the game was only mission-based. i feel it would of been 
 better if it was set up like spider man 3 where it was totally free-roam. the full use of the sisxaxis 
 control is cool but the game lacks the precision i expected. every ps3 owner should play it but 
 not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I was totally put off this game by the initial reviews and even turned my nose up at it at many 
 bargain prices as I believed what I had heard. I can imagine before it was very hard to play but 
 I had read about the patch on many different sources on tinternet and thought I would give it a 
 bash.
  Overall it is an okay game, moments are fun. The graphics are nice, there is story to follow and 
 there is definately something about this game to make it worthwhile.
  My major criticisms are, firstly unskippable cutscenes! A pet hate of mine. Whilst I like I like 
 to watch them once at least I want the option to skip them after that. Especially annoying as many 
 of the pre-mission cutscenes are long.
  Another fault I found irritating I imagine comes due to the patch. The instructions for anologue 
 stick controls seem tacked in and flash along with the original instructions. I felt a lot of instruction 
 was missing. Even allowing for the change in control scheme I feel the instructions were ambiguous.
 
  All said, considering the price this game can be picked up for now, providing you have internet 
 access to download the patch I would say this game was certainly not an abhomination and was worth 
 a punt if you were looking for something new to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  You play as a young sky guard, who owns his own dragon, ( how cool is that!) he finds himself in 
 a battle between two different civilizations. One attacks the other first then they hit back. same 
 old war story. But this one has a new twist you are riding on a dragon whl you are fighting,. I 
 don't want to spoil the story, it does a good job about being different. and it does a good job 
 about bringing you into this world. 
  Good things; this game uses nothing but sixaxis controls. which means you tilt your controler to 
 control your dragon. ( you can download a control pack from playstation store if you dont like 
 the sixaxis but try it the way it was intended to be played first) once you get use to the controls 
 the game is pretty easy, but very fun. you can do al ot of cool stuff such as fight the troops 
 on the ground while on your dragon in the sky and preforming finishing moves on other enemie dragons. 
 the combat is intense and easy to get into. the graphics are excellent in this game. the dragons 
 are beautiful. a lot of the places are wonderfully done also. and the cut scenes are great. they 
 also took time to put making of videos in the game also. the sound is superb and the music is obsorbing. 
 
  Bad things; would have bee cool to have had some online play. to be able to battle your friends 
 would have been nice. every once in a while the camera kind of goes crazy but then snaps back. 
 and the lock on target system may cause a few problems to get use to . 
  Overall; a lot of people dont seem to like this game, but i just had to try it for myself. and 
 i am very pleased. the whole sixaxis control thing is real cool . 
  this is one of the few games that use it a lot. if you have not tried this game, its worth your 
 time. at least rent it and give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Factor 5 amazed us with X-Wings, but with dragons, you might as well find a trash can, it's that 
 bad. If you have a girlfriend she'll most likely break up with you if she sees you playing this 
 game. 
  
  The cinematics in this game are dumb; they only last for about 20 to 30 seconds, 40 if you're lucky. 
 And some of them are very ugly; I won't even show you what I mean.
  
  What I found most frustraiting about this is the lack of checkpoints, when you die they start you 
 off on the very start of that level.
  
  Although the six axis controls are very cool, they just don't work that well. I'll show you what 
 I mean. I once had an objective where I had to destroy a bridge but I was going the wrong way, 
 so I decided to try to do a back flip, but when I jerked my controller up, nothing happened after 
 doing it over and over again for about 50 times, I decided to give up and try it the old fashion 
 way and tilt my controller to the right. 
  
  The only cool parts of this are the graphics, I guess, and the kill moves.
  But why can't I use 
 these on every opponent, well there's a very good reason for that, it's because.... Because..... 
 Okay, there's no good explanation for this.
  
  
  How bad is this game? If I was in court, and had to choose between Lair or marry a bearded lady, 
 I'd pick the facial freak in a heartbeat. and have three bearded children.
  I am disgraced to give it 2 thumbs out of 5.
  
  P. S. I would've used stars, but they were already 
 taken.
  
  P. P. S. Are you wondering why I picked the facial freak? You can always shave the beard! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  From what I've managed to gather the reason why Lair has received such low scores is because a 
 lot of people found the controls hard. While I am willing to admit that the controls take some 
 time to learn I can't seem to find any of these "problems" that so many people are writing about.
 
  
  The six axis controls in this game were designed to give you the impression that you are riding 
 on the back of the dragon and are controlling it (my guess is with reins by the way that you have 
 to tilt and jerk to get the dragon to perform different actions.) When I first started to play 
 the game I found the controls hard, but after going through the flying courses and practicing a 
 little I had no problem getting the dragon to do what I needed it too. Plus I had the option to, 
 if I absolutely couldn't get the six axis to work correctly, to change the controls to the duel 
 analogue and control the dragon like that (though that would take a lot of fun out of the game) .
 
  
  So for those of you who don't want to get Lair because the reviews tell you that the controls are 
 impossible I say you should at least try it out. Don't just jump into the story mode, which I'm 
 sure a lot of people probably did, take the time to go through the training and it'll make everything 
 a lot more easy and even if six axis doesn't suit you just change it to duel analogue and enjoy 
 a game that I, personally, believe deserved to be more fairly scored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 31, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  what to say, what to say. when this game was first talked about it was hyped up almost as much 
 as gta. realeasing within the same month as heavenly sword.. now my brain is thinking i understand 
 why. with a game so beautiful as heavenly sword you have to have a game that is utter garbage in 
 order to make the sales of games go up.. when this game first came out i was one of the fools that 
 bought it bringing it back the next day. 
  
  this game had so much opportunity to have easily been a timeless classic, however that just isnt 
 the case. these are by far the worst controls i have seen on any game ive played. you want to go 
 up it goes down and right, you say fly and your dragon plumbets to its deserving death. the graphics 
 are absolutely stunning but that cant make up for the horrible controls and lack of possible things 
 to do in this game.. now again i hate to compare games but there was a game for the ps2 where you 
 were a female with a dragon however i cannot recall the name. if this game was anything like that 
 at all then we would have had a masterpiece.
  
  people dont waste your money buying let alone please dont even rent it. nomatter what you do the 
 controls destroy what could have been a timeless treasure. even turning off the six axes capability 
 it makes no difference what so ever. the lack of things to do in this game destroy what couldve 
 and shouldve been a pretty good story. 
  
  this game deserves an award at the game awards on spike as the most original pain the a#$ game 
 that makes you want to destroy your ps3, throw it out the window, break your t. v. and then jump 
 off a 50 foot cliff and plumbet to your death as this game did...... hope you enjoyed this enthusiastic 
 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIchigoxRukiax
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I got Lair about two weeks ago, and on my very first day playing it, I was constantly yelling at 
 my television. It took nearly a week before I started to like it. 
  
  The storyline of Lair is pretty good, however the developers should have worked more on introducing 
 characters and circumstances. 
  
  Aside from the story, the gameplay is just something you will hate and love. 
  
  What you will 
 love about it is the fact that the developers have created a unique, breathtaking experience of 
 being in a visceral dragon battle. The environments which these battles take place are nothing 
 short of elegant and beautiful and with each mission, you will see yet another amazing sight. Ground 
 combat is one of the coolest things about the game and is quite fun to play and unique to watch. 
 Takedowns in aerial combat are also cool and unique to watch. 
  
  What you will hate about it is the fact that each mission is planned out by annoyingly difficult 
 objectives and you are given very little time to complete most of them. Basic aerial combat is 
 boring and unexciting, and one-on-one dragon fights are cool but hard to win. Unfortunately, you 
 will spend most of the game in aerial combat. Once you complete an objective, you only get two 
 seconds to pat yourself on the back before you're given another one. Rarely you will get to take 
 part in ground combat, and when you do, it will last a very short time. Boss fights are also incredibly 
 annoying and difficult. Not only that, but pointless and stupid, and you'll wonder why the creators 
 put them in the game. 
  
  This game is worth playing, but not worth buying for $60. At the most, I would purchase it for 
 no more than $20. It's really not a bad game, but several things would have made it better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Lair got mixed reactions from me the first time I played the game. I think its a game that had 
 serious potential with an awesome idea that they may have rushed or had really bad ideas to and 
 I wish they would redo the whole thing.
  
  Graphics: Amazing, the textures are great yet they sometimes do blur during the cutscenes. I've 
 yet to see a graphical glitch in the game. For the most part though the graphics really amazed 
 me.
  
  Gameplay: The fighting and "puzzles" in the game are pretty fun even though most of the games so 
 called "puzzle" elements you could've have found without really looking for them. The controls 
 get a little wacky at times and the camera can't really keep up at times which makes for some frustrating 
 moments.
  
  Overall the game deserves your time if your into this kind of stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTH_22
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Lair was dubbed "A beautiful disaster" in the GS review for it. I don't typically go by reviews 
 so when I was able to pick it up cheap, knowing the analog control add-on was available, I took 
 a chance on it. And I can now say they were neither completely right nor completely wrong. This 
 is a beautiful game with serious issues but it's not a complete disaster. I walked away feeling 
 this game had alot of potential it just couldn't quite reach.
  
  In Lair you are a dragon rider named Rohn fighting for the Asylians against a faction known as 
 the Mokai. There are plenty of plot twists and gorgeous cutscenes that make this a very entertaining 
 story. It's easy to see Factor 5 placed a huge emphasis on visuals and cinematic storytelling, 
 I just wish as much effort had gone into the gameplay. 
  
  First off this game should have been released with analog control options. Factor 5's failure to 
 do so was, in my opinion, inexcusable. So whether you like Lair or not the developers have no one 
 to blame but themselves for the horrible reception this game received. For me the Sixaxis control 
 while flying is ridiculously difficult. Making tight turns is problematic and you're constantly 
 forced into tight situations. The analog flight controls improve this slightly and make it less 
 of an excercise in frustration. You still have to deal with something of an invisible wall which, 
 if you swing too wide and get too close to anything (and believe me it's all too easy to do) you 
 find yourself forced off your flight path and muttering unflattering things about the developers' 
 mother as you are forced to re-orient yourself and get back on course. In short the analog controls, 
 to me, are more responsive but don't completely eliminate the problems with flight.
  
  Next the lock-on/auto targeting system is probably my biggest beef with this game. It just makes 
 no sense. You lock on to whatever enemy has a white targeting circle on it. The problem is you 
 don't have complete control over which enemy that is. You have to orient your dragon perfectly 
 in-line with your target to get the white circle on it then lock on and when there are tons of 
 enemies on screen this can become a chore especially when you are charged with taking out specific 
 ones. The end result is you end up targeting something other than intended (you're going after 
 the rhino and you inexplicably end up targeting a turret or soldier) and have to try to circle 
 back and make another pass all while under a time limit. It also can be annoying to have a voice 
 over constantly reminding you of your objective as if you've forgotten it while you're trying to 
 get turned back around.
  
  Landing on the ground and engaging troops in battle can be pretty entertaining as you run around 
 with your dragon burning, eating, slashing, or swatting troops. I also found the mid-air melee 
 battle to be fairly solid even though it's basically button mashing. There are also moments of 
 using the Sixaxis while grasping an object or enemy and shaking the controller to bring it or them 
 down which works well.
  
  Also aside from the visuals other production values are also top notch. The soundtrack is very 
 fitting and well orchestrated and the voice acting was very well done.
  
  All in all Lair left me with a "what might have been feeling". This game is stunning and analog 
 controls help but all in all it could have been a much better experience if Factor 5 had put as 
 much effort into gameplay details as they obviously did into procuction values. If ou can find 
 it in the baragain bin (which shouldn't be a problem in the near future) and you are a sucker for 
 great visuals or a dragon buff it might be worth picking up otherwise rent it first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Lair is a tough cookie to devourer. On one side it's a visually appealing game that has an interesting 
 story, great production values, and beautiful visuals, while, on the other side, it has been totally 
 and completely beaten to a bloody pulp since its release in September (last year) by critics and 
 the media alike.
  But, I'm here to tell you otherwise. Yes, when the game was released, I will agree that the controls 
 were clumsy and hard to grasp, and the learning curve was extremely steep; however, a recent update 
 has changed all those problems that labeled the game as "unplayable" or "a complete disaster." 
 Originally, the games control scheme was only playable with the SIXAXIS tilt controls built into 
 the PS3 controllers. This new update, along with some new extras and a couple of new playable dragons, 
 has now allowed players the choice of using the analog stick as well to control most of your dragons 
 movements. Now at first I thought that the analog wouldn't be a huge difference from the SIXAXIS, 
 but I was completely wrong. It is a great change and it allows the use and movement of your dragon 
 to be less stressful and complicated. Some of the original tilt controls are still there, but they 
 were the ones that weren't hard to use in the first place.
  There isn't really much more to say about it. Just the fact that the new update has turned the 
 game from a 5.0-6.0 to a 8.0-8.5. Normally I don't completely judge a game on its control scheme, 
 but in my oppinion and many others, the SIXAXIS controls brought the core experience down. And 
 it is now safe to say that because of the new update this is finally a game people should check 
 out. You owe it to yourself to try this game. Rent it or buy it, you'll have a great time!
  
  I apologize if my review didn't build more on the other aspects of the game such as story, 
 but I believe that the one reason people didn't play this in the first place was because they heard 
 it was basically unplayable due to controls. If you'd like to find out more about the story and 
 graphics, read IGN. com's review. Try to avoid Gamespot's... they are overly negative as usual.
 
  
  *ANOTHER LOOK*
  
  After beating the game I decided the game as a whole is more a 7.0-7.5 than an 8. It is a good 
 game, not a great, but still one you should check out nonetheless. The reason I made this decision 
 was because the story was a little dry and stereotypical "epic", there seemed to be even more graphical 
 pop-in as I ventured further into the game, and I even noticed a lot of slowdown in some of the 
 bigger battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  If anyone played this game once they gave you the new controls with the update, they would agree 
 with me. The sixaxis controls were a new and interesting thing at first, then got old and irritating. 
 Once they had the update to allow for analog stick control, the game got way better. You could 
 actually concentrate on the game and not controlling your dragon. The story was excellent and the 
 graphics were, well.. AWESOME, and I dont use the word very much. I wish the reviewers would go 
 back and change the review to take into account the new controls. Its not the best game ever made, 
 but it deserves better now that its fixed. If you like fantasy games, go ahead and get it, you'll 
 like it. Just make sure you try the sixaxis before changing it to the stick, they did a good job 
 with it, and it should be a game that gets your attention. BTW the little combat scenes in there 
 are badass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Lair got bad reviews from just about everyone when it was released, and the major complaint about 
 the game was the controls. Now, with the release of the new PS store, Factor 5 released an update 
 that just may change alot of opinions. 
  
  I found the original control scheme fun and immersive, though it took a while to get used to, and 
 alot of manuevers were hard, if not impossible to make. Now you have the option of switching to 
 an analog control scheme, and it works really well. You control your dragon using the left analog 
 stick, the camera with the right, and those two impossible moves - speed burst and 180 turn - easily 
 completed with the right and left d-pad buttons. It's a huge jump in playability for those who 
 didn't like the six axis contol scheme. And thankfully, you can also use the six axis control scheme 
 still, for those that want the challenge.
  
  There's also a couple new dragons to play with, and they're fairly fun. Larger than your original 
 two and more powerful, they help in getting the medals on those tough to beat levels.
  
  The graphics, music, story, and voice acting are still the same, and in my opinion fairly good. 
 Especially the graphics and music. The game is just beautiful, and the music is epic. The story 
 and voice acting are ok, with a few cheesy parts and a fairly predictable plot twist. 
  
  My biggest complaints are still there however. It's almost impossible to just fly around and have 
 fun on your dragon, if you're trying to beat the game. You can do what you want of course, but 
 it causes you to lose missions if you do it wrong. And your allies are constantly yelling at you 
 to do this or do that. It gets a little annoying.
  
  But that being said, the new control scheme (and the dragons) really improve the gameplay, and 
 also improve the score. What I thought to be a decent game, even at release, is now that much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Now now, I had extreme high hopes for this game and in truth before this game released and when 
 I saw the previews this was the system seller in my eyes. Sadly it is far from it. Now, Lair is 
 not a bad game. Its beautifful, it gots story, and it has the right setting. However, with controls 
 like this its hard to enjoy these qualities. Little did I know how much I would hate my own controller.
 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are beautiful in every aspect. Every lighting effect looks great and all the dragons 
 look extremely lifelike. Blow up a ship in the water and watch water ripple perfectly with the 
 lighting bouncing off of each wave. And be prepared to take in gorgeous scenary because this game 
 will amaze you with gorgeous backdrops. Sadly, you'll be hard pressed to pay attention due to you'll 
 be argueing with the controls too much. 
  
  THE STORY is kinda medevil generic, but it does the job well and provides a nice dark setting. 
 It also features some very nice Cinematics that add to the story with some decent voice acting. 
 But making some of things unskippable doesn't help if you've already seen it for the 5th time. 
 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY here could've flourished and could've possibly been even better than Factor 5's Rogue 
 Squadron series. You got some kick ass dragons, you got some beastly medevil war, and you got gorgeous 
 graphics to back it. The downfall? CONTROLS SUCK. In the first level I played it and I thought, 
 "Oh, this ain't that bad, whats everyone complaining about?" Further into the game I saw the horrors 
 that awaited me with my very own controller. Seriously, I know Factor 5 really wanted to incorporate 
 some motion based controls in this game but how about a setting that allows me to turn it off? 
 Especially in crucial times when I need more precision to complete objectives. Ever try doing a 
 backflip 180 on a dragon with your sixaxis controller? Don't do it, it sucks. If you manage to 
 even pull off that move in crucial times you might as well just keep your wrist ready cause it'll 
 have to do it a couple of times just to get it without your dragon boosting forward instead. Factor 
 5 stated that they tried both control schemes (motion and non motion) and they said they choose 
 the one that plays better. I call BULL. Aside from extreme control issues, the fighting is pretty 
 cool and there are some sweet dragon fighting scenes. But the best is when you make a nice landing 
 in the middle of a soldier infested battlefield and start mowing and chomping down every soldier 
 in sight. Now thats fun. And guess what, those scenes use the analog stick, not motion controls. 
 How did they not see that? Seriously, the controls effect this game THAT much. 
  
  THE SOUND is good. Explosions, all of it all sounds good. Some of the voices during the actual 
 gameplay sound a tad cheesy though.
  
  Lair had so much potential. It really is dissapointing to see how the finished product came out. 
 In truth, if this game had the controls we all had hoped for, then this game could've easily scored 
 a 8.5 or even a 9 in my book. But when a game makes you stop playing it because you are too frustrated 
 because you can't progress anymore because of the controls, then thats just not right. Hopefully... HOPEFULLY, 
 they make a sequel with better thought out controls that actually make this game playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodwolf97
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  lair has horrible controls at the start but u get used to them after playin for a while!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 except 180 really do piss me off!!! cos u dash forward wen u try do 180!!. but the camera is horrific 
 and really annoyin it is kinda fun but bad gameplay!!! and extremly annoyin game!!!!!!!!! the arrow 
 is pointing in the total wrong direction and its fuked up highly repetitive in the same mission 
 but the missions vary a bit but the game would be so great with improved camera controls and directions 
 to tell u what to do it was fun for lik 10 mins but then turned bad i hope they make a 2nd one 
 and improve it alot cos it would be such a great game and an impresive dragon game the graphics 
 were great and in 1080p and 7.1 sound looks great on blu ray!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! which was cool thts 
 about it hope u lik my review!!!!!!!!!!!!
  bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afko
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Nice game but gets poor after a while !! You start at the beginning with a nice fighting system 
 and a nice story with great graphics and soundtrack... BUT... that opera voice while fighting?? OMG... i 
 just want to turn it off..... The controls are getting annoying after a while and also, when you 
 hit the wall your supposed to fall or damge yourself atleast.... not turn automatically, i mean, 
 come on, that is poor work....
  
  Cant say though, nice fights great action, we got some classic slow motion there also, but still.... hmm.... just 
 not good enough to keep you going.... bring in new tricks or make the fights and everything more 
 enjoyable by giving some time to the player to have a fight against the enemy and dont get us full 
 of objectives in 2mins time Oo.....
  
  The game is also really short -.- I could not believe it... i mean.. work more on it guys... give 
 it more complicated story... a bigger one... it is a good idea but not worked out well...
  
  Last thing... the most annoying.... when you try to do an objective and you get the people telling 
 you the same thing all the time till you finish the objective... O... M.... G !! Annoying !!! i mean 
 whats the point to have the objectives section at your pause menu if you the guy keep saying to 
 you ''This is a suicide mission''...... after 2secs....''This is a suicide mission''..... damn... 
 -.-; 
  
  I wud give it an overall 5/10 just because of its nice fight moves while on air or even ground 
 !!
  
  Thanks for reading my review !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Liar. I really did and took the game home ready to be blown away. Unfortunately 
 Liar really sucks. The game play is horrible, the controls are annoying and a painful experience 
 when it gets serious. But it is not only the controls that makes your head spin, the Objectives-interface 
 is bulls***. They have made it so "simple", that you have no clue what you are to do or how. Not 
 even a decent interface that would grant you the needed overview while flying between dragons and 
 screaming soldiers. Correct - the graphic is stunning. But hey, it is not that amazing. That might 
 be, because at this point I am more used to the PS3 generation of graphic.
  Anyways, a great concept for a game and actually quiet interesting storyline is dropped on the 
 floor and then stomped on by some overweight kid. I can not put into words how disappointed I' 
 am with this game. I gave up 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squallzxyz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I would choose playing Lair. I rented this expecting to be completely disappointed, the only thing 
 that is disappointing is the intolerance of reviewers. This came is definitely the best aerial 
 combat game ever created. I understand that the controls were difficult to adjust to but Lair couldn't 
 have been better having used anything other than the Sixaxis controls, everything functions flawlessly 
 once the player is able to overcome the control scheme. To put things into perspective playing 
 this game for the first time is like driving a car or riding a bike for the first time, sure it 
 was weird but it was also new, adjusting and adapting only have to happen once for those just like 
 it only has to be overcome once for this game. Playing Super Mario Galaxy did not come naturally 
 to anyone for the first time either and yet it is still a great game that is respecting by nearly 
 everyone. Lair is not only with the best of today's games but it is probably better than some of 
 the most hyped up ones as well.
  The graphics of this game are top notch, they put the skin textures of Mass Effect, Halo 3 and 
 Gears of War to shame. For example look at your knuckles see the small little wrinkles? yeah the 
 game has just as detailed skin such as that on your character. The dragons are unbelievable detailed 
 as well. The breath-taking boss battles make the idea of fighting things that are easily the size 
 of a house and sometimes closer to the size of an apartment complex not too hard to imagine. The 
 only thing which is somewhat disappointing graphically is that the landscape is somewhat plain 
 though it is probably due to it charred bare by the destruction of volcanoes.
  The story is as epic as the graphics are beautiful as well. Sure the idea of making a game about 
 a corrupt theocracy at war may not freshest premise for a story. Yet it is executed beautifully 
 through the tale of Rhon the dragon-riding stryker-wielding reluctant warrior turned savior whom 
 gamers are given the privilege of playing as while the story unfolds.
  The sound is excellent as with everything else this game offers. It has a whole slew of orchestrated 
 battle music which is far superior to that which one has experienced while playing any game or 
 movie. The roars of war beasts and screams of soldiers are all spot on as well. The game is good 
 but not perfect though. Which shows when you're being issued orders to protect 5 things at once 
 and you have to either fail the mission protect them in the wrong order or if they are just randomly 
 issuing commands which have no real significance to the player.
  Overall this game is amazing, under-appreciated, and innovative. I can't say this is a must buy 
 but it most certainly is a must play. To own a ps3 and to not have played this game is simply a 
 waste. Lair is one of the most amazing games in this current generation which defines the genre 
 of aerial combat and possibly deserves to have a genre of its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a flight simulation game made by Factor 5 but to bad it sucked. The graphics are outstanding 
 but its a shame that this is the only part of the game that you will really like. The rest of the 
 game is just broken and just a total letdown. Anyways the details in all of the dragons and levels 
 look amazing. Its almost as if Factor 5 went back in time and took a dragon back to study all of 
 its movements. Sadly the gameplay is horrible. everything is delayed! You can only use the six-axis 
 control and it dosent work one bit. You try to go up, it takes 30 f*cking seconds for the damn 
 dragon to up. Six-axis really just f*cked up the whole game and i wish Factor 5 really just used 
 the analog stick and not try to make something try to impress the public. This really all I have 
 to say about this game. Overall this game was dissapointing and no PS3 owner deserves this game, 
 not even as rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  
  This is the best example of how game critics does not know how the hell they are supposed to review 
 a game. Either this guy just conforms to all the negative reviews that came before him or just 
 played the game for 30 mins and does not take more time to understand how the controls work. 
 
  DO NOT TRUST THIS CRITIC'S REVIEWS
  
  Lair is one of the most beautiful and technically proficient game ever made. The production values 
 is off the roof they did a great job in the sound department as well, but the story needed to be 
 tweaked some more because it is not original and not that exciting.
  Now about the controls, it really feels natural just like controlling a real life dragon but it 
 takes some practice to get the hang of it. You have to be patient and relaxed to control the dragon 
 don't rush things and get frustrated. The dragon may be real slow to move but that's what its like 
 in real life physics and plus you are not piloting an aircraft. If you want to move faster just 
 jerk the controller forward and you will get a boost of speed. In the end there is nothing wrong 
 with the control type its just that so many people can't handle or just plain suck at controlling 
 a new control scheme like this. 
  The only part is annoying is the repetitive missions, this is what made the game boring to me. 
 I can't play this game in a marathon I play it once a week to keep it interesting.
  Open your mind and try this game.
  Do not listen to critics just play the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nivasan6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that Lair is one of those games that people either hate or love it. I belong to 
 the latter that loves this game. Firstly i will explain the flaws then the pros.
  
  Cons:
  Targeting system can get pretty haywire at times. For example, I was trying to take out 
 these warbeasts, and their were enemy dragons all over the place. I held the lock-on button on 
 the warbeast and it locked on a dragon. It does this a lot when trying to lock-on to ground enemies.
 
  The voice acting is well done, but having American actors in a medievil sort of time setting. 
 Makes no sense to whatsoever. I know that this shouldn't be big problem, but to me it bugs the 
 hell outta me. The same thing with Assassins Creed.
  At times the graphics can dip down, meaning that some times it may not look like a next gen game, 
 but more so than a PS2 or to a further extent to those with SD televisions it may look like a PS1 
 game. It only does this a few times, but throughout the game is absolutely beautiful.
  The final flaw is; during a mission you will get many objectives occuring at the same time. This 
 can get pretty frustrating because one minute they tell you to attack the ground troops, and then 
 they will tell you to attack ships. This pattern is prevelant throughout the entire game. There 
 is a compass sort of thing at the top, directing you where to go, but even that doesn't really 
 work.
  
  Pros:
  Great storyline
  Gorgeous visuals
  Sound is top-notch
  The controls are perfect. People might say that the controls are terrible and that they don't work. 
 But, to me the controls couldn't have been better. It makes for a whole new gaming experience flying 
 a dragon by moving the controller. It only took me about five minutes to get used to it. Anybody 
 can fly the dragon, but not anybody can actually play the game to its fullest.
  The setting, characters, and the creatures are well done. The people in the game are some of the 
 best looking people for a video game. There are many different creatures ranging from rhinos, all 
 the way to creatures called mantas. 
  Great cutscenes
  Awesome, but extremely tough at times; boss battles. The very first boss battle is against a sea 
 coral snake. This is basically a hydra of some sort.
  
  Why reviewers gave this game a very low score really astonishes me because it seems to me that 
 they don't like unique (don't know if I spelled that right) games. They seem to prefer generic games, 
 like shooters; Halo 3 same thing as the second part but with some added content. If anyone is planning 
 on getting this game rent it first, because like I said earlier it's one of those you either hate 
 it or love it. This was probably the most underrated game. This brought a whole new experience 
 for me in gaming I probably wouldn't have experienced else where with a different game. Not even 
 a game on the Wii could have justified this experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsylvert
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  I just purchased Lair a week ago. I've only played through the tutorials and the first 5 levels 
 so far. I don't usually review games but I felt the need to for Lair since it's been getting bashed 
 for no apparent reason. Currently, I have RFOM, Uncharted, Warhawk, and Heavenly Sword. Lair isn't 
 BETTER than any of them.... so far. However these games are all classics for the PS3. So far, I 
 would give Lair between an 8.5 - 9/10 (although I read it get better as the game progresses) .
 
  
  Pros: Graphics: They are stunning. I was playing it on a regular TV and it looked gorgeous. I can't 
 even imagine it on HDTV.
  
  Sound: If you like Lord of the Rings, the music sounds similar which is great.
  
  Controls: 
 SIX-AXIS CONTROLS ARE EXCELLENT!!!!. To be honest, I don't like the Six-Axis controls in most games 
 (Heavenly Sword, Warhawk) . But in this game they are amazing. I'm not even a hardcore gamer and 
 I found it pretty easy and very responsive. The 180 degree turn WORKS EVERYTIME I DO IT AND SO 
 DOES THE DASH!!!! Just follow the directions, lift the controller up and you'll do the 180 turn; 
 tilt down and you'll dash. I don't get why people are bashing the controls. I found it fun actually. 
 ****Tip: For the 180 degree turn, swing the controller up as if you were pulling a fishing pole. 
 It's as if you actually pulling on the reins of the dragon. Works like a charm. I don't know why 
 the reviewer from Gamespot had issue with it.
  
  Cons: Radar Lock: I still haven't been able to figure this out correctly. I'm having trouble with 
 locking on to enemies. I think I need to play a little more to get the hang of it. ****Update: 
 (Read this tutorial I found online
  http://boardsus. playstation. com/playstation/board/message? board. id=lair&thread. id=12886 Radar works 
 fine now)
  
  Compass: The compass is on the upper right hand corner. I find it useless. They should have done 
 a better job with that. ****Update: That same article I mentioned earlier bought up some good points. 
 Dragons don't have GPS systems.
  
  Drop in Frame rate: Not a big deal since it happens in most games. Just thought I should be objective.
 
  
  Lack of Multiplayer: Ratchet and Clank doesn't support this either. But I think this would have 
 work lovely with Lair. Imagine having a multiplayer in Lair that is similar to Warhawk. The Warhawks 
 would be the Dragons in Lair. Snipers would be the Archers. Tanks would be the Touros or Rhinos. 
 Ground Troops would be the Soldiers. It would be awesome. This is actually my biggest gripe with 
 the game. All other cons are minor issues at best after reading that tutorial I stated.
  
  Overall, as I said earlier, I would give Lair between an 8.5 -9/10. The more I play the game, the 
 more I lean towards 9 and above. What's really stopping it from being a 10 is the lack of multiplayer 
 which would have been great. PS3 owners should definitely check this game out. At least rent it!!!!! 
 If you like movies like Lord of the Rings, Braveheart, Gladiator and etc... you should definitely 
 like this game. I honestly believe that this is going to be one of my favorite ps3 games after 
 I've completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyLy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: 
  
  At first glance you can't help but stare at the beauty that is Lair. Everything from the water 
 to the dragon is detailed. But that's not to say Lair is perfect in the graphics department. The 
 grass is the most disappointing part of Lair graphics. Like Gamespot said, "Lair is beautiful" 
 but it's far from being a disaster. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Now the gameplay takes a while to get use to, but once you do it's pretty fun. While in the air, 
 the dragon's movement is controlled using the sixaxis. If you want to move right then simply tilt 
 the controller to the right and vice versa if you want to move left. Now if you want to do a 180 
 to turn back then simply give the controller an upward snap and if you want to dash then give the 
 controller a downward snap. For the most part the control is very responsive if you're not tilting 
 the controller wildly like an 8 year old. The only problem I have with it is when you're trying 
 to do a 180 the dragon will sometimes tilt right or left instead of doing 180, which can be frustrated 
 at times.
  
  When you're on the ground the dragon is controlled using the left analog stick and by snapping 
 the controller to the left or right will trigger an attack. For example, if you snap the controller 
 to the right then the dragon will attack with it's right right arm and if you snap the controller 
 to the left then the dragon will attack with its left arm. Pretty simple eh?
  
  Now while in the air, the dragon's main attacks are shooting fireball and flamethrower. To shoot 
 a fireball you simply press square. To do a flamethrower you simply hold down square. Flamethrowers 
 can be performed on ground or in the air. When locking on to a dragon by holding R1 you can perform 
 special attacks if there's a cursor on the dragon you're targeting or you can simply keep an eye 
 on the top of screen and press Triangle whenever it appears to perform a special attack. The special 
 attacks are performed by tilting the controller a specific way depending on the attack and sometimes 
 involve the use of the left analog stick.
  
  For the most part Lair is a pretty fun game and will last you a good 8-10 hours. The objective 
 varies from mission to mission. You find yourself fending off hordes of dragon's and the next you 
 find yourself doing a reconnaisance mission. The mission varieties will keep you entertain until 
 you beat the game. 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Accompanied by a great musical score and sound effects, Lair is definitely worth a rent. 
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  To begin with, we'll cut straight to gameplay.
  You're started off with mission selection, which allows you to horizontally control the dragon 
 to your heart's content until you select a mission.
  
  
  First mission starts with a quick flight tutorial before cutting to the first mission. You're presented 
 with the basic mechanics of controlling the dragon; turning, up and down, boost and 180, and basic 
 firebreath attacks. You are required to fly through a line-up of rings before you go to mission 
 1. 
  
  
  This is the first time you realize that this game in no way is unresponsive. In fact, most might 
 realize that the game is actually almost too responsive. Once you get into it, controlling the 
 dragon is second nature.
  Fire breathing is easy; pressing square gets you a fireball, holding it down gets you a firestream. 
 R1 is lock on, and circle causes your dragon to dash to the target once lock is achieved.
  
  
  When you attack a dragon, you will be required to bash the other dragon a couple times, 
 which will subsequently launch you into a midair melee brawl with your opponent, given the enemy 
 wasn't killed by the bashing beforehand. Triangle is for biting, square is for fire attack, and 
 circle and square are for slashing with your claws. R1, L1, or R2 and L2 together is for blocking 
 attacks. These sequences are nicely done, but once or twice throughout the campaign the two dragons' 
 animations may freeze up, so you don't know when an attack is coming. You may want to block for 
 a little while, and then just guess a little bit; the animations will come back.
  
  
  You also have the option of Takedown attacks. These are cinematic attack which involves you either 
 jumping from your dragon to kill the rider and then the beast, or a dramatic dragon attack. These 
 require some player input to complete, but they're not overly immersive. They're still awesome 
 to watch though.
  
  
  If you get confused as to what characters are enemies and what are allies, hold down on the D-pad; 
 you will activate Rage Vision, or a sort of infrared vision that highlights enemies in red. Easy 
 to use and efficient. Also available is Rage: pressing up on the D-pad slows time down, but you 
 still move in normal time while everyone else is slowed down. Almost like superspeed without the 
 blurs. This can be moderately useful if you get overwhelmed. But it's not always available; you 
 must build up energy to use it.
  
  
  You will also be required to interact with certain objects, or do a special attack on certain beasts 
 at some points in the game. These objects will let you lock on to them; some can be taken out with 
 one or more fireballs, but sometimes they must be specially destroyed. Lock on to these objects, 
 press circle to fly up to them, and your dragon will grab onto them. Shake the controller up and 
 down to start pulling on it. Either you will pull them out and fly away with them to throw them 
 away to your disposal, or they will just blow up.
  
  
  Some beasts, specifically Rhinos, Tauros and Warbeasts, are vulnerable to specific attacks. With 
 Tauros, either you get down on the ground and kill them, or lock onto them, press circle to dash 
 to them and carry them away, to then throw wherever you like. Rhinos have headplates that you must 
 yank off, which you do by shaking the controller up and down while holding on. I don't see how 
 this kills them, but it does. Warbeasts are like AT-ATs from Star Wars, or like Mumakil from Lord 
 of the Rings; big lumbering beasts with warriors and ordanace on them. Destroy the platforms on 
 their backs, and then fly low and slow beside them, press triangle to latch on, and then flick 
 the controller forward to boost, pulling the beast over. These special attacks are for the most 
 part easy to do, and look cool too. Warbeasts are a bit hard if you don't destroy the positions 
 on their backs.
  
  
  You also have the option in certain levels to get down in the weeds and kill things things with 
 your bare hands. To land on the ground, you must slow down a bit, get close to the ground, and 
 press R2 and L2; your dragon will land. There are a few different attacks: using Circle or jerking 
 the controller left and right will cause the dragon to swipe its claws. Square is for fireball, 
 or firestream if you hold it down. Jerk the controller down and the dragon will open its wings 
 and sweep a blast of air, throwing soldiers off their feet. Press triangle to munch on a solider, 
 replenishing some health. At some points time will slow down, and you can move the camera by moving 
 the left stick or tilting the controller. The camera is a bit limited here, but since most of the 
 time you're on flat surfaces, it doesn't really matter. Altogether, the ground combat is pretty 
 good, and rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I got a great deal on the game and felt like it was a good purchase. After getting home I spent 
 a Few minutes on the computer and looked at the reviews at gamespot for this game. I began to think 
 that I made a Mistake and the felt inclined to pop in the game and try it out. Within ten minutes 
 of playing I got the hang of the controls and took flight on the first mission. I have since gotten 
 through the first 3 missions and I put the controller down with a smile, thinking "That game is 
 freakin Cool." For me it is the one game I've played the really makes good use of the six axis 
 controls. It puts a different twist and difficulty to gaming in general and all the negative reviews 
 I read just lets me know how many gamers are narrow minded and incapable of adapting to a whole 
 different style of gameplay. I found it refreshing to get out of the whole sit still zombie stare. 
 This brings back the instinct to move the controller to help lead you to victory or avoid disaster. 
 I have so far really enjoyed this game and wanted to write this realistic review instead of an 
 adolescent opinion. The Graphics are really nice as well, a good game to show off you PS3 and high 
 def TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WereAllCritics
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I got Lair as a late B-day present when it first came out, but was reluctant to play it due to 
 scathing reviews. I played the first 5 levels a month ago and played the 6th level this week and 
 I'm glad to say that Lair is actually a decent game. Unfortunately decent is not the category that 
 people base their game purchases on. People expect great games and Lair on that account failed 
 to deliver. 
  
  Anyone who questions the graphics of this game, however, is just plain foolish and needs to see 
 an optometrist. The game is downright gorgeous, with seeping vistas and alarmingly detailed textures 
 that make you sigh and think if only the controls weren't so inconvenient. The controls are, simply 
 put, a mistake. It isn't that controlling the dragon with your sixaxis isn't terribly difficult, 
 but rather that it comes across as a real inconvenice: just let me rotate the goddamn analog stick! 
 The inability to use the analog stick is an enormous oversight by Sony/Factor 5. 
  
  The voiceacting is fine and the soundtrack is excellent, but the story is the same old "two nations 
 at war" rehash. Overall, this came really can be enjoyable, but any game with people riding dragons 
 should be able to do that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeishawt
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Liar. I really did. I reserved it, saved my reciept as to avoid confusion 
 and unneccessary conversation with the gamestop employee who would hand me this game, and took 
 the game home ready to be blown away. 
  
  Unfortunately Liar really sucks. 
  
  Heres the skinny, Liar is a game where you control Rohn, who controls a dragon, who controls his 
 fire breath and awesomely sharp claws. Sounds sweet so far right? Totally. Thats where it stops. 
 
  
  Most people try the sixaxis-only controls for guiding your dragon through the sky for 7 to 10 minutes, 
 realize they cant pwn drag0n noobs with it, and walk away from the game complaining that the controls 
 ruined the entire game and it would be sweet otherwise. They are wrong. I like the controls. There 
 is a steep learning curve to a game like this, but the controls are managable. The thing that ruins 
 Liar is everything else. For example: on my way into battle for the first time, i hear my commander 
 scream, "attack those boats!". Sweet, here comes some combat. then i realize, i dont know how to 
 fight. there has yet to be a syllable of this. i start hitting buttons until i find that the square 
 button shoots fire. I know i figured it out on my own and its lazy of me to demand the game developers 
 hold my hand and show me how to play their game, but for something as huge as the combat system, 
 it seems lazy to ignore it. 
  
  I play my games in standard definition because i have these pesky student loans nipping at my purse 
 strings, and let me say boy, lair did not look good in SD.
  
  My biggest peeve with the game was the story telling. After two missions some other dude who rides 
 dragons kills the king and the other king from the other people my people fight. apparantly i am 
 supposed to care, but i have been given almost no story and do not identify with these characters 
 and their plight at all. This lead to me not caring about why i had to trudge through the campaign. 
 
  
  It just seems that Factor 5 rode a good idea throughout the entire development process only to 
 phone the entire game in because it seems everyone has always wanted to fly through the skys on 
 dragons. It really is a shame, and i really do hope Factor 5 tries on their next project; at least 
 a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Lair was one of the most anticipated games for the Playstation 3 game console, and for good reason. 
 It rolled the concept of controlling a dragon with beautiful graphics, and a control scheme that 
 interested almost everyone. It had all the promisings to be a hit title for the PS3. Unfortunately, 
 the game's control scheme was enough to ruin this game completely for most reviewers. Not me.
 
  
  I'll go right out and say it - the control scheme for this game isnt that bad. It's not. Dont expect 
 to be swinging the controller around to fly the dragon, and you'll do fine. I have to wonder what 
 the heck many reviewes were thinking when they said the control scheme was unresponsive. Even in 
 the Gamespot review they act like it's actually hard to make the dragon go left or right... it's 
 not. I dont know what the big deal was, if you have a problem controlling in Lair, you are doing 
 something terribly wrong.
  
  The graphics are absolutely stunning. The dragon's skin is completely detailed, as well as the 
 mountains and buildings that set far below. It's really stunning. While all that is stunning enough, 
 the best part is landing your dragon and taking out enemy troops. That is when the game looks it's 
 best in my opinion.
  
  The storyline is simple enough, ancient colonies battle because of religious differences. Simple 
 enough, but entertaining none the less.
  
  The only real problem I've had with this game is the targetting system, and it's only a mild problem. 
 Sometimes it's difficult to tell what you're going to target, and sometimes when you do lock on, 
 if your target goes by you, it sends the camera into a crazy fit, loosing track of where you are 
 completely.
  
  Overall, I actually reccommend Lair. I know it's difficult beleive that for a game that averages 
 a score of 5.5 or whatever. It's much better than that, and I'm thoroughly enjoying my Lair experince. 
 I'd say it's safe to say to rent this game first, but if you figure out to go easy on the motion 
 control, you'll enjoy this game. Dont believe the reviewers, go out and try this game yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool_modine
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  A welcomed breath of fresh air when compared to games like Panzer Dragoon or Drakengard, which 
 are basically nothing more than glorified aerial shooters.
  The control scheme takes some getting use to, but once learned, you'll be hard pressed to want 
 to play the game any other way. It is in no way debilitating to the overall gameplay experience, 
 unless you're simply lazy, have zero patience, and suck at video games in general. The controls 
 attempt to give a deeper sense of realism, as if you're actually at the literal 'reins' of your 
 dragon. It isn't perfect, but it isn't disastrous either. Factor 5 gets props for at least trying 
 something that most developers are too afraid to. Personally, I found it to be rather successful.
 
  The story was pretty good, the cinematic aspect was phenomenal, and the music is superb. Plenty 
 of action, and a good variety of ways you can use your dragon to take out enemies.
  
  Don't believe all the bad rap this game has been smeared with by poor gamers too stubborn to accept 
 change or anything new.
  Rent it, and see for yourself. If you have the patience to learn the control layout, you may find 
 an appreciation and love for this sorely underrated and underappreciated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yrill
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Ok I will just skip the whole information thing about the game and I'll just start with the pro's.
 
  
  Things which are good in the game, are the graphics. That's absolutely a plus. Also the way of 
 fighting is cool. You can fight in different styles. 
  
  You can just bust some fireballs out of your mouth in aerial combat, but you can also charge forward 
 to your enemy and you'll enter a new type of combat mode which is where you will take it up one-on-one 
 with the opponent dragon. Here you must line up with the other dragon and smack him against the 
 back until he falls. Some other option when charging forward to your opponents dragon, you can 
 switch to the mode called "Fight". Here you will 'fall' with both dragons to the ground. The objective 
 here is to fight the other dragon by using you flame breath or your claws and your mouth full of 
 bloodthirsty teeths.
  There's also something you can do while in aerial combat (and is awesome!) is to fly (for example 
 over a bridge) and pick up some enemy from the bridge and then just swing it in the water with 
 immense power! I don't know why, but this just gives me a good feeling.
  
  Next the ground combat. I think I like this mode the most, since it is just bashing up entire armies 
 without mercy. You won't have to use your motion control here, so you can use your analog stick 
 (yay! finally!) and you kill every opponent standing there. Let none alive!
  
  So just a little summary of the plus' are:
  - Superb graphics
  - Great combat system
  
 
  Next up: The no's.
  
  Let's launch with (of course, why not) the controls. Many people said this sucked, and still I 
 was too cocky to buy the game. But now I experienced it's problems. The controls are nice and smooth 
 if you just move your controller slowly without any rush, but sometimes (in a situation where you 
 have to react quickly) you don't mind about using your controller slowly. And this happens most 
 of the game. You have to rush to kill your enemies quickly without being killed yourself. So whenever 
 I want to get a 180 turn it doesn't do anything or it just use a dash! Actually the controls aren't 
 that bad. The only things they shouldn't put in the game is to move your controller upwards when 
 to use the 180 turn and downwards to use the dash. Because of this many times you'll use a dash 
 when you want to use the 180 turn. Very VERY confusing.
  
  Some more no's. YOU'VE GOT LIVES! That's just weak. I've played games for years. And I've nearly 
 seen any (new) games where you got lives with your character! You just have 3 lives, and when it's 
 over your mission is failed and you have to start all over again. This is also one of the more 
 no's - There are not enough checkpoints. Actually... There aren't any..! Just between the missions 
 but not within the mission itself!
  
  And last of all: The missions are very short, and not very exciting. It's all a bit of repetition 
 within the combat system.
  
  So, again a short summary for the minus':
  - Not very bad controlling system, but they had to remove some controls
  - Lives...
  - No checkpoints 
 within a mission
  - Very short missions + not very exciting missions
  - A bit of repetition within the combat system
  
  I hope this review helps you with your decision 
 to buy the game (or if you don't) Good luck!
  
  Greetings,
  
  Yrill.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moatartareque
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  lair is greatly unapreciated its actually a prett good gsme and people only say lair sucks is becuz 
 they nvr played it and go on sites but lair is an awsome game so anyone that says lair sucks n 
 they havnt played it is a cock bite so lair is an awsome game and is not a "beutiful disaster" 
 its a decent game and u should atleast rent it and give it a  
 the graphics are ok but gamespot and gametrailers said that the siaxiz controls are crappy and 
 so the controlls suck but they dont they are good enough so give it a try AND RENT RENT RENT.............. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chatier
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Well I thought i'd write a little review here to counter some of the dreadful hogwash of negativity 
 coming out of peoples oraphases. 
  
  Graphics - GREAt
  Audio - Great, specially recorded orchestral score in london's abbey raod studios.
  Story - great
 
  Difficulty - ramps up nicely all the way through
  Controls - (the main area of contention) GOOD if you give it some time.
  
  So the rest of the 
 review will be about the controls and in my view its very irresponsible and dare i say it nasty 
 to completely write off a game because it has a different control scheme that has merely tried 
 to do something new. You may say that the use of sixaxis motion control was implemented for the 
 sake of it. Thats as maybe. The result is frustrating if you don't keep your cool, focus and be 
 patient with it. If YOU ARE patient and keep your cool the result is rewarding because using the 
 sixaxis immerses you into the game and its story so much more than if the game just used standard 
 analogue. It is difficult to explain but have you ever found yourself tilting a controller in a 
 flying game of the past? Of course you have, why? Because its natural behaviour. If you wanna go 
 left lean and tilt left.
  
  Anyway there are areas such as the targetting that can be frustrating, the way around that of course 
 is to simply not use it, as you don't even need to most of the time. When you do its when you need 
 to rip of a gun turret and all yo do there is fly straight up to it and target it last minute. 
 But anyways 95% of the time the thing you are pointing straight at is the thing that will get targeted.
 
  
  I urge you to dismiss all reviews which completely write off this game and say its bad because 
 of the control scheme because its just over the top nonsense. The controls just aren't that bad, 
 in fact we like them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbosslives67
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  lair is a disgrace flat out defination of over hyped. lair is the perfect game for people with 
 unreal handeye cordinaton contorlling you dragon is harder than contorling and ADD child. the story 
 would have drawn more people if 1 the tribe names werent so doumb and two the gameplay was good. the 
 sound and music was very good, graphics were very unqie and pretty not enough to save lair from 
 crashing. mabey if they didnt use the sixaxis so much mabey it would have been good rogue sqaudron 
 guys sorry this game is junk straight up junk rip the real lair idk were it went but hopefully 
 it will emerge some day.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I know that this game's most hated part is the controlling of the dragon... yet i like it that way 
 because the challenge that it possesses makes the game even more worth while... I mean you spend 
 the biggest part of the game on the dragon and it would be so easy if the dragon would be as easy 
 to move as the dragon from darconguard.... mastering the dragon gives you a boost over the other 
 players on the game and other online players.. this means that for players like me who love dragons 
 and want to do more with this game than just beat it, it makes the game even better having more 
 to the game than just the story....... and easy controll of the dragon would be an offence to dragon 
 fans like me... anyways the story ain't bad either you couldn't say that it is boring or something 
 like that.. it's an average with different controls and a different fighting partner... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Lair was hyped and hyped, but it just couldn't deliver. The game concept is refreshing and new, 
 but it's incredible how much Factor 5 screwed up.
  
  You play as Rohn, a skyguard for Asyliia, and your job is to kill those damn Mokai. Actually, the 
 story in Lair was really good and well written, and gave the game a LOTR feel to it. The story 
 touches on topics like genocide and trust, and it keeps you guessing who the bad guys really are.
 
  
  Let's get the positives out of the way first. Lair looks fantastic. The water effects are very 
 impressive, the character models look amazingly real for the most part, the dragons are detailed 
 (thank God) , and the worlds are vast and open. Lair also sounds incredible. The instrumental score 
 never dies down and it feels very medieval. It highlights Lair's epic feel, and that it should, 
 because Lair is a real feast for the senses.
  
  But Lair is a game, not a movie. The controls in Lair are that you use the SIXAXIS to control your 
 dragon by pulling left of right, up of down. And those controls work. But you feel like an idiot 
 doing it, and your arms will get tired. You can breath fire on people and other dragons, you can 
 swoop and pick up foes, and you can swipe the ground and take hundreds out. The 180 is probably 
 the most flawed part of Lair. To do a 180, you need to quickly jerk the controller up. This NEVER 
 works. Once in a million, really.
  
  The camera in Lair sucks. It is all over the place, and never in a good spot when you need it. 
 The lock on system works, but it isn't precise enough to do the tasks the game needs you to do. 
 Sometimes you will need to lock on to a certain object, but your dragon is looking at something 
 else, so when you hit the lock on trigger, you will be locked on to the wrong thing. This is very 
 frustrating, and you will die many times as a result. My final complaint is the length of the game. 
 I was able to beat lair in just about 7 hours. This is disappointing for a 70 dollar game. Lair 
 has good production values, but i just doesn't give you enough bang for your buck.
  
  That doesn't mean that Lair isn't any fun. It's incredible fun to watch the story unfold, and at 
 times, when the controls work, the game really feels innovative and cool. Unfortunately, the controls 
 don't work enough for the game to be credited with a good review. Lair is definitely a game worth 
 checking out, because of its story, because of its graphics, because of its sound. And for those 
 moments when it doesn't suck.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkiller012
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great looking graphic design; Make use of SIXAXIS tilt
  
  Bad: Sometimes not responsive or respond in a wrong way; Targeting system is lacking alot; Story 
 is sort of poor
  
  Summary: Well I find this game interesting of the ads in the Playstation magazine and I was like 
 Hey! I want to try get this game. But when I saw and heard reviews of this game. I didn't really 
 want to buy it. Months later I went to the Sony Expo and tried it out and it was like Wow! This 
 is interesting, but the instructions at first sucks. I mean it like Pitch 180 degrees depending 
 pitch at which direction. When I was interested, I bought the used one at GameStop, cheap as 40 
 bucks and pop in the disc then start playing. At some missions, it was confusing that I wanted 
 to shoot the fireball at this location instead it shot at a wrong way and I became frustrated. 
 Then when I was about to pitch instead it roll and spinned around. But overall, get this game if 
 you understand tilting and shaking. Otherwise.... stick with the critics review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is frustrating at first as you get used to the controls but once you adapt I found it 
 to be a great game. Obviously game spot reviewers don't play too long before writing their reviews. 
 I found killing enemies to be quite easy, and the game is rather addicting. I just bought it today 
 and I've already played 4 hours. Tight turns are not hard if you pull L2 and R2 and tilt the controller. 
 I managed to fly in circles inside a small tower. The game rewards you by creating carnage and 
 it is fairly hard to die. There is a training level that you can visit at any time to practice 
 flying, so you're not trying to learn how to in combat. I would also say ground combat is quite 
 fun as you can roast soldiers with fire, or slash them to death. I would give it a higher rating 
 but there is a learning curve in learning to control the dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nashnod1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  all tease and now show i was really looking forward to this..... kinda like the movies that build, 
 build and build but when you watch it..... you feel like kicking the directors butt. or that engineer 
 that you want to kick in the nuts for messing up a great thing cause they think its better, they 
 took a great game and made it at most, one of the most complicated controls then they make the 
 camera just randomly move and constantly not in anyway help half the time... my advice if you get 
 really really board and want to try it out rent it at least i don't know maybe I'm wrong in some 
 ways. I love the dragon and the knight idea i really was looking forward to the game... the music 
 was great I shall give that much and the graphics but if they where to remake this game like they 
 really need to remake a lot of games... (another story) then please fix the controls and the camera 
 and make the controls more interesting you can still modify it .... look at GTA3 SA your can still 
 save your game and give it a chance.
  
  for those that agree with me thank you and for those that don't...... thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklodus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I cant' beleive this game got such a poor review. I personaly love it when seeing the dragons battle 
 i shouted Yahoo !!! flying was a blast and overall l belive the game play is very fun . So it takes 
 a few mins to get used to flying soo what i think the flying part is the best part of the game 
 . The overall graphics are GREAT and l like the story and the extras are nice it makes for a good 
 screen saver on a HD TV and the music is outstanding . I really hope they make a Lair 2 . It deserved 
 atleast a 8 on reviews huge flying dragons at that graphic detail and a very fun game to play . 
 It was the reason l bought a PS3 this week . I can't wait for more GREAT games to come from Sony 
 .
  
  I give the Graphics a 9
  I give the sound a 9 I give the gameplay a 8 I give the controls a 8
  I give it a tilt of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Goodness knows I am often the first one to point to a game like Lair and say this is a primary 
 example of a game that get over hyped because of screenshots and developer interviews. Although, 
 after all my bashing of the game I never really gave it a fair chance till this past weekend where 
 I sat down, cracked open a yoo-hoo and gave Lair an hour to wow me. Let me be very clear, the game 
 itself is not amazing nor is it even very good but it introduced many interesting aspects that 
 it needs to be credited for.
  
  The gameplay is this games best and worst feature all rolled into one. The awkwardness of the Sixaxis 
 control set-up makes a horrid first impression on any gamer because it's VERY challenging to get 
 a firm grasp on, it took me nearly 10 minutes to be able to perform the 180 move in the tutorial 
 level, that left a very bitter taste in my mouth although within 45 minutes of gameplay I felt 
 I had a very firm grasp on how to control the characters in the game.
  
  This game may very well have the most steep learning curve of any game I have ever played, and 
 that what made it such a pain to enjoy but it's a very high reward lesson. Once you get a firm 
 grip on how maneuver it's actually a fairly functional system and one that once I got into it I 
 really did thing was interesting and rather innovative. Far to often we credit games for simply 
 building on the same old idea and adding to it, and we slam games for trying something new that 
 we don't like right away, yet at the same time complain that there are ten thousands FPS's out 
 there. 
  
  Lair did something very original with the controls, and it's rather function if you take the time 
 to play it. The control system has its flaws; I will be the first to admit that. Combat can be 
 tricky and the Sixaxis control system coupled with the very narrow scope of some levels makes its 
 challenging, but I would question if regular controller control would have made these levels any 
 easier? I rarely died because of a Sixaxis opps, that would not have killed me had I been using 
 the D Pad. Combat control is tough but like many games requires you to get a feel for it, there 
 is nothing else like Lair so all that stuff you hold to be true from decades of being a gamer go 
 right out the window, which is annoying for gamers. 
  
  The story is interesting, but early on it's not interesting enough to make up for the learning 
 curve that you have to deal with. Which is tragic because the story and the way it's played out 
 is very interesting. The story is itself is not what really draws you in for the long run but the 
 way the story is told. Storytelling may be Lairs best aspect, but once aspect most gamers will 
 never get into because of the effort required to get to that point. 
  
  Graphically, what can I say? It's Art. This is the standard in which every fantasy game moving 
 forward will strive to look like. Say what you will about the controls, and the combat, and the 
 storyline you simply cannot question the fact that this is the best looking fantasy genre game 
 so far this generation.
  
  The landscapes are nothing short of breathtaking, and there are a few times in air combat where 
 I simply was so taken back by the detail of a castle, tower, mountain range etc that I got blindsided 
 by an enemy. The graphics are Lairs best feature hands down, if not for the look of this game I 
 don't even think I would have picked it up to give it a shot, but this game is what I use to show 
 people what next gen graphics look like. 
  
  The voice acting is excellent, there are about a million cut scenes where story is advanced and 
 I will admit it can get rather annoying at times rather then a simple story advancement between 
 levels it seems to happen almost at random which can be very frustrating, but it does not change 
 the fact that the voice acting is very good. 
  
  The score is ambitious, and it suits the game very well. I have found in the last few years that 
 the Fantasy genre has opted for a canned standard and very generic style of soundtrack taking the 
 safe route rather then trying something interesting and it was a nice change to actually get to 
 play a fantasy game with an interesting mix for the score. Also in 5.1 it's stunning, very well 
 done. 
  
  It comes down to the question of value, would I pay full retail for this game? While I did, I did 
 so solely to see if it was worth so you wouldn't have to. This is not a game that is worth its 
 full retail, if you can get it at half retail its well worth the pick-up because the rental period 
 is just not long enough for anyone to get truly comfortable with its control system so its hard 
 to sell as a rental. 
  
  The first play through once if you can deal with the learning curve is a rewarding experience, 
 but the lack of a multiplayer is just tragic I think that it would have been very interesting to 
 have even the most basic team death match function within Lair. After your first full play though 
 there is very little reason to go back to Lair other then to bask in the beauty of the game,
  
  It's a rewarding visual experience for anyone who takes the time to learn the control system, 
 but the reality is few will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfan83
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game I really don't know what all the fuss is about. I have played some bad 
 games but this is not one of them. 
  
  Controlls: they say that the sixaxiss controlls are lousy and that they do not work right... For 
 anyone thinking about buying this game, they are wrong. The controlls are fun and unique. It really 
 gets you moving when the action pics up. They may not be as accurate as a flight simulator but 
 this is not a flight simulator and the game does not require too much precision. Overall I honestly 
 think these controlls make the game more fun. controlls get an 8 out of 10.
  
  Graphics: The cutscenes are comparable with those of Heavenly Sword and if you don't know, that 
 means Awesome. Althogh, after all the graphics hype I must say that the gameplay graphics are nice 
 but not what I was expecting. The PS3 has much more potential. Graphics get a 9 out of 10.
  
  The Good: Controlls add a unique a fun aspect, storyline is pretty cool. Gameplay is fun filled 
 and action packed. Eating people is fun, takedowns are awesome and the game keeps you wanting to 
 play more. Several different types of combat all intertwined in the game add fun factor as well.
 
  
  The Bad: I don't think that this is the type of game that should have been mission based. Online 
 deathmatches would have been cool but they are not included. No radar did not help and the dragonvision 
 part just made the game more complicated.
  
  
  Great game, wish I had never read any reviews before playing, all that did was make the game less 
 fun than it needed to be.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRiley13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game controls are terrible! I mean really i tried to go left and the damn dragon don't go 
 that way. Even on the ground the controls are terrible! Sorry people for whoever like this game 
 it's just confusing to me! The story mode kinda makes since but it's very hard to battle other 
 dragons cuz they be moven ultra fast but i managed to beat it on my 56th try. That's how bad the 
 controls suck. I never want to play this again cuz u will get bored in the first 3-5 minutes. Thanks 
 for reading my review and good night. Oh by the way There should be 10 bosses in the game. good 
 luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Although this game was given the usual lack of attention as most PS3 games on this site. This game 
 does have alot to offer as far as next-gen experiences go. 
  
  The story is really not that great, but hey gameplay is really what we play for. The single player 
 campaign is really fun, the graphics are state of the art. And as far as all the fuss goes about 
 controls, its really not that bad, it took me a half hour to get all the proper six-axis functions 
 down and then the dragon did what I told it to. The missions themselves are really quite fun, there 
 is alot going on all around you and can get really hectic as you zoom around completing objectives, 
 randomly getting attacked by opposing dragon riders. The missions can definetaly be frustrating, 
 but on a good note the game is not a cakewalk. Also not sure what the complaints were with targeting 
 they are no harder then any FPS, yea its sensative but not hard, if you've ever played an console 
 FPS before, then controlling dragons aim is pretty easy.
  
  Although the game is not worth 59.99 IMO, I think this game is def worth having if the price drops 
 a bit, or if you want to rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1nverted
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Whether your desperately trying to defend your city from a horde of invaders, or laying waste to 
 theirs, Lair never stops in its lumbering quest to please both eye and ear. 
  
  Lair is a game with a learning curve. I know, it's blasphemy isn't it, to have a game in this day 
 and age that actually offers an original control scheme like nothing before it. So unless you commit 
 yourself for the first hour, your probably going to want to kick your PS3 in 2. However if you're 
 a rare bread of gamer (rare for this millenium anyway) who doesn't mind having to learn something 
 new then Lair is going to be like a breath of fresh air.
  
  Ok, the controls. From this point onwards forget every official Lair review you have read and head 
 these words, the controls work fine! Is it surprising that it takes a dedicated player of the game 
 to say that, instead of the so called "professionals" who players are supposed to look to for a 
 second (or even first) opinion. If you tilt your controller left, you turn left and visa versa 
 with right. Tilt and down and you nose dive and .... yeah blah blah you know where I am going with 
 this. The only point in this game where you may feel like you're losing control of your trusty 
 winged stead is when you attempt a 180 degree turn which you still succeed at probably 7/10 times. 
 
  
  Another thing that Lair was branded with by the "professionals" was its targeting system. You see, 
 according to them you had a better chance at targeting something than the PS3 getting an exclusive 
 Halo game. THEY ARE WRONG! I must admit, before buying this title this was one thing that concerned 
 me, for not being able to target something you wanted would (for me) be the ultimate loss of control. 
 However it's so damn simple. Want to target and take out that Rhino? Sure, just point yourself 
 in its direction until it gets highlighted, then lock onto it. Even other dragons which zip past 
 at blinding speeds through the air are easy to target. Theres nothing wrong with the system, however 
 it all depends on how well you (as a player) can control your dragon, for that is the ultimate 
 challenge of this game and I personally believe that it was Factor 5's ambition to make it this 
 way. IF YOU WANT TO SUCCEED AT THIS GAME, LEARN TO RIDE YOUR DRAGON.
  
  Next, graphics. There is no doubt that this game is stunning to look at. I found myself sitting 
 there after 5 levels thinking to myself, how can this get any better? It does. Environments are 
 varied, from stunning golden cities to barren wastelands to enormous steam punk cities in the snow. 
 The list just goes on. One thing I have noted was that this game is one of only a handful that 
 truly portray heft and scope. What I mean is that environments don't just look big, they feel big 
 when your flying around them, it's wondrous. However its at this point where one of my main gripes 
 set in. Framerate. At it's best is fine however throughout the entire game is far from stable and 
 it's one thing that makes you feel detracted from the whole experience. Although it's hard to blame 
 them for the environments that the games presents us with. 
  
  Now to sound. Sound is this games highpoint, there isn't a moment during the game that isn't accompanied 
 by a sweeping and epic orchestral score, for the master that is John Debney. If you're not tearing 
 through waves of enemies you're sitting in awe of this score, it's nothing short of spectacular. 
 However it's not just the score that is excellent, both the foley work, and voice acting are top 
 notch and it all blends in with the visuals to create a truly cinematic next gen experience.
  
  In conclusion, Lair is great. Sure, there are some minor issues with the controls and the framerate 
 may get in the way more than once but it's easy to look past these things and just enjoy the game 
 for what it is, an action packed experience from head to toe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  i popped this game in ready to be let down. but flying a dragon around killing 1000+ people per 
 level i finally had to give in.
  
  
  they open it with an amazing sweep of asylia, the landscape is stunning, they went into so much 
 detail it isnt even funny, im thinking how could this go wrong?
  
  
  well for me it didnt. i started playing, tilting teh controller to fly the dragon obviously... 
 and when i tilted it in any aprticular direction, much to my suprise, the dragon went in the direction! 
 i thought, ok but mayb later on in the game it gets worse or some other control thing is bugged.
 
  
  im not going to lie to you, everything worked great, the 180's and dives are a little tricky and 
 picky, but once you figure out exactly what it wants you to do, you can do it over and over again. 
 the controls made the game BETTER! after a while they are third nature jsut like the joystick and 
 your zooming up and down on the beast smoothly and like a pro.
  
  
  
  graphics are pretty much um.... well i dont think i have to talk about graphics that much, other 
 than to say they blow every other game out of the water in terms of detail and pure SIZE of the 
 levels. and the cell processor actually gets a workout in this game, running water physics, large 
 scale battles with thousands of little dudes on the ground, hundreds of dragons, and turrets all 
 at the same time trying to kill you. it really leaves the options open as for how you complete 
 a level, you can take out turrets to defend your boats or dragons, you can land and annihilate 
 thousands of troops in a matter of minutes, or you can just dogfight with other dragons. and somehow 
 each of these things goes more in depth than just shooting fire at everything, everything has to 
 be killed differently in lair, and it makes it rediculously fun.
  
  
  the sound is probably my favorite thing though. every orchestral track makes the game feel epic 
 and exciting, they spent a great deal of money getting the london orchestra to play for them and 
 they didn't even advertise that! one of the best dang orchestras in the world made the music for 
 this game and the only acknolwedgment is in the extra features and the credits. i play the trombone 
 so i love orchestra music, so that by far is wat really blew me away, not the graphics. 
  
  
  the game is about 10-12 hours long just playing through it, but some levels are difficult and 
 will take more than one try, and some levels are fun and you will want to do over and over again. 
 they create an esscence of replay value by making other dragons unlockable besides the 2 that you 
 play through in the story. i havn't gotten them yet but i think there are 4 or 5 dragons including 
 the 2 you play with, and each is stronger than the last. dont be an idiot, try this game, factor 
 5 spent way to much money making it for you, i personally want to see more of lair as a series, 
 or at least more games from factor 5, this is a fantastic start for a company i had never heard 
 of, and it really saddened me that so many people think its a bad game when its actually a very 
 good game. buy lair, at least so you can show off to your 360 friends what their system CAN'T do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protector99
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first herd about this game i was so pumped up!
  I bet just about as much as you could be for a game!
  Well when i got the game i was kind of 
 let down...
  the graphics looked ok i guess and the gamplay was medocer.
  And the story was great along with the 
 
  
  But yea there isnt much to say about this game other than its ok.....
  so save your self 60$ and go buy uncharted or warhawk!
  
  Graphics:7.0
  Gameplay:7.5
  Sound:8.0
 
  
  Well if read this please rent it!!!!
  I would like to give factor 5 credit for all the hard work on this game!
  And every one else 
 on this  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Well to put it straight, yea i expect alot of bashing for making this review, so BRING IT ON!
 
  Lair takes place in a fictional land with dragons, beats and swords... lots and lots of swords. 
 But the swords aren't the stars of the game, its the dragons. the big fire breathing lizards of 
 Myth and Legend. ok enough of that.
  You play as a young dragon rider named Rohn, who serves the kingdom of Asylia in the Asylian Sky 
 Guard, these dudes are the guys who ride dragons, like the Air Force. Theres this guy called the 
 Diviner and everyone knows how important religion was back in the day, so he's an important figure. 
 Soon, one day, Asylias neighbor to the north, The Mokai, attack them for some grain. Asylia takes 
 this as a war threat and attacks back. Things get from bad to worse and you have to make things 
 right.
  
  Now about the controls... I dont know what everyone is moaning about, i don't find it hard to control 
 at all. The six axis controlling was great IMO. But i did find a bit of a hump in this feature. 
 The 180/dash technique (pitching the controller up or down) was a bit hard to maneauver. But soon, 
 I found out it was because i was swinging the controller too hard which caused the game to think 
 i wanted to dive instead of turn. I got a hold of the controls and was able to play the game with 
 enjoyment.
  
  Gameplay-wise, VERY epic. Ground and air battles are visceral and intense. Along with a great soundtrack, 
 this game almost feels like you're playing through a Lod of the Rings movie (without of the running 
 on foot thing, but we'll talk about that later) . Massive armies to destroy and burn, Structures 
 to collapse and strange beasts to turn into thanksgiving dinner.
  When i look back at my time playing this game, i guess it was repetitive, missions usually want 
 you to escort some flying whales (watever they are) , making sure you're army doesn't lose or just 
 plain Eliminate things around you. But what i do notice is that when i played the game, i didnt 
 care about any of that, i didn't notice any repetition, i was having FUN! It's a shame you can't 
 get off you're dragon once in a while and use your'e weapon against the masses on foot. But seriously, 
 wouldn't that make the game a bit like Dynasty Warriors? (but it wouldn't hurt to play on foot) 
 Instead, just ladn your dragon and start slashing, stomping, burning and eating troops.
  
  The storyline is GREAT btw, makes me want to know what happens next, oh but it is a tad short. 
 Hopefully Factor 5 will make a sequal, and this time, they should add Analouge Control as an extra 
 choice. Not to mention the ability to fight on foot.
  Give this game a bit of a polishing off, and you'll have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Lair is a game created by the makers of Star Wars: Rouge Squadron and I don't think it's fair to 
 say it lives up to the hype. It's not that is necessarily a bad game, hell I had some fun with 
 it early on, but it gets old really fast. The main problem with this game would have to be the 
 game play, which in most cases usually makes or breaks a game. The motion control doesn't really 
 work with this game as well as you would hope. The controls in this game are just so horrible that 
 you'll spend more time trying to fly the way you want to than actually enjoy. The cinematic features 
 they tried to use in this game cause even more problems, they automatically zoom in and out so 
 many times in this game and although it doesn't sound like much of a hassle on paper you'll be 
 frustrated as hell when you first lose control of your camera. To make matters worst they add timed 
 objectives that are nearly impossible to complete with the poor controls. The game is clearly bad 
 but there are some good elements here; the graphics look amazing and really show what the PS3 can 
 do. They get hundreds of enemies on the screen at one time, you'll take a minute to sit back and 
 admire the span of enemies that reach farther than the eye can see. The sound is amazing but some 
 of the songs just don't seem to fit the genre of this game. This game is fun at some points but 
 there are just so many flaws you'll find it hard to look past. I really wanted to enjoy this game 
 and I did to some degree but there wasn't enough to keep me entertained. I'll give it a 6.5 out 
 of ten, you'll enjoy this game for the first couple of hours but after the awe has worn of you'll 
 realize you've wasted money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: odersven
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like... scratch that, love this game when I first started following it a year ago. However... I 
 was let down.
  
  
  Graphics are great when you get close enough to objects that the LoD bias can start loading textures... shoulda 
 turned it up higher devs. There is an error when flying below the y-axis in water that clips the 
 whole bottom of the map (should have just painted anything under 0 blue on the x axis) . 
  
  I was promised great control, I was let down. They play moderately well, but when you need them, 
 they won't work. You'll spend most of the game turning yourself and hitting auto trigger to get 
 targets because targeting is 1) hard when you cant see the other dragons amongst LoD loading their 
 textures (aka they blur badly) and 2) navigating is crap. Should have just used one stick for controlling 
 the dragon and then its speed with the whip action. 
  
  Gameplay isnt that fluid. Cut scenes inturrupt you constantly and dont tell you whre they are occuring 
 (aka which of my 8 mantas is dying) .
  
  Scoring sucks at this game. 6 catagories and if you miss one, too bad. Getting a brozne isnt that 
 hard, but gold? you better hope you're korean. And I'm not. The time criteria for scoring is BS 
 because of all the cutscenes. Example: you have bomb/protect/kill dragons all at the same time. 
 When you have to do all that and you loose mantas, you are loosing critical mission time. Especially 
 when Black Dragons can only be killed by striking/dismounting (this also takes lots of time) . Its 
 occurs too often for me when I get all but ONE catagory for a gold/silver medal - and its always 
 time. Stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino213
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I think Gamespot has highly exaggerated the supposed failure of this game. Lair has beautiful gameplay 
 visuals and interesting levels.
  The story goes like this. Some guy named Rohn is member of the skyguard in a city named Aslyia 
 and is forced to fight another civilisation called the Mokai. The Skyguard are dragon riders who 
 protect Aslyia. 
  Things get pretty twisted up in the game but i'm not gonna give anything away. 
  The gameplay 
 in Lair is fun and chaotic in a good way pitting you againt enemies on the ground and in the sky. 
 Sometimes the levels pit too much against you and you get increasingly frustrated as you fail over 
 and over again. You also have 3 lives and no games nowadays have life systems.
  The game makes full use of the sixaxis system, using it's to fly, dodge and rip Rhino's heads off (by 
 the end of which you will be out of breath) . It would have been better if you could change the 
 sixaxis and use the analog stick but you can't. The lock on system isn't too bad as most of the 
 time you lock on to the target you need anyway. As a dragon you have many to take down your foes. 
 You can shoot them out of the shy, ram them repeatedly or engage them in a dual of sorts which 
 looks like a dragon boxing match. 
  The graphicsare stunning with the huge landscapes. There many settings in the game like the bridge 
 level. The dragons are amazingly detailed with different body designs.
  The sound is great with a perfect musical score and great voice acting.
  Lair overall is a moderate 
 but short game that can be liked or disliked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celsops3
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  First of all: Don't buy this game!
  
  [the grade 1 is for the work they had to make this game so beautiful]
  
  I really wouldnt recomend 
 it 'cause I bought it and now I'm trying to exchange it [here in Brasil]
  
  Everything you've heard about it is true and the goods are way far of value, since the bads are 
 so bad it makes me laugh =D [sorry, this phrase was so out of sense... that's because I'm not naturalized 
 in english euheuh]
  
  so the controls are so poor, the camera makes you want to kick your ps3 out of your window and 
 everything they made wrong takes this game to extremelly difficult [in playing the story and trying 
 not to burn your ps3 then eat its peaces...]
  
  So! even knowing this revew must be like almost all the other revews for this game, I wrote it 
 'cause it's my first revew on gamespot.. hope you enjoyed it and pardon me for my poor english 
 =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Lair, along with Heavenly Sword and Uncharted was one of the most anticipated exclusives for the 
 PS3. It isn't a bad game, but it does fall victim to some ridiculous pre-release expectations. 
 
  
  Much has been made about the control scheme, and it certainly is different. It's not horrible as 
 some may have you believe, but it is different. There was a time when I refused to play sports 
 games with anything but the thumb pad. The transition to the analog control sticks was one that 
 took me a while to get used to. Lair is no different in this regard. There are suggestions that 
 the use of the analog sticks could have been made available as an option for gamers, but in the 
 end I don't think that the controls are all that bad. Occasionally clunky at high speeds, but they're 
 more than adequate and quite enjoyable once you play through the first couple of levels. The developers 
 apparently wanted to simulate riding an animal rather than piloting a fighter jet and I'm totally 
 okay with that.
  
  Lovers and haters alike agree that visually, Lair is a sight to behold. The graphics in this game 
 are simply incredible! Beautifully rendered dragons, riders, environments.... you name it! It all 
 looks incredible. What this game doesn't seem to get much credit for is the use of sound. Shrieking 
 dragons, boats exploding and a musical score fit for a blockbuster movie. The combination is absolutely 
 outstanding.
  
  Production values aside though, where Lair truly fails to impress, is in originality. I've played 
 rogue squadron before and the tour through Lair was much the same deal. The level design is still 
 very linear, incentives are still carried out through a medal reward system and getting through 
 the later levels becomes an exercise in puzzle solving. Meaning that it's a bit of a project in 
 trial and error in order to find out what you have to do, and when you have to do it. That doesn't 
 necessarily make it a bad game, but the gameplay progression give the feeling that the basic philosophy 
 has remained untouched since the release of Rogue Squadron 3D for the PC and N64. Several years 
 ago this type of gameplay was revolutionary but without any tweaks or improvements what was awesome 
 then is now average at best.
  
  Which is what Lair is in a nutshell. Some average game-play packaged with incredible production 
 values and some unrealistically high expectations. It seems that there are some gamers absolutely 
 love it, and there are others that can't be bothered to use it as a doorstop. Personally, I still 
 thought that Lair was more than worth the test flight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverarrow1992
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Lair is a very good idea, and i have to stress that. I was looking forward to this game for months 
 and months. 
  But no, Factor 5 takes an idea that could have potentially made the best game ever and they RUIN 
 it.
  And I know that the landscape is breathtaking and it sounds amazing but what use is that if you 
 are screeching "f*****g work you stupid thing!" at the screen every 10 seconds.
  But for a stupid control system a game I would have given my soul for was turned into what is just 
 now something to shake your head at and never mention again.
  For anyone who is thinking it looks rather cool, save your money, buy guitar hero III and just 
 forget that Lair exists.
  
  I just hope this doesnt stop developers for continuing down this path, whoever can make this game, 
 but well, is going to be getting some awards.
  
  Peace Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  While GameSpot wasn't wrong with they're review they scored it somewhat unfairly in my opinion. 
 Yes I will admit that even once your use to the controls they can still be a pain but I've played 
 games with far worse controls. The story is delievered well, and the music blends well too. I believe 
 my biggest annoyance is probably the fact that even though your with an army, it feels as though 
 your an army of one. You seeminly are left to do everything yourself, which can cause a lot of 
 mission failed. With that stated the game still seems able to hold some manner of charm. After 
 playing the Wii I can't even find it innovative, but oddly enough I like it. It offers some change 
 from FPS which seem to be coming out every week these days. In my opinion at least worth renting, 
 you might just like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spcphilpot
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is frustrating at first as you get used to the controls but once you adapt I found it 
 to be a great game. Obviously game spot reviewers don't play too long before writing their reviews. 
 I found killing enemies to be quite easy, and the game is rather addicting. I just bought it today 
 and I've already played 4 hours. Tight turns are not hard if you pull L2 and R2 and tilt the controller. 
 I managed to fly in circles inside a small tower. The game rewards you by creating carnage and 
 it is fairly hard to die. There is a training level that you can visit at any time to practice 
 flying, so you're not trying to learn how to in combat. I would also say ground combat is quite 
 fun as you can roast soldiers with fire, or slash them to death. I would give it a higher rating 
 but there is a learning curve in learning to control the dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skin2yard
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  well, if you have been avoiding this game because of the lame control system, you ve missed out 
 a great gaming experience. the controls are great and you get really the feeling youre flying a 
 dragon. of course you will have to get used to it, but thats the price you pay for an inovative 
 great looking game. i would give it a 10 if it only was longer... the first time you play, it will 
 take about 10 hours... but thats only because you will have to repeat some missions, cause the levels 
 get pretty hard sometimes.
  by the third or fourth time, you can beat the game in 2-3 hours, and thats the only reason why 
 i give it a 7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slainta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  At the first I was disappointed by GameSpot review. I just bought a PS3 and I wanted to experience 
 the new Sys Axis control system. Lair seemed the right game to me. Looking at the pictures (and 
 at the review) I understood it was a beautiful game, but before to waste 55 I wanted to be sure 
 it was playable. I searched in the internet and I discovered that the Six Axis problem was due 
 to an OLD PS3 FIRMWARE! There is even a video in YouTube that proves how smooth the controls are. 
 So I decided to buy it. Playing it I discovered it also has a great sound track. The music goes 
 with the action, as it always should be. I believe too many people have been influenced by GS review 
 giving their rate. Lair is a great Game. Innovative. To fly a dragon in a 3D environment it is 
 not something you could easily experience before. True, the fighting system is damn hard. At least 
 for me. And being each environment huge it is very easy to get lost and miss the targets. That 
 means that one has to play and replay various times the same level before to understand where to 
 go, and what to fight. Also it SEEMS that sometime you lose control of the dragon. When you face 
 an obstacle or a wall, the dragon flies away. Well, what did GS expect? They wanted the dragon 
 to become smashed potato? Sure, it may get annoying. You wanted to go left, but the AI system decided 
 that it had to turn right. Just bad luck. But still, just move up the Six Axis and you do a 180 
 degree turn, The concept, as the producers say, it is the one of a Top Gun model. Instead of flying 
 an F16, you fly a dragon. That's what makes Lair very realistic and that's what makes it difficult 
 to play. You MUST use the Six Axis. Too many times I find myself trying to turn using the left 
 analog stick. But hey! How many times does it happens with the old dear games that we try to turn 
 moving the joypad? And that's how Lair controls work! One must just get used to it and that's it. 
 I just agree with the complaining about the camera, especially when targetting. Often it makes 
 you wondering where you ended up. But it is also true that if you keep holding the target button, 
 you keep hitting the enemy. Until it is dead or you move away. Seemingly the game is a little short, 
 and this is a let down for 55. But considering that you must replay few times the same levels, 
 the entire experience gets much longer. Still, you can always rent it and enjoy what the new tech 
 of PS3 has to offer. In few words Lair is a beautiful game, with a nice story, amazing music. Sometimes 
 very hard to play due to unexperience/inability to the new control system. But a true new, innovative 
 3D cinematic experience that anyone owning a PS3 must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: who_r_u
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I finally got the game from gamefly last night. In fact i forgot it was even in my game Q. Now 
 i wish i never added it to it. 
  
  This game isn't even worth a rental. I got my 1st trophy or walrus tusk. what ever you want to 
 call it. I was in complete shock. I was like "are you freaking kidding me, I haven't done anything 
 and i already received some type of achievement". 
  
  Man the controls blow in this game. why did they do this, plus when i killed that 1st boss dragon 
 it was a joke. All i did was shake the controller. Plus seriously the graphics suck too. Yeah the 
 cut scenes are pretty as hell but the real time engine is ass.
  
  Man what a waste of 2 weeks this will take away to get another game. 
  
  Don't waste you time 
 with this game, even the story seemed lame. for those that liked it. I feel bad for you. Not trying 
 to sound like a troll but this game is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket1010
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  wow, I was even looking forward to playing this atrosity before I read all the reviews. no one 
 could believe that this amazing game could get such terribles reviews. you cannot control the frieken 
 dragon. you use the sixaxis controls until your arms get tired. this game would have gone over 
 really well on the wii if it wasn't rated M. what do you think I havent seen dragons eating other 
 people??? It's called Eragon. de de dee. 
  anyway I really don't like to spend life after life crashing into walls do to lack of controls. 
 the sixaxis should be able to be turned off and it can't as far as I can tell. this game could 
 have done much better if they had spent more time developing more add-ons and more time testing 
 it. Idoubt even they can keep the damn dragon from hitting a bridge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexxorg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Its my opinion that if you are patient than you will get a good grasp on the controls and you will 
 have a great time playing this game. I tried this out very recently after reading the abysmal review 
 that it got here on Game spot. I was blown away by the difference between this sites perceptions 
 and my own take on this fascinating adventure. My skills as a gamer are mediocre at best but I 
 found the learning curve in this game to be very generous. That being said; it is blatantly obvious 
 that opinions such as this are just that; opinions. If the premise of the game intrigues you, then 
 I encourage you to give it a try for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueldias94
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  the gamespot score isn't the true.
  lair is a great game not a beautiful disaster.
  and sixaxis control is just mor fun!
  for me lair receives 9.5.
  lair isnt a shame but the 
 gamespot evaluation yes. FOR GAMESPOT:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
 
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME
  :
  
  LAIR 
 ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
 
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME:
  
  LAIR ISNT A SHAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimDigit
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I can't say enough about this game. From the opening music t o the beautiful in depth tutorial 
 for flight and battle; I have not had as much fun since, you've got to be kidding me.... Space 
 Harrier. I won't bother to go into the story, but the flight and the flight controls make you feel 
 truly like you have a dragon at your finger tips! 
  
  The tutorials thoroughly run through give you everything you need to complete every mission. On 
 the difficulty note, this game is no harder than
  Chess. Once you know how to play it's up to you. I keep trying to beat my ring times on the flight 
 tutorial, that is how much fun this game is!
  
  Once you get into the missions just remember that there is an arrow that indicates where you need 
 to go. If the arrow is yellow, you
  are going the right way. If it is red then you are going in the wrong direction; but you can read 
 all of this IN THE INSTRUCTION MANUAL!!!!??!!!!
  
  The combo attacks timed correctly disperse enemies with ease. You just have to practise a little 
 in the ground battle tutorial first other wise; you may be a ground wallowing, fire throwing; wale 
 out of water !
  
  I played through this game twice when I rented it wrote a review and got flagged for it LOL.
 
  
  Now I own it; permo' part of my favourites collection. I leave it to you to judge, but I honestly 
 feel that looking back a lot of people who played this game and are real gamers are going to reconsider 
 any thing close to low score they gave it. I never had more engrossing fun in a third person game. 
 It is a great game in itself and a superb step in the right direction for third person interactivity 
 with the SIXAXIS controller.
  
  Graphic 10
  Gameplay 10
  Production Quality 10
  Fun Factor 10
  Replay Value/Chess Equiv 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julesisback2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Although the sixaxis control make this game less in value, it is not that bad and eventually you 
 will get used to the control scheme. The soundtrack and visuals are great. The gameplay is not 
 that bad once you can get into the groove of things. Granted it is not the first game I would pick 
 to play in my collection, but it is worthy of being in my collection... at least for now. I would 
 suggest borrowing it from a friend or renting it so you can make your own decision. At this point, 
 there are way better games out that are way better like COD4 and Assassin's Creed (hint hint) . 
 But if you have already went and ravaged thru those games (doubt it since the online for COD4 is 
 crazy) , this game is definitely worth putting about 20 hrs worth of gameplay into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of talk about how bad the game controls are, but the problem with LAIR is not the 
 controls - there are several tragic design decisions that send this game crashing down to earth. 
 
  
  If the game levels were just set up as a free-form quest, this game would have been an instant 
 8.0 + . The designers created this fabulous world that you can play in - crazy battlefields with 
 plenty to do - you can wipe out ground troops, take down massive behemoths, fire-bomb catapults, 
 duel with all kinds of enemy dragons. If you could fly around taking care of several objectives 
 and rack up points for "carnage" and use the timer only as a bonus, this would be fantastic. The 
 occasional control mishap and even the targeting issues could all be chalked up to the expected 
 troubles of dealing with an unwieldy flying beast.
  
  But, no.
  
  The designers love the clock. They love the clock, and they love cut-scenes. Every new objective 
 has a cut-scene, which is like kind of like slapping a mini-movie onto your windshield while you 
 are driving at 100 m. p. h.
  A blinking dot on the map would have worked for me - and would have saved the producers a LOT of 
 money. 
  
  So you can't enjoy this great playground... you instead are watching a cut-scene, and then racing 
 to do that objective, and JUST when you are enjoying watching your dragon gobble up infantry, you 
 got to rush off to the next objective. 
  
  So if you try to do a 180 turn but dash instead, its too late, you wasted too much time.... If you 
 try to take out that catapult but a teeny dragon swoops down and you lock onto it instead and have 
 to flay around to re-set... it too late, you'l l never get the medal now. And you see by all the 
 reviews how much everyone appreciated that. 
  
  It is senseless, and it is cruel, because the game is RIGHT THERE to be enjoyed, but they slap 
 your hand and pull you away. 
  
  Kind of like bringing a kid to a toy store and yanking him away every time he sees something he 
 wants to play with - and then making him try on clothes all day. 
  
  There are other, minor issues with the game play that could be tweaked, but the objective design 
 and the cutscenes are what really ruin this game.
  
  BUT IT IS NOT TOO LATE!! 
  
  IS IT POSSIBLE TO GET A MOD, OR SOME NEW OPEN ENDED QUESTS ON THE PSN FOR DOWNLOAD!
  
  I AM 
 BEGGING THE DESIGNERS - YOU HAVE PLENTY OF TIME TO SALVAGE THIS... 
  
  GIVE US A SOME FREE-FORM LEVELS TO PLAY IN.
  
  PLEASE!
  
  
  One other fix that would 
 have gone a long way - have (2) lock ons - one for dragons (air) and one for catapults, structures, 
 maybe ground creatures. That would have taken the pain out of a lot of stuff!! But don't blame 
 the controls, blame the stop-watch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodOfFire12
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Its ok but the sixaxis sucks and the game Eye of Judgement is a whole lot better then this game. 
 A lot of games are better then this so put the ranking down on this game dont make it 49 of 407. 
 It was mostly a waist of time cause i beat this in 4 days but i barly played it. I guess it was 
 a good idea to rent it instead of buying it cause then i would have waisted 60 dollars on a bad 
 game. I can think of other games that are amazing or at least better then Lair and that is Assassins 
 Creed and Wwe smackdown vs raw 2008 and Rock Band and a whole lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I have a Standard- Definition TV, not an HD one.
  
  The Good:
   Great voice acting.
   Stunning graphics.
   Awesome overall gameplay.
  
  The Bad:
 
   Extremely short.
   Plot is somewhat cheesy.
   Bad control scheme. 
  
  
  When I first read about LAIR, that's when I started really whishing badly for my parents to buy 
 me the PS3. I thought it would be the best game ever, a game of which every single moment is excitement, 
 a game which graphics' are breathtaking. While this is not what LAIR is, fortunately it didn't 
 fell too far away. LAIR is fantastic. Aside from its short length and the somewhat bad control, 
 it doesn't lack anything, and is using the next-gen technology superbly. You never get sick of 
 flying around using the SIXAXIS; if you do, though, you can always take the fight sky high, and 
 kill even the most threatening dragon with an impressive ease. In their review, Gamespot mentioned 
 an "Invisible Barrier" issue many times. Dear GS, define "Invisible Barrier" please. I own the 
 game for only 3 days now, though I play it allot. And I have never felt any Invisible Barrier in 
 the game.
  Although until now I focused on the game's positives, it does have its negatives. For instance, 
 take the game's control scheme. It heavily relays on the SIXAXIS motion/tilt sensor (in fact, you 
 can only fly, steer, ascend, descend, and dash forward by tilting the controller in different directions) , 
 which is sometimes fun and cool, but can also be real annoying and hard to master. More then once, 
 I found myself struggling with the control itself rather than my dragon enemies, in attempt to 
 land on the bridge and save the civilians  with no success. It could have been nice if Factor 
 5 developed an analog patch.
  Another minus for the game is its camera. It's fairly easy to just lose yourself in the mission 
 simply because the camera seems to be trying to fail you. Factor 5  have you ever heard about 
 a mini-map?
  There is also a lack of tutorial in the game. Apparently the developers expect the player to understand 
 the controls and the game mechanics just by flying into some strange rings in the training section 
  and reading the very little, unhelpful text which is popping up.
  
  If there's one thing I agree with in GS' review, it's their complaining about the game's Lock-On 
 system. Not only that it actually works only when you don't need it, but the developers in Factor 
 5 expect the player to understand all by himself what is the difference between the red Lock-On 
 aim, and the white one. That's right. No early explains, the training tutorial says nothing about 
 it... nothing.
  
  LAIR's soundtrack is awesome. (For those of you that already own a PS3  check out the "Battle 
 for Asylia" track that is available to download from the PLAYSTATION Store) . It is obvious that 
 the musicians have put their heart into their job in the game. In every level throughout the game, 
 the music adds to the excitement and gets you deeper and deeper into the game. 
  
  Overall, lair is a good, maybe even very good game, but is not excellent. The controls are delayed 
 a little; the camera is pretty bad But, on the other hand, you get an excellent game with great 
 graphics and action-packed levels and a fully functional SIXAXIS gameplay. I suggest you first 
 rent LAIR, simply because not everybody would like the SIXAXIS controls. In my opinion, LAIR's 
 a great game, and defiantly doesn't justify the bad review it has received. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  With luscious graphics, epic presentation and thundering dragons searing shrieking armies with 
 their infernal breath, its hard to see how Lair could fail. But as it's lumbered with a control 
 system that's guaranteed to drive even the meekest gamer to profanity, it's puzzling how the game 
 was ever allowed to reach retail.
  
  While the Wii's gesture-based gaming has been a revelation, Lair's ham-fisted attempt to exploit 
 the Sixaxis' motion-sensing functions is pitiful; tilting the controller to steer your flying lizards 
 feels natural enough, but as it's impossible to make tight turns you'll find yourself flying for 
 miles in the wrong direction in an attempt to turn around and attack targets you just flew past, 
 making the missions with a strict time limit unnecessarily frustrating. And as the motion controls 
 are mandatory, you can't even use the Sixaxis' old-fashioned control sticks to get some enjoyment 
 from the incredible visuals.
  
  Worst of all, though, Lair features a tragic targeting system that automatically picks out enemies 
 but often selects the least-threatening, leading to perplexing, controller-smashing moments where 
 you're hammering an unarmed foe while another soldier riddles your scaly hide with arrows.
  
  An exasperating triumph of style over content, Lair is the PS3's biggest disaster and further 
 ammunition for those who champion the Xbox 360 and Wii's burgeoning libraries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Developing such airborne greats such as Star Wars: Rogue Squadron, Factor 5 took a different approach 
 and decided to give us the reigns and mount some dragons. While controlling a ferocious dragon 
 tearing up the lands, burning thousands of mere humans alive and zooming across the skies and battling 
 it out with other dragons sounds like great fun, Factor 5 somehow found a way to cock it up.
  
  First of all, there's the horribly clich story. One city was split into two, thanks to natural 
 disasters. Centuries later these two cities, now called Mokai and Asyllia, declared war on one 
 another. One man named Rohn tries to get the two cities to make peace, but some unfortunate circumstances 
 make this harder than once thought. So Rohn takes to the skies in search of some way for the Mokai 
 and the Asyllians to make peace.
  
  The fact that the battleground is a war zone makes for the mission structure to be confusing. Your 
 allies tend to make it annoyingly clear by repeating what they want you to do every five seconds. 
 And the worst part is that they are always contradicting themselves. One person wants you to take 
 out the dragons, another person wants you to destroy some buildings while the rest of your allies 
 are telling you to thin out the ground troops. And if you can't find some magic way to do all three 
 at the same time, then the mission failed screen awaits you.
  
  What makes this even harder is the fact that the controls are motion sensing only, and they are 
 sometimes unresponsive. Steering your dragon is fine, but trying to do a 180 turn by flicking 
 the controller towards you will lead to you doing a forward dash. In boss fights, you'll need to 
 use the dodge mechanic by slamming your controller in the direction you want to dodge. For example, 
 a giant sea dragon is trying to eat you, so you'll need to dodge it. But your dragon will either 
 dodge in the opposite direction and die, or do nothing and die, ending you back again at the mission 
 failed screen.
  
  If you could take a picture of Lair, it looks stunning. The dragons are very detailed and textured. 
 It looks as if you can almost reach out and feel the thick, scaly hide of the beast. Beautiful 
 scenery such as vast mountains and green meadows make the battle zone a pleasure to look at. In 
 cut scenes, the facial animations are incredible, and the voice acting is strong. When you get 
 the game in motion, however, the beauty of Lair doesn't stick around. A choppy frame rate, bad 
 draw distance and huge slowdown when things get manic are headache worthy.
  
  But if you think you can look past all of these faults, you'll find some pretty epic battles in 
 Lair. Huge creatures, hundreds of dragons and thousands of ground troops await you in every mission. 
 And when you see a giant enemy rhino taking out your troops, getting your dragon to perch on it 
 and rip off it's head right before throwing it into a battalion of the other teams troops always 
 feels satisfying. Every level is huge and filled to the brim with enemies to take down.
  
  But that isn't enough to save Lair from dive bombing. Analog controls would have made things so 
 much easier, and a better mission structure could've saved the game. If you're still on the edge 
 about Lair, then at least wait until the price drops. 60 can be spent on so many better things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wopenka_11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Lair is an incredible game. The story is easy to follow and is intriguing, the graphics are very 
 eye catching, the cutscenes looks spectacular and the storyline is quite good too. The controls 
 are not bad at all, the utilisation of the sixaxis controller should have proberly been made optional 
 for the noobs out there who dont have the strength to move a 500mg control in the general direction 
 that you want your dragon to go too.
  
  But with all the good there is some bad. In particular points in the game you notice some glitchyness. 
 This game would have been alot better if a coop feature was put into the game, because some parts 
 in the game particularly the half way point onwards, seem to be designed alittle too difficult 
 at times and would have been good to see another dragon around.
  
  All in all this game is a good game. I recommend not turning it town because of gamespots favouritism 
 of xbox360. Go out and rent it or buy it yourself and then judge it because in my opinion this 
 game delivers something that the next generation needs. Gameplay + Graphics = Lair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Lair i think wasn't that big of a game that it said it would be. The graphics are outstanding but 
 the controls were sorta like the WII so i didnt like it. The story line was average and i wish 
 that the game you could get of the dragon and fight without the dragon but i do agree with gamespot 
 score on this game because the game was a waste of sixty dollers for me and the people that i have 
 talk to. But my final saying of this game is that if you thinking about getting this game, dont 
 do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_olly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 2:39 am PT
Review:  It's not often I write reviews unless i am compelled to stick up for something that has been unfairly 
 slated. Lair is one of these games and ive absolutely no idea where the bad press is coming from! 
 Maybe Microsoft have asked every employee to slate a rival game perhaps!!??
  
  From the very beginning it is very clear that the producers have spent an aweful lot of money on 
 this title from the overall presentation. The sound is THX certified and is absoutely top notch. 
 The graphics are rich and full of fantastically detailed environments that stretch to the horizon 
 line. It is a game in my opinion which captures the dragon fantasy element very well.
  
  Now for the controls. We've not yet seen a full six-axis title until now and what better application 
 for it. Many people say the dragon is uncontrollable but this is total and utter nonsense unless 
 your head is stuck in the toilet.- Im a good portion into the game now and the dragon flys fine 
 as long as you remember that you are indeed flying a dragon and not an F15! When you tilt the controller 
 there is a slight delay but it adds to the feel as your dragon lumbers through the air. It gives 
 a much more authentic experience.
  
  My only gripes so far are that you sometimes aren't sure how to complete your objectives but when 
 you replay the missions (to earn better medals) it is no real issue. I can sometimes lose my bearings 
 but it's something you quickly get used to. Melee combat with other dragons is also a bit of a 
 shallow process.
  
  This is certainly a title with a good learning curve as it is hard in certain places but once you 
 get masterful you should thoroughly enjoy it. 
  
  Ive no idea where Gamespot got 4.5/10 from as that is totally wreckless and inaccurate. Any scores 
 lower than this are totally moronic so don't listen... My take is that if you are intrigued by 
 the idea of this game then buy it and you shouldn't be disappointed. Its innovative, beautiful 
 and fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: publicenemy_7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all I must disagree with all the critics that say that the control of the dragon is a 
 complete disaster. Not only is a very smooth control but also there is no hard time in making it 
 do what you want... there is a little thing called a tutorial which teaches you how play you know? 
 In just about 10 minutes you can learn how to control the dragon just fine...
  There of course some issues like the camera, for an instance. When you grab and drop an object 
 is in fact annoying to see the camera following the object every single time!
  The only problem I see in the lock-on mode is that you must be too much close to the target to 
 do so... and no, the camera doesn't follow the enemy dragon falling!
  I don't find the game too much hard to play, but also is not one of those you finish without getting 
 killed.
  Finally, the story is very original and is kind of addictive to know how it ends, despite the game 
 being a bit small!
  
  Conclusion, Lair it's a very fun game, short but intense, with EASY, INNOVATIVE AND SMOOTH CONTROLS, 
 which has been underrated and very unappreciated. It's worth playing just for the fun of riding 
 a 20 ton dragon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imotsdragoon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Lair I was amazed. The graphics were great and the concept behind it was really 
 amazing. I mean, who wouldn't want to fly around on a fire-breathing dragon, taking part in some 
 massive war and fighting huge sea serpents that are over a mile long? I for one would but then 
 the game came out and we had to face the reviews. I was shocked at first but but decided against 
 them to buy the game anyway after reading many reader reviews. I'm glad I did. 
  
  The game is fun. Just plain fun to play. The motion controls at first took me by surprise because 
 they're much more sensitive than the motion controls used in Heavenly Sword. But once adjusted 
 to the game plays very well. I don't see how the controls are "broken" because they work perfectly 
 fine. If you like them or not is a matter of opinion but saying they are broken is another. Like 
 I said, they work fine but it may take a while to get used to such as doing the 180 turn the first 
 time can be a pain but now i can pull it off nearly every time. (I managed to do it on my first 
 shot somehow) . The controls feel right and when you get into it, you sometimes forget you're tilting 
 the controller. 
  
  The lock on system works fine for me as well though I hardly use it as I tend to just manually 
 aim as it still gets the dragons you want. It's not much of a problem though the camera can sometimes 
 be a nuisance when when you kill a locked on target.
  
  The graphics are awesome though the ground textures seem to be a bit weak as they don't seem very 
 sharp and very clear though this can be easily overlooked as you tend to be flying at high speeds 
 or burning infantry on the ground. Everything else though looks great. From the dragons to the 
 water (doesn't look like sand) , to the buildings and fire. There are a few popups and slight frame 
 drops though they're nothing as serious as you would find when playing TES: IV Oblivion.
  
  The sound as well is amazing and quite memorable. It really sets the mood and atmosphere of the 
 game and can really immerse you into the game. I've still yet to hear it in surround sound but 
 even so, the sound track is amazing, adding to the suspense and urgency of the missions.
  
  The only problem I have with the game is that it is too short but this seems to be the case with 
 most game nowadays though there is some replay value as you'd want to go back and redo missions 
 that were just awesome to play through the first time. Not only this but you can redo them and 
 try and get more medals or just try to beat your personal best on carnage or time etc. If your 
 skeptical about this game, rent it first before you go out and buy it. Lair is an amazing game 
 and is worth having if you own a PS3, just don't get it if you hate motion controls and want to 
 switch to analog as there's no option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  During each console cycle there are always trends in what sorts of games abound. Whether it be 
 the 3-D platformer fad that we dealt with when the PlayStation One and Nintendo 64 were dominating 
 the market or the open world environment last console generation started by Grand Theft Auto. The 
 current trend seems to be integrating motion controls into the hardware of the system and this 
 has had some good and bad outcomes. On the one hand you have Metroid Prime 3 and on the other hand 
 you have Lair.
  
  That isn't to say that Lair is a bad game, it is more meant as a commentary on the controls. The 
 PS3 Sixaxis controls aren't always the most responsive in the games it is included and most people 
 I know turn them off at first chance. Lair forces you to use the Sixaxis controls to handle your 
 movement whenever you are in the air, essentially shoving these controls down your throat ad they 
 just aren't up to the task.
  
  Lair, for the most part, controls almost like a flight simulator type game. How you angle the controller 
 and shift it around will determine the direction that your dragon moves. The problem is that you 
 aren't controlling this game with the analog sticks or a more precise flight control stick, they 
 just aren't up to tight navigation that you need in these sorts of games.
  
  More often than not you will find yourself doing moves entirely by accident when you are simply 
 trying to move around. Even worse is when you are trying to perform the 180 degree turn by moving 
 the controller upwards. It is hard sometimes to get the game to acknowledge the upwards motion 
 sometimes if you don't bring the controller down a bit first. Unfortunately moving the controller 
 downwards is how you do the dash move so you will likely end up dashing when you want to 180 and 
 vice versa.
  
  Going beyond the horrible control scheme you will see that there isn't actually all that much to 
 Lair. It has a fairly predictable storyline with nothing too interesting, or unexpected, going 
 on. You could honestly sum Lair up with two things: lame motion based controls and beautiful graphics.
 
  
  The graphics are the one area of Lair that you cannot say that the developers dropped the ball 
 on. Lair looks wonderful and most of the animations are very fluid, although it gets a bit iffy 
 with the ground units. This is a game about dragons and other giant flying beasties, the only time 
 humans mean much is when you are either guarding them or devastating armies of them. However getting 
 into a plummeting mid-air duel with another dragon as a veritable war rages around you is quite 
 a sight. It would also be hard to say that the developers didn't put effort into the creatures 
 in this game as all of the assorted baddies, air and ground based, look incredible.
  
  As mentioned before, the story to Lair isn't anything too special. You are Rohn, a dragon rider 
 in the Assyrian armies. The story begins with an attack on the Assyrian city by the Mokai and their 
 ice dragons. It seems that the Mokai live in the deserted wastelands while the Assyrians live in 
 a beautiful city on a waterfall with plenty of greenery. The differences in beliefs between the 
 two have made them enemies and since the land they live in is full of Volcanos' and the wastelands 
 are spreading, the fighting over the good regions of the world come naturally and fiercely. While 
 it initially seems as if the Mokai are ruthlessly attacking the Assyrians all is not as it seems. 
 The tale that follows is one that some might brand "full of intrigue and betrayals" but that is 
 far too generous. Anyone who has spent much time playing games or watching movies will see the 
 twists and turns that follow coming from a mile away. 
  
  Riding atop his mighty dragon steed Rohn will take to the skies to battle his enemies. His trusted 
 mount has the ability to ram its enemies, spit targeted fireballs at its enemies or to spray them 
 with flaming streams. You can even do fly-bys of enemy troops, snatching them up and flinging them 
 all over the place or setting ships alight with your flame breath as you pass by overhead. And 
 that is just the half of it, it is a beast when it is on the ground. Stamping its feet causes a 
 shockwave that knocks down troops giving the dragon ample time to eat them and heal itself and 
 its immense power allows it to decimate entire armies all alone. 
  
  You will spend most of your time fighting other dragons using your flames or ram attack to take 
 them out of the air. Stronger dragons will necessitate engaging in duels between dragons while 
 you can usually cut a swath of death through the weaker ones with normal attacks. Some enemies 
 will require other strategies like destroying their harnesses and then grabbing them with the dragons 
 talons and flinging them. Taking down enemies never gets boring due to the variety here.
  
  While nobody can knock the art direction taken in this game the sound doesn't necessarily fare 
 as well. It's not that the music is bad, the musical score sets the right moods for the right stages 
 rather well. The problem here is that the voice acting is bad. No, not bad. I prefer the terms 
 horrible and prevalent. Even during the missions themselves you will have dialogue going and it 
 is just really bad. It's nice to know that the dragons and other beasties sound great though. Between 
 their roars as they take over the skies or their snarls as they fight another dragon with tooth 
 and claw, it really helps you get into it.
  
  Many naysayer's bash Lair as another failure of the great Sony hype machine but it isn't actually 
 that bad of game. The biggest mistake that was made with this game is the forced Sixaxis control 
 scheme. Had the developers at least included an option for us to play the game using the analog 
 sticks then it would have likely gone over far better. Even if they had waited some time and then 
 given us a patch that added this option to the game, both sides would have won out. Those who hate 
 the controls would have had their analog control set-up while those who liked it could continue 
 to use it.
  
  I would hazard a guess that Sony was trying to force players to embrace the Sixaxis technology 
 much like Nintendo fans have with the Wii. The problem is that the Wii is entirely based around 
 its unique controls and it offers very little in the ways of playing games without it due to its 
 limited buttons. The PS3 controller is more than capable of playing a game normally and simply 
 using the Sixaxis stuff to handle extra functions. Sadly they have decided to be stubborn and stick 
 to their guns, forcing people to deal with a game that is truly love or hate.
  
  Anyone who tells you that Lair is a flat out bad game is wrong. It is a decidedly mediocre game 
 with an interesting setting and dragon on dragon combat that is bogged down by its controls. Were 
 it not for that one fact then this game would likely have been accepted as just another game in 
 the PS3 library. Sadly the hype of the game has paired with its control scheme to make this a game 
 that will not appeal to everyone.
  
  Score: 5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: herozs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Lair a game with bad reviews, but if you like it what matters the most your opinion or there opinion. 
 The best advice someone can give you is rent it. I rented and liked it, maybe you will like it 
 too. On PSN firmware update 1.92 the SIXAXIS tilt function for Lair was improved. I have very few 
 problems with the tilt function thanks to that update.
  
  The Good: Lair is a beautiful, enjoyable game. Gameplay is unique. Missions are varied. Fights 
 in the air are ok. They get alot better when you are locked up with another dragon in the middle 
 of the battle, adding alot more variety to the fights. You can also body crash with other dragons 
 by using the tilt function. Land battles where you get to squash enemy solders are kinda cool. 
 Graphics are awesome and there is no lag. Lair has the best water effects I have seen.
  
  The Bad: I dont know how to say this but since the game keeps you alert at all times it doesn't 
 get boring but fighting is sometimes juts bland. There cool but bland. In game cutscenes really 
 suck balls. Story was written by a 6 year old. 
  
  The controls: When you want to move around normally very easy. When you want to reach a certain 
 something remember to target it. Its easy to reach something without targeting it but targetting 
 helps a bunch specially when you need to destroy something specifically. The only part where the 
 controls got bad was when you want to turn around automatically or when you want to dash.
  
  Conclusion: Rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowfan
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Lair was going to be one of the best games of all time but after the game came out I got it the 
 first day and started playing. It was not to bad at the very start but it started to get old fast 
 and the fights are all the same. One thing is it is hard to do stuff like drive twards enemys and 
 to do any tipe of attack or move without acting like your about to throw the remote. The game dosen't 
 even last that long it is only about 10 to 15 for a bad player so the game is not even worth renting. 
 The game looks good but plays bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  There will be a time in everyone's life when they wanted to be somewhere else, doing something 
 that would make a difference, being in on a key decision that makes the difference between something 
 being great and something being horrible.
  For me that place would be in the offices of Factor 5 the day they decided that their much hyped 
 project Lair, the project that they had spent so long working on, would actually benefit from making 
 one of the key elements in the game Sixaxis control only.
  As soon as I knew which, obviously inebriated, fool had suggested that I'd have ran over and repeatedly 
 slammed his head onto the desk until he took it back.
  You look at Lair in action and see a thing of beauty; you look at the person playing it and see 
 someone whose whole body looks as if he's wrestling an Octopus.
  There is a difference between making a game challenging and making it unplayable, Factor 5 have 
 gone down the unplayable route.
  The flight controls are hideous, masked by the HD graphics, it's a struggle to gain any real control 
 over the dragon, and as some area require some very precise flying that's a bit of a problem.
 
  I don't care if a game looks good, I want one I can play as well, and have fun doing so.
  Closely following the control issue is one of lighting, for most of the time is okay, but the beams 
 that come from the searchlights are ridiculous, I wouldn't expect the light from one of those to 
 be a bright near the top as it is from the base, I'd sort of expect the light to thin as it spreads 
 out over the night sky, nope, none of that here just a beam of light, well several beams actually 
 as the lights themselves are usually all bunched together.
  Another, in my opinion, sloppy detail is that as you head for land or the battlements to get down 
 and dirty with some on foot combat, where control thankfully reverts to the sticks, you notice 
 that the soldiers doing battle are standing as if they are in a grid, considering these are supposed 
 to be huge battles, why do the soldiers stand an equal distance apart from each other and only 
 attack the man directly in front?
  Whatever happened to the huge gang fights you see in every other game?
  You don't see soldiers 
 attack one another, taking care to ensure his mate next to him has enough room to swing his sword 
 unhindered, in any other game, surely Factor 5 aren't trying to save on all the bother of collision 
 routines and AI for the fodder you'll get to torch when you land.
  On the surface of it all Lair looks great, but plays like a brick, massively disappointing.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Oh come on!! Lair isnt that bad of game. First off, the graphics are quite very good, and with 
 the orchestral choice of music, obviously, the production value is quite good, afterall, 'tis from 
 ther same people that brought you the Rogue Squadron series. The 'horrible' controls aren't really 
 that horrible, although sometimes the game mixes up the 180's and speed-ups, which does get kind 
 of annoying, but i think change is pretty good once in a while, and when you're not having controlling 
 problems, the game is pretty sweet. Other flaws in this game design are the constant hand-holding; 
 on what the next objectuve is, and the repition of the same dragons, but, i didnt mind the repitition. 
 But the whole fighting system is pretty sweet, while the take-down mode looks cool, but kind of 
 sucks; it's to general; "shake the controller left OR right" and "move the left analog stick". 
 I would deffinitlly reccomend to rent it first, because, as you can see, this game isn't for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizard_levy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Lair is one of the Playstation 3's most visually stunning games. the frame-rates keep it smooth 
 95% of the time you play, the characters are detailed, the lighting is amazing and the Dragons 
 are a sight to behold. 
  
  Still, this game has it's share of problems. Not in the control though, this game controls perfectly. 
 It's very intuitive, very responsive, and after you get the hang of the camera it all gets very 
 easy. Contrary to VanOrd's claims, not ONCE did my dragon turned to the wrong side, nor did it 
 decided not to do a 180turn, accelerate and so on. Reading the review, my impression is that the 
 reviewer is much a bigger problem than the game.
  
  Anyway, the game does have it's share of problems, most of which were overlooked. The main problem 
 is that the camera behaves as in a movie, so after you defeat an opponent, you'll see him falling 
 to the ground while you hit a brick wall. It really takes your sense of direction away, but it's 
 okay after you get used to it. 
  
  There are a lot of optional tutorials, which is great: if you feel insecure with anything, you 
 can go back and practice, but if you're a fast learner you can just skip it. 
  
  The graphics, even though beautiful and filled with great textures, are a little too much. if you 
 don't play it in an HDTV, chances are you won't understand much of what's happening. The on-line 
 support is downright ridiculous. the only thing to do there is compare your score with that of 
 other players. 
  
  In a nutshell, Lair is a beautiful game with an interesting story, well developed characters, good 
 difficulty even though it gets a little too hard on spots and that controls in a very intuitive 
 and precise way. But lack of variation in gameplay, pathetic online support, some stages a little 
 heavy on the eyes and camera issues, it's just average. But average is far from disastrous, ind 
 the game is certainly worth renting you buying a pre-owned copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  There is only one way to describe this game to much hype sure the graphics are great but the gameplay 
 does not measure up. At times i got caught in a sketchy auto aim mode where i coould not target 
 the other guy but i got caught alot. And the sixaxis motion sensitive controller only advances 
 the expirence only a little. And then online modes only measure up scores which does not matter 
 pretty much. And then psp control is even worse than the normal. Yeah 
  it is only okay so watch out for this game. Oh yeah the ai is also mediocre at best so yeah dont 
 expect a hard game or a great game it is mediocre at best for this game so yeah i would not suggest 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bufta
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Well i was astounded today when i got lair. I was expecting a horrible mess of a game. Damn was 
 i wrong this is not only the most beautiful game ever created it is also a lot of fun. I think 
 some of the reviewers of gamespot and a few others must have been drunk or just plain lazy because 
 this is an awesome game. The levels are varied and compelling what with the story being such a 
 good one. The gameplay is i suppose standard fare but it is the way you have to control it that 
 is the jewel in the crown here. The control method is so easy and straight forward i was swooping 
 in and out of canyons and under bridges within minutes. The feeling of swooping over these massive 
 vistas was both spellbinding and exciting. Id rather play this than another version of NFS or another 
 FPS this is truly different and should be applauded for its efforts in the control department. 
 I urge everyone to at least have a try of this and not be swayed by the review sites. In one word 
 Awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I told my self even after all the bad reviews that I'd still rent it. That I was only picking up 
 trash. When I got home, I booted it up. It tells me 7.1 surround, ah thats nice but I only have 
 5.1 surround right now.
  
  Controls: I was tring to find what people were complaining about and simply could not. It flys 
 like its supposed too. Unless the reviewers were laying on their backs trying to fly then I can 
 see that being a problem. THE ONLY issue I have with the controls was this, the 180 degree turn 
 and quick speed burst were almost the same motion. Like whipping up and down on the rope of a horse 
 to gettie up. 90% of the time I could speed burst just fine. At moments of chaos I would get in 
 a tight scenario and forget this easy moment and end up doing a 180 turn instead of speed burst. 
 Oh noo's give it a 4.5 for that. Really, this is ONE game to not pass judgement on-to until you 
 actually play it. I'm being serious, its really not that bad.
  
  Graphics: Yea, during moments with lots on screen and when you decide to turn hard you receive 
 the occasional screen tear. But its not unbearable and frankly God of War 2 had it and I don't 
 care. Why didn't they bash GoW 2 for this? Other then that, The graphics are, well, Better then 
 Gears of War. I'm sorry it just is. But then their are moments were it isn't better. The first 
 two missions are not good show cases for this game at all. My favorite stage is I believe the 7th 
 were you avoid enemy spot lights at night. Talk about an awesome looking map. Of course the Snow 
 map after that reminded me of Hoth in Starwars. Riding the Dragon: Why playing, something about 
 it just felt EPIC, and I don't know why. It was just alot of fun throwing fireballs and having 
 a flamethrower at anytime. Their was a couple of ways to kill other drags.
  
  1.) Fly into them hitting O
  
  2.) spit fire balls at them (only works on ice dragons)
  
 
  3.) or hit Triangle to fight them. Which by the way is the only way to gain health is if you win 
 a fight. The fight scenes were sweet plus they kept you on edge cause each could kill you. For 
 me it was block, attack, block, attack till they died.
  
  4.) (I hated this one) it would put you side by side with the dragon enemy and you shift the controller 
 left to right to side swipe them. Really gay honestly.
  
  5.) Then lastly, was dramatic kill scenes were you would have to shift the controller to jump on 
 their dragon. tap left on analog to knock off their rider. then hit something else to jump off 
 the enemy dragon. Fun, but some times a bit to hard.
  
  I forgot to mention the targeting system that got bashed. What the heck is wrong with it? Oh noo's 
 their is so many enemies on screen to lock on to. When in the game did it matter which enemy was 
 to be killed when? I just held L1 down and when it lit red. I'd kill, simple enough. Sure if you 
 have a certain enemy you want dead its rather hard. But it only locks on to dragons close by and 
 most of the time dragons fly in flocks like birds so you can combo them out of the sky as well. 
 Its too easy.
  
  I'm rated this a 8.0 for feeling a tiny bit rushed. But man I loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ger14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  i originally made a review for this game saying that gamespot made a bad review. i have the right 
 to say so because its a matter of opinion, so by them giving this game a bad score its their opinion. 
 my opinion is that its a nice game and deserves a better score. but they deleted my review and 
 sent me a warning message saying im violating the terms..... oh yeah, since when does someones 
 opinion have to agree with gamespots????? if i like it, i like it, so leave it be, along with the 
 rest of the people that like this game. booooooooo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  If I had considered gamespot's review of this game to be the ultimate review... well I wouldn't 
 even had given this game a glance. But knowing that the best opinion comes from your own experience 
 of a game, I tried it.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about this game is how beautiful it is to behold. The graphic engine 
 is amazing and the effects are great, especially water effects and fire effects. Next, well... 
 the controls. Ok not everybody will like it but I thought it added so much to the game. People 
 complain it is really hard to control with the sixaxis controller. Yes it is. That's why you need 
 to practice. After awhile you get the hang of it and it really helps immerse yourself in the game, 
 especially during the fiercest battles and believe me, there's a lot of action in this games in 
 some of the levels. It is true though that it gets a bit repetitive after a few levels but it's 
 not an adventure game, it's an action game. Reminds me a bit of Star Wars Rogue Squadron except 
 you replace spaceships with dragons and lasers with fire breath. anyway. You get various objectives 
 after objectives until the level is finished, which gives the game a bit of variety even despite 
 the repetitive action. And there's a nice story unfolding at the same time. It's all about action 
 and it will fix your need for fast-paced action gaming.
  
  Don't let the bad reviews and frustrated dudes steer you away from the experience this game provides. 
 Give it at least a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemonCitrus
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Well, on the first sight, i think this is a great game. Nice quality, and they provide an unstoppable 
 air-combat, and sometimes Lair gives an 'unique' challenges. The quest that they gave sometimes 
 is quite hard, and we also can't know something if we were on a lose condition or winning condition. 
 And, sometimes i confused to regain my health. The only way that i knew to regain is, attack those 
 dragons with enter a battle, and sometimes i missed, but how to do it accurately? Well, the conclusion 
 is, Lair gives a unique gaming experience, but it's too bad because we can't enjoy it when we got 
 stressed to control the dragon with the six axis controller and the camera motion / angle. That's 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Its a Great game but has alot of Problems ,But u cant ignore how Beatiful the game is
  
  Controls arent a such a big deal though i played the game it wasnt really easy though but the game 
 was really impressive. Dispite all those problems with the game its still a fun gameplay.
  
  Though its still has some probs it s such a bad game but it feels like dis game is a bit empty 
 .
  
  I enjoyed it but its still unspired and it rated it really low it deserves a Solid 7.0 (at least 
 its better than the Gspots score) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  After seeing everyone's reviews of this game ever since it came out, I have been very wary of it. 
 Fortunately, I rented it first before spending $60 to find out that it would be a quick defeat. 
 Also, the gameplay is interesting to say the least, but not the easiest thing to get a hold of 
 right away if you're used to using the left analog stick to move. And the overall experience isn't 
 revolutionary by any means, but I think you might be surprised as I was about this game.
  
  What I mean by being surprised is: you may actually find this game a guilty pleasure. I have always 
 loved anything with dragons in it and to be able to control one all throughout a game was exhilirating! 
 Besides, the story is solid and kept me interested the whole way. In fact, I actually felt like 
 I was helping the story along as if I was reading a Choose Your Own Adventure novel (I will be 
 so sad if whomever is reading this has no idea what I am referring to) . Moreover, Lair probably 
 possesses some of the most realistic animation that I have seen so far. Granted they used a live-action 
 studio to map the movements of the characters, the backgrounds, the designs, and the overall cinema 
 of the game is top notch! It truly makes you feel like spending the amount of money we all did 
 on the system was well worth it just from the sheer magnitude of depth, detail, and direction the 
 entire game takes.
  
  All in all, I do not believe that this is a $60 game worth buying. Maybe when the price reduces 
 down to about half, or even if you just go out and rent this, I think you will not be disappointed. 
 Just sit back and relax, keep an open mind, and get ready to be apart of you very own movie where 
 YOU control the dragon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxhammer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot did this game an injustice by rating it so low. I don't write reviews but i felt compelled 
 to speak up for a wonderful game that is not getting the credit it deserves. This is one of most 
 fun games I have played concerning the next gen systems. The critics must have had a hangover while 
 trying out this innovative game, because it does require some concentration to master the flight 
 of your dragon. Take the time to complete the tutorial and you will be ready for a fantastic ride 
 utilizing the new technologies of the sixaxis controller. It's sad to see people knocking down 
 something that is new to them and is actually pretty fine tuned. The game isn't perfect but the 
 story is better than most games out there and the length doesn't leave you shorthanded. No online 
 play so replay value is limited, but I know when i want to start my day out happy I will turn this 
 game on so i can devour a some hapless infantry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noreason1907s
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Flying with the six axis works incredibly well. The graphics aren't to shabby either. There are 
 still plenty of flaws found in the game. Every so often there is a little glitch in frame rate. 
 I think that the character dialogue is a little flat and to repetitive. Also they really should 
 have concentrated more on the main characters story. We really know nothing about the guy other 
 than his occupation. but overall I enjoyed this game a lot. It's a ton of fun to swoop down on 
 to a battle ground scoop up a horse in your talons and chuck it over a mountain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a disaster. Also is great. Wondering why the review of Gamespot.....
  
  If U feel is hard to control the dragon. Remember it's a new control style. Take time to practice. 
 After U get used to of SIXASIX control, it'll bring U a riding dragon's experience &amp; a lot 
 of Fun!
  
  Such as Move down the control to get your dragon faster, Is like U give a hit to tell the horse 
 go faster. Is very realism.
  
  I suggest to use the R2 (Brake) button more. It'll help the dragon steady &amp; lock on the target.
 
  
  If U still feel hard. Go back to play the Round by round RPG . Action game is not your choose.
 
  
  Good: 1. Graphics &amp; Sound is great. 2. Story is good.
  3. SIXASIX control is more fun. 4. Loading time is fast. (This game Is not install to Hard disk)
 
  
  Bad:
  1. Not enough close combat. It can make the game play more variety.
  2. Story can go more deeper &amp; more dramatic.
  3. More Dragon to choose to better.
  4. Not 
 enough secret to unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I was really looking forward to Lair ever since i heard about the game. and when it came 
 out, and i saw the reviews, i pretty much told myself well this sucks. I so pretty set on not buying 
 it, but im so glad i chose to buy it. the game is amazing, and is truly underappreciated.
  
  Graphics: Okay, looking at lair is like looking at a piece of art, its just purely amazing 
 cystal clear graphics with very minor slowdowns. 9/10
  
  Sound: with THX backing the sound in the game, i have to say the sound is just amazing, and the 
 battle music is a blast to listen to fighting the other dragons. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where many people hit the game hard, which is a big mistake. The controls are 
 not that hard to get used to. I got the game yesterday, and within a half hour, i had the controls 
 down, the manuevers, everything. I seriously do not understand how people could rate this game 
 so low because of the controls. They work just fine! i feel adapted to it already, and im obsessed 
 with the game!8/10
  
  Tilt: This game is defineately fun the first time through, but i could only see this as a randomly 
 play this game a year from now kinda game. 6/10
  
  So, all in all, you should defineately try lair before you believe the reviews. this game officialy 
 made me not care about critic reviews. theyre reviews on this game are truly a joke. Go pick up 
 Lair now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  1st, the graphics are not that impressive, but still great. What I mean is that the textures on 
 the ground are always re-mapping or something and they look like they are moting wich is wierd. 
 But the dragons and characters are REALLY looking great.
  
  2nd: The Story is good, it reminds me of the drakengard story. The cutscenes are cool and fun to 
 watch too!
  
  3rd: The control is great BUT a LOT of people hate it. Personnally, my little sis and my grand-father 
 can control the dragon so I don't think it's really hard :S. But the devs SHOULD let us choose 
 analog or motion, this would jack up the rating.
  
  4th: The value... humm, I don't know, I played for about 6 hours and I'm far from the end I suppose. 
 I guess you have good value since you also earn aveivements (medals) so you always want to re-try 
 some missions to best your score.
  
  5th: The sound is good, nothing really special there. Fianlly, I like the game but it's not as 
 good as drakengard. Still, it's better that rogue squadron, wich was a good game. So it's a cool 
 game if you buy it used or if you can get a good price (easy since they surely sell way less because 
 of the reviews, in a way, that's good, at least for us, since the price is going down faster :D)
 
  
  ps: I got Lair as a free gift in my PS3 bundle and I was sure the ame was bad because of the reviews, 
 but in the end, it's sill a lot of fuN! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Lair was a so-so buy for me. All of these reviews on the controls and how terrible they were made 
 me quiver. However the amazing amount of how cool it looked since i first saw it made me buy it. 
 At least a used copy of it. So I picked up the controller and started to play. Play like one of 
 the reviewers. I started attacking the sixaxis by flailing it as hard as I could. I was just curiously 
 searching youtube for player reviews when I found something that changed my perspective.
  
  A video demonstrating that all I had to do was move the controller a little bit. So I picked up 
 the controls once more. To my surprise my sad purchase turned into gold. It was amazing. The story 
 kept me playing and the details and rich worlds and maps kept the excitement alive. The gameplay 
 actually turned out to be a great one.
  
  I will be returning lair on the soul fact that I beat the story and don't truly care about the 
 ranking system (like I do with all other games) I must say lair is worth at least a rent if not 
 a but for you ranking fans. Thats why I give lair a solid 7. Not 4 - 5. Dont let the controls scare 
 you and pick up lair. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Lair is not a disaster, not a disappointment it is an amazing game with amazing controls and graphics. 
 The media isn't ready to accept the SIXAXIS control scheme or this would have got near perfect 
 scores the camera is cinimatic and pitch perfect. I took marks off from perfect because if you 
 stray away from the mission even a little bit you fail and gets a little annoying and the game 
 is a little hard at action packed moments. All in all lair is a beautiful game with new controls 
 and a nice camera even though i am ranting about it it is a rent for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khellendros1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all let start by saying that Lair is by no means perfect, but i just rented this game 
 today and I'm not sure what game people have been playing. To give this game such low scores is 
 a shame on so many levels. This is why I play games . I play for the innovation, for people who 
 are not afraid to try something new. This game is simply beautiful. The vast landscapes and the 
 detail of the dragons are breathtaking. The shear number of things going on onscreen is overwhelming 
 at times. The sound is beautiful and epic. This is simply put a very good game. I left the controls 
 for last because of course this is the single cause of ire in the whole game. The controls are 
 not perfect but I truly believe that it works very well. There is only one thing that I consider 
 a negative about the controls and that is the 180 turn. It's hard to pull off consistently but 
 it's not necessary to achieve your goals so far as i can see. THAT'S IT!!!! Nothing else. When 
 you tilt the controller the dragon moves almost instantly. By reading some of the reviews you would 
 think there was a 2 to 5 second delay and that's simply not true. I love the control scheme. Now 
 that that's over there are a few more things that could be better. It would be great if there was 
 a map of some sort to help you but it's not too bad. Second it can get a little hard to see what's 
 going in the distance sometimes. The map highlighting enemies or a simple glow outline would have 
 helped also. These some mild to light annoyances that would have helped but it doesn't take away 
 too much from the game. I'm really sad that this games was not received well because companies 
 will be more reluctant to try untested ideas now. If you are an open -minded gamer and are not 
 stuck on what you think a game should play like. If you want a game that is fresh and not like 
 anything you've ever played then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurmatps3
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Nothing disappoints me more than having my expectations met. I managed to see The Matrix without 
 knowing what to expect, and as a result it was a fine moviegoing experience. Lair, one of the first 
 in a series of high profile PlayStation 3 games due out this year, met every expectation I had 
 when I picked up the controller. If you haven't been paying attention to games sites of late ... 
 that's bad. Pushed for time and under pressure from higher ups at Sony, Factor 5 has poorly rehashed 
 the same formula that made for a couple of very playable GameCube games. The difference? Lair is, 
 in some places, literally unplayable. It's disappointing, and a frustrating way to begin my relationship 
 with the PS3. Read on for my thoughts on Lair, and what might have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatjaxxx
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I great way to take an awesome idea and turn it into the biggest dissapointment of the year. A 
 real tragedy of a game. Who knows where the story went also. As many plot-holes in this one as 
 in Halo 3 if you can beleive that. it sux.
  
  The worst part bieng the cut scenes that interrupt the game every 30 seconds or so and the fact 
 that the game is waaay to dark. So dark in fact that its hard to see whats going on. That beutiful 
 movie I've had to watch ten times would have been alot better If I could have actually watched 
 it and not watched the black blobs jumping around instead. Are these makers stupid or just not 
 trying? I'd say just not trying. That or they hated developing for the PS3 so bad that they wanted 
 to trash it. Thats my guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steaky17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Sound, visuals, story are all solid here.
  
  Gameplay is where some have said this game falls short. Yes, and no. The controls take some training 
 to get used to. If you have played other games with SIXAXIS such as 'Blazing Angels', you will 
 have good experience and will pick up Lair much easier as I have done.
  
  The 180 move... just hold up thcontroller for about a second to complete the move.
  
  This takes 
 patience, not button mashing. Maybe thats not for you if you likst FPS. This is more like a flight 
 sim, and I think its quite good. This game is better than 'Blazing Angels', so offical reviews 
 should have refelcted that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I rented LAIR yesterday. Since game review teams haven't give it the best scores, i rented it instead 
 of buying it. Just to make sure i didn't waste 59 bucks. It turns out that iw was right, people 
 are being too hard on LAIR. The SIXAXIS control scheme can be hard to get used to and a little 
 loose sometimes, but once you get the hang of things, it can be really fun. The story seems a little 
 cut, you know, like they should have introduced some parts later in the game or they didn't explain 
 some things enough, but it is cool. The graphics are just amazing. It almost looks completely realistic. 
 People have been way to hard on LAIR's fun. Sure a second option for control scheme may have been 
 a good idea, but still, I think it uses the SIXAXIS very well. I gotta tell yea, this game sure 
 tries to make everything feel real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgimonfire13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, Lair got some horribal reviews (Execpt the 9 from Play magazine. I still don't get 
 it.) Whats the one complant? The controlls. Lair has some VERY difficult controls to master, but 
 once you get the hang of them, they are good.
  
  I'm going to get the bad out of the way first (Like always.) The lock-on dose not work. At all. 
 It dosen't let you choose who you want to lock on to. Instead it choses the closest target. Besides 
 that, the camera SUCKS. It will go in buildings, in other dragons, and zoom off to god knows were. 
 Also, they try to pile way to much on you at once. In one mission, I had to defend Mantis, Ships, 
 Dragon and the Army while killing enemie ships, watchtowers, Warbeast and Dragons at the same time. 
 Thank god that level didden't have a boss. Finally, the game is way to hard. It's near god damn 
 impossibal to get a gold metal, let alone beat a mission.
  
  Now on to the good. The game is one of, if not the best looking game on the market. Everything 
 is bueatfully made, every detail painstakley created. amazing. Also, the game sports an epic soundtrack. 
 The music theather may be the reason I turn this game on over and over again. The story is realy 
 good to, only suffering from under devolped characters. Moveing to the gameplay, the boss fights 
 are also epic. Though there are only 6 or so in the game, they are easley the best parts of the 
 game. The game makes up for it's lack of online by haveing alot of unlockables, including concept 
 art, music, medals and other dragons.
  
  So there you have it. Lair suffers from bad lock-on and camera, overloading objectives and a very 
 hard diffuctly, while haveing great graphics and music, a good story, epic boss battles and alot 
 to do after you beat the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natemilenko
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Lair is fun. Once you get past the motion sensing controls and figure it out this game kicks arse. 
 However, unless you know what your objectives are for the levels forget about playing them just 
 once. You will be playing missions over and over again until you figure out the right formula for 
 how to take down the enemies. You will also not like the cutscenes. Good god the cutscenes.. your 
 flying along and bam cut scene. There's a guy yelling to help the army and then the mission is 
 over because a navy ship blew up. If you can get past these things, the story is completely immersive 
 and fun the objectives are creative and the game plays out well. There is nothing more exciting 
 then landing in a large army and swatting away at them and blazing the ground around them. I say 
 rent this game and beat it up and you will want to play it again and again. The game reviewed poorly 
 but if you can look past the cutscenes and confusing objectives you may find Lair is a great game 
 for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  When you do the forward flying dash (the fastest way of flying to another dragon) a great many 
 times you inadvertently do that. So a great many times you'd fly pass your target. Most of the 
 time when you die it isn't because you played badly it's because the controls somehow messed you 
 up really bad. The turning is too wide. In the level where you have to fly into the mouth of the 
 rotating fortress a great many times you miss the entrance and you'd have to fly far away to line 
 up enough to get in to the inside of the fortress. Again the controls get you killed because even 
 though the lights from the eyes of the fortress are easy to see they're hard to dodge because the 
 controls are so uncooperative and when you try to duck away the dragon flies obliviously onward 
 eventually into the light and you'd get shot down. There's also a section in combat where you ram 
 the other dragon but the six-axis is so unintuitive that sometimes you just go off in a random 
 direction. It's been more than month since this game came out and they still haven't enabled the 
 analog controls. A 60 dollar game should be fun and is not suppose to frustrate the customer with 
 a terrible control scheme.
  
  Some players say that the graphics are great and I agree they are great but if the game is good 
 for looks only then I'd rather buy HD movie instead. On the plus side, when the dragon you ride 
 on is walking the controls are just fine. But most of the game is just hair pulling frustration 
 and I must say that this game is not worth 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pluto213
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have read a lot of reviews of this game as most of you have, then I went out and rented as most 
 of you will do. I don't know what people are doing to make this game harder than it really is. 
 The controls is all people complain about. It only took me about five minutes really to work them. 
 Maybe I follow instructions better than most or maybe I don't try the same thing over and over 
 and over again expecting different results I don't know. What I do know is that you don't have 
 to jerk the controller around like it's you actually trying to control a dragon. Take it nice and 
 easy if you want to turn right tilt the controller right to left tilt it left ex.. Also the camera 
 was a big complaint and at first I myself was a little annoyed with the camera then I figured something 
 out, in my years of playing a PS you get use to using one stick as the camera and the other as 
 the movement. What I realized was with out knowing it I was moving the camera around and it was 
 completely messing up the angles. And when your flying around trying to kill things you forget 
 your still trying to control the dragon as you would any other game which messes up the camera 
 angles bad so don't do that. Also targeting was another big issue mainly on the bridge trying to 
 get the monster things off, people said that they couldn't lock on to the monsters and in turn 
 they would have to start the mission over. My advice on this was slow down! Once I used the buttons 
 to slow down I then had no problem locking on to the monster things. So just keep in mind as you 
 play that there are other buttons that help the overall performance of your dragon. I mean how 
 many times have you played a racing game and never used the brakes and still won? Probably never. 
 Now for the game play at first it was a little boring and the plot didn't really take off like 
 a rocket or any thing it was rather boring. But some stuff happens that makes the game more interesting. 
 Sometimes the graphs are great other times just par it is kind of funny like that. But the enormous 
 environments and just shier number of things going on really make the game worth playing. Just 
 one last thing you play games for fun not frustration if you find yourself becoming frustrated 
 stop and cool off or just remember take it nice and slow like with a women. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toomuchaddicted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The controls is sooooooooo cool at fisrt and it's even better once you master it. The epic soundtrack 
 is a masterpiece. It's from the same guy who made the passion of the Christ soundtrack. It's even 
 better than the LOTR music. Seriously even if the game is awesome it's the first time i sometime 
 play the game just to hear the music. Just type Lair on the Itunes store. Graphics are AWESOME. 
 It's just so cool to see more than 6, 000 things moving on the screen at once. Army, dragons, fireballs, 
 catapult, arrows etc.. This have never been done yet.
  
  Now the gameplay is really cool too but it have one flaws... too many cut-scene. Lair is a spiritual 
 succesor of the Rogue squadron series. The same missions type whit medals reward etc.. But it just 
 improve on so many levels. You can do a lot more whit your dragon than whit a X-wings. You can 
 shoot a big fireball or a small onel. The longer you wait betwen each shot the more powerfull the 
 fireball will be. U can also do a stream of fire which is reall cool. U can set enemy dragon wings 
 on fire and just let them go, u can fight whit them, u can bash them, lock the camera and still 
 fly around. U can flame an entire army. Bite or eat enemy on ground or take them whit your talon 
 and eat them while in the air. U can bash them and move the slow-mo camera around. U can do a tail 
 and a stomp attack. And MORE.
  
  It's a big shame to see the gamespot review. They bash the controls and forgot to say it's innovative 
 PFF. This game can last you 20-30 hours if you like it enough to intend to earn all Gold medals. 
 And there's also platinum medals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staeron
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  When Lair was announced I had heard nothing but good things. I am one of those people that usually 
 goes with the reviews when chosing a game because most of the time, the reviews don't lie. This 
 time however they let me down, or rather picked me up, threw me into the air, and slammed me back 
 to the ground at terrifying speeds. This game was mediocre at best. It has beautiful graphics, 
 an intense soundtrack, and the story was actually quite interesting, but the game was simply way 
 too difficult and in more ways than one. First of all, the controls were horrendous. I have never 
 played a game with a worse control scheme than Lair. The dragon never seemed to want to go where 
 I told it to, the 180 degree turn-around worked about 15% of the time, and I was always running 
 into invisible walls that shoved me to random places on the battlefield from which my vision would 
 then be extremely limited or altogether cut off. Second, the battles were retarded to say the least. 
 There was almost no strategy to them. When in a fight with a dragon, you had 4 options: claw, bite, 
 flame, or dodge. This in itself isn't the problem, the problem lies in the fact that the actions 
 never matched up to the actual button press that you had to perform to initiate the action. This 
 left a lot of ambiguity to the fight and you never were quite sure how the battle would turn out. 
 I don't know how many times the AI sent me plummetting to the rocks below without me cursing and 
 almost throwing my controller at the TV screen out of sheer frustration. Third, there was really 
 never any way of knowing how well you were doing on most of the battlefields. The missions required 
 you to be fast and efficient, but the allied AI was almost completely useless in every level. This 
 game had a lot of potential: Dragons, religious cultistic empires, huge battles involving land, 
 air, and water; it just failed to deliver a truly immersive experience. Rent it, then never play 
 it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Lair is one of the greatest games ever made the reviewers on gamespot are full of **** Hard controls? 
 No not really sure it takes getting used to but you can master them after a while it has the best 
 graphics and awesome gameplay amazing storyline everything is awesome it's breath taking. If you 
 beleive the score that gamespot gave you are missing out on alot. There are alot of things you 
 can do with the controls there are takedown that are just plain sick. And when you get into a battle 
 with an other dragon it can get really intense. When you get near the end you just can't stop playing 
 you always want to know what'll hapen next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Nine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Ignore the reviews. Ignore the fanboys. Lair is sweet, there's not much to it. To start with, the 
 controls are perfectly fine. They respond well, and the boost and 180 work well (I have a 10:10 
 sucess ratio for both) . Everything works fine, and the controls are quite responsive. When you 
 tilt the controller left, the dragon wastes no time to go left. Of course, if you rapidly move 
 left then right, it will take a moment to go left, and then switch to right. It only doesn't work 
 if you move too fast. So don't go too fast, okay? The different attacks you are given are diverse 
 enough to keep it fresh, and they all work nicely, and are easy to use. All are available at the 
 push of a button, or a motion of the controller, and are far from confusing. The only combos you'll 
 find are in dragon mid-air melee combat (speaking of which, dragon combat is awesome, and never 
 gets old) . It's not hard to get a bit confused in the middle of a battle, so you're given Rage: 
 everything else slows down while you stay speedy. You also get Rage Vision, which turns everything 
 grey and highlights enemies in red, in case you get confused. Ground combat is nice, and there 
 are a lot of area attacks: slashing tears up soliders, sending many flying through the air. The 
 firesteam reaches a good distance, and you have a few other attacks that work well, too. Camera 
 needs a bit of work, but you're on flat areas most of the time anyways. As for graphics, let me 
 just say they are the best I've seen on PS3 yet. Very VERY good, especially with light dynamics. 
 The dragons have excellent textures, and they look and feel real. The biggest amazement from the 
 graphics was the water. I have never seen virtual game water so amazing. Lastly, there's sound. 
 The sound effects are expertly done, and everything sounds natural. But the soundtrack is especially 
 sweet. Dramatic, and always fits the action. Kudos to the Lair Sound Team. All in all, Lair succeeded 
 to please. I found myself coming back again and again. My only nitpick is how they made things 
 load: just fading to black... slowly. Also, the Lair Network keeps freezing on me... could just be 
 the disc...
  
  9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anamosa41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  LAIR is fun and a beautiful game but it lacks some of the fun that was expected. Here's my review.
 
  
  Gameplay- LAIR starts with a fairly long intro. It introduces the player to the SIXAXIS controles 
 (I will talk about the controles in a little bit.) which is a good thing since it takes a few levels 
 to get used to it. Later on in the game it gets better but it starts out kinda slow. I have to 
 admit it is quite fun tearing up dragons and burning up people on the ground but it does get a 
 little old. Basically the game is fun the first time around and maybe playing it over again but 
 it doesn't last after that. I really had fun with it while I rented it but it wasn't a blast.
 
  
  Graphics- LAIR has totally awesome graphics in some levels but I did notice that in some parts 
 of the game it reminded me of the PS2. The dragons look great and the people look great up close 
 but the people on the ground looked only a little better than a PS2 game. The enviromeant looks 
 pretty but, again, some areas could have been improved before the game was finished. Although I 
 will say that the giant snake that is in the middle of the game couldn't have been more realistic.
 
  
  Game Controls- I was disappointed that LAIR doesn't allow the player to play the game WITHOUT the 
 motion controls. I thought that the developers did an excellent job on the controls but they could 
 have let the player use the analogue sticks.
  
  Sound- The dragons sound like they should. The soldiers on the ground shout, yell, and deffinitely 
 scream when they are burning. I thought that the music was nice. That's about it. I don't think 
 I was expecting anything more concerning the sounds of the game.
  
  Story- The story in the game was interesting. It was done pretty well. It can surprise you. I sometimes 
 thought that the videos were just a little too long though. For the most part, the storyline was 
 good.
  
  Overall the game is worth a rent but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS:
  Will i admit, graphics aren't as good as i thought, but think about it. In gears of war there are 
 like what, few people with very small environments, but Lair has huge environments with THOUSANDS 
 of troops and many things going on. It's amazing how they did this. Motion Sensor: This thing works 
 PERFECT, i dont know what people are talking about. No offense but if you think it doesn't work 
 properly then you are retarded. Only times i had problems with it was when making moves, which 
 sometimes it gets all weird. But ITS AMAZING HOW GOOD IT WORKS, its really fun!
  
  CONTROLS:
  need a little getting used to but easy after you did. They aren't even that bad i've 
 seen much worse. I mean they all work perfect and i couldn't think of a better way to put them. 
 BAD THING:
  -The controls a A LOT of getting used to, but are VERY VERY VERY fun after you have. -Frame rate 
 drops sometimes, but its not that bad.
  - Camara could be better SOMETIMES, most the time its perfect.
  -the lock of system gets annoying 
 sometimes when you cant lock of what you want.
  -VERY VERY short campaign, and when your finished there is nothing to do unless going through mission 
 with commentary and to get better score.
  -Sometimes the objects take you away from what you enjoyed doing at that moment, which gets annoying.
 
  
  Story is pretty good, excellent environment, NEVER SEEN SUCH GOOD ENVIRONMENTS IN MY LIFE!!! Music 
 is VERY good and sounds is pretty good too. This game was fun, and i dont see why people say Motion 
 sensor doesnt work good.
  
  JUST RENT IT AND PLAY IT YOURSELF! DONT LISTEN TO THE REVIEWS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj4gogetarocks
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  I just got threw playing this game last night and i must say that Lair is really an awesome game. 
 Yes the controls are a bit hard to get used to at first, but after you master the whole flight 
 thing you are good to go. I admit that at first i wanted to throw my controller, but after i got 
 tired of losing, i kept on playing until i got it down pat. The graphics are wonderfull and I really 
 love the story. I just wish that this game was available for online play. it would be so cool to 
 have other real people helping you out on your missions or even battling each other in an all out 
 dragon war or something. Well the game is pretty fun if you ask me, you get burn people up and 
 eat them. You get to kill other dragons either by blasting them out of the sky, or battling them 
 mid air. Plus their are a whole host of other creatures to whoop up on too. i cant wait to play 
 this game again, and once you play it, you will feel the same way too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game13a13y
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  this game does suck, at first, i had so much hope about this game, i even thought that this game 
 would kill Gears of Wars graphically.
  
  but in fact, most of the reviewers are right about Lair. the control makes the whole game unbearable, 
 even the graphics are not as georgeous as i was expecting.
  
  the frame rate is not constant, the camera is driving you crazy, and the worst part, the motion 
 sensing control is so broken that you'll be frustrated every time you are trying to have a slight 
 amount of fun from this game. in closing, you should avoid this game, and i can tell you straight 
 forward, i'm regretting spending $$$ on this game as i'm writing this review at this moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_grosse
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Great Game, Especially on a 1080p television set. Stunning visuals. Some stuff is cheesy but the 
 battles are huge and when you land to slaughter a platoon of soldiers it makes you feel good inside. 
 Controls are tricky but if you play the tutorial its a snap, just don't be lazy and expect to have 
 to move your hands around. Sound is good too, although would be nice if it had longer cut scenes. 
 IF you like fantasy and bloodshed I would definitely add this one to your library of destruction. 
 All in All its a great visual masterpiece and a very satisfying play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x7x
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is fire.. I have only just started the fifth chapter, (I believe it is anyways, there 
 are no numbers..) Serpent Strait .. after reading many reviews and listening to all the critics, 
 I have come to realize, that most people have NO clue about what they are talking about.. I have 
 heard it time and time again.. I cannot control the dragon , the SIX AXIS sucks.. and all this 
 other crap, when in actuality, the problem lies in Your use of the controller, not the controller 
 itself.. indeed the game is a button mashers nightmare, lacking in the ability to perform coordinated 
 actions with there hands and fingers as opposed to randomly mashing on whatever protrusion you 
 feel beneath your fingers.. (if a prompt on the screen asks you to push triangle, and you have 
 to actually look to see where that is) This isn't the definition of button masher, but the mentality 
 is similar, in that one has little to no control over ones hands during game play, and isn't able 
 to coordinate oneself effectively to perform specific tasks consistently, at whim.. why did I ramble 
 so much about this, because after Playing the game for more then two levels, and taking time to 
 Do the Advanced tutorial.. I have come to realize that the only way that you may have a problem 
 controlling the dragon would be the inability to not jerk the controller all over the place.. The 
 controls are sensitive, if you turn it fast, the dragon will bank sharply.. if you hold the controls 
 tilted either up or down, your dragon will constantly fly in that direction.. You must tell the 
 dragon what to do, and then wait for the dragon to respond.. learn the timing and then play accordingly.. 
 the game is great, beautiful visuals, sound and a lot of action.. it does take some getting used 
 to, but if you be patient and gentle with your dragon, it will serve you well..
  There are some issues with the camera controls, because it switches from analog to six axis, depending 
 on what it is you are doing, also, problems arise from reflexively moving the left analog, or accidentally 
 hitting it while playing.. The game is fun and different and no where near as bad as everyone is 
 saying.. rent it first definitely, if you are that afraid of the controls, and give the tutorials 
 a few runs, then give it a go..
  I rate this game a nine due to MY camera issues.. it is fine as long as I remember WHEN to use 
 the stick.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodsoul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Incredible graphics, and an epic scale. dozens of beautiful dragons fly about, huge landscapes 
 with amazing water detail, and 1000's of troops + other fantasy creatures. fireballs are fun to 
 shoot, and i love blowing up naval ships. the controls are FINE for anyone who has the patience 
 to learn them. if your the type to throw and break your controllers, dont bother. but with a little 
 practice (took me maybe 45 mins) and then the game is pretty intuitive. the only controll issue 
 i ever had was the 180. i could get it to work 50 % of the time maybe. luckily, there is rarely 
 a time when u need it in a pinch, and so if u have to flick the controller a couple times its not 
 so bad really. Keep in mind, this is the first game to use the sixaxis so much, and the sixaxis 
 itself is pretty new. over time this control scheme will evolve and develop into something good, 
 but the pioneers always hit the hardest bumps in the road.
  the story is good, but not great. the character's motivations seem lacking at times.
  Rent first, 
 see if you like it, then buy if you are inclined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  To begin, I don't often like flying-only games, and by this I mean the Ace Combat games or the 
 Roque Squadron games. So I approached Lair cautiously. In addition to my predisposition there were 
 the roller-coaster reviews. Some people gave it a 4/10 and others 9/10. Although the reviews further 
 fueled my caution they also piqued my interest. Lair may not be a 10, 9.5, or (arguably) a 9, but 
 it certainly is not a 4,5,6, or 7. This is a solid 8-9 game. Lair is beautiful, simply beautiful. 
 Everything looks great and if you have a 1080p Tv it looks all the sweeter. In addition to its 
 outstanding visuals are the sweeping scores of the soundtrack, which are the video game equivalent 
 to John Williams or Howard Shore's work in Film. With solid, but not great, acting and a strong 
 story the presentation of the game is fantatastic. Of course, the aspects of the game mentioned 
 above have not been questioned. The big question is the playability of the controls. To this, keeping 
 in mind I don't get into flight games, I say the game controls well. For clarification this is 
 not perfectly nor is it inadequate, or even adequate, it is well, being slightly better than good. 
 I had no problems with the controls, to be even clearer. The only reason I say the controls were 
 not better is because there is no option to fly other than with the Sixaxis. I don't believe this 
 to be a grievous error, but for the sake of the general public I dock Lair's score. For me its 
 was like the first time I played a FPS with two analog sticks and the shoulder buttons (triggers) . 
 Honestly the first few minutes it felt odd, but not wrong, and then it became second nature. The 
 same is true for Lair. It did not take long before I felt as if I was at the reigns of a flying 
 beast. By the second level I was having alot of fun playing a flying game. (On a side note, my 
 brother, who loves Ace Combat and its ilk, picked up my copy of the game and within 4 minutes he 
 was playing so well it looked like a movie. He also loved the game)
  
  Unfortunately I also take points from Lair because of its vague instructions at certain points 
 during the game. For instance, the game may give you an objective but its annoyingly unclear as 
 to how you are to achieve that goal. I don't want a step by step guide but I would like a clue. 
 Again, it is important to keep in mind this happened only two or three times, and it could be that 
 I am in fact slow-witted. Furthermore, I think the game might have been enhanced with some sort 
 of multiplayer versus and cooperative gameplay. I think this was a missed opportunity to expand 
 the game's replay value. Imagine some coop missions or team battles. It's a nice image isn't it. 
 In the end, I throughly enjoyed my time with Lair, and I think that a lot of people will if they 
 give it try. It is a beautifully presented game that suffers a few imperfections. Yet these flaws 
 keep me from giving the game a 9-10. Easily avoidable, and therefore more glaring, these problems 
 leave Lair with a score of 8.9 in my book (the scoring system here no longer allows such precision, 
 I just wanted you, the reader, to know my exact score) . Hopefully I have whet your appetite enough 
 that you will go and rent Lair because this game should be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidsmurf2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe the bad revies this game is getting. Picking up the controller, the game has an 
 excellent, intuitive control scheme. Its simple and elegant - this isn't an arcade brawler, its 
 a game that requires gentle controls -- just like the dragon you are flying. The targeting system 
 is simple, but why would anybody need something more complex? Its just not necessary. The levels 
 are easy to understand, and the goals are always obvious.
  
  The in-flight dragon flights provide a great break between other parts of the game, though its 
 not completely clear to me what the best strategy is to win.
  
  And of course, the game is just beautiful -- the best next-gen graphics yet.
  
  I would highly 
 recommend you try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blondii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  i find this game excellent. We must to practice strong but when you are in control it's funny. The 
 grafix are beautiful. For the price it's a good deal to make. i find gamespot very hard with this 
 game. i find the player hard too. i command too heavenly sword for the moment it will be a great 
 game for everyone. i don't find other word to discrib this game but i want to say it's a good one. i 
 command it on ebay and i don't have any disapointed fact. when the dragon is on the air it's a great 
 moment of fun, controlling with the sixasis. i'm sory for my bad writing, i'm from Quebec and my first 
 language is french. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naraku2099
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  At first when I began playing, I was frustrated with the Sixaxis-only flight controls. After about 
 an hour, my frustration was growing near boiling point, I even cursed a little. But like all other 
 games that use the sixaxis, here's the trick: Stimulate the sixaxis, don't abuse it. The control 
 concept seems realistic to me, but it's sort of hard to wrap your brain around. You have to keep 
 in mind, slowly turn your dragon like a slow airplane. Once you get the hang of that, it's not 
 quite so frustrating flying. Now, onto the game itself. The story sparked my interest when I heard 
 about it, and so far it's quite interesting. Now, I've only played 5 or 6 stages so far, but after 
 getting the hang of flying, combat is only mildly frustrating, and pretty fun. It's not very often 
 you can say Look! I blew up that ship with my dragon! . There have been a good variety of things 
 to mix it up with, such as dragons, foot soldiers, catapults, and a few other things, but frequent 
 mid-battle cutscenes take away from the immersion. Sometimes your fellow dragon riding knights 
 can be quite annoying too, shouting two different things for you to do at the same time. Take out 
 the ships! Get those dragons off our soldiers! It can get confusing when that happens, but fortunately 
 the time constraints aren't too constraining --- so long as you're doing damage to the enemies. 
 But if you're still struggling to fly straight, go back to the training level until you get the 
 hang of it. It's worth a rent to check out, ignore what the gamespot reviewer says, apparently 
 he doesn't know how to handle his sixaxis. Even so, if you don't have patience, you might want 
 to steer clear of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I finally got a chance to rent Lair. And I finally get the chance to give you my review of it. 
 Now to address the most important questions...
  
  Hard to control? Surpisingly not really, took me about 15min to get adjusted to the controls. That 
 was untill I had to land on a decently skinny bridge, that took another 15min but it wasnt impossible 
 or bad controls, I was still LEARNING the controls, and realistically, its a huge dragon you shouldnt 
 be able to get it the first time anyways...
  
  The dreaded 180 turn and dash?
  Let me begin with I've never rode a horse and still didnt have trouble pulling these manuvers off. 
 Maybe a total of 3 times the game got confused and gave me a dash when I wanted a 180 but wasnt 
 a big deal, was probably my fault.
  
  Not responsive?
  Very responsive, does it take a second for the dragon to turn after you have tilted the controller? 
 Yes, but its a freakin dragon, and not a ferrari.
  
  All in all Lair is a pretty bad ass game that got wrongly critizised. It takes advantage of the 
 Sixaxis nicely just most people aren't giving it the chance it deserves. Although I am not saying 
 it is a perfect game that you need to run out and buy, it does have its downfalls as well. Like 
 the cutscenes in the middle of the action get kind of annoying and take you out of the immersion 
 of the battle, and sometimes so much is going on sometimes you feel kind of smothered, things are 
 hectic, and you feel lost. But other times thats what makes it cool.
  
  Lack of checkpoints?
  Haven't had a problem with this yet, I've died 2 times and started me right 
 back where I died
  
  The Good:
  -Graphics are beautiful
  -Controls are GOOD
  -High paced action keeps it fun
  -Lots of ways to kill your enemies
  
  The Bad:
  -Cutscenes 
 in the middle of the action kinda take you away from the heat of the battle
  -Camera views make you forget where you were at sometimes (Which wasn't very much)
  -Presentation: 
 I felt kinda lost sometimes with the story, not sure if I didnt care about it or wasnt listening
 
  
  My recommendation:
  I feel every PS3 owner should at least rent the game and give it at least an hour of gameplay and 
 keep an open mind with the controls, if dragons existed, to me this is how the control of a dragon 
 should feel. Lair is a Beautiful Revolution 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx-RackSack-xX
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  The game rocks.... Beat the game like 2 times. I would like to see a sequal to this game. The graphics 
 rock, the gameplay was rockin'. i did a news artile for this game on my N4G. com account GamerToken2007. 
 Maybe the devs could make this game again but for the PSP, or Xbox. I wish this game was cheaper, 
 wow $59.99...
  
  Lai for the PlayStation 3 was cool for me because how the did the recaps throughout the game. Which 
 was great because I easy forget.. NOT. That was the worst part of the game the stupid recaps. I 
 played th game with a few of my friends, the flying is hard. But the rest can also get annoying.. 
 No just kidding the game is alright... The devs knew what they were doing when they created this 
 game, which make the game even better. I'm going to put this review on my blog, yeah.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank-DIsk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Don't believe the hype, the motion controls aren't as bad as people are making them out to be. 
 If you're impatient and want to fly an animal like a fighter jet, then it'll be hard for you. You 
 have to be smooth, and delicate, and the dragon will follow your commands quite nicely.
  
  The game itself reminds me a lot of a USA or Sci-fi Channel movie. D-list everything, cliche's 
 at every turn, nobody cares, *click*. If you know what a campy movie is, then this is a campy game. 
 On a standard TV, even with Component cables, it looked horrible, rainbows everywhere. The whole 
 time I played, I just wanted to play Panzer Dragoon on the Sega Saturn to redeem myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blancobo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The whole review on the game is merely based on the fact that this site is very much pasioned with 
 other consoles, and biased reviews are more that sufficient. The challenge with Lair is its learning 
 curve. The developers wanted us gamers to USE the sixaxis controlling capabilities instead of the 
 analog scheme. While there is no comparison base to state which one is better, I have grown much 
 of a fondness and likeness for this game. I havev already grown into the controls and believe this 
 game to BE A SOLID PS3 HIT. Lairs beautiful environments, and controlling tutorials make the experience 
 a hit. Though the game a some mild (in general) areas that could have been better it is far from 
 poor, mediocre, or even just simply good . Lair is a great game and should not be missed, even 
 ignored as part of your PS3 library. Lair is the basis for great usage of the SIXAXIS control while 
 delivering a creative and beautiful graconian experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No_SuRReNDeR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  First off I HAVE NEVER DISAGREED THIS MUCH ON A REVIEW
  SHAME on you GAMESPOT! --- 4.5 MY ASS !! If you play it for more than 5 MINUTES you'll realize the 
 control just takes getting use to. Here's the rub, the controls aren't great but once you get a 
 hang of it it makes sense and is fun. Yes i do agree the the 180 turn around is really screwy so 
 just don't useit: hold the top buttons and tilt the controller &amp; you can turn nicely that way. 
 -- -I mean no one **** about Metroid Prime's controls or Metal Gear because after an hour so YOU 
 GET USED TO IT. (i luv both games by the way) Plus the game is hard its especially the later levels. 
 NO I don't think it's perfect but its obvious that great love went into making this game and you'll 
 see what i mean if you watch the extra content you can unlock. Its not the Bees Knees but 4.5 is 
 absolutely unfair I think game spot should re-review this and factor in more than a difficult control 
 scheme. Its not worth 60 bucks but its at least worthy of a weekend rental, the battles at the 
 end are well worth the price of a rental alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzke
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Lair is a flight simulator for the PS3 from Factor 5 studios. At least, that is its most basic 
 definition. In reality, Lair is the first major exclusive for the PS3 for the end of the year 2007 
 sales explosion, as well as its showpiece for the SIXAXIS control scheme.
  
  You play as Rohn, an accomplished veteran of the skyguard, the dragon riding airforce of Asylia. 
 You will play through the major events of a war between Asylia and its rival, Mokai. During the 
 course of that war, you will experience anger, betrayal, revenge and finally peace. The story and 
 production values are epic, and have the feel of a hollywood blockbuster.
  
  Throughout the events of Lair, you control your dragon using the SIXAXIS motion sensors to fly. 
 Thus, you will need to move the controller itself, up, down, left, right, etc in order to guide 
 your dragon. These controls take some getting used to, but the excellent Darkland Training mission 
 provide engouh training to make the controls mostly comfortable.
  
  The problem, then, is not in control, as most other reviews have stated, but in mission design. 
 Their appear to be only a finite number of flight simulator missions that designers can think of. 
 Indeed, the missions in Lair echo previous air combat games, most notably Factor 5's own Rogue 
 Squadron games. In Lair, however, no allowances have been made for the decreased accucarcy of the 
 controls. If the stringent timing needs for the missions were relaxed, the decreased stress for 
 players would surly increase entertainment value.
  
  Factor 5 has previously stated their desire to make an accessible, epic game. They chose the motion 
 sensative controls to make the game easier to pick up and play . The motion sensative controls 
 have succeeded in creating a visceral involving experience. After shaking the controller so hard 
 you begin to breathe hard, in order to tear down a wall with your dragon, you will feel involved. 
 UNfortunately, due to the stringent mission requirements, you will die several times, especially 
 in the later missions. This cannot help but increase the frustration levle enough to turn off the 
 very casual gamers they were hoping to attract.
  
  In the end, gamers of reasonable experience will be able to handle the missions and experience 
 an epic tale of dragons and war. Those same gamers are unlikely to go back and try to achieve gold 
 medals on every mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelsword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This Hyborian-like game got bad press for basically the nitpicking of glorified bloggers, and there 
 are many cool things in Lair that I missed because the online bloggers calling themselves reporters 
 missed when they cut and pasted their story to their website, like Yahoo, 1up, or IGN. com. So, 
 I'm putting some of the little griping that were made big into perspective, and also giving some 
 pointers on what is or isn't there...
  
  Anyways, some small tips and secrets about Lair, and I'll try to put them into tidbits, so for 
 the first time I think I'll have a story under 50,000 words lol!
  
  First of all...
  
  The bad things in a nutshell
  
  clipping incident: happened on only one level once, but it 
 happened when I tossed a person or shell in the valley. I couldn't get it to happen again, but 
 then again, I didn't try to either. It only happened once out of the whole game, and I couldn't 
 replicate it, but that's the clipping incident that gametrailers. com blew out of whack.
  
  Slowdown: again, only happened once on the level where you have allied ships that are waiting for 
 the signal. And again, I couldn't replicate it, but it's when the enemy ships arrive and only if 
 you didn't take out any ships or hardly touch any people. I was getting pwned on that stage, so 
 I know lol. IF this happens to you, destroy the enemy ships and the slowdown will stop. The slowdown 
 didn't hamper the game, but I can't say what you consider hampered or not, so I'll leave that up 
 to you if it happens to you.
  
  Second of all: a Quick review
  
  Graphics: Awe-inspiring. Artwork is incredible, bordering on animation. I'm already writing a story 
 on Lair because of the athmosphere! lol!
  Levels: Huge and spacious. On the night mission you really get a feeling for the size of the stages.
 
  Sound: great sound FX, Music is milk and honey for the musical soul.
  Gameplay: great. Give the SIXAXIS a chance (I call it the AX) and you'll soon get a grip on the 
 gameplay. Keep in mind that you're riding an animal and using primitive technology (dragons) instead 
 of using a space ship or using lasers, and you'll do fine.
  
  My overall score: 8.5 out of 10. the minuses are that the cutscenes sometimes pull you out of gameplay, 
 which I don't think it should, and the clipping and slowdown. While they aren't terrible, they 
 do pull you out of the immersive feeling of the game, and to be honest, I would like to live in 
 this game. Well, at least go on vacation there!
  
  Quick and interesting tips
  
  -Did you know that you can choose dragons on many levels the first time out? if you go to the level 
 select and you read stables, push your controller stick down to select stables, and hit enter. 
 You'll enter a stable where you can select a dragon. If you get gold medals, you can select more 
 dragons. Well, I'm almost certain, as I don't have any gold medals yet. Gametrailers. com said you 
 wouldn't be able to select dragons until the game was over and you beat the entire game, that sounded 
 like ANY dragons at all, so I just wanted to let you all know that you could beforehand.
  
  -There are coffee cup codes in Lair! the first one actually shows a guy making coffee. One of the 
 codes are online, and I don't know of any others yet, but if you google Lair and hot coffee you 
 should get some results.
  
  ****BASICS
  
  -First of all, do the training level, and go back to the level because new training modes unlock. 
 Yeah, later on I thought they should've put all of the training modes outright, and then unleash 
 the gameplay, but that's another tale.
  
  -TO DO THE 180 MOVE MOST REVIEWERS COULD NOT DO: almost in a moderate speed (kinda like a slower 
 flick) , bring the SIXAXIS from level towards your chest, with the motion of your arms like a bicep 
 curl. When you get the motion down, you should be able to do it in succession. My brother doesn't 
 even bring it that far, as if you control it like a horse, it will respond well; but most people 
 here probably never rode a horse, sadly. * You need momentum to do the 180 move, that means you 
 can't do it from hover. It's a dragon, not a helicopter.
  
  * If you are going towards a wall or a mountain range and find yourself not being able to 180, 
 it's probably because you hit the wall, and are moving slow; flap, then turn, or turn some and 
 flap. * If you jerk downwards or are motioning downwards beforehand, you'll do a dash, as a downward 
 move does the dash, which I'll cover in the next part.
  
  - TO DO THE DASH: Forget the instructions, because they tell you to push the SIXAXIS forward in 
 the training level, which is wrong. To do the dash correctly, move the control from a level SIXAXIS 
 to downward; like paper, siscors, rock. You'll do the dash flawlessly.
  
  * A dash isn't a turbo button on a jet, so your dragon needs to get ready again before the next 
 dash. If you watch your dragon, his/her wings will spread outwards again, then you can do another 
 dash if you need to.
  
  *don't forget to recover, which is different than correcting. The reason why people are wobbling 
 around is because they are trying to correct by tilting the other way after turning instead of 
 recovering back to the level position. If after a right turn, if you want to go straight, what 
 direction do you think you will go if you turn left? It's just common sense, ladies and gentlemen.
 
  
  NOTE: This next part for controls comes from a guru named Zafro. I don't want to plagurize him 
 too much, but he pretty much nailed the 180 with ease.
  
  [ [ [
  Lair seems to pride itself on its exclusive use of the Sixaxis motion sensitivity. Nearly all movement 
 is controlled by moving the Sixaxis, and there is no choice but to obey. This is because the only 
 option in the entire game with regard to controls is to invert the camera control. So everything 
 detailed are the default, and only controls.
  
  To begin, let me say simply that there is absolutely nothing wrong or hard about controlling the 
 dragon in Lair. Tilt the Sixaxis forward to descend, pull the controller back to ascend, then tilt 
 left and right to bank left and right. Once again, there is absolutely nothing difficult about 
 performing these simple actions. The Sixaxis is responsive and easy to grasp. The greatest challenge 
 here is not that the controls are unresponsive, but that when moving your whole hand and controller, 
 you have to set your mind in a different frame. There is a huge difference between simply moving 
 your thumb on a small stick and moving the entire controller with your hands. It's not hard, it's 
 not broken, it just takes adjusting.
  
  Obviously your dragon has wings, and they can be used effectively to increase speed by successively 
 pressing the X button. If you feel your dragon is getting out of control, simply press L2 or R2 
 to apply the brakes. These are effective in turning sharply and, obviously, slowing down. Slowing 
 down is especially useful so that you can eliminate rows of catapults or turrets without having 
 to make various passes. And if slowing down is still too fast, you can hold L2+R2 to hover in mid-air. 
 With these basic controls, you should be able to maneuver your dragon quite well after a little 
 practice.
  
  Special Maneuvers
  Basic flying is easy and does work well, but obviously that's not all there is to Lair. There are 
 also a couple special maneuvers to consider. They are the 180 degree turn and the dash. To perform 
 the 180, you must move the controller upward, according to the booklet and tutorials. Doing this 
 will most likely create situations where you're flicking the controller up and nothing happens. 
 Then you keep doing it and a few tries later it works. So you might be disgruntled. It's not your 
 fault that you're doing it wrong, it's the fault of the developers. As I've seen in other games 
 featuring the Sixaxis, the explanation behind the necessary motion isn't always the best. This 
 is the case in Lair. If you follow what you're told, you will succeed, but not as often as you 
 should. So don't listen to them, listen to me. There is no jerking, flailing, or wild gesticulation 
 required. Simply hold the controller with both hands as you normally would and quickly tilt it 
 toward you. Imagine the controller is flat in your hand, resting at 0 degrees. Just pull it back 
 quickly 90 degrees so it is vertical. You're literally pulling back the reigns of the dragon with 
 this motion, and I guarantee it will work.
  
  Likewise, the dash is performed in the reverse manner. Rather than quickly pulling up, you must 
 quickly push down. Alternately, simply moving the whole controller forward seems to work as well, 
 but can be substantially more tiring. Although the quick turn and dash maneuvers will work the 
 majority of the time following these instructions, there is still the occasion that they don't 
 register. Through my experience, it seemed the dash was often a little more specific than the quick 
 turn, but both cooperated in most instances. If you are having difficulty, it's probably because 
 you are performing the action wrong. Especially if you are frustrated, it can be difficult to remember 
 you don't have to flail the Sixaxis around. The Sixaxis is a delicate flower, and banging it around 
 will most likely confuse the sensors rather than make them do what you want. All you need to remember 
 is finesse, and you will tame these flight controls with ease.
  
  ] ] ]
  
  ****Targeting, dragon vision, and boss battles.
  
  Here, I'll be more brief, as other, more 
 experienced gamers will probably have better info, so I'll put up what I know, and others can add. 
 Targeting:
  
  - you can hit things without targeting them. The fireballs go kinda far
  
  - when an object is in the center of your screen and in some cases close enough, the target 
 will light up. That is all. IF you choose to take out that target, you can lock onto it by holding 
 the R1 button, and you will remain locked onto it until you let go of the button, the target is 
 eliminated, another dragon rams into you to fight you, or you are killed. - if you can't seem to 
 take down a stationary or slow-moving target and you are flying around very fast, SLOW DOWN. Drive-by 
 flaming is just as accurate as drive-by shootings on some targets. Remember: they are fireballs, 
 so they only kinda act like homing missiles. My brother gave me a tip on how to take out a squadron 
 of Ice Dragons to boost your score and to do quick kills. - To take out a bunch of dragons, after 
 you lock in on the first one and eliminate it, quickly tap R1 (you'll see the white halo around 
 the target) and then hold R1 again to select the next dragon (red halo) . Even if the Ice dragon 
 is out of your visual range, your dragon will try to turn to orient itself towards the dragon, 
 so turning towards the target is part automatic, and part manual.
  
  - You can also lock-on and dash towards targets like rhinos or generators to get the quick kill 
 or out maneuver arrows before they can target you.
  
  
  Dragon Vision:
  
  -Dragon vision in a nutshell: enemies will be orangeish and the critical objectives will be reddish. 
 Use it if you don't know what to do or what to look for.
  
  Boss Battles:
  
  Boss battles are odd because they actually integrate into the story well, so they don't seem like 
 they appear at the end of the level . Anyways, here's a few quick tips
  
  -If you are having trouble dodging something... if the scene warrants you to go left OR right, 
 move the controller left AND right, and you'll usually dodge whatever's giving you trouble, as 
 one or the other registers quicker than timing a left or right move.
  
  -lock-on is your friend. Your cute friend you want to shag.
  
  -if things are going on around 
 you that you cannot see what is happening, look around to see what's going on, and if that doesn't 
 help, use your dragon vision. Actually, that applies everywhere when you don't know what's happening.
 
  
  ****Missions
  
  What to do, what not to do. Look for what's called for, the other stuff you can ignore or go back 
 to at any time. The two examples give spoilers, but I won't give level details as to keep the storyline 
 overall a secret. So look at your own risk of knowing stuff lol!
  
  - Use R3 to see what your objectives are. I can't stress that enough.
  
  - pay attention to 
 cutscenes. They give vital info on what's what and where.
  
  *******Morale
  -Destroy bigger thing or dragons will boost your morale
  
  - Kill captians for a easy boost 
 to morale (the guys on those juicy horses... mmmm, horses!) 1. *Spoiler the scene where you are 
 saving a crowd of people on a hill where ships are banging down on them, dragons are all around, 
 The Army is marching on them, and you have land beasts barreling down on them seems like too much, 
 right? Right: but you only have to basically take care of the army and the land beasts. The ships 
 and dragons are too inaccurate in this case to inflict much harm. Remember: your OBJECTIVE is to 
 save the people, and so only address the threats that are actually harming the people. Most objectives 
 are like that.
  
  Another example: You are asked to escort Mantas to a part, and you have to protect them from catapults, 
 but there are other things happening like dragons, ships and what not. Go after the catapults and 
 arrow shooters only, and when the part comes up where the Ice dragons are attacking your troops, 
 attack them, but be brief, and then focus on the catapults. Remember the focus is on the Mantas, 
 but the Ice Dragons are right next to a catapult station, ao it's not out of the way nor a task 
 if you just flame up the dragons a bunch and then get right back on your objective. That's the 
 mentality you have to have in this game: it's up to you to figure out what to do, not what you 
 are told to do.
  
  ( ( (end examples) ) )
  
  I hope this isn't too long and I hope it helps. Lair is a great game that has been picked apart 
 mainly because of it using new technology in a new way, and some people who don't catch on or were 
 fans of other consoles downing the game will only cause others to miss out on incredible gameplay, 
 but don't take my word for it, or theirs: rent it, and if you like it, buy it: Lair is an honest 
 effort for a PS3 game using not only the cell to the best of Factor 5's ability, but also the Blu-Ray 
 , SIXAXIS, and uncompressed sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I'm not really sure what everyone is whining and crying about. Talk about the domino effect. Half 
 the people I've heard whining about this game haven't even played it before. The crux of the whole 
 situation is the control of the dragon. I for one just don't get it. To me, the controls do an 
 excellent job of capturing the essence of what it's most probably like to try to wield the controls 
 of a two-ton lizard as you sit on its back. The only real issue I see with it would be for a person 
 who has a blatant refusal to train their hardcore gaming fingers to get off the analog sticks for 
 a few seconds. That being said, the rest of the game looks absolutely superb, and would be a shame 
 if gamers scorned it because they don't have the patience to get used to a new control system. 
 I have a feeling these are the same people who refuse to pick up a Wii and scoff at the general 
 public... who all love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianpm
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  - The game starts you off with a war between 2 nations. One nation has the resources the other 
 wants it. The game reallty does a bad job of explaining the story with chapters chopped up in peices. 
 It just doesnt connect smoothly.
  
  Graphics
  - Basically it looks good sometimes but mostly its just a straight up muddy looking game. Framrate 
 drops occasionly
  
  Gameplay
  -Lol, the controls are not very accurate so im not gonna waste your time. The gameplay just doesnt 
 work... period. Bosses are very boring as well.
  
  Sound
  -It has an epic score to it. Unfortunately the sound is the showpiece for this game.
  
  Overall
 
  - With a broken up story with pathetic motion sensoring and add some muddy graphics..... you get 
 total let down game. The game is just not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemar430
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  I've read a lot of reviews on Lair from lots of websites and it seems that everyone is bashing 
 the game for its controls. I can understand how they feel if you are flying a jet fighter. After 
 a few hours and a little trial and error, the motion sensing works just fine. The way it was design 
 is as if you were riding a dragon using reigns not a jet fighter's flight stick. It took me some 
 time but after a couple of hours, its very fun and innovative. It also says clearly in the manual 
 to take some time to get use to the controls by entering the training grounds. Besides that, the 
 graphics is excellent, (you have to see this on a 1080p TV) the sound and music is fantastic, (I 
 have a 7.1 surround sound system; sickening!) and the story is pretty good. The action is nonstop 
 and the flight and ground action is pretty descent. It can get tedious doing the land and air battles 
 but the boss battles are nice. These bosses give the fight a sense of scale because you are fighting 
 mostly all over the environment and they are huge! All in all, I like the game but I can't speak 
 for all who have played it and became disappointed or furious because of its controls. If you read 
 this review and you are one that had bought Lair and are unhappy about its controls, give it another 
 chance. Its worth it. Also, if you have PSN, download the Lair Controls Video. It will help you 
 understand how the control works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorWon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Although Lair has few problems about gameplay and frame rate, it's still a superb game.
  The graphic is really awesome that I've never seen such as detail before (although I played on 
 1080i) . The graphic is sharper than GRAW2, while GRAW2 did many great visual effect.
  The sounds are great, but the background music isn't great but it's still good. Perhaps I like 
 another kind of music more than Lair's.
  Using SIXAXIS to control the dragon, that's a good idea, after learning how to control, I can control 
 my dragon very well, and it never do the wrong thing for me, but sometimes it looks for the wrong 
 target... overall the gameplay isn't as bad as some reviews said. Ah, yes, some people thinks if 
 there's option that allows players switch analog sticks as primary movement control, but I disagreed. 
 The game most interesting feature is using the SIXAXIS to control the dragon.... if you use analog 
 sticks to control the dragon, you will find that it's boring and feel worse than using SIXAXIS. 
 Oh, yes, another biggest problem is... the game has very few checkpoints, you may cry when you 
 almost finish the mission but something failed (like objective failed or you died three times) and 
 you have to restart from the begin and cannot skip the movies.... also, it's very hard to get a 
 gold medal or better, the replay value died in this point.
  However, that's a very great game still. If you don't mind little problems or errors, this is the 
 game you should own without thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I read many reviews from different websites and I was a little skeptical on getting this game. 
 However being a huge fan of Dungeons and Dragon and Fantasy games I wanted to give it a try.
  
  With my big surprise I was suddenly immersed into the great world created by FACTOR 5, the 
 controls are not as bad as many of the reviews want to point out. I am sure that reviewers didn't 
 got accustomed to the fact that in this game u are actually piloting a dragon which is a slow turning 
 beast and not an F16 or a MIG, and consequently the SIXAXIS has to be moved gently !!
  
  So far I played only 5 missions but I am extremely pleased with my purchase.
  Give it a try first 
 renting it .. I am sure that if you are an AD&amp; D you will love it.
  
  PROS:
  Great graphics, soundtrack has no rivals in any console, good voice acting, innovative game style, 
 challenging missions, innovative controls, interesting storyline. Great dragon design. CONS:
  Not that great replay value, useless network features, targeting system should have used some extra 
 polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gurpran
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been tracking Lair over the last 6 months and was waiting to buy it. When I saw Gamespot's 
 4.5 rating i was shocked. So I went out to the store last week and bought to see how it really 
 is. LAIR is not a bad game at all, it has a few down points, but overall its a really good game. 
 At first I was a little frusterated, but eventually I got use to the controls. You have to devote 
 a least an hour to parctice the controls because they are very different from other games and they 
 change during gameplay. For example ground, air and melee mode all have different controls, but 
 with enough practice with the controls, you can become a pro. I think you should rent the game 
 first just because of the controls. My brother still hasn't mastered the controls and doesn't play 
 LAIR because of it. So if your able to master the controls buy the game, but if your not up for 
 the challenge, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zigba
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn't bad enough that the controls are touchy, semi-responsive and downright wrong at key 
 moments they have compounded this disaster by giving ambiguos objectives and a time limit? Are 
 you kidding me? No save points? So when you complete an objective but miss the final stage you 
 have to replay the entire level? Nice way to compound the frustration. The fighting is nothing 
 more than letting the game indiscriminately pick a target for you, and then either button mash 
 in a fight, do some silly bogus sixxaxis moves to finish a prerender in which only the control 
 itself could cause a misstep or press the circle for an instant kill. This game has the dubious 
 distinction of being the hardest easy game I have ever played. It doesn't feel like you have any 
 real control other than that you are going through the motions to watch cutscenes that not only 
 interrupt gameplay but also can interrupt themselves. The game voice advice that you get from others 
 is to be completely ignored for if you listen you will fail. They had ZERO quality control on this 
 game. There are so many simple things they could have improved to make it a decent game it's a 
 shame that nobody listened, for I assure you as many severe limitations as this game has and how 
 obvious the flaws someone in game testing had to tell them. The sad truth is that the control scheme 
 is so bad they had to make the gameplay simple to make up for it. Rather than fix the control they 
 oversiplified the game. This is a B title dressed up, something you force yourself to finish because 
 like a bad film you keep waiting for something redemptive until the end when you wonder why did 
 you even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  With the reveal of a bevy of PS3 titles in 2005 one that caught the attention of Playstation gamers 
 was Factor 5s Lair. Not only were gamers interested in the title because it featured dragons, 
 which are truly awesome, but because of Factor 5s pedigree as a game developer. With titles such 
 as the Star War Rogue Squadron under their belt and with the technical know-how which produced 
 amazing visuals on the Nintendo GameCube, the anticipation for Lair was quite high. Sadly the end 
 result is quite disappointing and is the first 1st party PS3 game to be a bomb.
  
  First off lets talk about the good things in Lair, one of which is the story. Lair takes place 
 in a mythical land ruled by two nations, the Asylians who reside in the lush mountain green lands, 
 and the volcano based Mokia. The two groups broke apart due to the emergence of volcanoes which 
 disrupted the land and the Mokai resent the Asylians for the resources they have. While the story 
 for Lair is not as deep as MGS or Zelda, it is pretty interesting and the world that Factor 5 is 
 pretty original. Some of the characters may be a bit clich&eacute; but it doesnt get to the point 
 where it takes away from the overall story. There are also quite a few big revelations the main 
 character Rohn encounters throughout the game which makes him change his views on how the Mokai 
 are treated.
  
  Its a real pity that some game players may not be able to see Lairs story due to the unresponsive 
 and clunky controls. In case you didnt know Lair is the first PS3 title to be built around the 
 Sixaxis controller from the start. While other titles that use Sixaxis allow the users the option 
 of using the analog controls, Lair does not allow analog control for flight but it is used for 
 ground combat. While some may say that the Sixaxis control for Lair may take awhile to get used 
 to the end result is that despite being accustomed to it for several levels it is still clunky 
 and makes certain actions in the game more of a chore than a fun experience. Doing a 180 move is 
 a bit difficult to pull off and shaking the controller up and down to kill an enemy or destroy 
 an object just feels a bit off and tedious after awhile. Another problem with the games controls 
 is the speed of the dragon. While of course the speed of a dragon shouldnt be as fast as a fighter 
 jet, but the speed of the dragon is so slow that turning around to reorient yourself can be quite 
 an issue and just takes longer than it should. The controls also feel a bit unresponsive in certain 
 areas, especially during the first boss battle where you need to move the controller left and right 
 to avoid Sea Serpents venom. Its very clear that Factor 5 didnt refine the Sixaxis control as 
 much as they could have since the end experience with the controls in the game is one of frustration 
 and anger over what couldve been a fun experience.
  
  Lets move on to a better part of the game, the visuals. Since its debut Lair has been touted as 
 being built around 1080P, a feature many gamers like me do not have. The visuals of Lair are quite 
 excellent in some areas such as seeing a massive bridge filled with thousands of soldiers and with 
 dragons flying in the sky. But the two problems with the visuals in Lair are that theyre a bit 
 uneven at times and the color palette thats used in the game takes away from the experience. First 
 off the frame rate in the game is incredibly unstable which results in a ton of slowdown during 
 hectic battles and animation that looks incredibly choppy. It also doesnt help the ground combat 
 almost feels broken. At one time the enemy ground soldiers did absolutely nothing while I stood 
 still but then proceeded to move in what seemed to be a 5 animation frame set. Its unknown if 
 the disappointing ground combat is the result of some type of tech issue or poor game design, which 
 is a problem throughout the game. The other problem with the visuals is the overall art direction 
 and the use of colors. Expect a lot of browns, dark greens and other earthy colors when playing. 
 The main problem with the use of these colors is that it makes seeing which dragons youre supposed 
 to attack a bit difficult. The only way you know which dragon is an enemy is based on the color 
 of their fire. So for example the Ice Dragons have a light blue fire color. But during the hectic 
 combat levels it is still tricky finding the enemy dragons which could result in some frustrating 
 battles. It wouldve helped a lot if there was some sort of on-screen map which would make it easier 
 to find the enemy dragons.
  
  The one aspect that is the best in Lair is the audio. Featuring a score composed by John Debney 
 (The Passion of the Christ, Sin City) Lair features a fully orchestral score that is probably one 
 of the best to be heard this year. The tracks are lush and fit the tone of the game perfectly. 
 Its nice that you can listen to the tracks through the extra content thats in the game since 
 many gamers probably wont play the full length of Lair. Aside from the music Lair also has some 
 pretty good voice acting. The core of it is pretty good but a few of the performers feel off due 
 to them not fitting their characters and their overall performance not being as good as some of 
 the others.
  
  While the controls in Lair are just crap the overall production values are pretty good. Despite 
 some of its technical issues Lair doesnt feel like a cheap game, which just further adds to the 
 frustration over why the controls are crap. You can see the Factor 5 put a lot of time and effort 
 into the game and it shows. An interesting feature in the game is the mission select screen which 
 shows Rohn atop his dragon looking over a world map while a narrator explains the following mission 
 and the overall impact it has on the story. Touches like this are nice and can make you appreciate 
 the game for the few things it does well.
  
  With its pedigree in making arcade flight titles many were wondering what the missions of Lair 
 would be like since Factor 5 had more freedom over what they could do. Sadly the core game design 
 mirrors Factor 5s previous efforts as Lair features very basic mission design that at times feel 
 old. Many of the missions in the game consist of escorting a group of boats or creatures and to 
 protect them from the oncoming Mokai. There are some interesting missions such as one where you 
 need to avoid searchlights but this mission can be quite difficult due to the poor controls. Its 
 also a problem to find your objective/enemy in the game. While most of the time you do know what 
 you have to do going about it can be a problem. Once again this is due to the poor control which 
 makes some objectives hard to accomplish and the poor art design which makes it hard to see some 
 foes.
  
  Lair in concept is a solid title that couldve spawned a series of titles but sadly the poor controls 
 and tech issues take away from the game to the point where its almost unplayable since youll 
 hardly find yourself having any fun. While some titles that have had tech issues have come back 
 to rectify themselves in better sequels this will most likely not be the case with Lair due to 
 the stigma the game has garnered amongst gamers. When you have a budget of over $20 million and 
 spend almost 3 years in development its almost inexcusable for this to be the final result. Factor 
 5 should be applauded in some respects due to what they were able to accomplish such as developing 
 a solid graphics engine but it seems like they tried to do too much especially considering this 
 was their first next-gen title and their first time working with the PS3 and Playstation architecture. 
 Perhaps Factor 5 can redeem themselves with their PSN title but thats if Sony hasnt cancelled 
 their contract with Factor 5 over the disappointment that is Lair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Rick
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Instead it turning out to be horrible and i was wrong about IGN and gamespot about that game is 
 disastrous because i couldn't believe what they saying, then i have to control the dragon with 
 my SIXAXIS function but MAN i try to turn right but instead the stupid dragon turn left on purpose.... and 
 i try to fire the enemies on the sky but the dragon kept fire on the ground and i tilt my hand 
 to my SIXAXIS controller up but the dragon won't respond to go up,.... this game is make me dizzy 
 and i almost got puke in my bed but lucky i didn't, this is the most underrated or unpopular PS3 
 game i ever played, if i were you Sony fans so PLEASE DON'T BUY this GAME unless you rent this 
 game just like me. Just do what you like. Don't give me wrong i love the graphics and value is 
 so amazing but the gameplay must be avoid in my personal opinion i suspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex77k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The first chapter was a lot of fun. But as the game progressed, I couldn't stop thinking that this 
 game was a flight simulator rather a dragon game. To be precise, a filigh simulation with 3 mini 
 dragon fight games that are lame. IMOP, this game would have been much better if Factor 5 didnt 
 use their experience and know how in flight simulation games. Also, they should have toned down 
 the size of the battles that was causing bad frame rates and unclear campaign objectives. In conclusion, 
 the game is mediocre to ok, worth playing if you are bored. However, I dont think this game deserved 
 4.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The choppy framerates during heavy battles is what hurting the game. The sixaxis was pretty easy 
 to use the first time I got my hands on it. If this game was more smoother and has analog option, 
 it would've been a great game for everybody. The graphics are nice. Factor 5 should've locked the 
 game at 30fps. I have a big problem with choppy framerates because it feels broken. The battles 
 are fun and interesting when you reach level 4 and up. The first 3 levels will give you the chance 
 to get the hang of the controller / sixaxis. It's disappointing to see the developers put so much 
 time and work on this game, but didn't meet their expectation and others. 7.0 is an honest score 
 from me. I've seen games that should be 4.5 but Lair just isn't one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeyore_bec
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Most people seem to either hate or love this game. I would suggest renting the game first if you're 
 thinking of buying it. .
  
  The controls are tricky to learn. The sixaxis is used for steering and for some combat and can 
 take time to learn how to do properly. Even some of the button controls can be stubborn till you 
 get the hang of it. You can't change the controls so you're forced to learn to use the sixaxis 
 if you want to play the game. There is a training level with different missions you can choose 
 to learn the controls if you need the practice.
  
  It would have been better if players had the option whether to use the sixaxis or not but if you 
 have the patience and time to learn how to use the controls you may enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoseWarrior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  You've read dozens of reviews, you've agonized over whether or not to purchase this game, you're 
 looking for guidance, but this is a game that nobody can be right or wrong about.
  
  The first thing that anyone with eyeballs will notice is that it's just so damn pretty. Some of 
 the moments I played through where epic in their scope, others were so beautiful and real that 
 I wanted it to last just a little longer. Soaring over the water while waiting for the biggest, 
 ugliest snake I've ever seen to resurface will forever be a gaming memory for me, as will seeing 
 hundreds of foot soldiers fighting it out below me, or wondering how to get that guy's leg out 
 of my dragon's teeth later as she flings them through the air in glorious slow motion.
  
  Of course those poor suckers loosing their minds and wetting themselves at the sight of me wouldn't 
 be half as fun without the incredible sound effects and music that will engulf you as you urge 
 your dragon on to rip the head off of that Rhino. The music is memorable to say the least, and 
 I am glad to see that Sony is offering it in the Playstation Store in uncompressed format. I'm 
 an audiophile, and this game stroked the right part of my brain.
  
  All of those glorious graphics and sound aren't perfect, though. While I experienced none of the 
 reported framerate drops, I do have two major complaints when it comes to the graphics: explosions 
 and dragon fights. The explosions are sometimes huge, but they are usually lackluster and even 
 unsatisfying, and the fact that mantas, which are living beings, explode like a Star Destroyer 
 seems completely out of place. They may be loaded with volatile material, but it still looks completely 
 wrong when one of them is killed. The dragon fights don't feel nearly as gritty and visceral as 
 a battle between two huge, vicious beasts should be. It plays more like a mini game that takes 
 place outside of the main battle, and that's a shame because it tends to be jarring. I don't know 
 about you, but when I see the size of those claws and teeth, I expect some serious damage rather 
 than the Rock 'em, Sock 'em Robots style of battle that commences.
  
  The only problems with sound is that some seemed a little out of place, but things happen so quickly 
 that it didn't disrupt anything, and all non-audiophiles I've spoken to don't even notice. Also, 
 some of the voice acting was, well, not-so-stellar.
  
  The story is pretty decent, although sometimes it felt as if the gameplay was completely separate 
 from the story itself. It was often difficult to feel a complete connection with the characters, 
 or to feel immersed in the story as much as I was in the battles. In fact, I would gladly have 
 seen this game extended past the 10-12 hour mark purely with story, or even have some of that unlockable 
 content be more about the game world and story and less about Factor 5's company meals.
  
  We all know that the control scheme is the make-it or break-it part of this game, so how about 
 that? While I did experience some issues at first, I found that once I stopped fighting the controller 
 things went perfectly. In fact it was downright relaxing at times, and I found myself wishing that 
 the chaos would stop so that I could explore the sky and land just for the sake of it. This is 
 my favorite control scheme of all time because it worked with all of the sound and visuals to make 
 me feel like I was riding a freakin' dragon; Factor 5 put the reigns in my hands. There were a 
 lot of little nuances to learn, a lot of so that's how it's done moments, but they were all worth 
 it.
  
  That being said, I can easily see how some people would hate, despise, loathe, scorn, or otherwise 
 dislike the sixaxis control: it is different in every way from every control style used, save for 
 the Wii of course, and it seems that it takes a certain touch and mentality to use it effectively. 
 I don't believe that people who have not mastered it and therefore hate it are bad at games, nor 
 do I believe that Factor 5 made the wrong decision to go in this direction. What I do believe is 
 that it is definitely not for everyone.
  
  I also did not have a single issue with targeting. I made sure that the tasty vittles and/or dangerous 
 war machine were in front of my dragon, then I locked on and did what had to be done. There WERE 
 some cases when I was flying by at top speed and locked on to something other than my intended 
 victim, such as snapping up that officer on a horse rather than the Rhino barreling by like Pavlov 
 just rang the bell, but I had no problem with this because it meant tossing said officer into his 
 own ranks or over a mountain, which is amusing in a sadistic kind of way, and doing a 180 degree 
 turn was a simple thing to accomplish, but this brings us back to the controls: if you find the 
 controls frustrating, you will find the targeting to be even worse.
  
  Thanks, RoseWarrior, that's absolutely riveting, but what about the actual, ya know, GAMEplay?
 
  
  The main levels were varied enough that I did not feel the word repetition slide further forward 
 than the back of my tongue. The pace is usually frantic, which is good for a game of this type, 
 but my personal preference for any game is to have some time to explore and just to some freelancing 
 for a while. There are a couple of more relaxed levels to break up the pace, but for the most part 
 you can expect to be moving and fighting at full throttle, which is about 80 kilometers and hour 
 on my dragon's speedometer. The bosses are magnificent in their size and sheer meanness, and the 
 fights had some great moments, but I was a little disappointed that they were so scripted. I found 
 that, given I had already mastered the controls, there was little challenge involved because all 
 I had to do was follow the on-screen instructions. This does make things more cinematic, and I 
 know that some people love those kinds of fights, but I prefer my games to be much more open when 
 it comes to choosing the best method.
  
  The objectives themselves are slightly varied as well, but let's face it: you're a warrior on a 
 dragon in the middle of a war, so tasks usually involving defending friends and laying waste to 
 puny enemies. The point is that the game held my attention and made me want to complete the objectives. 
 Was there a wide array of amazing feats to pull off? No. Everything was within the confines of 
 what your dragon did in the first two levels, but that's just fine because it happens so quickly 
 and so beautifully that you're usually darting around without a thought to how many times you've 
 just torn something apart. Again it comes back to controls, though. If you find it an exercise 
 in Zen-like patience just to fly straight, then seeing Warbeasts number three and four coming down 
 the path would be both repetitive and angering.
  
  Lair is full of things to delight at least two of your senses, and the gameplay action is really 
 incredible. Perfection it is not, however, because there are places that seem to have been missed 
 with the polish, some of which are grubby enough to jar you out of the experience for a few seconds. 
 I would also have liked to see more story to make the immersion complete. Then there are those 
 controls. I loved them, but you may want to use the disc as a coaster and the sixaxis for target 
 practice once you've tried it. My final advice is to do just that: try it. You'll either love it 
 enough to buy it or decide to return the rental copy early and in pieces. Whichever you choose, 
 it's worth the effort just in case you do have the patience to fully experience this wonderful 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Okay this games a Rental for those who just play games and jump right in. Alright with that said 
 this game is rare since it almost makes you try to master the controls after the first Three levels 
 and will hold you to them. Reasons for low scores are mostly too harsh since most like they didn't 
 take time getting used to playing with the Six-axis' control scheme.... thats right almost every 
 attack and motion is done by Six-Axis' which is great cause it shows just how this new feature 
 to the PS3 can work out for other games where it be good or bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmiceray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Man, what an addicting game that was! The storyline is great which helps keep the game from relying 
 to heavily on the dragons as the main characters. The graphics were great even on my tube tv running 
 at 480i (i know I need a new hd tv.) . Also, the music created a type of mode that represented your 
 current mission. I was almost like the lord of the rings type of movie, but you were playing it. 
 I really enjoyed it. Better yet the way it ended I can see them easily making a second, since the 
 storyline would easily support a new chapter. Highly recommended by me. If you don't bye it at least 
 rent it for a week and beat it.
  
  I was thinking about this game more last night and realized that this game has some of Rome Total 
 War mixed into it. In the later missions you have huge army's and you must protect them. While 
 you protect them you wait on them to kill people. The AI is great in this game as well. Usually, 
 I took out the catapults, rhinos, and the war beats (a big rhino) out first. When you did this 
 your troops on the groung got moral boosts. It was a great game. I may have to play the missions 
 over again.
  
  The only problem I had sometimes was the locking on to your opponents. Sometimes it was hard to 
 lock on to the one I wanted. But that could have been due to there are usually 8 dragons in the 
 way of the target I want. So, sometimes it would lock on them first. But usually this did not affect 
 to much of the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfirefanatic
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Because my last review was forcefully taken down, I have risen again to write another one. So without 
 further hesitation here is Hellfirefanatic's review, second edition.
  
  Lair is a one of a kind game. The intuitive controls and beautiful graphics, not to mention the 
 pounding musical score could catapult this game to PS3 fame. But unfortunately Lair is not without 
 its flaws.
  
  Graphics: Lair looks stunning. This game possesses some of the greatest looking water ever to be 
 put in game form. The environments also look very nice with their sweeping cliff-sides and Medieval 
 themed castles and bridges. Animations: The animations for the dragons look great. Since there 
 are no such things as dragons I can't say they move realistically but because their wing motion 
 looks almost exactly like a leathery-winged creature's (bats) they look pretty accurate. My only 
 real complaint here is that sometimes the human animations seem out of place. For example the death 
 animations are pretty atrocious. Instead of looking like the main character, Rohn, is, well, falling 
 through the sky to his death, he looks like a frozen statue. Also, when flying over the large armies, 
 the soldiers can look like paper thin dolls with blocky animations. But those are just a few nitpick 
 things that don't effect the game to badly.
  
  Controls: The make or break part of this game. The implication of the sixaxis controls for flight 
 are really a brilliant aspect. They just take a little getting used to. At first using the sixaxis 
 seemed foreign and sometimes unwieldy to me, but once I had played around in the training grounds 
 for only 30 minutes I was flying like a pro. Do not buy into the hate that the sixaxis controls 
 have ruined this game. They have not! If anything they've made it a more enjoyable experience. 
 Try it for yourself before you judge!
  
  Gameplay: Flying around breathing Hell's fireballs and pure napalm on unsuspecting troops numbering 
 in the hundreds only to drop from the sky on all fours and proceed to rip, tear, slash, bite, ground 
 pound, and otherwise annihilate the opposing forces. What the heck is there not to love? Unfortunately 
 this game is pretty short lived, having only about a 10-11 hour run time. For a casual gamer that 
 plays for only a few hours at a time this game is not going to seem short. The medal system though 
 could help to lengthen the time with players striving to get gold on all of the missions. Not a 
 whole bunch of replay value here on account of a little repetition toward the end.
  
  Music/Sound: The orchestrated score in Lair sounds like it came right out of a Hollywood movie. 
 It fits very well the the overall Medieval theme and adds an epic sense of awareness to the atmosphere. 
 The sound effects are very well done although sometimes it seems like they missed one here or there.
 
  
  Overall, Lair is a great addition to any PS3 owners library. Any casual gamer and hard-core enthusiast 
 could find fun in this whirlwind maelstrom of a game. It is a strange but enjoyable experience 
 that deserves at least a rent if nothing else.
  
  *Oh and to whoever got my last review taken down, good job getting offended by something on teh 
 internets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  A REAL Lair Review.... READ IT!!!!!
  
  .Lair storyline is great... but not for a game.
  .Lair isnt a bad game, although it has some pros, but TOO MANY cons.
  .Cut scenes are very repetitive... one 
 after the other... although graphics are great, you wil have to face frame rate issues.
  .It si true that objectives arent well explained , and that the camera sometimes fails (it doesnt 
 let you understand whats going on) .
  .Gameplay isnt bad , But controls sometimes do not respond as they should.
  .While playing the 
 game, you ll notice that the game offers lot of help. because sometimes it performs actions by 
 it self... This isnt good!
  .As Gamespot said, Lair would have been a great Movie with full high definition and great sound... in 
 conclusion if you like to enjoy your home theater and 1080p tv... Lair would be fine... if you want 
 a great and fluid Gameplay, dont play Lair..... Unfortunnately Lair has dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  the game started with sooo much potential, hell i picked up the ps3 when i saw this game. Soo i 
 have no idea what to say now. Ummmm if this is the potential to the ps3 is thin im in for a huge 
 regret but i know that there will be better games. The graphics are great and i personally thought 
 the cut scenes and the story line were great. Not to say the storyline was a deep as bioshock but 
 i though that it was a good story. Now to the controls, ummm i kinda like the motion control, not 
 as accurate as two joysticks but im still getting use to it but lair was great practice for warhawk 
 so i have improved in that aspect so i did like the motion control, but i think that after that 
 was pretty much it. the one on one battle controls were lame and and i did enjoy the attacks from 
 behind. But the thing is there was no variation and were way to easy to pull off, and the dont 
 miss a shoot aim kinda took away from the game. The length was decent but yet again there is no 
 multiplayer which would have been possible with lair so i dont see why they didnt do it oh and 
 the other thing was why start a mission off a dragon if the dragon is right beside you soo for 
 those who wanted the odd sword battle it doesnt happen so over all it is a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamaSume
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Lair was a game that I had a lot of hope for. Even though I saw the rating on Gamespot I still 
 thought I had to buy it. So I cracked opened the game and put it in. After the first level or so 
 I thought that the learning curve would set out and that the controls would respond better.... They 
 didn't. I still to this day cannot get the freakin dragon to do a 180. I just can't. So right there 
 it starts getting hardish because I have no control over my dragon. He constantly will start5 to 
 dip down on me (it's probably because of me but still) . The fighting is super simplistic and lacking 
 depth. The game is short including the massive learning and refining curve. They story is pretty 
 nice for what it tries to do. I never really liked the medieval meets future seen with a little 
 splice of Sci-Fi. But as for what I know on the topic this seemed pretty good. The graphics were 
 above avg. for me. The lava and stuff just looked bad. But facial stuff looked alright (I could 
 see this on the X-box or PS2) . That's about it,
  
  Duration= short
  Graphics= okay. above avg Gameplay= really rough and almost unplayable
  Story= good... I liked 
 it. OVERALL: Don't buy unless you just want a coolish looking game in your empty PS3 gamecase (that's 
 why I bought it) .
  
  Can't think of anything else right now. FIRST REVIEW, CONGRATS ON ME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionheart8472
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of reviews out there that are either flat out bashing the game, or don't give you 
 enough detail as to WHY people think the game is so bad, however they are sadly mistaken.
  
  Since people like graphics so much these days I'll start with that. The environments in this 
 game are simply breathtaking. If you have a HDTV, this game will absolutely blow your mind, from 
 the looks for the surroundings, to the dragons, to the amazing water, LAIR is simply one of the 
 best looking games ever seen on a console.
  
  The controls in this game do take a little bit of getting used to, however they are not nearly 
 as abysmal as most of the reviewers are saying. The controls work pretty well, tilt left to move 
 left, tilt right to move right, tilt down to dive and pull up to rise. Then there is the 180 turn 
 which most people are having troubles with or say Don't work half the time . Well it's because 
 they don't know how to do it. It took me a little practice (maybe a level of actually trying to 
 figure out how to do it) but it's quite simple. For the most part make sure you are almost flying 
 straight and not in a little turn or anything like that, then pull up REALLY fast towards your 
 forehead (don't hit your head of course) and you'll do the what people call Impossible 180 turn 
 with ease. Once I learned that the trick is to pull really fast up and towards your forehead you 
 can do it almost as many times as you want. I've probably failed once out of my last 100 attempts 
 with it.
  
  The controls are a bit sensitive as well so tilting a bit too fast could get you flying all over 
 the place. Target locking is pretty easy as basically what's directly in front of your dragon will 
 usually be the target or something close to it. You hold your L1 or R1 button to keep a constant 
 lock on your target, pretty much until it's dead. It works pretty well, although you won't always 
 get what you want to target. The missions in the game are pretty well developed, although you are 
 always killing a ton of dragons and enemies on the ground (YES you can land your dragon and destroy 
 the puny humans on the ground) , the missions them self require you to guard people or Mantas, destroy 
 certain targets, and having to use your sixaxis controller to clamp on to objects and keep pulling 
 up and down till you rip the object or building down. Missions are not as Precise as some people 
 are saying. Sure you can't go spend 5 minutes flying around looking at the scenary without failing 
 the mission, but if you are pretty much following the directions, you have plenty of time to do 
 things, although it is a little fast paced. Take for example the third mission where you have to 
 protect your grain ship, you have to take out catapults at first, some which you can take out in 
 the air really quick, and others it's faster to land and take them out. You have like a window 
 of 3 - 4 minutes to take out 10 or so catapults before the mission says you have dragons incoming 
 to take out. Dragons for the most part are pretty easy to take out, you lock on spew a few fireballs 
 and they die, only really exception would be dark dragons, in which case you can use special moves 
 to take them out quicker. In any case I've played through the game once and I haven't died that 
 much, and have failed a mission no more than once per mission so far. (I've only failed 3 missions 
 total once mainly because the fact I didn't know exactly where everything is) .
  
  The boss battles are really well done, and for ONCE in a game feel like it's a boss. These are 
 not bosses that are killed in like 30 seconds work. They take usually 4 or 5 minutes to beat and 
 require you to weaken them first before you can actually start doing a lot of damage or kill them.
 
  
  The sounds and voice overs are really well done, albeit a bit repetitive when your in a mission. 
 The cut scenes are beautiful and the story is decent. It isn't exactly immersive but you have some 
 plot twists and you can get a pretty decent sense of what is actually going on in this world. All 
 in all LAIR is actually a pretty fun game, that has a Learning Curve for the controls. It's not 
 a really hard game on the default settings, however until you spend an hour learning the controls 
 to it's fullest you might have some difficulties on some of the missions where it requires you 
 to have a little bit more control of your dragon. The controls are not as bad as people are saying, 
 especially the over exaggeration of I'm tilting left why am I turning right garbage. If you are 
 titling left and turning right, that wall right beside you might have something to do with it people!!!
 
  
  If you want to spend the money on this game then you'll get a lot of good fun out of it and probably 
 beat it in 1 weekend of moderate play. If anything it's a GREAT rental and I recommend this game 
 to anybody that is a fan of tons of killing involving dragons and a nice sense of environment ..... 
 that is if you take the little time to learn the controls and not get so frustrated so easily with 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppf816438
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Let me start with most important thing about this game, six-axis control. I had read all the comments 
 from all kind of website since I was looking forward to Lair. Every website explain the low score 
 of Lair is caused by it's six-axis control. So, I bought the game and started with a mix feeling 
 of expectation and fear. After an hour of playing I really feel a 4.5 score is unfair to Lair, 
 especially when they beat up Lair on it's six-axis control. The control is really smooth. The 180 
 degree turn and dash is a little tricky but not unmanageable. I haven't experienced any miss direction 
 (you turn control left but dragon go right) or wide turn problem (simply pull up control gently 
 to do 180 degree turn) . Locking system work just fine too. Most of time you don't need to press 
 L1/R1 to lock on , when enemy get close enough fire bolt will auto-track target. I used lock on 
 only when I want to engage mid-air-close-combat or for mission target. Most mission ground target 
 can be targeted easily since target system won't pick up foot soldiers, so just target them and 
 dash (press O while locking) near then follow instruction (^_^) . I don't think I need to get into 
 the screen and music part, even those who give Lair low score said good words about these two parts. 
 So to sum it up, Lair is a good game which need a little time (20~60 minutes) to get into it. Once 
 you got the control, it really grows into you. Epic music, great sight and decent story , what's 
 not to love? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Where can I start with Lair?
  
  Lar has some of the greatest cinematics I have seen on a PlayStation 3 game yet sence the launch 
 of the system last year. It is beautiful and realistic on a level I have never imagined possible. 
 The characters in the cut scenes move and talk almost as if they were real people. The facial expressions 
 and body language are as close to perfect as you can get in a video game. The graphics are so great 
 you love to watch the cut scenes one after another in 'awe'. The fghting of the game is quite fun 
 too for the most part. Blowing fire, shooting fire balls, biting, clawing and tossing enemies has 
 its perks, however...
  
  All this aside, none of it is worth what you go through playing Lair.
  
  The story is so lame 
 I went most of the way through the game before I knew my characters name. I never knew what was 
 going on and when the next mission started I already forgotten what the last mission was and only 
 followed along with the mission at hand to get it over with to be done with this game. At the start 
 of the game you have a narration. Telling you about how the land was all one and was split by valcanos 
 into two major tribes (Which both names I had forgotten five minutes after hearing them) . Now these 
 two tribes are at war and you are Rohn, a dragon rider fighting for the army with a red flag (Whatever) . 
 There is not much more I can tell you about the story seeing as it was forgetful and pointless 
 to remember.
  
  The game play is by far the worst I have come across. The controls are the most clunky I have ever 
 seen. The aiming or targeting is a hassile. You can't choose what to lock on to, so you hope that 
 whatever is infront of you is what you want to target. Otherwise it could be bad enoough to fail 
 the entire mission. So keep your eye out for the fuzzy white spot that turns to a red fuzzy spot 
 when you are locked on. Which sounds easy, except that when you are flying out of control at all 
 times you do not get much time to look at one thing long enough to know if there is a white spot 
 there. Flying in general is a mess. To the point that I found myself asking the television Why 
 did they make Sixaxis? also Why can I not change the controls for this game? , which I could not 
 find an answer for. Controlling your dragon using the Sixaxis is much more difficult then it should 
 be, infact I can not understand where Factor 5 tested it and said PERFECT! , at all. You turn right 
 and go left, you turn left and go right. You are told by the controller on the screen to pitch 
 up to do a 180 and the dragon doesn't. Many times while just holding the controller trying to fly 
 under something or through something your dragon just darts off without you moving your hands what-so-ever. 
 Once there is a part with a mountain with a giant face on each side and you have to fly into the 
 middle and I found my camera staying outside while my dragon flew inside one of the mouths of the 
 giant faces that leads you to the middle. After and thirty seconds of my camera franyicly bouncing 
 around trying to find my dragon it finaly did, which I did not understand why the camera left from 
 behind the dragon in the first place. Another time I was flying close to the ground of a bridge 
 and under one of the many gates my dragon desided to hit the roof of this gate area and the camera 
 bounced out of control and spun around in circles for atleast a minute or two, before my dragon 
 felt like becoming unstuck and flying straight again. Which I can only assume happen because I 
 was aiming the controller down trying to make sure I did not hit the top.
  
  There is a few ways to fight the enemy dragons. One is to jump off yours, kill the rider and then 
 the dragon. Another is raming into them from the side. Which can be hard with the abysmal control 
 scheme. Also you can get into a silly slapfest with the dragons which remind me much of Pokemon. 
 There is more way I assume, just I don't care to think of them.
  
  I lost all respect for factor 5 and they should hang their heads for letting a game that was supposed 
 to be a huge hit for the PS3 come out like this. Other then how beautiful it is, it is not worth 
 even renting (which in my case I am happy that is all the closer I got to buyimg it) . Stay away 
 and never look back. Unless of course, you like screaming at your television like a psychopath. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  So, this is actually a re-write of my previouse review on Lair in which I gave it a score of 4.5. 
 Now however, after actually playing through the whole game I can say that Lair deff. does NOTsuck, 
 in fact it's one of the funest games I have played of late. I did quote in my previouse review 
 that the controls for Lair was it's greatest falling, and don't get me wrong this game has a very 
 high learning curve. It took me a good 45 minutes in traing AND about the first 5 stages of the 
 game to actually start getting a good feel for the controls. Once I got them down though this game 
 became extreamly fun and I for one do not belive that beging able to control the dragon with the 
 analog sticks would even cut it. I did rent this game, and if you are still on the fence on wether 
 or not you should play it, start with a rental. I now must have this game in my collection. Im 
 also sure you have read about the magnificent musical score for Lair, it truly can rivel that of 
 any big hollywood epic film. The problem I do have with Lair though is the game really isn't all 
 that long, and playing through again for the higher medal stats is ok, but doesn't really give 
 you all that much replay value. Bottom-line: though Lair will proably be one of the most contreversial 
 games of all time due to the controls, just give it some time play all the way through and I really 
 do belive you will love it as much as me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckboy13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  After reading most of the reviews for Lair I was skeptical to buy it. instead, I rented it and 
 was shocked at how much I disagreed with the reviews. The controls are great, they just take some 
 time to get used to. Sure, occasionally the 180 will get confused withe the dash but that does 
 not make the game impossible to play. I found the controls to perfect for the game. Using the SIXAXIS 
 made the experience much more fun, and for a change different from most other games.
  
  Lairs graphics are easily its best feature. With incredible draw distances and amazing textures, 
 Lair is easily the best looking game on the Playstation 3. With so many things on screen at once, 
 including many forms of dragons, humans, and other various creatures, it is not surprising that 
 the frame rate occasionally stutters. This can be a annoying, although it does not take away form 
 the overall experience. Combat wise Lair is fairly solid. Your ranged attack comes in the form 
 of a fire ball. The fire looks good, and there are a couple of ways to use it, including large 
 fire balls, rapid fire, and a continues flame. Dragon on Dragon combat is, in my opinion, the games 
 weakest part. Not only is it clunky, but it comes down to mashing buttons and hoping that you win.
 
  
  Lair is a game that in my mind could have been a AAA title for the Playstation3. The game looks 
 great, controls well, and has an interesting story. If only the game did not last 3 hours, and 
 have bugs that could have been could have been fixed. Overall the game is very enjoyable, and is 
 definitely worth a rent if you own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roboman54
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  people who say this game sucks just aren't willing to sit down and learn how to play it, once you 
 know the controls it is very easy and very fun. Factor 5 had an awesome idea in using the sixaxis... 
 i heard sometimes when you need to do something like lift one of the rhinos it is hard because 
 of all the other targets, it's not, the rhinos will get highlighted to target mush more than the 
 human targets. and the controls, flying and fighting are fun and easy, and the camera is good, 
 if you target something the camera will always let you see it no matter wich way you turn unless 
 it flys behind you.
  
  the game is awesome, i think most people dont try becuase they are afraid of trying something new, 
 the game is fun and controls are simple and you can play it and still be able to see and enjoy 
 the amazing graphics, if you heard it was bad you tryed the first level and put it down try it 
 again, once you get it, you will love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Despite the negative criticism I picked up Lair because I had been looking forward to it. I am 
 so glad I followed what I myself knew I would like over what these reviews are telling me to think.
 
  
  Lair's controls are spot on, and feel great. The main complaint has been doing the 180 turn around 
 which i pull off easily 95% of the time. The one thing that could have used more work gameplay 
 wise is the targeting system. It is hard to tell who you have targeted and where they are.
  
  Sound wise Lair is excellent with great voice acting and music. The graphics are a little above 
 average but there are better looking games. Overall I love Lair. The story is cool fun, graphics 
 are good, and motion controls are a blast. Don't listen to some of these whiners that are just 
 jumping on the bandwagon to bash a game they've not played. Lair is a rental, no questions asked, 
 but for fantasy fans it's a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesonhorses
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  okay i got $60 on friday. i wanted to buy madden 08 but they didnt have so i got lair. i thought 
 about if i should buy it. when i got home i played it and it seemed fine. the controls werent bad 
 they were better than i thought they were. the lock on system is good. gamespot nothing is wrong 
 with this game dammit. in flight use sixaxis, on the ground use the joysticks. this game was better 
 than i expected. gamespot and ign play the game again and change the rating to at least between 
 an 8 or 8.5. whoever gave this game a bad rating yall are not real gamers as you say you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john1navarro
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is very different in every aspect in regards to console games. After all the reviews and 
 seeing the previews I decided to purchase the game and thought it was going to be a great game 
 and after playing Lair I found it to be a big disappointment from overall gameplay to graphics, 
 I've done traded the game back in and waiting for the next game of Heavenly Sword, LAIR is a Rental 
 at Best. The game play would have been better if not for the 6 axis control. Graphics were ok. 
 Once you get used to the controls it becomes fairly easy to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anubiskamui
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The game looks and sounds amazing but that is really all it is. Gameplay and controls really hold 
 this game back from being a great game. You can read all the indepth reveiws you want but when 
 it comes down to it Lair is a great game as a rental. This game is not worth $60 dollars. Had this 
 game came out as a download and at a $30 dollar price point I wouldnt feel so bad playing it. But 
 I am glad I rented this game before buying. I am surprise since this game was made by the same 
 guys that did all those great Star Wars games. I think what they should have worked on was less 
 on the graphics and more attention to story gameplay and control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fitoman_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT!, I decided to rent it first because of all the awful reviews out there, IGN 
 has really changed. Don't trust that Lair Reviewer what so ever. I had no problem using getting 
 used to the controls. Takes a little practice, but you will realize that this game would not be 
 the same with the sticks. Using motion sensor was the correct way to go for this game. I'm currently 
 on level 8 and wow, it keeps amazing me with beautiful graphics and sound track. It does get challenging, 
 making the game more realistic. For those of you that want your hand held all the time and don't 
 like to think on what to do next, then this game is not for you. If you place yourself in the battle 
 you will know where to go. Remember gamers , this is dragon you are in control off, NOT a jet aircraft. 
 It feels great! I am currently playing Warhawk and Lair, with a little practice you will be good. 
 Becoming an expert on this game in regards to movement will take a few games, but that is where 
 the challenge is. I didn't have frame rate problems during game play at all. If you did, you have 
 something wrong with PS3. I did say that i rented the game, but it's so much fun fly around, there 
 is no game like this one out there. I love it, will purchase it soon. Incredible graphics, great 
 surround sound. Make up your own mind, if you like flying and open sky. This game is awesome. If 
 you can't handle the motion controls of Rub-o-dub game demo on PSN, then you can't handle this 
 game, that is sad. I give it a 9.5 out of 10 because there has not been 10 so far for me. Factor 
 5 you did a great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshff8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Lair looks and sounds amazing, despite the textures making me a little dizzy playing 3 feet away 
 from my non HD-Tv. I rented this game saying I want to try it, despite what reviewers say. The 
 six-axis flight controls are awesome, in my opinion. It is the clunkiness of dragon on dragon combat, 
 and the erratic camera that really keep this game from being a true gem. The story so far is sub-par. 
 After 3 missions, I know nothing about Roan, the character you play as, so why should I care about 
 him. The Asylian-Mokai conflict is epic, however, and the creatures are out of this world fan-freakin' 
 tabulous! But your rush kind of dies when you see a giant manta troop transport, a living being, 
 explode in shards of shrapnel rather than fall clumsily to the ground. Why does every enemy need 
 to explode? All in all, rent Lair first. If you can get past the camera, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ovnispr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought my PS3 in July. Since that day I've been looking forward to this game. I was waiting for 
 reviews before buying it, and then it began. I noticed that sites and magazines started to give 
 Lair very low scores (4,5,6 out of 10) and I was very skeptical about buying the game because I 
 thought it will end up being a disappointment. I did not wanted to pay for a game that according 
 to some, was apparently poor . I'm used to read reviews before I buy games. That's why at first 
 I was skeptical. Then some of the user reviews stated the game did not deserve the scores it got. 
 Many gamers rated this game decently, and I began to wonder if the people who reviewed this game 
 at first were saying the truth about the game or not. Finally I came to a decision: I rented the 
 game.
  
  At first, I did not know how to use the SIXAXIS in this game. It was frustrating; however, I kept 
 on playing the game and the more I played, the more I got used to the controls. Pretty much all 
 of the professional reviewers were complaining about the controls, saying they were not responsive. 
 I completely disagree with them. To me, the controls are very responsive. It just takes time to 
 get used to them. There's a good reason why Factor 5 put training missions on the game. Even my 
 little brother (who is 9 years old) can control the dragon with the SIXAXIS (he even finished alot 
 of missions that I could not) . Seriously, is not that hard. I agree that having the option to use 
 analog sticks would have been nice (and better for some gamers) but now that I think of it, I believe 
 it would not be the same as using SIXAXIS. All in all, the gameplay is great. There are some glitches, 
 and sometimes it gets frustrating, but its not that bad.
  
  If we talk about graphics, then this game looks awesome. The environments look amazing (specially 
 the water) . There is so much detail in the game. Sometimes the graphics don't look so awesome (thousands 
 of little soldiers in the ground) , however that's not a reason to say the graphics are not good. 
 If you have an HDTV with your PS3 connected via HDMI, then you will be blown away by how great 
 this game looks (at first I had played with AVI cables; then I received the HDMI cable I had ordered 
 a week ago and I must say there is a huge improvement in graphics) . To truly enjoy this game I 
 recommend an HDTV with HDMI.
  
  When it comes to the music, I have to say it is up there with The Lord of the Rings films. Yes, 
 the music is one of the best things in this game. It fits the game perfectly and lets you feel 
 you're in the game. It really motivates you. I absolutely love it. The voice acting is good, and 
 the sounds of the dragons are actually great. The story is good. It may not be the most complicated 
 story in the video game world, but it is not bad either. After finishing the game I felt I needed 
 to include it in my collection. That's why I got it today. It's worth it.
  
  This is not a fact, is just my opinion. Don't go out and buy the game just because you read this. 
 The lesson I learned is: never trust someone else's opinion. While some may agree that this game 
 is good, many can complain that it is not. It may not be the best game ever, but certainly ain't 
 the worst. What I suggest is to try the game for yourself (please, rent it first or if there's 
 ever a demo, play that) . I was about to miss a great title just because many people agreed that 
 this game was not worth getting. Glad I rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I took a chance today and bought it at Gamestop. I went home and played it for a few hours and 
 WOW was I shocked how good this game is. I had no problems controlling the dragon with my six-axis. 
 I did my turns with no trouble at all, but I can see where the trouble is with reviewers. They 
 use it like they are controlling a plane. It's a dragon, you have to move it like you are on a 
 real animal. Take it slow not constantly moving the six axis.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The way how everything looks and feels is just so beautiful. The water 
 doesn't look like crap as what the reviewers are saying. It actually looks very nice. The graphics 
 on this game is top notch, however, there are are some slow downs here and there when there is 
 too many things happening on the screen, but it is not something we can't handle. The story is 
 very cool too. If you are into Lord of the Rings and such, you'll love this story. It is like being 
 part of a Lord of the Ring world. The sounds is done very well also. If I was a reviewer, I would've 
 gave this game an 8.5.
  
  Anyways, I personally really like this game it was worth my $60. Don't call me a fanboy too because 
 I have both consoles and I like the other system games also. I'm just putting out my honest thought 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykojason
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The game begins very quickly, as you are kind of just thrown into the main story. The cutscenes 
 are great, I think they might rival those of Gears of War. The backgrounds, water, and fire effects 
 are awesome. The lighting is also some of the best that I've ever seen. The controls are a lot 
 easier than reviewers (and Gamespot) would lead you to believe. The 180 turn is not that hard to 
 pull off and flying is relatively easy. You forget about the piece of plastic in your hands while 
 you're flying around trying to kill the enemy ice dragons or whatever. I found myself veering with 
 my controler getting so involved witht eh game that it was hard to turn off my system when it came 
 time to eat or sleep. The animations for the dragon battles are amazing. The camera can be a bit 
 of a problem when it goes flying all over the place leaving you disoriented as to where you are, 
 but other than that, this game is very playable and very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabidShark001
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I can' the believe that all these review sites would give lair such a bad review. The only reason 
 they gave it such a bad review was because they didn't take time to learn how to control the dragon. 
 They just rushed through the story mode and said the dragon dosen't work that sucked. I believe 
 the controls were very good if only a little frustrating at first, but after an hour I was a seasoned 
 flier. The only negative thing about this game is that it is way to short. In the end if your one 
 of those people who want to be absolute beasts at a game the second you pick it up lair isn't for 
 you. If you enjoy a new challenge and dragons Lair is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezhowe1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  the Game Looks Great, could almost play as well as its looks but the controls of your trusty dragon 
 is down right horriable. flying is that bad but wait till you have to do battle on the ground, 
 scary. Do not buy this game..... rent only. The came up with a great concept but fell short on delivering 
 something that plays well. If you have the time to learn the controls, the game will be alot less 
 frustrating, but for jumping right into a game as soon as you buy it, well lets just say you will 
 spend alot of time flying into mountains and walking around on the ground in the wrong direction. 
 The cut scenes are pretty, but not enough for the 59.99 they want, rent the game for a week, learn 
 how to fly, if you learn quick, rent it for another week, and you will finish the game, problem 
 solved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Riding dragons in a war, with motion control is truly a dream come true for me. This game received 
 many different ratings, from 4.5 to 9. Here's what I think.
  
  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  WHAT THE ****!? are 
 my first thoughts when I first played the game. Using motion controls could be Factor 5's worst 
 decision. However, after getting used to the controls, I would say they've nailed it. Please understand 
 that controlling a dragon is like controlling a horse. You can't expect it to turn like a Ferrari 
 could you?
  
  The game missions are pretty straightforward. Your commander give you orders and you do as they 
 say. Some people may be lost without a radar, but arrows are shown to tell you where to go, and 
 the Rage vision when pressing (D pad) down allows you to see highlighted enemies in the messy warzone.
 
  
  I would say gameplay is a 9 for me since I'm fine with the motion controls, but a 5 for those who 
 can't get used to it. I understand that it might be fustrating at first, but hey, pilots don't 
 just learn to fly a plane in 1 day.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Overall graphics and atmosphere are excellent; sharp and highly detailed. Using data and texture 
 streaming, Factor 5 is able to squeeze in 2 GB of details into a level. Pretty amazing despite 
 some people saying streaming doesn't work for PS3 because of the 1.5x slower (compared to 12x DVD) 
 Bluray Drive. Rubbish. The load times are pretty fast as well.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  OMG. I expect the music to be good, but it is on par with movies like Lord of the Rings.
  
 
  Value: 8/10
  Lack of offline and online multiplayer, but it's single player missions are really fun and a dream 
 come true for me.
  
  Final conclusion:
  Rent it first to see if you can get used to the controls. For those who gave up after a few mins, 
 you don't know what you're missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staticneuron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Lair , simply put, is an amazing game. I am probably one of the rare people out there who picked 
 it up and was at home with the controls. Even if you are not, after the first mission go back and 
 do some more training. From the fact that you notice your dragon is sentient and actively avoids 
 wall and targets enemies on its own, you have to realize this is going to be different from any 
 flight simulator you've ever played.
  
  You have to be lax with the controls, the sixaxis is simulating you holding the reins of this big 
 beast and even as such, the dragon reacts very well. I recommend for everyone that is interested 
 to try this game out. Do not listen to reviews, negative or positive. If you cannot pick up these 
 controls after trying them for a while. This game is simply not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratheous
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Good hand eye coordination (HEC) is whats needed to play Lair. I am afraid players and critics 
 now days (with the one button does all mentality spawned my some game makers) have lost their HEC 
 and become frustrated with the controls in LAIR. As a result, they have unfairly given lower scores 
 than is deserved for a marvelous gaming experience. I will just say in brief that this game is 
 beautiful to look at. The huge maps and scale of the battles and buildings are breathtaking. I 
 have never felt like I was on a dragon flying above huge castles and buildings while taking out 
 whole towers and catapults than in this game! I was stunned to see Gamespots worthless 4.5 rating. 
 This had to have been from someone who played maybe one level and gave up because there was more 
 than 1 button to control the dragon. I mean it takes a bit to get used to the controls along with 
 the tilting of the six axis but by the 3rd or 4th level I could not put the game down. It is EPIC 
 in every way! I am not a professional game critic but I have played games for over 30 years and 
 feel that I am in touch with games for pleasure rather than a job. Lair is the lord of the Rings 
 type epic scale and very good storyline of games. The storyline is straight from a movie and the 
 voice acting is great! The controls are not hard to get used to it is just the getting use to them 
 period because every button is used along with the motion sensing (flying) of the dragons. I do 
 not think it is any harder than a Madden football or 08 basketball games. You just need to get 
 used to the way it controls and memorize buttons and or certain moves for attacking dragons.
  In conclusion, I hope that those who have not tried the game simply because of Game spots (and 
 some others) ratings, will try it. In addition, I have not finished a game in a long time (other 
 than C&amp; C3 and Bioshock.) and now Lair. I enjoyed every moment except for maybe 2 levels in 
 the beginning because I had to get used to the controls and that they went very quick but after 
 that, I could not get enough and hope there is a sequel. I give a round of applause to the makers 
 of Lair and think that their work of art is of the best quality. The standards by which games are 
 made have been upped once more because of their ingenious work and epic level design. This game 
 should be experienced by everyone who enjoys video games and I think that Lair was rated by critics 
 that are losing touch with game quality and design. They want to sit and have the game do all the 
 work! Lair is an INTERACTIVE experience to be played and lived in not a one button mashing and 
 bashing mindless escapade forgotten about the next day. I for one will live the Lair experience 
 for weeks and weeks probably replaying the wonderful l levels attempting to get gold medals rather 
 than bronze. In my humble opinion Lairs rating should be 9 out of 10. A 9 only because of one 
 flaw the video interruptions during the game. I was interrupted 3 times in about 8 seconds to tell 
 me about a threatening tower or I lost a cart which was kind of annoying because I would lose my 
 train of thought for a second or two. In the end, Lair should really not be missed! Thank you for 
 reading this Semi review/Rant.
  
  JR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas_27
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  After the hype, it may seem strange to see such mediocre to poor reviews, but this game is MUCH 
 different than any review describes. When I got Lair, I did sort of expect a mediocre game experience. 
 Fortunately, that's not what I got.
  
  Controls / Gameplay
  Despite what GS said, the controls, even before the update, were tight and fit well into the game. 
 The 180 degree turn works for me 100% of the time, and never once has the dragon turned right when 
 commanded to turn left, etc. Although to some, the controls are not as tightly fit as they would 
 like, but nevertheless, it is a great way to learn how to use the SIXAXIS (I passed a good majority 
 of the levels with a silver medal the first time around.) . I partly think that if the dragon was 
 more responsive, it would feel exactly like an X-Wing with a dragon mod . Thankfully, that is not 
 the case.
  
  The gameplay is extremely intense, with constant objectives to complete. Yet, they give you plenty 
 of time between most objectives to give the levels quite a lot of freedom. Plus, between dragon 
 fights, takedowns, bomb/ballista throwing, striking, and old-fashioned fireballing, the fights 
 never get tedious. With a wide arrangement of enemies and allies, every battle seems new, not to 
 mention the well-placed boss fights.
  
  Graphics
  No doubt the best asset of the game. The visuals are stunning from every angle, whether it be a 
 grassy hillside, or even a jagged coastline. In addition, every level is HUGE. Plus, the fire effects 
 and explosions of ships or creatures are rendered in a very satisfying way. The lighting perfectly 
 compliments the wide areas, along with the flame effects and occasional night levels. Well done, 
 Factor 5, well done.
  
  Story
  The story is short, but does not drop off. It leaves room for a sequel like most epic games. At 
 first, I didn't care for the story at all, but as the characters' personalities were developed, 
 I really got hooked on the plot. To me, it is no doubt, a very pleasing storyline, especially for 
 a new game like this. I won't go any further, for fear of spoiling the story to others.
  
  Performance
  Nothing about the performance really bugged me. Sure the game would slow for the 
 first second or two of a cutscene or takedown, but nothing one can't get used to. Screen tearing? 
 Never happened to me. The load times for levels are pretty decent, considering all of the amazing 
 visuals, hundreds of AI, and timed objectives it has to load. Despite the flaws, the performance 
 is still well above average.
  
  All in all, this game is awesome. Sure it might be missing some unlockables and replayability factors 
 here and there, but nothing that prevented me from buying it. Basically, all the reviews told me 
 that this game is a matter of preference, whether you like motion-sensing or not, whether you like 
 dragons or not. That, to me, explains the odd scores. All I know is, GS sure doesn't have the same 
 version of Lair that I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fok-Yuen-Scott
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  WOW.... What is the deal with everyone's rating system. GS &amp; IGN score it under a 5.0 HMMMM 
 I guess they never played Red Steel LOL. Anyways I love this game the graphics are great; gameplay 
 is also great and very responsive; &amp; the soundtrack has an heroic feel to it that matches the 
 game perfectly. The only reason why I didn't give it higher than an 8.0 was because of the game's 
 length. This is my 2nd playthough &amp; I'm enjoying it just as much as the first; although gaining 
 a gold metal on every mission is next to impossible. If your expecting a simple game that uses 
 the analog that you can just lay back and play this is not for you but, if you like a challenge 
 and enjoy great gameplay on top of amazing graphics; this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozymandias72
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Let me first point out that at the time i am writing this review i am only about half way through 
 this game, but i felt the need to throw in my personal opinion to hopefully be heard among all 
 the chatter online. If you are familiar with any form of forum or message board related to this 
 game it is no doubt youve seen the massive debate over the control scheme of the game. I am here 
 to tell you to give it a try yourself. I was following Lair for a while before it shipped and was 
 greatly dissapointed when i saw the bad reviews, but i saw the forums and had to follow my gut 
 and buy the game. I updated my PS3 to 1.92 a few days before i got lair and i havent had any problem 
 at all! Granted, the sixaxis controls are still new and nobody is really used to them, so dont 
 think it is easy . It took me a couple hours to fully familiarize myself with the flying mechanics 
 but i dont think i would have it any other way. If the flying was done with traditional controls 
 i dont think Lairs uninspired story would keep anyone playing long, the fresh, innovative controls 
 are what make Lair fun. Dont get me wrong the graphics are good, the sound and action great, but 
 none of them are the best. My advice on this game is to RENT IT FIRST and decide for yourself, 
 but i am willing to bet that many of you who do just that will buy your own copy not long after 
 that. The innovative controls are really a first (99% of Warhawk players turn sixaxis off so dont 
 tell me about that) so Lair provides an original thrill that no other game can give you at the 
 moment. Ultimately i will leave you with an anecdote i frequently use.... GIVE IT A TRY, YOU MIGHT 
 LIKE IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl400
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Here is my review of Lair. You can also find it at by blog.
  http://briansvideogamereviews. blogspot. com/
  
  Lair Review Hype, hype, and more hype! Lair 
 is one of Sony's games that has been pumped up with a lot of hype. Does Lair actually live up to 
 the hype or does it fall from grace before it ever actually gets there?
  
  Story
  Volcanoes have begun to destroy and reshape the land in the world of Lair. The people begin to 
 divide themselves into two kingdoms: the Asylians, who live in the still flourishing land with 
 it abundant resources, and the Mokai, who live where the land has been ravaged by the volcanoes 
 and resources are scarce. You control Rohn, who is a dragon knight for the Asylians. You follow 
 him as he explores the good and the bad of both societies. Corruption and betrayal are major players 
 in the story. The story is good. Its not great by any means but it gets the job done. Its not memorable 
 but it is entertaining.
  
  Presentation
  Wow. This is what a next generation game should look and sound like. The game is presented to you 
 by way of a series of chapters that are introduced by a narration. Each chapter kinda feels like 
 you're playing an action movie. Take for example the opening chapter. You are introduced to the 
 world and the Asylians by way of a cut scene which is then followed by some action. You get cut 
 scenes throughout each chapter which show what's going on in the battle. The movement of the game 
 is very well done.
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch. When hooked up to a 1080P HDTV along with a surround sound 
 system you get and excellent experience. The explosions look like potential movie quality. All 
 of the effects look great including the water. The musical score is of epic quality and can draw 
 a person into each battle.
  
  Gameplay
  While in the air you use the motion controls to steer your dragon. Let me make this clear. They 
 are not that hard to get used to. By tilting the controller to the left or right you make the dragon 
 fly in that direction. Snapping the controller up makes the dragon do a 180 degree turn. The main 
 thing that you have to remember is that you can't move the controller around like you're playing 
 a motionless game. When you get excited and start to move the controller around you'll get out 
 of control. All you need to do is stay calm. The L2 and R2 triggers make the dragon slowly bank 
 left and right respectively. Holding down both the L2 and R2 triggers allows the dragon to stop 
 in mid air. Pressing the X button makes the dragon go faster. Holding down the square button makes 
 the dragon shoot out a stream of fire and tapping or rapidly square makes the dragon shoot fireballs.
 
  
  Targeting occurs automatically in Lair. The closest enemy to you will be targeted within a white 
 circle. You can press the L1 or R1 buttons to lock on to the targeted enemy and the white circle 
 will turn red. You can either hit the targeted enemy with a fireball or if its a dragon ram into 
 it with the circle button. Some enemies, such as soldiers, while targeted will cause the dragon 
 to swoop down and snatch them up. Others, such as rhinos, have the dragon fly in and get involved 
 in a mini game. You'll also find that when you have targeted a certain enemy, such as a rhino or 
 catapult, a dragon will fly by in front of you and you'll target it. You'll need to release the 
 R1 or L1 and then you'll retarget your original enemy.
  
  One of the things that affects gameplay the most are the mission objectives in a couple of stages. 
 They are not always crystal clear. At times you'll hear cries for help such as We must save the 
 mantas, or We need air support. You'll follow all the cries and end up failing a mission with no 
 explanation (This will more than likely happen to all of you on the mission where you have to break 
 open a dam) . You'll need to discern what's important, what's not, and really listen to whether 
 or not your allies really need help. Other than the mission I stated above and one other one this 
 really isn't a problem.
  
  Lair provides you with an area for training at the very beginning of the chapter menu that you 
 can access at any time. The missions within the training chapter help get you better acquainted 
 with the controls for flying and fighting. If you're having problems give the training area a shot 
 as it is useful.
  
  Extras
  There are quite a few extras that you can unlock by obtaining the different medals after each chapter 
 in the game. You can unlock various galleries, commentary, making of videos, and game music. The 
 videos are very interesting as is the commentary during each chapter in the game.
  
  Replay Value
  You can only unlock the extras by obtaining the medals during the course of the 
 game. Luckily you can replay each chapter individually. For those of you that want to unlock all 
 the extras the replay value is high. Playing each chapter with the commentary is like watching 
 a movie with creator commentary. They give you more insight into the creation of the game and as 
 well as other interesting tidbits.
  
  Final Score
  8.0
  Lair is a fun and unique game. Its fun to fly around on a dragon and burning everything in your 
 path. You will need to get used to the motion control though. Like I said earlier the controls 
 are responsive and you can't get excited and start moving the controller around as you'll move 
 the dragon or execute the dash instead of the 180 degree turn. The game tries to present an epic 
 feel and it succeeds on some of the chapters but that feel will vary depending on the player. The 
 story is good but somethings missing in that it doesn't always draw you in. The mission objectives 
 need refinement but they may only bother you on 2 - 3 chapters. Even then you may not have any 
 issues issues with them. Lair is not a great game but it is a good game. Lair is an experiance 
 that all PS3 owners should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocmanfz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, 
 Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, 
 Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, 
 Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, 
 Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game.
  6A Great, Lair is a beautiful PS3 Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cag40oz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  Lair is a unique game in its class. Many people are deceived by its controls. Gamers want instant 
 gratification from games and usually break in the face of adversity. The fact that Lair is a challenging 
 game and one of the first in its class to deliver control by using the sixaxis with no option of 
 analog causes gamers and critics to frown. There are so many games using airborne assault by the 
 use of high tech warplanes that gamers are swayed by the use of dragons in this unique game. Gamers 
 are used to having to move quickly and turn on a dime, that in Lair they are over estimating the 
 desired use of the sixaxis via the dragon. The fact is that dragon cant turn on a dime and they 
 dont have heat seeking missiles and high tech targeting devices. Lair has taken the concept of 
 simulating real life experience and put it into action. If you want to see the dragon turn very 
 fast and hit every target in your vicinity, then you are most likely going to be disappointed with 
 the controls anticipated by the developers of Lair. However, if you are calm and use the sixaxis 
 smoothly and dont jolt the controller around, you will see that controlling the dragon is quite 
 easy and very fun once you get the hang of it. Lair starts out with a training mission to get you 
 used to flying. When in this mission, move the controller smoothly. When requested to do a 180, 
 calmly lift the controller up twice. To dash forward, push the controller forward. Dont repeat 
 this move back to back. The dragon cant dash forward twice in a row anyway, and you can cause 
 the motion senor to jerk up twice and do a 180. Use L2 and R2 as you brakes or to land. You can 
 use either R2 or L2 and turn to do a sharp turn depending on which direction you wish to go. Once 
 you have completed the training mission, it takes you to the first chapter of the story. Here you 
 will have to defend Asylia from the Mokai. You are a burner in the Asylian sky-guard named Rohn. 
 The Mokia forces have brought their navy and a number of ice dragons. This sets the stage for an 
 awesome ancient war story with huge flying whale like figures called Mantas that bomb cities and 
 armies to the smithereens. Once you have beaten the first chapter you are able to go back to the 
 training mission that has many different training courses to prepare you for the gameplay. If you 
 ask me, I believe this is the best way to get the most out of the game. Once you go through the 
 training mission in it entirety, you should be comfortable with the controls and understand the 
 role of air/ground combat in the game.
  
  The game tells a story of betrayal and deceit, with a touch of love of a man for his beast. Great 
 story, just a little to short in my opinion. The game leaves you wanting more. However, once the 
 game is beat that is not the end. You are awarded medals for each chapter, and depending on the 
 medal you receive, you will unlock certain features. So even though the story leaves you hanging, 
 there is yet more to do, not mention the fun of just burning foes from the sky. Ranking For sound, 
 video and graphics, I have to give the game an overwhelming 10. If you have HD, get ready to experience 
 the power of your PS3. You will really be impressed with this part of the game. As for control, 
 I give the game a 7.5. The controls are too much for some people who just cant understand the 
 concept of using a dragon versus a Tomcat. For people like me who take the time to understand a 
 game in full, I think the controls are great. At first I was questioning why studio5 failed to 
 include the option of using analog. But had they, I would have probably switched to analog right 
 away and totally missed out on all of the fun of using the sixaxis. So I support them on not including 
 the analog feature. However, for some people with control issues, and those with disabilities, 
 they are going to have trouble playing the game. The story line gets an 8.5, though had studio5 
 put a little more into it, they could have possibly created one of the best classics the PS3 has 
 yet to see. Thats just too bad. I love the story, it just ended too soon.
  
  As for game-play, I give it a 8.5. The game is challenging and leaves you continuing to try and 
 try till you get it. That is unless you are one of those gamers who is intimidated by challenges 
 and gives up and rates those kinds of games a 1. How do you rate a game a 1? If you do this, you 
 have some personal grudge with the game and want to ruin the true rating. No multiplayer holds 
 the game back from a 9 on my list.
  
  As for replay-ability, I give it a 7. The medals are just not enough. I want more of the story. 
 It leaves you wanting to see the final ground assault. Just because they bomb the hell out of the 
 city, doesnt mean they wont have rebels still on the ground that they will have to deal with 
 when physically taking control and moving back into the cities.
  
  Overall, I give the game an 8. It could have been better, but not near as bad as critics and some 
 gamers, who Ive mentioned through out the review, rated the game. If you like real games that 
 make the challenges as life like as possible, buy it, if not rent it. I promise you this, if you 
 go into the game with an open mind, and try to get what the game is giving you, you will definitely 
 enjoy this game. Awesome story, awesome graphics, awesome sound. A great game to play and have 
 fun with. If you go into the game expecting a dragon to give you the same results as Warhawk, sorry 
 for you, thats just not possible. You talking about centuries of technology here.
  
  I leave you with this: Dont believe the critics, see for yourself. If you are worried about the 
 fact that critics rated this game so low, rent it. It is definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  I tried.
  
  I really, really, really tried to find something redeeming of the game and the most I can muster 
 is: at least he beats his dragon on the head when you want to move.
  
  Read the reviews?
  
  Well. I'm not a huge fan of reading review and taking them for face value and in fact I haunt 
 a many gaming outlets/ boards/ communities so that I can get somewhat of an idea of how other gamers 
 react to games.
  
  I believe I'm HIGHLY qualified as a 'competent' gamer (har har) with years of experience behind 
 me through various genres and platforms and I make it a habit to indulge myself within this happening 
 of gross electronic entertainment.... and I love it!
  
  ... but every so often people like myself stumble across games that make you scratch your head and 
 think: Who the hell tested these and were they blind!? 
  
  Okay... so lets just start this baby up...
  
  Everything that's been said in the reviews about 
 the game about it being visually stunning. Nah.
  
  Because my powers of observation fail me not, I can easily discern between a cinematic AND in-game 
 scenes... which the game utilizes on more then... many occasions. I guess what it all comes down 
 it is: its not that impressive.
  
  I've come to that conclusion possibly as a side-effect of the HORRIBLE controls you're FORCED, 
 let me say that again, F-O-R-C-E-D to contend with. Contend. Not play. Contend. The act of fighting 
 for... competing with...
  
  ... somewhere along the lines of the controllers not responding or the dragon simply slamming and 
 dragging itself along mountain faces and cliff peaks did I notice: Hey! These graphics aren't even 
 that great! 
  
  When you're up in the thick of it, which is all but rare I should add, and when you're predicting 
 which way you should go because you know the controller isn't going to do it that way you notice 
 the little tears, the jaggies, the sprite-based look, the bland environments and everybody's favorite: 
 the water sucks.
  
  I guess somewhere along gaming evolution some editor/ gaming facility thought it would be a good 
 benchmark if a game had good water representation/ physics... which is pretty silly I have to add, 
 because I don't see the advantages of water ripples and reflections... hell! What the hell are you 
 doing staring at the water anyways? BUT, with LAIR, you'll be doing A LOT of that. Its unimpressive, 
 looks generic, and because you're looking at it either up very closely or from the heights of the 
 sky all the time, its more or less summed up: dull.
  
  Before I begin to tear the rest of the game a part I should mention that the voice acting is at 
 the least the ONLY decent thing in the game... when it isn't tell you the obvious; which it has 
 a over tendency to do. This is because again: the side effect of the grrr-eat control scheme...
 
  
  Now onwards...
  
  I wasn't a big fan of the Sixaxis and this only re-enforces my contempt for Sony's brilliant idea.
 
  
  I mentioned earlier the forced controls you have to contend with... and I meant every word of it. 
 The ONLY time the controls work are when you're, laughably, not doing anything at all except gliding 
 around casually. When the action, or what you can get from the action, starts up you'll quickly 
 find yourself twirling your arms around trying to get the damned thing to work. The analog controls 
 for the camera is a joke and the non-existent lock-on is just as much. Half the engagements you 
 enter into with the triangle button are half-assed and you can't even control which kind of dragon 
 battle you want. Some times its the 'hit it on the sides battle,' the next time its the 'falling 
 down battle,' sometimes you just down right kill them before it happens, and then RARELY you get 
 the 'takedown' battle; this is the one where you throw the club thing of yours and jump onto the 
 other enemy's dragon and dislodge him... it not a great as it sounds.
  
  The control scheme really begins to shine on a particular level when you have to avoid the beams 
 of light during a night insertion which... wasn't happening. More or less it was quite an aggravating 
 level that flustered and frustrated me on end. Did I mention you had to avoid the search lights? 
 WIth the Sixaxis?
  
  ... and then there's the joke of a targeting system... which isn't really a targeting system. What 
 is really is: SPECIFIC SELECTIVE HIGHLIGHTING MECHANISM with the occasional option of picking them... if 
 you know where and what its targeting. Not only that, you MUST track it with your lusterless controls 
 and once that occurs you pretty much just shoot fireballs that track down enemies and have an almost 
 universal effect on ALL enemies should you keep bombarding them because lets face it: getting into 
 a physical alteration with them or trying to enter into one isn't worth it SHOULD you manage it 
 at all. No tactics, no other means of combat, just raw fire power and button smashing. That will 
 take care of all your enemies... until the game decides to toss in whimsical and equally difficult 
 to fight (controls... not because they're hard) boss that really aren't a joy to fight and do not 
 advance the story plot. They're more or less there to say Hey, you're playing with the Sixaxis 
 so shake it this way and that and lets see if you can follow me all the while smashing the fire 
 button! Wheeee!
  
  I'm terribly disappointed and cannot stress how terrible to controls are. Its terrible that a game 
 as ambitious such as this is crippled and frankly I have not sympathy for it. Simply put: this 
 overly ambitious title has little to show and even little to enjoy. A rental is highly encouraged... the 
 game sounds great on paper... but that's all it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  So, I got Lair after all of those bad reviews. Well, you know what's funny? It's REALLY NOT a bad 
 game. REALLY. Truthfully, I think many of the reviews of Lair were a bit biased, and poorly written. 
 Im my opinion, this ESPECIALY applies to GameSpot, which published an absolutely horrific review -- "Forget 
 about Lair" and many other short, and nondescriptive comments plague GS's review. Read it if you 
 havnt already read it, and you'll see what I mean. In terms of gameplay, which was really the most 
 disputed aspect of the game, im my opinion, Lair pulls it off quite well. The game runs fairly 
 smoothly, and the motion-sensing controls work well overall. There is really not too much to complain 
 about, except for a couple things -- sometimes the lock on system well send you flying in some random 
 directions, and this can just utterly mess you up, and also, the motion-detection system can become 
 fairly annoying -- you collide into a rock, lets say, and the motion-detection shoves you up the 
 rock in a weird and glitchy sort of way, and then you loose all sense of direction. Those 2 things 
 are really the only major things I have to say. The story is great, and has that nice LOTR touch. 
 The game's soundtrack is AMAZING. Beautiful, beautiful music plays all throughout the entire game. 
 Its great to listen to.
  
  Oh, and Im not going to talk to much about the graphics and animations, because im sure you've 
 all heard amazing things about them. But they really are pretty to look at.
  
  Overall, Lair is a really nice game that falls just a bit short of its expectation, but I really 
 think it is unfair to stamp a big, fat 4.5 on it. It does NOt deserve that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff10andff12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is not that bad at all considering what everybody does or the way they follow the band 
 wagon effect that is happening. To start of the control scheme is pretty good. People get over 
 over excited and jolt the controller to move the dragon. It doesnt work that way. You have to smoothly 
 tilt the controller like flying an airplain the dragon it self does not have super natural powers 
 to allow it too move extroardinarily quick motions. To dog the **** out of fire balls or wat ever. 
 Play WarHawk with the motion scennsor and youll know what i mean. WarHawk is much faster and requires 
 quick airdynamic moves. The eyecandy in the game is just absolutely beautiful. The frame rate does 
 not jutter or lag. THe Graphics are fenominal. But this is not the only thing that makes this game. 
 Ive played LAIR for at least 4 days now and i love it and any body who takes my advice will like 
 it too. The story is pretty basic but fun to be involved. This is the only thing i dont appreciate 
 as much because it kind of feels short and basic but not in a horrible way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeskinaz
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  People are confusing a challenge with a mess . Your dragon is very hard to control even after you 
 become familiar with the controls. It seems like you are going to fast even at slow speed. You 
 can make yourself go slower, but then you lose out on mission objectives... In one mission you 
 are supposed to somehow save the grain barges from getting stolen. There is a big land creature 
 pulling the barges, and there are dragons flying everywhere. Are you supposed to kill the creature 
 pulling the barges -- is the creature stealing it? No that creature is on your side. Oh well where 
 are the dragons? They are somewhere...... oh wait thats one of my guys flying there.... oh wait theres 
 an enemy! By the time you can blink the grain is stolen and you still don't know what you should 
 have done to save the grain. Certainly not kill all the enemy dragons. Just locking onto one and 
 killing it would be a feat. All of the objectives are doable, just not within the time you have 
 to accomplish them because 1) the controls stink 2) you are not clearly able to see what you should 
 be going after due to lack of prompts and enemy identifiability (a compass which appears some of 
 the time provides little help because your guys are mixed in with the enemy guys) . I understand 
 a real dragon battle would be this hectic but we are trying to have a pleasurable time here and 
 making it realistic doesn't cover for the fact that this game is a mess. The sixaxis controller 
 is sensitive - too sensitive and only does what you want a minority of the time. The 180 degree 
 turn and doing the burst are not a problem. If you sneezed your dragon would burst forward. If 
 you are trying to descend and you tilt your sixaxis down it confuses it with a forward boost. If 
 you are far away and you dont speed up it takes too long to get to where you need to go, but if 
 you speed up or boost then its overkill and you pass the spot where you need to be. I
  
  Oh ... I unlocked a new attack! --- is that for air or for ground? It doesn't tell me. It prompts 
 me what to do in training mode with on screen cues.... yet it doesn't prompt me in the real battle 
 so when i try and shake the controller up down left right nothing happens. When am I supposed to 
 shake the controller up and down? When left and right? Is there a rhyme or a reason or do only 
 certain cutscenes allow certain combos . The biggest frustration in this game is not knowing. This 
 game is so irritating. I beat the missions without even doing anything. There is a cutscene that 
 advances the should-be movie missions every 20 seconds so as soon as you lock on to that dang dragon 
 you been trying to find you get interrupted by a cinematic, and the mission progresses regardless 
 of how well you have been killing on the dragon.
  
  I don't even bother writing revews for games but this one particularly frustrated me because it 
 looks so good yet it is so broken. It's heartbreaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  It was well done and I think the only thing they could do to improve it is make it so you could 
 choose between sixaxis and the dual analog. I really don't understand the reviewers. The controls 
 may be a bit difficult but it gives you something to work at. I have heard everywhere lately that 
 games are becoming too easy and Lair shoots that ideology in the foot. The difficulties in the 
 control make it actually feel like you are controlling a living breathing beast, something that 
 doesn't always do as its told. Not everyone may like the realism but those who enjoy actually getting 
 into a game rather than just throwing it out after its beaten will really enjoy this. Well done! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Although Lair did not turn out as great as I hoped it would, I am still having fun playing it despite 
 it's issues. I actually have no problems with the controls, it is the camera that gets on my nerves 
 whenever I get too close to a wall, mountain, ect. It will flip and turn, then send you in the 
 opposite direction of where you are trying to go. But as long as I am steering around objects, 
 and braking/tilting correctly, it is not an issue.
  
  'The Ravine of No Return' with it's night atmosphere, errie music, and stealthy objective of avoiding/taking 
 out spotlights is the high point in the game for me. Despite what the reviews say, this game does 
 have it's high points once you get used to the controls.... which is really just a matter of relaxing. 
 As it does not take much tilting to properly control at all.
  
  The graphics are mostly superb on an HDTV, but in some parts, such as where there are ground forces, 
 it looks like garbage. The game just feels incomplete in a few areas, but it is a fun game once 
 you get into it.
  
  The soundtrack is truly top notch, and helps get you into the game, as it does indeed have it's 
 high points.... as said before. Overall though, it is a game with a few highs and blatantly obvious 
 lows. And indeed it is the real stand out lows, such as the wonky camera, and unpolished overall 
 feel that take away from this game being truly superb.
  
  So, all in all, It is not as great as I thought it would be, but it is definitely a fun game, and 
 alot better than any 4.5. It is a different kind of game that can provide a few unique challenges, 
 and that is what I think I like about it. Although I will eventually probably trade it in towards 
 some other highly anticipated title after I beat it a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staindtemples
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lot of potential but there are some moment where things can be a little heck tick 
 if you lose yourself in the game play. Once you get sucked in to a big battle with man Dragons 
 you just can't help to over compensate with the SIXAXIS controller. Lair is once of the BEST looking 
 games I have seen as of yet. They did did a great job to make the game look so real. But like many 
 have said it would be nice to have a choice to use the analog sticks to move around . But I do 
 understand why the makers made it the way they did. I have no problem with the game and enjoy it 
 a lot and I am glad to be able to have it in my ever growing collection of Video Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepsan5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the best game in PS3 and graphics is niceeee!!!! Only problem is control which you 
 get used to it after a while and plays fine. Don't listen to those haters, they just listen to 
 the review from gamespot and copy them. It plays just fine. At the begining you might have trouble 
 with the controls but after 1/2 hr gameplay you will get used to it and you will love the game. 
 It's just in the begining you might not like it but after playing an hour this game was just pure 
 fun. I've been waiting for this game for long time it was worth the wait. If you like dragons buy 
 the game. But if you don't definetly rent the game. Its worth checking it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b1ade_m4st3r
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Game play: 9
  Controls: 8
  Re-playability: 7
  Tilt: 10 In terms of production quality, Lair is definitely one of the best. Excellent graphics 
 and good sound make this game easy to look at while you try to complete your objectives and earn 
 medals. Lair has a variety of mission types, including missions where you have to protect an object 
 (or giant siege weapons in the form of airborne manta-rays) , destroy buildings, sneak past enemy 
 lines, and of course- the mindless killing. You get to kill soldiers, giant bulls called Tauros, 
 giant Rhinos called (here it comes) Rhinos, and of course, dragons. The story is a little generic, 
 but chances are you will be too occupied with all of the different types of objectives to care. 
 The game has extras, which can be unlocked by gaining medals. Medals are earned for completing 
 levels in a timely manner, with as much destruction as possible. Even with the extras, though, 
 there's not a whole lot of re-playability here, unless you want to show the game to all your friends 
 (I know I did) , and there is currently no on-line or coop. The controls will take a while to get 
 used to, but they display the best use of the six-axis controller that I have seen to date. Boss 
 battles can be take a while to finish, but that's usually because you have to be patient an wait 
 for an opening, not because you keep dying. This is definitely a buy, or at least a rental if you're 
 not sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I saw the rating of this game but when i played it it was hard i know but when you get used to 
 it you will be like addicted to it specially when u land on the ground and fire up the soldiers 
 many hard task's in this game which make it a good game for u will play it for long time until 
 u finish it.
  guys don't listen to what some people say about the difficulties of the controller, just try again 
 and when u spend more time playing u will see that its worth it .
  This game not only about just flying and shooting .. u will do many things its like being a leader 
 of an army and u r the commander .. and one more thing using wireless Axis's in this game is much 
 more easier than other games .. u guys may not believe me but i hope that they put a demo so u guys 
 can try it and see for your selves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Af1rockstar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I am so sick of the awful stuff being said about this game. This is the first flight game to fully 
 utilize the Six-axis controller. Considering that, this is an amazing game. People complain about 
 the controls. I have no idea why. The controls are easy to grasp and are amazingly fun. The story 
 is well written and very emmersive. Missions are very good lengths, taking about 20-30 minutes 
 each.
  
  In each bad review i read or hear, there is a complaint about the 5th mission, in which you must 
 fly over a bridge while targeting and attacking enemies. The targeting is automatic so people have 
 been complaining about targeting the wrong things. The reason for their complaining is that you 
 are supposed to fly parallel to the bridge to attack your enemies, NOT perpendicularly to the bridge.
 
  
  Please at least rent this game to try it. I promise it is not where near as bad as reviews have 
 been saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoondark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  So by now everyone has probably read most of the LAIR reviews, and most people are probably a little 
 scared to buy it. It has been established all ready by most reviews that the graphics, music and 
 sound effects are superb this is all true. The real debate is about the control scheme. YES, you 
 can only use the six-axis to control yourself ingame. For me it wasn't that bad, it was actually 
 pretty interesting to see a game try something new. Once you get a hang of it and understand the 
 movements it becomes alot of fun and very rewarding. Unlike in the gamespot review I have not had 
 any problems with my dragon turning left when I tell it to turn right and vice versa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying that Lair isn't perfect but, it's no where near as bad as people 
 make it seem. It took me around 15-20 minutes of training, (use it people, it's there for a reason) , 
 to get the hang of controlling the dragon. After that, I have been able to control her with very 
 good accuracy, have no problems doing attacks, dodging, ground war, etc.., though I will agree 
 with others in wishing the turn radius was a bit tighter. Graphically, Lair is truly a beauty to 
 behold. It looks like a big budget Hollywood blockbuster. The lighting and shadows are awesome. 
 The sound is great as well. Voice acting is very good, as is the overall story; even if the story 
 does lack a bit of depth, what is there is told well. It truly is one of the first games that lets 
 you see a glimpse of what your PS3 is capable of.
  
  Overall, I love playing Lair, and despite what others say, the controls work pretty well IF YOU 
 TAKE THE TIME TO LEARN THEM. Many motion sensing games on the Wii suffer from worse controls than 
 Lair, and we know how little that has done to slow sales down :) Lair is breaking new ground on 
 the PS3, and is well worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  What a disappointment. What an utter let down. What a joke of a game. Ugh. I still can't figure 
 out whether Factor 5 wanted to make an exciting game or hype this game to its full extent to crush 
 the hopes and dreams of millions of long-anticipated fans like me. I've been looking forward to 
 this game for so long; I've had it reserved at GameStop since February. And oh, what a waste of 
 a game. The story is so watered down. The controls, although probably not impossible, are certainly 
 infuriating. The lock-on feature is worthless and dumb. The gameplay is short and just bizarrely 
 placed; as soon as the battle begins to get intense, another 5 minute-long, confusing video that 
 you can't skip interrupts any possible enjoyment. The game feels broken, and overall, half-@$$ed. 
 It feels like Factor 5 started the game, became pressured by the incredible amount of hype it was 
 recieving, got extremely bored with the game they had, and as a result threw all the crap they 
 had yanked out of their wazoo and threw it onto a disk and somehow passed it off as a game.
  
  The potential that the story had was wasted. I tried so hard to get involved and into it but 
 I honestly couldn't do it. I couldn't even figure out what the hell was going on. What a disappointment. 
 If it wasn't for the game's beautiful graphics, this spin-off of an actual game with a story would 
 be worthless.
  
  Please, do yourself a favor. If you have been as excited about this game as I have, drop it. Let 
 it go. Pretend it never existed. Move on and play a good game like Warhawk or Heavenly Sword. Do 
 anything. But for God's sake, don't touch this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonbreathrw
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  First let's go through why Lair has problems. 1) This game is very short. The majority of the time 
 is spent on the learning curve and when that curve is up, the game can be completed in about 8-10 
 hours depending on game play. 2) A large part of this game was left out. When the character mounts 
 the dragon there is a usable character model. Further there are usable catapult models, ground 
 lizard models, and dragon skins. What should have been done with this game is to incorporate those 
 models into an online battlefield. Just imagine waging an all out war on a battlefield and having 
 a dragon swoop in with powers (and weaknesses) . This alone could have increased the game's life 
 span by months. The lack of this feature was a terrible idea, and nothing short of laziness. Now 
 why Lair is good. 1) Does anyone remember Independance Day back on the PC? If not let me remind 
 you: the entire game was a focus on battle ship wars. This game was originally panned by the audiences 
 and the critics because these ships handeled like the large beheamonths they were rather than the 
 starfighters everyone had been used to in the TIE Fighter series. However that game was genuinely 
 good. This game is kind of like that. The controls are difficult to learn because the character 
 is not flying a Warhawk which can dance in the sky. Rather he is riding on a dragon which takes 
 time to make it's majestic moves and line up correctly. The control scheme is not difficult, it's 
 just that the Halo generaton of gamers have become whiny little $%*# (@ with skinned knees. 2) Storyline. 
 What can I say? It's solid, has decent voice acting, doesn't grate on my nerves. Unlike Perfect 
 Dark Zero. Conclusion: This is a good game. It's innovative, strong, new, plays the Dragon Card 
 very well. However the designers got lazy with the mutliplayer, and such we the gamers got cheated 
 what could have been a solidly fun few months. In short, wait until the game is 49.99 on amazon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsalomon75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  When I saw that Lair had shipped, I got excited and wanted to run to my local gaming store to purchase 
 it immediately. Remembering my last bad purchase, and remembering that I did not listen to any 
 reviews based on it, I stopped myself and decided to read a few reviews on it first. After seeing 
 the game getting less than a positive review on multiple sites, I decided to read on some of the 
 user reviews for the game.
  
  I'm glad I did.
  
  I read both the good and bad reviews of the game, and took the plunge yesterday. I shelled out 
 $60.00 and went home to run it on my 56 1080p TV with 5.1 Dolby Pro Logic II. As soon as the intro 
 music swelled, I knew the makers put in a lot of money in just the sound alone. The musical score 
 was written by the man that did, Passion of the Christ , and if you enjoyed that score, you'll 
 love this one as well. Getting back to the menu however, I noticed something that started to make 
 me ill. During the chapter selection, I tilted the controller and noticed the dragon moved sluggish. 
 This is what everyone was talking about. But I continued forward, and played through the tutorial. 
 Was it different? Yes. Was it unplayable? Not in the least bit.
  
  After running through 5 or 6 chapters, I must say that the controls are not bad at all once you 
 get used to them. One of the biggest complaints was the dragon not turning on a dime, and not being 
 able to perform a 180 degree turn easily. I found that performing the 180 turn is easy enough, 
 and the dragon does it 90% of the time I tell it to. As far as not being able to turn on a dime, 
 well, some people just have to realize that they aren't flying a helicopter. It's a dragon, and 
 isn't supposed to turn on a dime. With that said however, I found that if you apply the brakes 
 and hover, you can easily turn and flap your wings again to pick up speed. This makes firing at 
 mission objectives easy enough without having to perform flybys for those target disabled players.
 
  
  Now that I've talked about the controls, I guess I better get on with the graphics and sound, and 
 overall gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Dark in some places, but the lighting is realistic. You can turn up the brightness 
 if you can't deal with it. I feel like I'm playing a movie as opposed to a game. It's that beautiful. 
 I haven't run in any tearing or framerate loss, so I cannot comment on the other reviewers.
  
  Sound: Gorgeous. Stunning. For those of you with a 5.1 Dolby set up, you'll appreciate it. 
 For those of you with 7.1 Dolby, I envy you. The game supports up to 7.1, and I can only imagine 
 what it sounds like. The score is fantastic, and doesn't drown out speech when there is some dialogue 
 going on. My only wish is they added a musical score CD with the game. Currently, you have to go 
 into options to listen to the score, apart from playing the game.
  
  Gameplay: Great fun! Once you get the hang on controlling your dragon, and targetting, it's a lot 
 of fun! The missions are exciting, and keep you on your toes. Fighting the dragons is appealing, 
 and keeps the missions interesting. The storyline is fantastic, and keeps me wanting to do just 
 one more mission to see what's about to come up next.
  
  Summary: I don't think the official reviewers gave this the chance it deserved. If you honestly 
 don't want to take the chance, then rent it first. Personally, I'm extremely pleased with the chance 
 I took, and can not wait to play it some more. I'm giving this game a 8.5 simply because I believe 
 anything a 9.0 or better should be reserved for a truely remarkable game, like Half-Life, Bioshock, 
 etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morokiane
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Amongst the war where fireballs are being hurled, and wars of flame spread across the land, no 
 I'm not talking about in the game, but of forums across the internet, I picked up Lair.
  
  Graphics - Awe, sums it up. I'm playing on a HD 42 1080i. This is a very beautiful game, very LOTR, 
 but watching the particle systems, the millions of polys pump through my eyes, just look incredible. 
 The animation is well done, from the minor details of clothing and your character moving smoothly 
 atop your dragon mount. To when a ship blows up the water beneath it surges into a wave that gently 
 goes out to see. There is a ton of action going on from land troops to air battles, to catapults, 
 amongst other war type things going on, I personally haven't seen any slow down.
  
  Sound - The music is very epic, symphonic and masterful. The voice acting is decent, not awful, 
 not wonderful... but it works. The screams of the dragon, the screaming men as they are lit ablaze, 
 explosions, all sound good and that they belong.
  
  Controls - Here is where most of the **** comes in. I've played a few Factor 5 games from Rogue 
 Squadron on N64 and Gamecube, to other similar games such as Panzer Dragoon on Saturn and XBox. 
 The controls in Lair are intuitive and natural. Factor 5 has taken full advantage of the SixAxis 
 controller to control your dragon. Unlike what I've read all over the place, the controls are responsive, 
 there is a .5 second lag between your controller and the movement of the dragon, but after playing 
 for awhile I didn't notice it, as I took it into account when making my next move. I also believe 
 Factor 5 took creative control is making you feel like your a rider controlling a dragon. Like 
 riding a horse, it isn't going to respond instantly to a pull on the reins, neither is a 2 ton 
 flying beast, that people expect to turn like a fighter jet. I'd rather have the more natural feel 
 of being a rider on a dragon, then the unnatural fighter jet moves of one. There is no option to 
 use the analog control, which for me is fine, though I have to retrain myself to use the SixAxis 
 during moments of intense battle I found myself instinctively trying to control the dragon with 
 the analog. The other factor of the controls people complain about is the target lock. I've had 
 no problem with it. Line up your target, its gets a white halo around it, press/hold L1 or R1, 
 halo turns red, kill it. It's simple and easy.
  
  Gameplay - There are in flight battles where you control your dragon in air via SixAxis. Also you 
 can land and via analog controls take out ground troops in swipes, fire and devouring them. Your 
 basic attacks range from a fireball, fire stream. You can into up close battles mid air where you 
 line yourself up with the enemy dragon and side swipe it... to good old button mashing bouts.
  
  Overall - I like this game, and is one reason why I wanted to get the PS3. It hasn't disappointed 
 me. Yes, the controls have a learning curve, but after a few missions it becomes second nature. 
 Story wise is interesting though I'm not that far into it... so far its just your pagan northern 
 neighbor is attacking your civilization for unknown reasons. The reviews from most places have 
 not been kind, giving the game 5's and 4's. Mostly due to unresponsive controls. Well if you play 
 this like a seizure monkey then that's what you'll get, just relax and glide your dragon into the 
 heat of battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballto316
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  After about 20 minutes of playing this game, you find out why the game is called Lair, and it's 
 not cause that's where they keep the dragons, it's cause the game belongs in a deep dark place 
 where no one will find it.
  
  Unfortunitly, like most people who have played this game, I fell for the marketing ploy, and boy 
 do I feel like a sucker. The game it's self wouldn't actualy be too bad if they changed a few key 
 things. The first step of course would have to be the controls. Now I know they honestly did their 
 best when trying to make them as realistic as possible, but unfortunitly the Six Axis isn't really 
 all that great and as much as I love my PS3, really shouldn't be relied on for the entire control 
 sceme for the game. And as much as it pains me even more to say, they would have had a better chance 
 trying for the Wii on that, as it has shown us in the past that it can handle the type of things 
 this game needs very well. One key example is one that I used in the opening caption for this review. 
 Two of your motion sensative actions for the game is to do a quick speed boost (snaping the controler 
 up then down) , the other is to do a mid-air U turn (snaping the controler down and then back up) . 
 The main problem I have with this is that nine times out of ten, when I go to do a mid-air U turn, 
 it counts my moving from up to neutral as a snap downwards, and instead of doing the U turn needed 
 to avoid the mountain, or to get back to my objective, the game makes me do a speed boost. And 
 all of that before I could even move the controler out from neutral position to down. The other 
 problem is that it describes in the prologe/tutorial that to do the mid-air U turn all you need 
 do is snap the controler down then up, when really the action is snap down and then hook back upwards. 
 By hook back upwards I mean that after you've snapped the controler down, make sure that there 
 is an upward arc that moves from down to up. The action if done right should almost be a D shaped 
 motion, starting at the top left of the D, striking downwards, then arcing back up where you started.
 
  
  Aside from the obvious problems with just simple manuvering, while playing the game you have to 
 keep in your mind that controling the dragon is much like piloting a real plane. You can't just 
 jerk the controler around all over the place and expect to do anything right, you need to keep 
 calm, and make slow, smooth movements, which is very hard to do when you have 5 dragons to take 
 down, 3 of them are shooting you, 2 are destroying your objective, and you are already at 1/3 health.
 
  
  Locking on, and targeting in the game is off as well, as there is no sign of an automatic targeting 
 system. By that I mean that whatever you are wanting to target, must not only be in sight, but 
 in the center of your screen to target. This becomes a problem because the controls when fling 
 are so chaotic that you can't get anything in the center of the screen easily. Playing this game, 
 in the middle of trying to finish my mission I actualy said to myself Of all the things I should 
 have to worry about while playing a game, controling my guy should be the last thing.... At which 
 point I shut myself up because I realised I was talking to myself, but i'm sure you all get the 
 point, so i'll continue.
  
  Another thing that worked against this game is their delivery of the storyline. They try to pull 
 you into the world with a story about god bringing his wrath upon mankind in the way of Volcanoes 
 that scorch the land. And about a world divided and about traitors and politics and war, and all 
 that lovly stuff we love to see. But just as soon as you get pulled into the story line, they pull 
 you back out by seperating the game into levels, which takes away from the forward moving storyline, 
 and their whole attempt to draw you in, as soon enough they just pull you back out. I can understand 
 why they made a level based system, as people sometimes like to play old levels to see if they 
 can do any better. But the better choice for this would have been to make it one extra option to 
 select on the main Menu screen called Level Select . It would have polished the game off, and NOT 
 pulled the player away from teh story by saying you have finished the level! Here, have a skill 
 based evaluation medal to tell you how you did. Which was one more thing that I believed pulled 
 me away from the storyline, is that at the end of every level, the game gives a medal (bronze, 
 Silver, and Gold I would assume) , just to tell me how good (or bad) I had done, and tells me what 
 I did right, and what I needed to do to get the next highest medal. Once again, another aspect 
 that pulls from the story line.
  
  For things that they did right with this game, I will say that the graphics arn't half bad, I've 
 seen a few games with better graphics, but not many. And even though they keep pulling away from 
 it, the storyline (from what I saw of it before saying **** this I'm taking this back to the store 
 tommorow ) was very well thought out with a few twists in it. Long story short, if you want a fun 
 game that involves some dragon ass kicking, I would suggest you check out the Drakenguard games 
 (I think the first one is better than the second) . Mainly cause it gives you the dragon asskicking 
 you want, and you can still do some human face to face hack and slashing (which you can't do in 
 this game, as your guy dies in one hit from anything if he's off the dragon) , and delivers an awsome 
 storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3afiooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  when you are playing it u feel you are drive a plane and the control of the game is little hard 
 but you will feel great and the place or the city that you are mission on it is huge and you can 
 travel all the place and chase other dragons. the missions are not simple but there is an arrow 
 that tell you where to go. the fight between two dragons is great. the graphics are amaizing. but 
 if you one of the people that do not love the sixaxes controller... it will be bad because all 
 the game depends on this. realy it a verey good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitejackel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Lair has been one of the games i have been looking forward to ever sense the ps3 was anounced. 
 After seeing and hearing all this bad rap about the game and even GS giving it such a bad rap i 
 got really discouraged but i did what i always do.. haha dont beleave them, such as monster hunter 
 and life line lair is a very unique game and strives to do some thing difrent. i love games like 
 that and most of the time you dont get it right the first time but so far they have been. Lair 
 is really only for ppl who want to learn new ways to do things and take the TIME AND EFORT AND 
 PRACTICE to do so. once you get the controlls witch take quite a bit of practice but well worth 
 it. Lair is an amazing achevement in a game that is striving to be difrent from all the other medeoker 
 games out there today that are the same old style, wheather its shoting, swords, flying or what ever 
 they all play the same sticks and D pads this and like the other title i menchend go for some thing 
 more. i do admit lair is hard and could have some improvements but an imperfect thing (human) can 
 not make a perfect thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remier1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  For people who wants to try something new, this game is worth to play and keep. Great Graphic. 
 Great Sound. Fast gameplay. Control:
  Control is a little difficult due the sixaxis fucntion. It could have gotten better ratings from 
 other critics if they have the option to use ethier anologue or motion control to suit both needs. 
 But to learn to control the dragons using the sixaxis is challenging and fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  Lock on/off the dragon is pretty simple. just lock on and whte halo will appear on 
 the enemy and just press fire to shot a fireball at the low level dragons. Skilled enemy need to 
 finish them off at close range. Different combo at ground combat and air combat.
  
  Graphics:
  Superb animation and texture. The explosion the ripple the water when you attach the 
 ships / boats is simply spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlalexis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I have been watching since I bought a PS3. I had it in reserve for over two months 
 and was convinced that this was going to be legendary until its review by EGM which I will never 
 trust again. This was a critical title for the PS3 and could not believe that Factor 5 dropped 
 the ball. Shortly after more bad reviews for this title, I had just given up. I canceled my reserve 
 for the game and got Call of Duty 3 which is a great game. However, after reading some of the Reader 
 Reviews after the game was released, I got an insight on some interesting feed back. More readers 
 loved the game than hateded it and it was the very same at other sites. So I went out took the 
 chance on the reader's reviews and purchased the game on Labor Day. I don't know why this game 
 was dogged the way it was. The control is revolutionary and dead on. As soon as a put it on I knew 
 I was going to love this title and now I can't stop playing it. I just got Call of Duity 3 the 
 day before and is an awesome game, but Lair is by far on of the best games for the PS3.
  
  The graphics and music or excelient and has sort of a Star Wars feel and if you've ever played 
 Rogue Squadron you'll find the mission objectives sort of simalar. And as stated earlier the control 
 is just too cool. It's very responsive and did everything I wanted it to do. I never was disoriented 
 or lost due to the control, or to the cut scenes. I guess if you have a average sense of balalnce 
 you should have no problem with the control. I love the control and it really gose well with this 
 game.
  
  For the reviews, I don't know what game they have played, but personally this game is great and 
 I nearly missed out on a fantastic expirience because of the poor reviews it's been receiving. 
 Thank you for Reader Reviews. If you like Rogue Squadron or Panza Dragon, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasseur7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a review I entered on a competing site. I didn't want to retype it all, but I wanted to 
 make sure this got out to the gamers as I feel that his game got reviewed unfairly by a number 
 of sites. Normally I have found that agree with the majority of Gamespot reviews. This time I have 
 to strongly disagree. My original review below.
  
  --
  
  I bought this game the Friday before Labor day when I found out it was released early. I got home 
 and before I opened the seal I promptly turned to the reviews to make sure my $60 was well spent. 
 I was horrified to see such critical reviews of what I was expecting to be a AAA PS3 title. I went 
 the whole weekend not opening the game. I read user after user review in this site to see what 
 others said and almost everything I read contradicted the IGN review. Come Labor day evening after 
 playing my fill of other games I was itching to crack the seal. What the hell. I said. If the game 
 is bad it wont be the first time I was burned. So I pealed off the wapper. Put the Blu-Ray disc 
 in the console. AM I GLAD I DID!!! This game is very well done. The controls quite honestly are 
 not a problem in the least. I picked up on them right away as they are very intuitive and easy 
 to learn. I have a tendency to over steer and over correct, but that is the same with every game 
 until I get used to how the controls act. These controls leave me feeling in COMPLETE control of 
 the dragon. I have no problem with the notorious 180 degree turn. It is very easy. IF YOU HAVE 
 EVER RODE A HORSE WITH REINS, BRIDLE AND SADDLE THEN YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO PLAY THIS GAME WITH 
 NO PROBLEMS. With the exception of the tilting, I used the controller in a similar way I would 
 steer a horse with the same movements I would use with the reins and it worked perfectly. They 
 did a great job of tuning the game. Much better that what I was expecting after reading all the 
 negative reviews. My guess is that some just dont want the break the mold with the control scheme. 
 Honestly, after playing through 5 levels with no trouble I can say that if I had the option of 
 the Six Access or the analog I would play the game with the Six Access. It is unique and a good 
 change of pace. Most importantly it feels natural to control the dragon with it as well. WHAT A 
 RELIEF! As for the second biggest complaint I have read about, the lock on feature. What I have 
 not seen anyone mention is that there is a small reticle (target site) that highlights your target 
 BEFORE you lock on so you know exactly where your lock on will be before you do. If you pay attention 
 to that you will lock onto your expected target everytime. It does however require you to have 
 the dragon pointing in the relative area not unlike many combat flight simulation games, and that 
 may be where some are having problems. I on the otherhand had NONE. I even did that infamous bridge 
 scene where I had to target those bull things and nailed all of them on the first try. The Lock 
 On feature works just fine as you would expect.
  
  Overall, this game is as good as I was originally expecting with no detractions. To be honest I 
 didnt even know it was Six Access only until the day I bought it and that initially worried me, 
 but it works great. Easily as good as WarHawk's Six Access Control.
  
  The graphics are excellent. The music is outstanding. The supposed framerate drops that I have 
 seen other mention are insignificant if you can even notice them. The color pallet is darker with 
 earthtones and a little washed out, but that is the art direction and not at all a bad thing. Gears 
 of War was really limited in color pallet too and that is a great game. This game has more color 
 detail than GoW anyhow.
  
  IGN did a serious injustice to Factor 5 wiht their review. This game is much better than they lead 
 us to believe. I would score LAIR a 9 overall from what I have played so far. The controls make 
 the game unique and to me is necessary for the full dragon flying experience.
  
  Good luck all and enjoy this game if you decide to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasfan411
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Overall it is a really good game with a nice storyline. The graphics are phenominal and the music 
 is even better. Obviously the difficult part is flying, but I think too many people have never 
 tried a game like this before, and most give up before the second level. If you have tried Flight 
 Simulator then you should be able to easily play this. Also, I think a big problem is too many 
 people are using too much energy to move their dragon. It's the same problem that we run into when 
 playing the Wii, it ends up tiring people out, but all you really need to do is hold the PS3 remote 
 with one hand. The game would have been a 9.0 or 9.5 for me if they let you switch off the motion 
 controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKountz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Visually Lair is one of the most amazing games ever. These are the most beautiful dragons in a 
 game to date. Sound quality also is top notch with scores that help bring about the sounds of epic 
 hollywood movies.
  The story is compelling and the world is rich with a history to make you feel as if this world 
 is real.
  
  To get right to it ,with the controls, either you'll like them or you'll hate them. With a steady 
 hand a patience the controls are very easy to master. If you get frustrated easily this might not 
 be for you but if you can take about 5 minutes and just relax it's easy to get into and makes a 
 more immersive experience. The sixaxis controls are responsive and will work well if you give them 
 a chance.
  
  The camera isn't great and can lose control and become disorienting at times. But it doesn't hinder 
 gameplay so it can only be minor annoyance at times. The targeting system also isn't the best at 
 times will lock on the wrong enemy. Such a case as when I was trying to target tauros on the bridge 
 and enemy dragon would swoop across the bridge and I'd target and attack them by accident.
  
  But overall it's a good game that took a lot of heat because of the hype behind it. It has 
 its faults so it can't be considered great but it's also not an awful game and can still provide 
 an enjoyable playing experience despite claims that it's completely broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artisticle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  For those completely dismissing this game, I feel you're missing the whole picture. I will completely 
 agree that, at times, the camera can be obnoxious and seemingly out of control and the inability 
 to choose targets can be unruly; BUT in the overall for introducing an innovative an new gaming 
 experience to PS3 and games to come using SixAxis there is a great deal of quality and fulfillment 
 of learning and overcomming the controls of Lair.
  Looking beyond the GRAND graphical experience, I feel there is much to enjoy and a satisfaction 
 of knowing this is a first for flying games. No sharp turning does not bother me, we are talking 
 about a Dragon here, not some super high tech fighting machine made to take turns on a dime in 
 mid air, learn to have the patience to slow down and figure out a 180 degree quick turn, once mastered 
 it works EVERYtime. The chaotics that Gamespot writes about I see happens when the person playing 
 freaks out and doesn't calmly maneuver the flight controls. I am on mission 12, the time constraints 
 to get shorter and shorter to accomplish ridiculous amounts of destruction and finding the exact 
 things to kill making the levels (short as they may seem) slowly increase in difficulty. I would 
 have totally hated this game if it was a pushover, beat it in less than a day type of game. What's 
 the point without challenge? As for the statement 'Factor 5 should not have released a game and 
 done a movie instead'... WTF?!!! are you serious? Come on GameSpot, this was one of the WORST ever 
 reviews I've read on this site. Extremely Bias for who knows what reason. But to fully crush on 
 a game cause you personally couldn't figure out how to play... blah anyhoo
  I say give this game a shot, either rent it to give it a short term test, or right out buy this 
 game. I have had a total blast playing it so far, with minor frustrations on after close combat 
 battles the camera likes to throw you in the opposite direction that you were initially heading, 
 hell it does that a lot, but a quick 180 and all is fine. Not being able to choose your target 
 can get a bit aggravating, but I I keep saying PATIENCE my friend, get closer to the actual target 
 you're aiming for. Mid-air chaos I am coming to love more and more and... lets just say if you 
 get motion sickness this game is definitely not for you. The ability to use the right analog to 
 look directly behind you and left analog to look around opens the option of targeting dragons and 
 aerial targets at any time while in the air. It gets tricky but 100% feasible to pull off the impossible 
 combos GameSpot has turned into sloppy functionality. I truly think there was a LOAD of effort 
 to come out with what Factor 5 has, even if there are still a couple bugs to work out.
  Overall I gave this a 7.5 for some of the flaws it does have, but totally not as bad as the GS 
 review hammers on Lair. I've owned Lair for 4 days now and have yet to not have fun playing it.
 
  Lair is not for the weak hearted player. If you are up for a challenging, off the wall, new play 
 style, new look at flying fight games this is worth at least a hands on experience over relying 
 on others reviews.
  I could go on but I'll stop here.
  I see Lair as a GREAT starting point for SixAxis controlled games, especially flight games. Sure 
 there's plenty of little tweaks to be had, but someone had to do it 1st so others can learn how 
 to make it even better. Factor 5 I hope will not drop this concept and maybe bring us another game 
 like this with bugs fixed and major tweaks to make games like this maybe optional SixAxis controlled 
 for those not ambitious or interested in using SixAxis controls for games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bmaga123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am a 26 year old male who has been a game since the NES days 
 and has owned every system up until this day. I know my games I know a bad review when I see one. 
 When I first saw the reviews for Lair I though it was a joke or a mistake I couldnt believe what 
 I was reading. This game is UNREAL, in every category.
  
  Graphics - 10, probably the best graphics I have seen to date in a videogame.
  
  Gameplay - 
 9, amazing story and lots of different variety of level designs and missions.
  
  Control - 9, not perfect but innovative and very fun and easy once you get used to it. Sound - 
 10, Amazing sound almost cinematic
  
  This is a must own game for PS3 owners in fact I might buy a PS3 for this game if I didnt have 
 one. The reviews are a lie and dont make any sense realistically. Play this game and you will see 
 what I mean. OH and this game has very short Load times and amazing FMV's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fjackel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  OK there is something wrong with everyone, but let me start first by saying i am not a fanboy of 
 any console. I love the 360 more then my ps3 cause i started out on an xbox and not a ps2, i only 
 got a ps2 for GTA Vice City. When i first read the reviews i was blown away with dissapointment 
 because i thought this game was going to be better then reesistaance and be the best ps3 game out 
 there, and i was right it is. More then half the people on these reviews are deifently microsoft 
 fanboys or people that have either metal retardation, athratis, or epilepsy and cant control an 
 easy controler. I've read most of the horrible reviews and they basically just copied the gamespot 
 review saying the same things like when i turn left my dragon goes right, thats copleate **** thats 
 never happened to me in this game. Let me say that i used to be a miccrosoft fanboy and hate the 
 ps3 but then for my b day in january i got a ps3 and my dad wouldnt let me return it because he 
 wanted the blu ray movies, so for about 5 months all i did was watch blu ray movies on the ps3, 
 but now i have been playing lair alot along with warhawk.
  
  This game is very addicting and the controls are simple, if you own a wii like me then you will 
 think this games controls are much much easier then red steel and as easy as wii baseball. Its 
 not hard to turn at all and it takes about 5 mins getting used to it and 30 mins to master. So 
 My personal oppinion is this game is a must buy for ps3 owners and if you dont like it then just 
 return it. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is also amazing and doesnt get old because 
 almost every level the game introduces a new enemy with diffrent ways to kill it. So far i am up 
 to the level after i just beat the spider wasp, and now i gotta rescue someones son, genaral addikas 
 son or something from this prison on a glaciar, its pretty sick. Another fun thing in this game 
 is when you land you can run up to guys and eat them, its fricken awesome. now my point is that 
 anyone will like this game and most of the reviews on this site are from microsoft fanboys trust 
 me i would know because i did the same thing with resistance before i got a ps3.
  
  after i got this game after hesitating about even getting i told my friend that it was aazing who 
 was also hesitant about getting the game because of the low score it got but he got it and told 
 me the other day he couldnt stop playing it, hes already father then me in the game, hes probably 
 beat it by now too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't plaid Lair don't bash it before you play it. Everyone is saying the Lair is terrible, 
 that's just they don't give themselves time to get used to it, or probably the main reason is that 
 they expect too much of it. I got reviews from Lair and was not too happy with what I got, however 
 I did not let that stop me from not picking up a copy for myself. The reason I bought it was because 
 I wanted to play it for myself, and I am glad I did. I personally care for the story, graphics 
 and the controls. Yeah they are a bit different and take getting used to but, once you do, you 
 will find out that the game is worth it. People need to stop expecting so much out of a game. What 
 it comes down to is check the reviews from other people but, make the judgement for yourself. I 
 just beat Lair on 09/09/2007. It was actually not too bad, good story, stunning visuals and graphics. 
 Good gameplay once you get used to it. I would probably play it again to improve my medals for 
 each mission. It can be beat in roughly less than seven hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I have been saying ever since I heard about this game and saw pictures from it that no matter hoe 
 good this game might look in the end, Movies and Games with dragons in them NEVER WORK. I really 
 don't know why but it really does hold true. In the same way they butchered Bomberman for the 360, 
 taking a fun game and making it a chore to play, Lair makes it almost impossible to play. I really 
 believe the sixaxis controller should fade away. This afterthought to the PS3 is making games like 
 Lair so, NOT FUN, that after this disaster that they said would revolutionize game-play as we know 
 it, should be retired immediately and the dual shock should be brought back. Lair looks pretty 
 enough, but, WHO CARES, when a game controls that badly. This game wouldn't have hurt and stung 
 so much if Sony and the developers just kept their mouth shut. Every time I turned around the dev 
 was talking about how THIS game could NOT have been done on the 360, . . (thank god!)
  touting their own horn was a big part of Lair's development, so they kind of brought this on themselves. 
 If you like pretty games that are impossible to play then go give lair a spin, but don't say I 
 didn't warn you, you'll be mad as hell after a half an hour, and bringing back to Gamestop after 
 45. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokyo_at_dawn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=fxPKXfRRNAY
  
  The video is almost 8 minutes long and says more than a text review ever could.
  Obviously the 
 gamer is having no problem controlling the game at all. It plays perfectly fine and thoroughly 
 contradicts the gamespot review complete with split second 180 degree turns and flying under bridges. 
 So are reviewers rating the game low for its controls...
  
  #1. Stupid?
  #2. Xbot fanboys that are hating on the PS3 exclusives?
  #3. Are so accustomed to typical controls 
 they can't possibly learn something new?
  #4 Has a nervous twitch similar to a drug addict going through detox that makes it impossible to 
 play a game that requires smooth motions vs. knee jerk twitch reactions?
  
  The problems are not with the game. As a co-worker is fond of saying, I think it's operator error. 
 
  
  I leave you with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Considering the sixes and sevens handed out like candy by gamespot reviewers it is rather shocking 
 that Lair would get a 4.5. Don't get me wrong, there is much that is left to be desired with Lair 
 however a 4.5 is simply to low a score. The control scheme, while it can be unwieldy is not near 
 as bad as the reviews make out, if you have used the six axis in other games then you know that 
 it is sensitve and once you get in the groove with how to fly the dragon then there is much fun 
 to be had. Lair has massive and beautiful levels, while the frame rate can take a dip at times 
 it is not enough to detract from the overall gameplay. I applaud what the developers have tried 
 to do here. while not perfect the game merits at least a rental. As for long term replay value 
 Lair may not hold much. However, taking your dragon down to dispatch of hundreds of ground troops 
 does not get old and also engaging in large dogfight battles with other dragons has its perks. 
 Short story, rent this game, its worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorjuela
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I recently had the opportunity to watch someone play this game and despite the fact that my friend 
 happens to be a 23 year old Libertarian going to Law School with the tempermament of a comatose 
 manatee, it was not long before he simply turned around and had rage in his eyes.
  
  It was hilarious, he kept on taking off of and almost immiedately losing his bearings.
  
  It's 
 like the person who designed the game was assuming that the player would have no sense of direction 
 and therefore would want some imposed upon him.
  
  Other than that: It looks good. Not completely perfect, but good.
  
  I would recommend it as 
 a rental.
  
  Other than that, I don't know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neowolph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The 6-axis controls are awesome! Yes, it takes a little bit to get used to them. So what? I can't 
 imagine a better way to control these beasts. To all the reviewers that can't seem to manage to 
 figure out the basics of these controls, run through ALL of the training missions! My (mostly non-gaming) 
 wife has even sat down to give it a go and didn't have the kind of problems that these wussy reviewers 
 are complaining about. The controls seem really intuitive to me.
  
  One note to people that don't think the response is very good:
  Fly close to the ground. High 
 in the air, you loose the sense of how fast you are moving. Close to stationary objects like the 
 trees, rocks, buildings, ect you can a good feel for how fast you are moving. Also, given the speed 
 and that this is supposed to be a LARGE animal, it is understandable that this thing flies more 
 like a jumbo jet in a FlightSim than some futuristic fighter jet in a dogfight. I think the flight 
 feels very realistic because of the time it takes for the animal to shift its weight and reposition 
 itself after you give the command to turn or flap or whatever.
  
  This game might not be for everyone, but the reviews I keep seeing seem very unfair and written 
 by people that played the game for a very short amount of time with the purpose of getting as far 
 in as they can and as quickly as they can without taking the time to really identify with the game 
 for what it is or even to run through the training levels to attempt to grasp the concept of the 
 controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  After reading Gamespot's review of this game I'm glad I decided to try this game myself. After 
 playing the flight tutorial for 15 mins I got used to the controls. They're not THAT hard. There's 
 a learning curve that dedicated players will adapt to. I'm splitting my time between Lair and Warhawk 
 and I'm already on the 6th mission. I have yet to fail any of them. It seems to me that many reviewers 
 are always looking forward to cookie cutter games that follow patterns based on previous hits. 
 Once a title introduces something innovative, people don't have the time or desire to give it a 
 chance.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and the story is okay. I wish it was based on something other than a 
 religious zealot hellbent on genocide, but I'm only on the 7th mission. I'll see where the story 
 goes. So far I've have yet to see and issue with the time limit towards completing an objective. 
 So far the game is very generous when it comes to finishing a given task.
  
  The music is awesome. I wish there was a soundtrack mode. All that work into the soundtrack and 
 the developers don't allow players to enjoy it whenever they like?
  
  Recommendation: Gamers try this one for yourself and you be the judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaidzombie
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game has gotten a lot of slack. I haven't read one review that called anything but average 
 or worse. Well, I'm here to say that I don't find that terrible. The Six-axis controls take some 
 getting use to, your dragon will zoom ahead when you want him to turn 180. It's very dissappointing 
 that you can't use the analog sticks as an option. That was just arrogance and poor design. I found 
 myself instinctively twiddling my thumbs in an attempt to right my great leaping lizard only to 
 move the camera and obscure my view... I did this over and over and still do. But, eventually, 
 the controls will start to sync with your brain and the game will be fun. Just ignore the atrocious 
 lock-on system. Random targets are chosen, then press R2/L2 to lock-on, but I haven't found a way 
 to cycle targets, if there even is one.
  
  I will say this though, this game is the most gorgeous I have ever seen. It made me want to go 
 out and buy an HDTV and 7.1 surround sound system to enjoy it better. It's almost like Factor 5 
 used the first control scheme that worked then spent the rest of the time on the visuals. I'm sure 
 they were just happy not to be doing another Rogue Squadron game.
  
  A good game overall but disappointing due to wasted potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Okay... so I go into my local game shop to change my pre-order funds from Lair to Warhawk as I 
 had decided this morning to buy Warhawk instead and perhaps rent Lair to see if it was really worth 
 buying. In the game store on a test PS3 system, they have Lair up and running and ready for play-testing! 
 I had to wait about 20 minutes for a kid to get off the game.. and here are my thoughts after about 
 30 minutes of game play...
  
  The graphics are absolutely stunning. The setup I played on was on a flat screen 25 inch monitor. 
 But I cannot even tell you how much better it looks in person then on all those gameplay videos 
 everywhere! Factor 5 has really started to figure out how to unleash some of the power that the 
 PS3 contains. The dragons skin looks real. The background is mind blowing with good detail even 
 in the mountains miles away. The fire is also impressive and looks real. The avatars (people) look 
 a little weak and could have a little more detail and realism, but hey.. who's perfect, right? 
 ... I give the graphics a 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Sound is very immersive with realistic sounding heavy fire breathing roaring each time a dragon 
 breathes fire. You can hear the sound of the wind blowing past you as you fly into the sky. Sound 
 effects intensify as the danger level increases. Very well done, but room for improvement as well 
 and I award the sound an 8 out of 10 here.
  
  Gameplay. This is where it is at. I was worried that the gameplay would be choppy or have low frame 
 rates when there was a lot of action going on. This worry was demolished with my testing of the 
 game as the action was smooth and completely free of any choppiness. Dragon motions were also very 
 smooth and even realistic looking. Well, I guess they are realistic for what would be dragon flight 
 as I have never seen a dragon fly in my life span.. but you get what I'm saying - that the dragon 
 movements are convincing of what would be real motion should dragons actually exist. The sixasis 
 controls are a little tricky at first and this is where I assume that low scores were given to 
 the gameplay. At first, I got a little frustrated with the new motion sensing changing of flight 
 direction. I could have set my mind right there that this game was flawed and frustrating. But 
 I took a deep breath and tried to not come to conclusions too fast. And I am glad I did. Within 
 10 minutes of practice, I was steering my dragon like a pro.. with a little room for improvement. 
 But the important thing is that within 10 minutes, the flight sixasis motion control changed from 
 frustrating and new to fun and comfortable. This, to me... is awesome. A new way to play a big 
 time game with new controls that work well after only minutes of play time! The dragon fights are 
 intense and very rapid. I noticed myself getting into the game big time and moving my body as my 
 dragon should move as I stood in the store. And I am one of those cool gamers that never move any 
 thing except minimal finger movement for most games. But this game has me into it and into the 
 relentless action in no time! If any thing is flawed, from my experience.. it is only the ground 
 action which was a little awkward and didn't seem to move as smoothly or transition as well from 
 controller to screen as the flight fights. My gametime was very limited, but I just got a feel 
 that the ground action was a little short of being what Factor 5 has probably envisioned. None-the-less... 
 the gameplay I would easily put at a 9 out of 10 score just because it was so much fun.. once i 
 got the hang of it and dropped my common controls mindset. It looks like one of those great rare 
 games that is pretty easy to learn, but hard to master. That shows promise for good replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da1writer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  After playing a bit of the game, I see that the reviewers misjudged this title and probably rushed 
 through the game without giving it much of a chance. New things aren't accepted very well now a 
 days from reviewers and some gamers, sixaxis controls especially. To some, they believe the controls 
 killed the game and I believe they are wrong. In actuality, these gamers and reviewers may have 
 not spent enough time replaying the training Levels in the beginning long enough to even learn 
 how to play this game properly. Instead, like most gamers and reviewers, they rushed through the 
 game expecting it to be easy to grasp but were disappointed by their own folly. Cry me a river 
 please, Controls bad, HAH! If any of you based your purchasing decision on these negative reviews, 
 you are missing out on a very good game! Like many people in the forums on these websites, most 
 people still bought/rented the game and have a different opinion on this game and believe people's 
 judgement on Lair are wrong. I ask you, please take the time to read this very authentic review 
 that I believe is the true review of this game from me, a reviewer that has a heart for any type 
 of game, especially if it bring some new innovation for us all to enjoy.
  
  CONTROLS: 8
  The biggest deal breaker people are hearing/reading about this game are the controls. Some people 
 just want to jump in the game and don't want to learn anything new. They prefer old controls we 
 have had for 10 years (dual shock/ analogs) and don't embrace new innovation. This causes people 
 to rush through the games, hating it because of their own impatience and lack to learn, thus creating 
 a bad review (and yes, I'm talking to the reviewers and the few gamers who reviewed this bad, even 
 the 360 Fanboys who did 1.0 user reviews) . This upsets and disgust me that us gamers prefer old 
 crap and nothing new to try and learn.
  
  Now I and a few others have alot of patience when something new comes to the table (like the controls 
 of Lair) and are willing to sacrifice two to three hours of our game time to learn how to play 
 a game properly. With Lair, the controls were sorta hard at first, especially after beating the 
 First level. Exceptions goes to most of us who returned back to the Training Grounds (First Level) 
 and found out that the game has a total of 13 stages of learning how to use the controls of LAIR. 
 Once we played all of the trainging stages, we noticed that we have gotten use to the controls 
 already. This is quite surprising and after playing the second level, the little control problems 
 that we may have had left were totally out the window. My only complaint of the controls are 2 
 which are....
  
  1) The camera (controls) aren't very useful to me but I can see the direction that the developers 
 were going for. It was to see where other enemies are at if you believed you may have passed one. 
 To me though, I chose not to bother with it because I rarely miss anyone who are on my list to 
 kill :) !
  2) The 180 is sorta hard to use, it sometimes confuses itself with thrusting forward. This only 
 happens when your comfort level with the motion sensing abilities are still young but you eventually 
 find a way to do a 180 easier later. Some people may still have problems and may not even bother 
 using it, when doing a 180 is very helpful in some situations.
  
  Overall, The games controls are not as hard or unplayable as some people are making them out to 
 be, a little patience goes a long way I've heard ;) ! GRAPHICS: 9
  Three Words, drop dead gorgeous! I've never seen a game on the Playstation 3 look this good since 
 Motorstorm. The sun glistens off the water in HDR glory and the water itself looks totally real! 
 The CG cutscenes are very good looking and they may be real time, I'm not very sure. The buildings 
 look great as well, Shaders were used very well in the game to produce extremelly realistic locations. 
 The dragons are very impressive, looking exactly like I thought they would, very monsterous. The 
 people, soldiers, and enemies put dynasty Warriors to shame and looks far better than I was expecting. 
 This game is something to behold and really shows off the power of the PS3 again!
  
  Now there were two things (and get use to me saying this because it's like this in the whole review) 
 that I saw that did distract me when I was in awe of the visuals...
  
  1) Framerate sometimes dips but doesn't kill the overall experience. You are still able to kick 
 butt with no problems but the dip is noticeable.
  2) Texture pop in is highly evident, especially when you lare far from a mountain and come close 
 to it. It's a small distraction but does not kill the great gameplay of the game.
  
  Just like Motorstorm, this is a beautiful game that would make any PS3 owner proud to have. I would 
 return to this game often just to see the grand scale of these graphics the PS3 is pushing out 
 of itself.
  
  SOUND: 10
  This is probably one of the only part in the review I have no complaints thereof in. If I could 
 rate the sound in this game, it wouldn't be a 10, but an 11 just because of how the game made me 
 feel when I was listening to it. I was sitting at the title screen and the level choosing screen 
 more than a few mintues just listening to the music of the game. It is an orchestral masterpiece 
 that reminds me alot of movies like Lord of the Rings and a few movies with knights. You are littlerally 
 goign to be lost in the soundtrack and I hope down the road that this game releases an album that 
 I can buy on the internet. The music is that good and they don't skimp on the sound as well. Voice 
 acting is superb and I can't find a person who sounds out of place with their character. The dragons 
 and fierce fighting going on in the game sound great and make you feel you are in the game! As 
 mentioned before, I found no problems with the sound department, A+ stardards all the way!
  
  FUN FACTOR: 7
  This is going to get my lowest rating of the review because of a few considerable 
 reasons, which I will explain below.
  Once you get use to the motion sensing of the sixaxis of this game, you'll notice it's quite easy 
 and very fun to play actually. Learning the controls though may take you between a few minutes 
 (like me and a few others) or a few others (mostly other gamers) . Some people may just give up 
 on this game because of not being able to get use to the controls (people who rush in order to 
 beat it fast) but this game is pure for for those who believe patience is a virtue. The game is 
 quite challenging especially when trying to bash dragons (or I thought so) and wish it could have 
 been implemented alot better than what it was. Besides those problems, the God of War special moves 
 when killing the dragons (soldiers on them) were very cool and I wasted alot of time just doing 
 that to see the different kill moves! I love the variety in the missions as well because I'm not 
 costantly fighting dragons. Sometimes I'm fighting soldiers along the ground, guard a certain region 
 from enemies, or have timed missions where it's a challenge. The game does get quite repetitive 
 but can be easily overlooked because of other great games that did the same like Ninja Gaiden Sigma 
 or Heavenly Sword.
  If you're very optimistic, this game will truly entertain until the very conclusion!
  
  REPLAYABILITY: 
 8
  This game overall is great and not just because of what I've already mentioned. The story itself 
 grabs you in and never lets go, intriguing your very thoughts and makes you want to see the game 
 to it's end, a truly luscious story I admit! Not only that but the game challenges you to go to 
 extremes in killing tons of people, not losing objectives, and gaining great times to gain gold 
 medals. This gains you a great deal of accomplishment but I haven't been able to do that so far 
 sadly. There is a much greater reason for getting gold medals, you gain extras that make the game 
 seem like a directors cut/ special edition movie! You gain commentaries, Making Of clips, art, 
 and lots of other cool things! This makes the game more demanding of your skills to unlock everything 
 and is truly gives you a reason to keep playing! I do have to say though that the game is quite 
 short, it actually only takes about 6 - 10 hours to beat the game, depending on how great you are 
 with the Motion Sensing controls ( Hell yeah, goes to the very few of us who are great with the 
 Sixaxis motion sensing!) This may sound bad by alot of people but some of us keep coming back because 
 of trying to unlock more stuff, to listen to the great soundtrack, or just play the levels all 
 over again to drool over the gorgeous visuals that makes us PS3 owners proud. CONCLUSION, OVERALL 
 SCORE: 8.4
  There you have it, My score I give the game, which is a more acurate score than the Expert critics 
 have been giving this game. This game is not for everyone I must say and no matter what I say, 
 their minds will not be changed of not going to buy the game or even try the game out causes me 
 to be very sorrowful about that. This review hopefully gets heard and read by a few of those who 
 actually change their mind in giving this game a chance and at least rent it to see if they can 
 like it. Please... have a little patience, train for a few minute (or hours) in the Training Grounds 
 the second time and you will see that this game is not as bad as people have been saying. Once 
 you get use to the controls, the game is a blast to play, hear, and watch! Don't always let bad 
 reviews be your deciding factor of getting a game, for you are the one who is going to be playing 
 it, let yourself decide if the game is good or not. Sadly, because of the reviewers releasing their 
 bad score, this great game may not land in the hands of the previously wanted owners or anyone 
 it was hoping to interest. I hope you and many others reading this will give this game a chance 
 and at least rent this before bringing judgement on it. I can honestly say that LAIR was another 
 great game for PS3 and hopefully many others feel the same way. I and many others absolutely loved 
 Lair and hopefully more will as well soon ;) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinj55
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  How in the world are people giving this game such terrible reviews?!! I was looking forward to 
 Lair for quite some time now, but decided that I wouldn't buy it because of all the crummy reviews 
 it was getting. THANK YOU to all the Gamespot people who wrote in and gave their own opinion. I 
 hesitantly shelled out the money and bought this game earlier today, hoping I was going to be alright 
 with the controls. Well, let me say, this game is INCREDIBLE!! Yes, the controls are kinda tough 
 to get used to since we've all been used to playing these games by moving little joysticks around. 
 But I have had NO problems with the controls, other than when the action gets really intense, by 
 brain tries to revert back to the old way of controlling video game characters. People complain 
 about the 180 degree move not working? I nailed it on the first try and have had no probs since... 
 I'm no genius either. The scale of this game is mind-boggling. You are but one dragon and the sky 
 is full of them; on the ground there are literally thousands of infantry, and you really feel like 
 you are in the middle of a war. You can complete objectives several different ways (strafing the 
 targets, landing and using melee combat, hovering and unloading fire, etc.) , it is all up to you. 
 Bravo on this one - no PS3 owner should be without this title.... just be a little patient and 
 enjoy the immersion. I have no idea how Gamespot (I usually heavily trust their ratings) got this 
 one so wrong, 4.5? You are out of your mind - try letting a different reviewer rate this title 
 because it definitely deserves a second look by your staff. I'd give this game an honest 9 or 9.5, 
 but because of the ridiculous ppl giving it 2's because they have no patience, I'm going with a 
 10. Thanks and have fun in the skies :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureLivesOn
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The PlayStation 3 has been starving for some real exclusives, and as an owner of all three next-gen 
 systems I can concur based on the thin layer of dust collecting on its surface. With the absence 
 of GTA IV carrying the system through a rather clouded holiday season, we would turn to the somewhat 
 lesser known to get the job done. Despite months of dry spells, this week saw two: Warhawk and 
 Lair. The latter, of course, would be the more marketted title. Sadly, it would seem that yet again 
 Sony's money has been invested in something poorly. Considering that Warhawk turned out to be fairly 
 good (I'd give it an 8) .
  
  Lair is, for lack of a better term, a complete and utter failure. While many are easily impressed 
 by the well-done visuals (the only factor saving this game from a 1 in my book) , I'd be hard pressed 
 that those who feel its controls are 'intuitive' didn't mutter at least one expletive. When you're 
 creating a flight sim, control is key. Factor 5 knows this all too well, considering one of their 
 biggest successes was Star Wars Rogue Leader- a GameCube launch title developed in 6 months. And 
 yet, a second-gen PS3 title developed in 2 years produces an unflattering result all because of 
 one simple reason: the gimmick of the Sixaxis, and a sign of its ultimate usefulness to come. Which 
 is, hopefully, to be forgotten altogether.
  
  The intention is there. Use a full tilt design to control a flying creature. The execution, however, 
 is botched beyond repair. And while the tutorials make nice use of simplifying things to make you 
 feel like a better player, the actual game itself will quickly rob that feeling away and leave 
 you crying in a fetal position. Not that the game is difficult. Just accomplishing basic tasks 
 like, I dunno, playing can be quite taxing. Trying to bank right leaves your dragon sitting in 
 dead space, while using the targetting system (and I use that term very loosely) in its conflict 
 with unnecessary cinematic camera cutaways turns everything in a jumbled mess. The end result is 
 the feeling that Sony invested millions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of man hours into 
 making a motion picture with some video game elements tacked on. For the gamer looking for all 
 flash and no substance, it's genius. But for the real gamer and PS3 owner looking for some sense 
 of salvation, it's a massive kick to the junk.
  
  The holiday season wont be a total lock for us. Ignoring what the 360 (Halo 3, Mass Effect) and 
 Wii (Mario Galaxy, Smash Bros) will offer me, my PS3 still has Ratchet and Clank to look forward 
 to. But if Lair is a sign of things to come, then may God have mercy on us all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdm710
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  You'd have to play the game for 15 minutes and then put it down permanently to rate it a 4.5. There 
 has never been a game like this before, so of course there is a learning curve. What's really going 
 on here is the reviewer is a stupid douche who would rather be unethical and abuse his power in 
 an attempt to misinform consumers because he just don't like the PS3 for whatever reason. It's 
 truly sad to see such a great game get unfairly dogged like this. **** you gamespot employees, 
 you're a disgrace, and I will never take your site seriously again after this debacle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirginFingers
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's because I had a Wii and was used to motion controls, but I have no issues in Lair controlling 
 my dragon. When you tilt your controller to turn, you don't turn on a dime, but that makes sense.
 
  
  You're riding a freaking dragon, this isn't a jet fighter people. I think everyones too used to 
 flying at supersonic speeds with super precise controls. Anyways... I have a feeling people are 
 whipping their controller around in a frenzy trying to play and getting very irritated. I just 
 sat back and relaxed, tiliting my controller slowly, got gold medal on the first two levels, had 
 no trouble whatsoever with camera angles or controls. the 180 turn worked every time, target lock 
 was fine. My opinion is this games issue isn't controls, but it does have issues.... oh yes....
 
  
  issue #1 is the cutscenes. It reminds me of dynasty warriors/kessen (if anyone but me got that 
 game I'd be surprised.) in the way its cutscenes are. I'm flying my dragon heading towards the 
 battle, and then a cutscene apears. They have Mantas.... then its done.... well, what the hell 
 is a manta and why do I care since I never ended up fighting one anyways. The cutscenes aren't 
 THAT annoying, but they are overdone no doubt, but I don't care all that much.
  
  As far as when the cutscene ends and you are in control of your dragon again, I just rest my controller 
 on my lap as level as I can so when it ends my dragon doesn't do weird and crazy things. So that's 
 kind of annoying, but I can look past it just fine. At least your objectives are clear, and thats 
 saying something. I'd rather have too much info than too little.
  
  Issue # 2 is the fact that there doesn't seem to be alot to play for, it's alot of fun to do all 
 this stuff, but I wish there was more content to unlock. Maybe abilities, or custom gear for the 
 dragon, would be cool. So, being a huge dynasty warriors fan, I am perfectly happy slaughtering 
 hoards of people with a gigantic dragon (which also happens to be my zodiac, and sadly is one reason 
 I had to own this game, i mean... it's got dragons!!!)
  
  Story is meh. I honestly don't care though, I didn't get this game for it's story, I got it to 
 ride on dragons, kill tons of people, enjoy awesome graphics and sound on my home theatre. This 
 game delivers there for me, yeah there is some stuff I'd like better, but it really comes down 
 to what YOU want from this game, and what you are willing to put up with to get that.
  
  It's been so long since a game with a great story came out... in my opinion the last game with 
 an amazing story was FF7, I will NEVER forget that game, because of it's story, and I can't say 
 that about many other games. It's too badgames are becoming more and more like movies these days, 
 for every good one there's 15 crappy ones.
  
  It's too bad this game got such bad reviews, and it didn't live up to the hype, no doubt. I don't 
 think it's a 4.5, i mean, is it honestly worse than red steel? I disagree, and since Zelda Twilight 
 Princess got that dreadful review, and Greg Kasavin left, I haven't paid attention to reviews here, 
 I'd say read them but don't look at the scores. Decide what you want from it, and what you expect, 
 and what your limits are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rancor_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  either whoever reviewed this game is a drunk or they didnt complete the training missions. the 
 targeting system is a bit of a pain, but easily delt with by simply reselecting. best looking game 
 ive seen and first of its kind to rely so heavily on the six axis. the biggest problem i have, 
 is you have to sit up to play, no lying down relaxing because you cant hold the controller level 
 enough.... the combat system is also original, even for a dragon game. spending more time in the 
 air and only going to ground to slaughter the enemy by way of dragon. the fire is also different, 
 all controlled by one button, but allows for big fireballs, quick shots and looong fire bursts.
 
  took a long damn time for this game to hit the shelves and there is no need to do a disservice 
 to it by telling everyone that the reviewer doesnt know how to play anything that doesnt use 15 
 button streetfighter combos. this is definatly worth the wait IMO!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double_Wide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Why the hell did gamespot and so many users rate this game so low?! I LOVE IT!!! I think its one 
 of the more innovative games that I have played in awhile! I'm half way through the game and I 
 can confidently say that the controls aren't shotty at all. It does take awhile to get used to 
 but its part of the overall learning curve. I will admit that the targeting system could be better. 
 Graphically and sound wise, it truely shows the power that the PS3 has under its hood. Honestly 
 guys, lighten up on this game. I dunno if I get the full effect of this game because I play it 
 on my home theater system (and feels like I'm on a movie simulator) or i've given this game more 
 of a chance than the majority of gamers that have rated it. Either way, I highly recommend this 
 game to all PS3 owners especially if you want a good feel for the SIXAS technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamprey263
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to say that the previous reviews of Lair in EGM were right to rate the game 
 low, but for the wrong reasons.
  
  CONTROLS: Controls weren't as bad as previously stated, the SIXAXIS works just fine for moving 
 flying left, right, up, down, but it's the tricky things that really makes my blood boil. Sometimes 
 when I want to do a 180 turn, I do the required hoist upward of the SIXAXIS, but nothing happens, 
 so I try again and again, but instead of doing a 180, I do a dash forward (aaarrrgghhh!!!) . Firing 
 your weapons is really easy. You use the L1 and R1 buttons to auto-lock, and you just fire away 
 at everything. COMBAT: Combat is where you'll find the game to be at its most broken. There's no 
 need for any kind of strategy in this game. You can shoot at everything in this game, including 
 friendly NPCs, but it's better not to discriminate and just shoot everything; hey, it gets the 
 job done. It's hard enough just to recognize enemies. There's no radar. It reminds me of the movie 
 Braveheart where Longshanks orders his army to fire arrows onto his own troops in order to kill 
 the enemy attacking them, but someone objects saying they'll hit their own troops, and Longshanks 
 is like yes, but it'll hit theirs as well ; and that's the attitude you need to not feel that this 
 combat is broken... but I can't do that. So besides basically main flying combat, there's other 
 modes of combat. One can dash at other dragons and knock off their riders. Other sequences come 
 up where you have to line up your dragon with the enemy dragon, as you're flying pretty much side 
 to side, then jerk the controller over to knock the rider off. Other times a sequence is innitiated 
 where there's a mid air grapple and you can claw, block, or blow fire on the other dragon. There's 
 also ground combat, which basically is only needed to feed on enemy soldiers for health, but you 
 don't really need to do this as each mission you have 3 lives, and at most you'll only die once. 
 Basically though, the game tries to have many modes of combat, and not one is satisfying in the 
 least. It doesn't even give you the thrill when you accomplish a victory in a mid air grapple, 
 'cause all you had to do was hit fire first and the other dragon goes down without any effort; 
 plus, every mid air grapple looks the same and gets redundant very quick. None of this combat mini-games 
 feels a fraction as rewarding as one Wario Smooth Moves 3 second task.
  
  STORY: This game is epic in a very superficial sense; there's dragons and knights and battles, 
 and dull monotone voice overs and an orchestrated score in 7.1 surround sound... but all it really 
 boils down to is red vs blue, and you're red (seriously!) . Some of the best parts of the game are 
 in the CGI... so onto graphics...
  
  GRAPHICS: Like I just said, the CGI story parts are the highlights of the game, but that barely 
 makes up for anything. The CGI scenes are detailed and great looking, but then the realtime graphics 
 kick in between scenes and the games framerate takes a drastic and very noticeable drop. The framerate 
 stays pretty consistent in realtime. There's some graphic problems when flying low over the terrain. 
 You start noticing the textures pop-up mid draw distance as you fly over fields with crops. Castles 
 look the best in this game, as a lot of detail went into making them; however, you barely have 
 any need to be anywhere near a castle in this game, and when you're flying by them you're usually 
 in combat and have no reason to look, and even if you do look you're at such a distance you can't 
 even notice the details, even in 1080p. MISSIONS/BATTLES: The game's missions almost seem pointless. 
 Unless you really force yourself into liking this game, you might never know what importance they 
 serve. You basically know there's 1 task to be done at all times and unless you don't do it, you'll 
 fail the mission or be forced to complete it before moving on. The games battles themselves sound 
 very epic, as there was supposed to be legions of knights on the ground supported by the dragons, 
 but if you actually watch the ground battles from the sky, the soldiers just stand around DOING 
 ABSOLUTELY NOTHING, but just standing their in perfect formations, not engaging each other. Their 
 only purpose is to be eaten by your dragon, for health reasons. The only ground units you have 
 to be aware of are catapults, as they're usually attacking something you need to be protecting, 
 and naval ships (which also have catspults) .
  
  The people at Factor 5 tried doing a lot with Lair, but maybe they tried to do too much at once. 
 Or maybe their entire team of quality assurance analysts up and quit. This game is broken on many 
 fronts. It's so hard to put your finger down on any one thing that needs to be worked on, as this 
 game is a well rounded mess. I'd recommend this as a rental at best, but even then I feel you'd 
 be wasting your money. How do you think I feel? I paid $60+tax!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdhall1313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I inverted the camera control so that the controls work like flying a plane. (tilt forward to go 
 down and tilt back to go up) . After that, flying around was very intuitive and simple.
  
  The graphics are perfect and the difficulty seems just right to me. I guess some people just don't 
 understand flying. I also don't understand what the Gamespot reviewer was talking about with targeting. 
 It worked fine for me. All you have to do is fly toward the target and be facing it when you try 
 to lock on. It isn't rocket science.
  
  Most of the games I have are for the 360 and I still prefer the 360, but this game makes me glad 
 I bought a PS3 too.
  
  Give Lair a chance and ignore the bad reviews from the people that can't figure out how to fly. 
 You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prototype1218
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I've read negative review after negative review of this game, and I'm sorry, but I simply don't 
 understand. The only fault even mentioned is the control scheme. So much of its score falsely suffers 
 from this, so I felt I should toss in my two pennies. This, therefore, is more than a game's review; 
 it's a review's review as well.
  
  You play as Rohn, an Asylian soldier in the top-gun Sky Guard. The story of Rohn and his closer 
 comrades takes just enough time to pull you in before taking off. Each mission in the game feels 
 like it has a purpose, which always gives you an incentive to play the next one in order to progress 
 through the solid story of politics and morals.
  
  Actually playing these missions seems to be the source of everyone's complaints. As you probably 
 know, the steering of your dragon is done entirely with the Sixaxis' motion-sensing controls. Tilt 
 the controller in the direction you want to fly. That's it. No 'but's about it. Tilt it down to 
 dive, up to climb, side to side for banking, whip it like a set of reins to dash and pitch it up 
 quickly to turn around. None of this to me sounds like it deserves a 4.5 score, seeing as how it 
 works and does exactly what you tell the controller to do. Honestly, if the controls are too much 
 for you, either take some more time to improve, or put it down and say you can't do it. But don't 
 go and bash the game as a whole just for a learning curve. I gave a number of sighs and tsks throughout 
 the first mission, then I went through some tutorials, and tried that mission again. Problem solved. 
 In some respects, it was a little reminiscent of riding Agro in Shadow of the Colossus once I got 
 the hang of it. The only aspect of the controls that I think could have been better were the takedowns. 
 These are like the button-pressing minigames of God of War or Resident Evil 4, however, most of 
 the commands are also done with jerking and flicking the Sixaxis, and for reasons I can't quite 
 explain, didn't feel as rewarding as those in other games.
  
  With that said, I should go through the specifics of the gameplay. As you fly around, you can lock 
 on to nearby targets with R1. Doing this gives you infinitely better accuracy with your fireballs 
 (fired with Square) , as well as the option to use Circle to fly in for the kill. All you need is 
 to push the button for an automatic homing dash and collision with your target, initiating a short 
 slow-motion sequence during which you can rotate the camera and dash for another nearby target. 
 You can't move the camera up and down for this, but that's a minor complaint. These combos are 
 pretty effective since this dash will immediately take out normal enemies most times, but with 
 tougher targets, you have the option of pressing Triangle during the slow-mo sequence to start 
 a melee fight. At this point, all the shoulder buttons block, and the face buttons are assigned 
 to melee controls like biting, clawing and breathing fire. There's not a lot of length or depth 
 to these fights, but it's fun to have these creatures get down and dirty like something this fierce 
 I think ought to. Other enemies include infantry and cannons on the ground you can land near and 
 obliterate with flames, claws and fangs, and with more standard ground controls, once again making 
 your dragon feel like a barely tamed beast. Different missions have other ways in which you have 
 to take out your enemy, such as picking up bombs with your talons and dropping them on a Mokai 
 city, or single-handedly taking out power cables and avoiding search lights in the night sky. Variety 
 like this only helps the game, and it's frankly something I didn't think I'd see in Lair.
  
  Each mission has circumstances for earning a bronze, silver or gold medal, unlocking hidden 
 extras, new combos, even new dragons. Clearing the missions is easy enough, but these unlockables 
 add a good deal of replayability, and I imagine that the more time you put into this game, the 
 more fun controlling your dragon will be.
  
  These graphics are as gritty as those of Resistance, and do a lot of justice to the PS3's power 
 in this area. The blurring is nice, the dragons look real, the fire and smoke is exciting to watch -- it 
 just looks really good. One minor issue, though, is some of this seems to come at the price of 
 the sense of speed I would have liked to have in this game.
  
  I should say that the sound was pretty impressive as well. The music is as epic as the fights, 
 though some of the voices of your comrades could have been more convincing in the heat of battle.
 
  
  In short, the controls aren't revolutionizing anything, but they work fine, and are sensitive enough 
 to have you barely thinking about them after a mission or two. The game has enough substance to 
 it, looks and sounds great, and is generally fun to play. In no way will it bring amazing new ideas 
 to the industry, but it's a solid title in your PS3 library. Yes, there was a lot of hype for this 
 one, but don't let expectations get in the way of just having some fun playing a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildbucingBill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how Gamespot can rate this game so low. I almost did not buy it because of the 
 review. I am glad my wife bought it for me anyway. This game is fantastic. The graphics are beautiful, 
 the sound is good. The story line has kept my interest and sets up each scenario very well. I was 
 dreading playing this beacause of the reviews of the gameplay . Do not believe the negative press. 
 This game is a joy to play. It was very intuitive from the beginning and controlling your dragon 
 is almost artistic. Also the camera angles are just fine, thank you. I have no problems playing 
 this game and it is one of the best games in my PS3 collection of about 11 games right now. I love 
 this game! Maybe game players are so used to every game being contolled the same way, that if something 
 is different, they feel it is too hard or not good. I love the control scheme. The sixaxis rivals 
 my WII controller on this one. Bravo to the programmers. Buy this game! You will not be dissapointed. 
 It definatly reinforces my belief the PS3 is just coming into it's own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loud_mouth_94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely not a pick up and play type of game, but is no where near as hard to play as 
 people make it out to be. You will have to spend some time getting used to the controls and it 
 may not be for everyone because some people just don't have the patience to learn something new. 
 Once you get the controls down the dragon is not that hard to control as long as you don't go swinging 
 the controller around like a mad man. The only thing that I have trouble performing is the 180 
 degree turn. After you get used to the controls the game is a whole lot of fun to play. There is 
 nothing like taking control of a giant dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dnadolny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot, go poop yourself. Lair is fan-tastic and you probably only played it for five minutes 
 and gave up. Geez. Anywho, I say it has beautiful graphics, intriguing storyline, and smooth contols.
 
  
  So, Gamespot, give Lair another try cuz you will actually love it if you play it a while. Now some 
 may say that the controls are bad. BUZZ OFF! So :P
  
  Also, Assassins Creed looks cool.
  
  now this has not come near 100 words so Im gonna do somethin.
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a.
  
  Dastardly yours,
  Dnadolny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  *sob* Ah, man. Sorry, I just finished leaking fluids out of my eyes after playing Lair. A game 
 that looks and even sounds great, but thanks to dismal controls and s****y camera work, Lair leaves 
 a lot more to be desired for.
  
  The game takes place in a time where volcanoes are emerging at an alarming rate. Because of that, 
 the people have divided into two distinct groups: the Mokai and the Asylians. The Mokai are jealous 
 of the Asylians beacuse the Asylians are rich and the Mokai aren't. So, of course, the Mokai wage 
 a war on the Asylians in an attempt to get there land back. You ride a dragon, shooting fireballs 
 at your enemies. Who doesn't want to do that?! That sounds like fun. But unfortuanetly, the camera 
 work is unbelieveably s****y. By the time the camera decides to start working, you're already frustrated 
 to the point where you want to scream. Also, the controls are poor. To do this slow-mo thing where 
 you can target multiple enemies, you have to press a combination of buttons. Thanks to the amazing 
 controls and even better camera work, you struggle jsut to lock onto two enemies. 
 
  I'm losing my mind! Sorry about that.
  
  All in all, Lair could've been a wonderful, critcally acclaimed game if it weren't for the controls 
 and camera work. Thanks to dismal controls and s****y camera work, Lair leaves a lot more to be 
 desired for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Terran
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Lair, the highly anticipated dragon riding game from Factor 5, is, to put it mildly, a challenge. 
 Graphically its the best game I've ever played, the cinematics are amazing and generally transition 
 right into gameplay without any drop in quality. Acoustically it is equally grand, and as you play 
 through it you'll unlock the soundtrack for your listening pleasure. The story is somewhat predictable 
 but otherwise well written, although short. Depending on how long it takes you to learn the control 
 scheme you could conceivable beat the game in a day, assuming of course you're not concerned with 
 unlocking the extras. The control scheme has a ridiculously huge learning curve, just starting 
 out you might pull off a bronze, but it'll be hours maybe even days before you get remotely good. 
 The sixaxis controller is fine if you only want to turn in a wide left or right, and you'll be 
 able to divebomb the ground easily enough, as long as aim isn't important. What kills you is the 
 tight turns, and picking your targets. The 180 turn should be a simple tilt back but like gamespot 
 already pointed out, it's not always that easy and often it'll take 2 or 3 tries to pull it off 
 by which time you've already dashed twice and have serious ground to cover. You'll also have to 
 be extra careful with the lock on feature as half the time you won't even see the white circle 
 that designates your target, and when you do it'll be the wrong target. The breathing of flames 
 is easy enough and the ground combat could keep me occupied for hours, dragon on dragon fights 
 are a challenge to initiate and until you've unlocked some good combos a challenge to walk away 
 from. Takedowns are a watered down version of the beautiful Simon Says fights from Indigo Prophecy 
 and God of War. If you thought Wii Tennis was a workout, prepare the towel and water bottle ahead 
 of time.
  
  The missions are meant to be frantic and they are, you're not gliding along like in Ace Combat, 
 you're in the middle of a warzone, projectiles coming from every direction, and you still have 
 mission objectives that you need to accomplish quickly while still managing some extra carnage 
 for the medals. You're mission objectives change often and you'll hear about it 6 or 7 times, the 
 game really stresses speed. If you removed the time limit on the medals this would be a much simpler 
 game but you can't, so good luck with gold.
  
  Overall I like the game, in fact i like it a lot, but it very clearly isn't for everyone, which 
 is why I encourage you to rent first. You'll either send your controller through your tv or you'll 
 have a grand ol' time.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Story: 7
  Controls: 5
  Replay: 6
  
  Overall: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  A personal opinion on Lair. What follows is a rant about it's horrible control scheme. I'd start 
 this off more traditionally but , this was honestly written up by me on neogafs forums but rather 
 then rewrite it entirely I simply altered it a bit to not include mention of posters and instead 
 focus on why I think the game is a pile of crap.
  
  The game simply can't seem to differentiate between a dash and a 180 flip for me. This means simply 
 turning around is a major ordeal because I wind up dashing 3 or 4 times instead of doing the 180 
 flip. The end result is that I've dashed far enough in the wrong direction that I just slowly fly 
 back towards the mission objective. Hilariously enough, when I actually want to do a dash , on 
 more then 1 occasion I've had the 180 flip actually work... which means instead of moving faster 
 towards the objective I'm now facing the wrong way. Some of the folks in this thread seem way to 
 easy on this game, just because you can pull off the 180 flip (which is a very important technique 
 in any flight game) 90% of the time doesn't mean the controls are good, good controls translate 
 into pulling off any movement 100% of the time. If the best even someone practiced at the game 
 can pull off is 9/10 that tells us that 1 out of every times you attempt to a simple required action 
 , it will not work. It's cool developers want to use the sixaxis to provide a more immersive gaming 
 experience, I applaud any attempts made toward the goal but is it really so much to ask for atleast 
 an option to play it the way most of us are used to? Julien eckburt mentions it'd be too clunky 
 if it were traditional controls, who is he to know? Let the people that buy the game decide how 
 they want to play it.
  
  Not everyone will hate the controls ;however, most people likely WILL have issue with the clunky 
 mission objectives ... and I'll go ahead and say it- horrible graphics. Firstly the missions themselves 
 are just retreads of ideas seen in many flight games of the past and most especially in rogue leader. 
 Stage 2 is an escort mission. Now , I don't know about you guys but I find escort missions a generally 
 terrible and lazy way to build a gaming experience. Instead of worrying about your own health bar 
 and performance in a game you have to worry about weather a slowly moving scripted NPC with little 
 to no AI is going to get killed or not. In my case I'd have ordinarily just played the game and 
 looked past it as lazy and rushed development but I was fighting with the controls the entire time 
 so it just made an escort mission that much worse. It should again be mentioned though, they went 
 to the most annoying of all flight game ideas after only 1 single stage.
  
  Yes, I called lairs graphics horrible , I even bolded it for emphasis. See , just because a game 
 turns on every special effect known to man and throws 8 billion polygons and 9000 objects on screen 
 at once does not mean it looks good. The color pallet in Lair is filled with babypuke greens and 
 dogcrap browns. I personally find it very unappealing. Add to that a framerate which on my television 
 at 720p is very poor once you hit stage 2. Single digit poor. The engine simply isn't as optimized 
 as it should be. I find the general artwork in the game to be very boring and generic too. It's 
 funny, I can bring up warhawk for the control argument quite easily because it gave me the choice 
 and with graphics, it has a very similar engine- large sweeping environments, great water , volumetric 
 clouds yet unlike lair it manages to be locked at a never wavering 30fps. Factor 5 also has this 
 ... idono what to call it- a 3d bilinear filter perhaps ? in the training stables level , go close 
 to the ground and just fly forward, you'll discover that 3 feet from the dragons nose the ground 
 isn't just receiving a texture pass but that the polygons literally morph out of the ground to 
 make it appear more detailed. It's kind of a bizzare effect. It's great that the game runs in 1080p 
 ... allegedly.. but I've always been in the framerate before all else category so to me the game 
 does in fact look ugly. This is not some lame attempt at a troll. Agree or disagree , it's just 
 my opinion.
  
  I'm merely doing my part to give gamers out there on the fence more evidence to make a decision 
 with. If you read this and the many other bad reviews and still feel you need to play this game 
 then by all means give it a rent but do not buy it, not even on the cheap. Hope that someone rents 
 it like I did and just play their borrowed copy for an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyhulk
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Im buying the game today but it has been confirmed on forums to even youtube that this is the first 
 ps3 game to be played on your psp via remote play. IM giving this a 10 for sony and factor 5 software 
 achievement, nothing more and nothing less.
  
  Yes its the contrl scheme is horrible on the sixaxis and gameplay is numb, but I believe all that 
 is tossed aside once you play it on your psp anywhere on the planet... Now that may sound great 
 but there will be trouble with finding a free hotspot and most importantly how the connection holds 
 up.
  If your skeptical about how your psp can handle all those graphics and processing power, its simply 
 your ps3 handleing all the computations and only streaming the video feed to your psp. Only feedback 
 going are the psp buttons and analog. Amzingly people prefer to play it on there psp just for the 
 analog function which many agree runs smoother.
  
  I must say this is really really big news, who would have thoght that something like this was possible 
 so early into the ps3 console life. Sony great job in stepping up the enevelope and if this is 
 your defination of next gen, then bring on gt5, mgs4 and other games that will use this great function.
 
  
  game might suck but its quite simply a technological achievement that can only bring positives 
 for sony's playstation franchise.
  
  thanks for your time and enjoy your copy of lair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyFish778
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  if you have a ps2 controoler connected to your ps3:
  
  USE A PS2 ADAPTOR WICH IS 5 DOLLARS AND ONCE YOU PUT THAT IN THE FIRST USB SLOT YOUR WIRELESS WILL 
 AUTOMATICALLY BE ON PORT 2 AND START THE GAME AND REASIGN TO 1 ENJOY YOUR ANALOG FLIGHT\
  
  Seems like the game automatically resets the controls if your control doesn't support sixaxis motion.
 
  
  This game isn't bad, hope you guys will enjoy it like I did
  
  http://boardsus. playstation. com/playstation/board/message? board. id=lair&amp; thread. id=6870
  
 
  check the above forum for more information
  
  If you're skeptical, then I'd recommend renting it. There's nothing wrong with giving the game 
 a try. I bought regardless of the reviews cause I love dragon games... I only play it for a little 
 while because my arms start to get sore from doing the shaking motion for certain tasks that require 
 the dragon to tear it up... Check out the link in my sig, and if you feel comfortable using the 
 controls like that, then you should have no problem with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorn7
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Well let me start out by saying this. If you do not like six-axis and do not want to learn to use 
 it DO NOT PICK THIS UP. But if you like the six-axis or want to learn how to use it this is a MUST 
 BUY. The production values are amazing for this game and it is a graphical treat. I will even go 
 as far as to say it is the best looking game this generation. You will find yourself being distracted 
 by the beautiful environments and sometimes have to replay missions because of your mid battle 
 joyrides. For fans of the six-axis the controls are very tight and responsive and after about the 
 third mission, you will find that you wont even have to think about what your hands are doing to 
 glide with ease through the level. With that said it is interesting that they did not give the 
 option to fly analog. It seems like something that will alienate people more than it will bring 
 in more gamers to the title. For those who hate the controls i could easily see this getting as 
 low as a 6.5.
  
  Difficulty in Lair is something that will keep the game interesting for a very extended period 
 of time. This is the first game in years that has made me retry a mission multiple times, and not 
 only that, but kept the action fresh and enjoyable. The take-downs are beautiful to watch and the 
 one on one dragon fights are insanely intense at times. Pair that up with a compelling soundtrack 
 and epic battles in the background that could make a fantasy nerd cry and you have a winner.
  
  In conclusion for fans of six-axis Lair is a MUST HAVE for the ps3. For those that hate the 
 six-axis, it is either a RENTAL or PASS until Heavenly Sword comes out next week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valum
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  After playing through Lair I can honestly say that I love this game. This is not the review of 
 a PS fanboy, either. In fact, the PS3 is the first system I've ever owned by Sony (my past systems 
 have been Sega based and Microsoft based) , so don't think that I'm writing a good review of this 
 game because I'm using it as a new base to spout my pro-Sony speeches. I own all three major consoles 
 and enjoy all three very much. I just sincerely enjoyed this game. The graphics are simply wonderful, 
 the story was engaging if not totally unpredictable, and I found the controls to be just fine, 
 though a little flawed (the 180 degree turn still has me cussing) . From start to finish I loved 
 this game.
  However, I can totally see the other side of the coin. Every argument against this game that I've 
 read is very valid. Even though I enjoyed the controls, would it have been so hard to incorporate 
 joystick controls, too? Dragons are mythical creatures, so would it have been totally over the 
 top to come up with some way that they could have some innate type of radar? It's things like these 
 that made me give it a lower score.
  Bottom line, you're either going to love the controls and the overall experience, or you're going 
 to throw the controller at your television after vomiting uncontrollably. Either way, rent first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes it can. How can a game that has so much potental and look so sweet be so bad? At this point 
 I've only played through a few levels but from what i can tell, the gamespot review is quite acurate. 
 The controls are terrible and dont always react to your movements. The game play is constantly 
 interurpted by cutscenes which gets annoying at times. The dragon on dragon fights are also a let 
 down and as fun as riding around on a dragon sounds, its actually kinda boring. Beyond a decent 
 storyline, there is not much to this game. People into the D&amp; D, LOTR genre will be drawn to 
 it but even still, chances are you're gonna be disappointed. Rent it first to decide for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimdagamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Lair seems to have done a lot of things right. It's beautiful, it has a good story that's not too 
 predictable, and it has dragons in it. Hell if this had a normal control scheme, gamespot probably 
 would have given it a 9. However, they didnt. They gave it a 4.5. I personally liked the control 
 scheme and after level five I didnt even think about the controls. But Ive also been playing 
 Blazing Angles: Squadrons of WWII with the SIXAXIS also So my advice is to rent it. Its not very 
 long; I beat it in about 8 hours. If youre like me and you feel the need to go back and do everything 
 perfect, then buy it. If the controls make you throw your controller at the screen, obviously dont 
 buy it. But dont pass up trying it. Its a game like no other. The only reason I didn't give it 
 a ten was on account of some minor glitches. It made it a little disorienting.
  
  P. S. The large-scale battles are LARGE-scale battles. If you dont like to have to fight against 
 heavy odds (100-1 typically) then this one wont be your favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liberty0x2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I want to tackle is the controls. If you have A. D. D. or no will to adapt and learn 
 (which many great games in the past have forced you to do) , then ya you'll hate Lair. On the other 
 hand if you some one who is willing to sit down with a game, play it, and then maybe try and learn 
 the controls your in for a great experience that you won't see again for a while. Yes at first, 
 it is hard as hell to control but after about an hour I had no issues with it. The only complaint 
 I have is that the 180 command doesn't work as well as it should, thats it. Here is a video NOT 
 made by me that show just how easy it is to control.
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=gU0HUtY-5N8
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=rJrO6nI_WmU
  
  The game 
 play is exactly what you should expect from F5. Tight aerial combat that leaves you satisfied and 
 wanting more. Things do start to get a bit tedious at times but over all the game keeps things 
 fresh. Now the graphics do have some frame rate issues, some people cry like babies about this 
 doesn't matter what game it is. I'm a pc gamer, I can care less as long as its playable, I'm use 
 to games not always being 60fps. The detail in every thing is great, from the character models 
 to the water effects every thing looks amazing. Overall give Lair a real try, by that I mean play 
 a few missions not just the first 3 and give up. If ya tough out the first hour or two and practice 
 the controls, who knows you might just really get into the game.
  
  So if ya want, believe the over dramatic reviews, from people who in my opinion played the game 
 for 10 min and gave up., go ahead, but you really are missing out.
  
  P. S.
  Ign and Gamespot have both really disappointed me recently and it all started with the score Gamespot 
 gave Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  It seems the only reviewers i trust any more are Game informer who by the way gave this game a 
 justifiable 7.5 from one guy and a 8 from the other. This is my first review ever on this site, 
 which I did only because of how bad this game is getting raped by some review sites for no real 
 reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IWolfofMibuI
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I've never reviewed a game on this site before, but after seeing the numerous negative reviews 
 Lair received I felt I should write my first review in defense of a game I feel has been unjustly 
 marred. I pre-ordered Lair before it was reviewed and was quite concerned when the first reviews 
 were revealed. It seemed either people loved the new control scheme or hated it. After playing 
 it I'm not sure what there would be to hate. While most agree the game looks beautiful (except 
 for some HD users, a category to which I unfortunately do not yet belong) the main problems have 
 come from criticism of the control scheme, so this is where this review will begin. I too was skeptical 
 about motion control, having been thoroughly under-whelmed by gimmicky Wii play. After playing 
 the flight sequences in Lair it will be hard to go back to analog controls, at least for flying 
 games. There is somewhat of a learning curve. Most, including me, would do well to complete the 
 training course twice before entering the game as the new scheme takes some getting used to; or 
 at least be prepared not to ace the first couple of missions out of the gate. After time it becomes 
 second nature and almost visceral; banking gracefully to the left and right, shaking enemies and 
 fortifications to pieces, swiping infantry into the air, ramming opposing dragons, all is made 
 much more satisfying by actually performing the motions yourself. The control scheme is not at 
 all gimmicky, but almost natural. It does feel quite a bit touchy in the beginning and I had a 
 tendency to over-steer; I also took a great deal of time to learn the 180, (which I still only 
 hit at about an 85% rate, so it takes a lot of practice, but it is a great maneuver and a lifesaver 
 sometimes) but the game's story and missions are so varied and well-balanced that you usually seem 
 to learn-by-doing. Some of the missions aspects are my only gripes with the game. Early in one 
 of the first major, and very multifaceted, missions I discovered that mission objectives are shown 
 during the cut scenes, but once they are shown you are on your own in the wide maps of the game 
 to pin-point exactly where you're needed. It only comes up occasionally (mostly with moving targets, 
 like intercepting enemy dragons, where the games arrow pointer system doesnt entirely work) but 
 even this was not an issue after some trial-and-error learning. I'll also admit that I haven't 
 studied the manual, so it's possible there's something I've missed that will aid in this, if not 
 this is at most a minor problem that hardly detracts from game-play. The only other slight annoyance 
 is the manner with which the game sometimes goes into an in-game cut-scene in the middle of combat 
 reminding you of mission objectives or progress. For players like me who want to see that column 
 of enemy troops incinerated or those ships sunk before the mission ends it can be a little trying. 
 Again, it hardly detracts from the game-play, but can be frustrating at times of high-drama.
  
  The story is actually quite moving and is extremely cinematic in some sequences, and the characters 
 better developed than I expected from a dragon-flying game. The score is appropriately sweeping 
 and the voice work is excellent. The in-game ranking system actually provides you with incentive 
 to replay missions, as I have done as I've advanced and gained better control of the game-play 
 to ace the earlier missions. The difficulty is very balanced; it is only moderately difficult to 
 complete a mission to advance the story, but it truly takes some skill to get the Gold for every 
 mission.
  
  
  I'll try to refrain from referring to the negative reviews except to say that it might just be 
 a case of not for everyone; in which case I wish that reviewers could bottle their vitriol (can 
 you REALLY not figure out how to bank left and right?) . In some cases I wonder how much some 
 reviewers tried the game before they quit; or how many read the first review and barely attempted 
 it at all. My greatest fear is the negativity of some of the reviews will prevent the growth of 
 this kind of innovation in the industry. If a player who gave Lair a negative review only attempted 
 a few minutes of game-play, I implore you to try again, and patiently approach the game and its 
 very intuitive control scheme. It only takes a little time and practice and Lair will offer a truly 
 unique and immersive experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graugg
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was going to be the main reason why I bought a PS3. I was so stoked and couldnt wait 
 until its release. Well the time has come and I dare say sadly passed. Lair is a stunning game 
 graphics wise but thats all it has going for it well okau the sound is decent too. Its the control 
 and play factor that suffers. This game had such potential and it falls short on the most important 
 aspects of playing a video game. 1. The game has to be fun to play. In my opinion Lair is not fun 
 to play. 2. The controls should be responsive and well attuned to the theme of game. In my opinion 
 the controls are horrible and it appears to be a rush job. Looks like I will have to wait for another 
 reason to buy a PS3. I will just stick to my 360 for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this much because of the fact I couldn't play it much without quiting. When you 
 can't do something in a game, you shouldn't play or make the game. As much as it is a beauty to 
 look at (the best game I've seen on any console) it seriously lacks playabilty. Yet if you're one 
 of those eye candy gamers who just likes to brag about how good your system plays things, go right 
 ahead and spend your 60 dollars on this sad excuse for a game . To me so blows another possible 
 exclusive hit. How much is to much? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychowithabow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me state that I did go into this game with low expectations; indeed, I almost decided to pass 
 it over solely based upon Gamespot's review. However, after renting it I have decided that the 
 reviewers were just plain wrong.
  
  There is absolutely nothing wrong with the controls. It only took me a few minutes to become familiar 
 with them, and before long I was soaring with ease, blasting the blazes out of enemies. Honestly, 
 I don't know what happened with Gamespot; perhaps they were holding their controllers upside down, 
 or maybe they've spent too many hours with the old style of gaming (read: analog sticks and button 
 mashing) . There is no problem with the camera, at least none that I can find. It acts like any 
 other camera that I have come across; the auto lock behaves in a predictable and helpful manner, 
 and allows you to pull off some exhilarating animations. In short, I went into this game expecting 
 to be disappointed in all the places that I was told I was going to be, and it didn't take long 
 for my mind to be changed. Do yourself a favor: rent this game at least and make up your own mind. 
 It was a refreshing break from the same old derivative shooters and fighters that have flooded 
 the consoles. Everyone makes mistakes, and Gamespot made one with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrael696
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  the thing that i liked most is the story of the game, you don't see other dragons games like this 
 beside you are not using the dragon all the time is a very good game u should try it, i hope that 
 there will be more games of dragons like this one play it you wont regret this is one of the cool 
 stuff that i have and there is many people that like it to so they think the same way that i do 
 nice very very nice you don't see thinks like this every year.
  
  The action is very exciting, just like the graphics, the realism, the sequence of it , is all great 
 believe it, i don't say to many good things of a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice_III
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely hyped about Lair going into the final few weeks before the first reviews came out. 
 And following bad review after bad review I was extremely disappointed with the game. I still decided 
 to give the game a chance and rented it this weekend and all I can say is this game is epic.
  
  First the motion controls - they aren't flawless and the more advanced moves (like the 180 turn) 
 only work half the time. However, the basic control scheme of turning left or right and going up 
 or down works pretty well. Playing the game I have decided to stop using the more advanced moves 
 that rarely work, so it takes my dragon 2 to 3 seconds to turn around instead of half a second. 
 Not ideal but this doesn't ruin the game.
  
  The camera is the other weak spot in the game, with the lock on feature sometimes sending your 
 camera spiraling out of control. Is it ideal for a game, no, but limiting the use of the lock on 
 when in a large cluster of soldiers greatly reduces this problem.
  
  The gameplay is simple and at times repetitive but every single level has different objectives 
 that keeps the game relatively fresh.
  
  If you take into account these 3 things the game would probably only be a 6.0, but so many of the 
 weaknesses are canceled out be superb presentation, both with graphics and audio. The music used 
 in the game is amazing, with a perfect blend of intense war and slow haunting music. The game is 
 just great to look at, with so much action constantly happening all around you. The battles, maps 
 and boss battles are epic in size and the sun's reflection on the water is one of the best lighting 
 effects I've ever seen in a game.
  
  This game may not be for everyone but if you are a PS3 owner give it a chance and rent it, you 
 may (like me) be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoticusPlatt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm no fanboy, or if I am, I'm pro Nintendo. Saying that, I still wanted to like this game. I had 
 it preordered, and my PS3 was a bit dusty. I had read all the reviews I could get my hands on before 
 following through on my preorders and we all knew what we saw.
  
  So I rented the game. I've put several hours into it playing some missions repeatedly to unlock 
 extras and get better medals. It's a tough game.
  
  The main issue that people had with this game is its control. They didn't like the sixaxis controls. 
 They said that the dragon controlled slow and couldn't turn fast enough.
  
  -The controls in this game take some getting used to. To a point, they are downright clumsy and 
 difficult in the beginning. This is not an easy to pick up and play title. Saying that, after trying 
 some missions twice or 3 times, I was able to easily accomplish our mission objectives. At first 
 I guess I was a little overwhelmed, I didn't know what buttons to press for which attacks to use 
 on which targets. There is so much epic action going on, you don't have the time to sit and think 
 about what you are supposed to do. Let it be known, I believe that replaying missions just once 
 or twice will eliminate any precision and control issues that people complain about experiencing.
 
  
  In one review, a big issue that was brought up was on the bridge level (5 I believe) where the 
 Mokai dropped off Minotaurs and Rhinos and you had to lock on to them to save your troops. The 
 reviewer claimed it was unplayable, you couldn't lock on for the life of you. Well, for the first 
 time I played, there was so much sensory input going on that I couldn't grasp it either, but on 
 the second time, I didn't miss a bad guy lock on once and sailed through the mission. I really 
 think that we came into this game with a preconception about the control and let the change in 
 control control our opinion as we went through the game. Give it a chance. Also, big clunky dragons 
 shouldn't have great turning angles. The biggest control issues I have still at this point is the 
 180 degree turn dashes me sometimes, and I still feel like I'm button mashing at times. Control 
 is ok, DEFINITELY not the trainwreck that it is made out to be.
  
  -The music in this game is amazing. I love it. The voice acting is good, only suffering from a 
 tad bit of trite writing.
  
  -Graphics are amazing. I have no idea why anyone gave it some fuss. I'm pretty sure its because 
 of the negative opinion of gameplay from the beginning tainted the reviewers opinions. I did notice 
 some framerate slowdown however, especially with the large mantas. No biggie for how big of a world 
 they create. Epic.
  
  -AI - The dragons, the ships, the creatures, the bosses - great job. the troops - not so much. 
 The troops always look like they are just standing there. Do not believe any of those trailers 
 you might have watched. It is extremely fun to mow them down, I just wish they'd react to me. (probably 
 by running) Oh well. I would definitely take points off for this issue.
  
  -Replay - well I think that I will come back to this one for a while. The medals and unlockables 
 are tough to obtain. A big gripe that I have to get over is that when I became more precise and 
 effective at completing my missions, my carnage and damage I did to the opposing army (which is 
 tracked) dropped drastically, which eliminated my ability to earn medals. You earn medals on special 
 conditions, lives lost, damage done, enemies killed and so on. (aka Rogue Squadron)
  
  Overall, don't believe what anyone has written as stone. Try the game yourself. This isn't an amazing 
 classic, it takes some getting used to. I love the epic story and landscapes, the hecticness of 
 each battle, and the premise. Rent it if you were curious before reading all the reviews. I stand 
 by my choice to purchase this game. The controls get better over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikingsfan2772
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is great the takedowns are fun and the fights are great. shaking the control to kill 
 the rhinos and ballistas is a bit much and requires you to spazz out on your controller. the game 
 doesn't run smoothly as when you target something you can fly through cliffs which is weird. Sometimes 
 when flying the controls don't respond which is weird and in a tight situation can really piss 
 you off. This game is so fun to play but has these minor flaws that could have been fixed if factor 
 5 delayed the game a bit more. if this game would have came out in october it would be getting 
 9's all across the board but nevertheless you should at least rent this game as it is a very enjoyable 
 experience once you get the hang of the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Police08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  i just picked up this game and so far im not hating it,, unlike the reviews people have been giving 
 it, ya it would be nice to turn off the motion controls and have a multiplayer mode but hey you 
 can't win them all. Lair isn't a 10/10 or even an 8.0/10 it's great looking, fun to play story 
 is pretty good, so if your looking for something different from today's normal games (war 2, racing, 
 modern war, etc) this is the game for you, also im you don't want to send the new release money 
 wait, i will go on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiram
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I was told time and time again that this would be one PS3's killer app. All the magazines, previews 
 and hype had my hopes up. I took the bait and bought what turned out to be a polished turd. Sure, 
 some of the graphics are nice with the developers bragging that with Blu-Ray we can have 25gb of 
 textures... yada, yada, yada. Music is pretty top notch as well as the voice acting. Now lets get 
 to the most important part which is the gameplay or lack thereof. The problem is flying your dragon 
 precisely. I mean they worked hard on everything else and said whoops we don't have time to tweak 
 the controls which left me with a polished turd to add to my already skimpy PS3 library. People 
 who give this higher than a 2 are being too forgiving. I'm sure most you who bought it got scammed 
 for 60 bucks just like me! Keep trying Sony! Factor 5 should be ashamed of themselves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTSownFPS
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Simply disgusting. This is a gaming tragedy, it had the potential to take a place in the gaming 
 hall of fame. Unfortunately, they clearly had the devil himself design the controls. Want to turn 
 around? Well your dragon wants to go forward as fast as possible. Want to lock on to a dragon that 
 isn't directly in front of you? Too bad. In an attempt to make the motion look less like dragging 
 a pile of mud across sandpaper, someone thought it a good idea to put invisible walls in front 
 of the actual ones, as if to compensate for the fact that you wouldn't be able to avoid a mountain 
 if it was a mile in front of you. Of course all it succeeds in doing is keeping you from going 
 into any opening unless you were aligned perfectly with it. Rage is just as pointless, you can either 
 a.) spend it chaining attacks on wimpy dragons, something you can already do, or b.) blow it all 
 to use a takedown on one dragon. No kidding, ONE dragon. As Shigeru Miyamoto once said, Americans 
 will buy anything with good graphics And he was very right. I wished I had waited a day to read 
 the reviews on it, maybe I would have been spared the agony. I would definitely advise against 
 this unless you are an extremely skilled and precise gamer who can master difficult controls, in 
 which I strongly urge you to buy the game, as aside from the controls, it is a masterpiece, the 
 controls are simply too ridiculous to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walleteater
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  remember the good old days, playing crash bandicoot on the ps1? I remember using the d-pad, only 
 thinking the anolog sticks got in the way. Then out of nowhere games start making you use analog 
 sticks (dam you ape escape) .
  
  well atleast lair is introducing the new control system in a much prettier way than ape escape. 
 Sure everyone sucks at lair, but now that you know everyone does, its ok to suck yourself. I still 
 can't master the control scheme, but it makes everything so much funner. One day we will be using 
 the sixaxis and there will be a new control system to get used to but remember, once you get good 
 you will appreciate lair.
  
  The graphics are stunning, and the sound is phenomenal, something that makes u want the high def 
 cables :)
  
  Game play is solid, not as easy as warhawk's flying but i find much more amusing.
  
  Remeber, 
 this game is brining you into the next gen of control schemes for playstation, so maybe you just 
 want to rent it first, but then when they release a game thats sixaxis only and online, You are 
 going to get plowed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedFuryGamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The controlling of the game with the sixaxis is not exactly great but its not as awefull as I've 
 seen it described by others. It is very noticable that the 180 degree turn the dragon does when 
 you move controlled upwards quickly only works half the time. You have to take it a bit slow and 
 not go really fast as you will not be able to steer good. That said The controls are still easy 
 to learn and I didn't feel that frustrated. the 180 degree turn thing is not something you'll use 
 that much. Oh well I hope they come out with a patch that fixes up the control problems and also 
 adds optional analog control stick support.
  
  Focus on gameplay first, graphics are awesome but if game is not fun it just won't go over well...
 
  
  I love the huge draw distances and massive amount of creatures oncreen at one time. The fire effects 
 and especially water effects are stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lup-0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I completely agree that great graphics alone don't make a great game, but Lair has more than just 
 pretty graphics for those who have the patience to truly learn how to play it. The production values 
 of Lair are undeniable, great graphics, fantastic music, huge and detailed environments, the only 
 controversy around the game comes on the most important part: gameplay given the choice of using 
 the Sixaxis motion controller and not a more standard dual analog stick control. This choice feels 
 like a forced way to push Sony Sixaxis in the player's face, forcing them to try it if they want 
 to play this game. To be honest I had serious doubts this could work, after all I am getting tired 
 of my Wii and the forced gimmicky controls on it already. So far, the only game where I have noticed 
 the Sixaxis control at all on the PS3 was Flow, and even then I cannot consider it a regular game 
 anyway, but because of my good times with Flow, I decided to give Lair a chance after all, and 
 I am glad I did. The game mechanics are really hard to learn, and quite confusing at the beginning. 
 Consider it will take a few hour to get familiar with the gameplay, and as many other reviewers 
 have make clear, sometimes the cutscenes and close-up battle transitions may get you off balance 
 and disorient, and in a few places I noticed a considerable framerate drop; but once you get familiar 
 you may have a good time. Please notice that I said may have a god time in my previous statement, 
 why? well, the game controls may be quite frustrating at times and the mission objectives are not 
 always clea, but if you have the patience to get past this point, you will probably find it is 
 a good (not excellent) and fun game. I have been playing games since the Atari 2600 era, but now 
 I also have to say that my Xbox 360 has really spoiled me: I feel the graphics are great but the 
 30 FPS makes the game feel choppy and framedrop, tearing effects, etc may be inexcusable for many 
 people. I also need to make a small note on the fantastic soundtrack of the game (and thankfully 
 you will be able to listen to the soundtrack as an extra feature in the game menu) , with music 
 composed by John Debney, performed by teh London Symphony Orchestra and conducted by Nick Ingman. The 
 usage of Eastern motifs in a predominantly Western composition and the overall game visuals are 
 truly remarkable. Lair is not a game for everyone and I am sure many people may disagree with my 
 review, but if you have a PS3, and still have some interest in the game, give it a chance, rent 
 it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fox2113
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  I think the game is great and once you learn the controls its even better. Honestly if you have 
 the patience to learn the learning curve and how to understand how to use to conrols, the game 
 becomes top notch. I will agree on some moot points such as the targeting system being a little 
 needed improvment, but again for how much was put into the game, I'd have to say a job well done. 
 The visuals without question are a trademark to be recognized and the story is well immersed. I 
 will say for a test market on the sixaxis controller, Factor 5 did well, after all, wasn't this 
 one of the reasons behind the sixaxis to use the controll movement. I would consider this a good 
 guinea pig game to now learn on how to improve and make a better one next time, not this isn't 
 one to consider good. Personally I say make up your own mind and try it out for yourself before 
 bashing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante000111
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I almost didn't buy lair because of IGN's poor reviews. I ALMOST BELIEVED THEM. But then, 
 because this was supposed to be an AAA title and because they rated Heavenly Sword a 7.0 I started 
 questioning their review. I read a bunch of customer reviews and all were positive so I took the 
 risk and bought the game. THANK HEAVENS I MADE THE RIGHT CHOICE. As everyone will say, don't let 
 the reviews fool you. On IGN they had said that the main problem with the game was the control 
 scheme and targeting system, wow the reviewer must have been retarted or paid off to say something 
 like that *that or tapping L1 and R1 like crazy* all you have to do is face your target and either 
 aim and fire or wait to get close and the auto target will immediatly appear on the object and 
 then you either press L1 or R1 or just self aim which works just as well. The controls are dead 
 on. If you like Warhawk with the motion sensor or Motorstorm with the motion sensor, Lair is much 
 better! The only and I mean only issue I had with it was once in a while my dragon would dash forward 
 when I wanted it to do a 180 turn. Oh and IGN also says that you have to do wide turns, wide turns 
 my ass. If you're not retarted to can cut a turn with ease and the 180 turns are quick and precise. 
 Not only this but the targeting system is dead on too. The bridge level, my targeting immediatly 
 targeted the bulls when I was with a decent rage of them. You don't have to even press L1 or R1, 
 it does it if you just naturally aim straight at them..... it's perfect. Besides the controlls 
 being perfect for the combat, seriously how do these web site dis this ... it really is dead on, 
 if you're iffy on my opinion rent the game and see for your self after these horrible reviews sony's 
 bound to place a demo out then the reviewers will have to redeem themselves to not look like paid 
 off idiots. The graphics were mind blowing, a true ps3 experience and something to brag to 360 
 owners about, and the gameplay is far from repetitive. It adds in something new, whether task that 
 involves sneeking, taking out a giant serpent while protecting mantas and dodging the serpents 
 attacks, tossing bulls off a bridge and ripping rhinos heads off, taking out catapolts, saving 
 people........ the list goes on. The boss battles are for rememberance. A must have gamer experience. 
 The serpent, may I state, is beautiflly stunning, there's even multiple ways to kill it (you can 
 take the armor off it's back and deplete it's life, you can just shoot it's head, you can go head 
 on dodge it's bite and then stab it with your weapon, or just stab it in the eye with a one hit 
 kill!) . Oh and back to the controll's, play Warhawk with the motion sensor and then play Lair and 
 there is no learning curve what so ever. Honestly I find it much better than using the oh so praised 
 'innovative' wii mote *bias idiots, cough cough*.
  
  It is an AAA title that has been downed for who know's what reason. Wheather sick of Sony, being 
 paid by Microsoft, or wheather just bias reviews..... who knows.... Just don't let these reviews 
 misslead you, they're far from accurate! If you must rent the game.......... If I'm right then 
 please, spread the word, because false reviews like this are going to ruin great games such as 
 this for Sony, we can't let that happen.... and it's not just Sony...... wait and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosbrigadier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I won't say this game is perfect because the truth is it's not. The game is far to short and the 
 fact that there are time limits on missions to get higher scores actually make it a bit shorter 
 if you are going for higher medals. But alot of the complaints I've heard about controls just seemed 
 like people were whining that they couldn't get it down. After the very first training mission 
 I had it down to where I could fly my dragon. Following that it took about three missions for me 
 to get mostly all the controls down. I wasn't perfect with them even at the end, but you can expect 
 to have the controls to a game down completly when it's of this length, and the fact that the control 
 scheme is a completly new thing to the playstation. Now in terms of the story, it was done very 
 well. The only downside to it was that it seemed to move along to fast. Conspriacies arise in like 
 the first hour or two of the game.
  All in all, you might want to rent it to make sure you won't get pissed at the controls, and the 
 fact that the game story can be completed in one day with no problems. But truthfully this is a 
 game that I can see myself playing until i get all the gold medals and then after that playing 
 it during the time i waiting for other new games.
  
  ~btw~ I forgot to mention that for being the first game to try and use the six axis to such an 
 extent with this type of game, factor 5 did quite well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  AMAZING: I didn't know a game could be this broken. From stale character animations to the controls, 
 this game just falls apart, almost literally.
  
  THE GOOD: Well, it looks nice... sort of. No doubt things look beautiful, but the character animations 
 are just bad. Everyone almost moves simultaneously in the same way.
  
  THE BAD: If you've played this game for more than half an hour, you realized that there's a lot 
 of BAD things in this game... unless you're a fanboy or something's wrong with you. I mean, if 
 broken controls, poor sound design, poor animations, poor gameplay elements, and really poor presentation 
 are your thing, then yeah, you'll like it.
  
  I'm in awe after looking at all the positive reviews of this game. It's not even like there's really 
 a person who can enjoy this game at all. Even if you're a Sony faithful, this game isn't your answer 
 to the drought of games on the PS3, and it's not even something a gamer has been waiting for on 
 any system. It's a game that looked nice a year ago, and you figured, They'll fix it by the time 
 it comes out, because there are a few things that weren't that impressive. Next thing you know, 
 the game's out, and it... well, it sucks. I don't like to say a game sucks straight up, and I don't 
 like playing the jury, I thing all anyone has the right to do is say, I liked that game, or I didn't 
 like that game, but to varying degrees, but this game is one of those few where you can just say, 
 no matter who you are, This game sucks. There's no shame in it, it just wasn't a good game. You 
 dragon isn't responsive to the degree it needs to be in this game, and even if you try to get used 
 to the controls, you'll just get frustrated when you try and pull a maneuver like a barrel roll 
 or a thrust, while flying in a particular way. Combat isn't fun either. Nothing cool really happens, 
 other than a few visual perks, and it just doesn't make you feel like you want to keep on playing. 
 You just get bored. The sound isn't all that great either. I mean, you'd figure, Surround sound 
 system... this'll be great! Then the sounds just blur together in an unimaginative way, with no 
 cool depth tricks, or Doppler effects, or anything similar. It just doesn't feel like a finished 
 game when you start playing it, and it feel broken in it's current state after playing it for a 
 short while. I can't give this anything over a 5.0. It just doesn't seem right to suggest the game 
 is worth anyone's time, and it looks nice enough that I'll give it a 4.0 at bare minimum just for 
 graphics... so everything else came to a total of one extra point. Don't buy this game, and if 
 you really want a closer look because you were really excited for this game, then rent it, but 
 don't buy it. You'd be robbed. Give this game a pass and just hope that Metal Gear Solid 4 comes 
 all too soon, because yet again, nothing big is coming out for a while. Sit tight guys, it's going 
 to be a bumpy ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  Because some people thought that my first review was VIOLATING TOS of Gamespot. They have suspended 
 my account because I gave Lair a very blunt honest review.
  
  So here is my new review of Lair after I calmed myself down.
  
  The game is utter garbage. 
 Plain and simple... if you bought this game you lost money big time. (And I am one of them!) You 
 can give me endless landscapes of breath-taking scenery. You can have epic battle music composed 
 by some of the worlds greatest music makers. BUT when you design a craptastic game like Lair that 
 DEFIES logic. I can't help feel that I was suckered.
  
  For those of you who give Lair 8.0 and above.... good for you! You love this kind of game and are 
 happy to accept whatever Matrix world you live in. For the rest of us normal people who like to 
 question life instead of accepting spoon-fed information of why things turn out, this is not our 
 game. I'd like to have more substantial gameplay than just tilting my controller. I even wonder 
 WHY did they not just use the analog. It would have made the game INFINITELY more playable instead 
 of trying to over-compensate for a turn.
  
  And that sums up this review. The game looks good, but the game play muddy and sluggish. The soundtrack 
 is awesome but the game play is HORRIBLE. The voice actors are not bad, in fact they are quite 
 decent... but the game mechanics and control makes me want to cry.
  
  Avoid Lair... you do NOT need this in your library of games. Your better off NOT playing anything 
 on the PS3.
  
  BTW to those who found my earlier review offensive, I apologize. But after spending an additional 
 10 hours on Lair I have to say it warrants being called The Worst Game of the Year 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: negativexer0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Lair may have some issues, but overall this game is a winner. Once you get a handle on the controls 
 Lair becomes incredibly fun to play. The motion sensitive control scheme is a different approach 
 to gaming.. or it was before the Wii. I thought the controls were pretty tight considering the 
 fact that you are not flying a jet fighter, just a dragon. It is unbelievable that people would 
 weigh control scheme as a reason to like or dislike a game. This game is fantastic. Use the controls, 
 play the game, learn to love it, you won't regret it.
  
  As far as the rest goes.. a decent 1080p LCD will stop people in mid-stride while this game is 
 being played. Sound wise, you cannot get much better than THX. This game can be used as a sound 
 demo for high performance audio equipment.
  
  Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumohare
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Lair is an amazing game. Basically, Charge your controller to MAX before playing the game or elese 
 you'll have some trouble.
  
  Alright, lets start with the graphics. now, heres the thing... the graphics are phyco. Highly detailed, 
 crisp graphics with slight lag every once in a while. not much though.
  My only problem with the Graphics was that... if you go off the map to somewhere where you arent 
 technically supposed to go, the games view distance drops. this is slightly annoying. but stay 
 on track and your good.
  The explosions were kind of cheesy. Blowing up a dragon and watching him fall down into the Water 
 - Which also looked amazing may i add - was fun as hell. when they fall, they made a huge SPLASH 
 noise and you can see the wrinkles from the water everywhere. however, when destoying somthing 
 BIG that just kind of... Explodes , everything changes. it just creates a huge explosion in the 
 air filled with blood, which then you see getting blown away by air. looks good, but less good 
 then everything elese.
  
  Audio... well. 7.1 explains just how amazing the audio really is. However, Warhawks audio was slightly 
 better. Warhawk had the BOOM when you die. LAIR was Ahh as you fall. ... yeah. :D
  besides the fact that Warhawk had better audio, the audio in LAIR is crystal clear. not much I 
 can really say about Audio considering i only have 5.1 surround- but the point is... its good.
 
  
  Difficulty- This game is hard. and i mean REALLY hard. not because of the controls like everybody 
 elese keeps saying, but because of the difficulty. Multiple objectives are happening at once. all 
 of which could be one minute, or one hour to complete. the beginning is fairly easy, but the difficulty 
 sparks up once you get to the bridge level (About an hour into the game)
  
  Controls- This is a love it or hate it thing. See, you control with the motion sensors. This can 
 take some getting used to. Personally, I love it... it works insanely well. flying the dragon is 
 smooth. everything works as its desighned. however, i think some people just arent ready to Tilt 
 a controller to move in a game just yet...
  the gamespot review is a perfect example.
  
  Value- For 69.99, you get the blu-ray case, 2 instruction manuals, and of coarse- the game. controlling 
 may be an issue for some people, so i suggest renting first... if you'd like. All together this 
 is a solid action game that is INCREDIBLY under-rated. quite possibly the most under-appreciated 
 game since Amplitude back on the PS2.
  
  This game is great. Go pick it up... for 69.99, its well worth the price.
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Don't listen to the reviews that it got. Lair is a very fun, beautiful, creative game. The tilt 
 function takes about an hour to get really use to and when you do, they game is very fun and enjoyable. 
 I really like it and other people would have liked it better if it had the option to use the joysticks. 
 Overall, if you're patient with the tilt and like Star Wars: Rogue Leader style of game then you'll 
 like this game. This game isn't for everyone or for the impatient to get use to the tilt function. 
 *WARNING* If you don't like the tilt function at all...... DO NOT BUY THIS GAME, you'll be disappointed 
 or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romad64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so one of Sony's most anticipated games of the year is finally here. You were probably 
 expecting a positive (or mostly positive) reaction for this game, but it turns out that most of 
 the reactions were indeed negative. Now I have to admit that the reviews and the talk did discourage 
 me to buy the game, but I decided to buy the game anyway. I started thinking that this was a mistake 
 until I played the game. I loved it! Graphics- Probably one of the most gorgeous games I've ever 
 seen. It might even be better than Gears of War (maybe?) . Anyway, the game just looks fantastic 
 and runs smoothly. Graphics get two thumbs up.
  
  Gameplay- So the biggest problem with gameplay is the motion sensing. It is pretty difficult to 
 control your dragon, and you can't turn it off. But don't get discouraged, I had problems with 
 the controls for a while, but got used to them pretty quick and now I consider myself a LAIR master (not 
 really) but still. The controls can be difficult, but you'll eventually get use to them and instantly 
 love the game (maybe?) . Stepping away from controls, the rest of the game is straight up awesome. 
 My favorite part of the fighting is blasting other dragons in mid air and killing tons of soldiers 
 on the ground. AWESOME!!!
  
  Story- The story of LAIR is another strong point. It has a great tale of two cities that were once 
 one now at war. I don't like to reveal much so thats it.
  
  Bottom Line- The bottom line is that LAIR may be a wee bit difficult to master, but after a while 
 it instantly becomes a Sony classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  As you may have noticed, almost all reviews for this game are extemely one sided. The reviewer 
 either loves the game, or absolutely hates it, and all of this is completely centered on the control 
 scheme, as the vast majority of other aspects to this game (from graphics to music to presentation) 
 are far above average, and dangerously close to being at the absolute pinnacle of next gen games.
 
  Yes, I think it was a horrible oversight or miscalculation by Factor 5 to not include an option 
 to use the thumbsticks rather than the motion controls. Still, if you take maybe a half hour completing 
 the training missions, you will find that controlling flight is really not as difficult as it at 
 first seems. Something the Gamespot reviewer obviously didn't do. As long time gamers, we have 
 grown accustomed to a certain way of controlling our games, and this is a wide departure from that, 
 but that does not mean the game is subpar. Personally, after maybe a half to a full hour of playing, 
 I do not find flight control to be a problem at all and the game is so beautifully presented it 
 is worth at least renting. Many, if not a majority of, people will find this to be a completely 
 fulfilling game.
  This is a game the will certainly be hit or miss, but give it a chance and you just may find that 
 you've found one of the better games available on the PS3.... or, you could be unable to accept 
 this foriegn new step in gaming evolution, and absolutely hate it. It is not a deficiency in the 
 gamer that dislikes this game, only a matter of preference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taker_29
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Lair is without a doubt one of the most impressive looking games to date on any console. At 1080p 
 the graphics are top notch and unmatched. Lair begins with a tutorial to get you up to speed on 
 how to control the dragon using the six-axis controller. After flying through a few floating rings 
 the first of many beautifully render cut-scene begins. The main complaint that has been made about 
 Lair is the controls. The first time you use the six-axis to control the dragon it feels a little 
 funny, but once you get a handle on it, it becomes second-nature. Tilting the six-axis right will 
 move the dragon right and moving it to the left moves the dragon left. If you tilt it forward the 
 dragon dives forward, if you pull it back the dragon ascends high into the air. Pressing the X 
 button will cause the dragon to speed up. Pressing the Square button shoots fire balls and holding 
 it shoots a stream of fire from the dragons mouth. Pressing down on the D-pad allows you to use 
 dragon focus, which high-lights enemy's on scene and objects of importances. Press up on the D-pad 
 unleashes Dragons rage. Pressing the L1/R1 button targets enemies, and R2/L2 button slows the dragon 
 down and pushing them together allow your dragon to land. Gound combat is really fun and switches 
 the controls from tilt-sensing to the anolog sticks and it works great. On the ground, pressing 
 the X button makes the dragon charge forward, pressing O is the dragon's claw attack and pressing 
 triangle eats enemy soldiers and restore a little life and the square button shoots fireballs. 
 Those are the basic controls of Lair, and once you learn which button does what you will be taking 
 out 1000s of enemies in no time. And speaking of enemies there are thousands on scene at one time 
 and so much stuff going on that it can be very overwhelming at first. Thousands of soldiers, hundreds 
 of flying dragons, and 10 -- 20 enemy ships, all fighting at the same time, and no dips in frame 
 rate. Everything about this game screams Lord of the Rings. From the epic story, to the art design 
 this game uses alot of what made the movie Lord of the Rings a classic. My only complaint about 
 this game was the camera sometimes got comfusing when switching from gound to air combat. But overall 
 this game is a masterpiece and it shows very high production values not seen in game since Gears 
 of War. The game is a must play for anyone that owns a Playstation 3. The only thing to remember 
 is that the controls do take sometime to get use to, but once you do, this game is a rare gem. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Lair was the title I had waited for all year. I even used Lair as justification for buying my PS3. 
 I said, It's OK, Lair will be out soon and make it well worth it . I even bought Lair before the 
 reviews came out because I said to myself What could possibly be bad about it? . I was horribly 
 mistaken.
  
  The story in Lair is great. Solid story-line that you really care about and has some twists and 
 turns. The voice-acting could be a bit better in points, but overall it's pretty good (actually, 
 one voice in the game sounds like Lois' father from Family Guy) .
  
  The graphics in Lair are incredible in most areas. There's some slight slow-down on screen when 
 a lot of stuff happens but it isn't too common and isn't much of a problem. The environments are 
 generally gorgeous, featuring crystal clear water, glimmering ice, bold mountains, etc. The detail 
 of the dragons is pretty good also.
  
  Where the game utterly fails is the controls, as just about everyone has pointed out. When I first 
 picked up Lair, my first impressions were Wow! This game is incredible!!! Once I get used to the 
 Sixaxis, this game will be an easy 9/10 rating . The problem was that there is no getting used 
 to the controls. Now let me say, I have NO problem at all with motion controls. I own a Wii and 
 actually very much enjoy the controls. Warhawk used the Sixaxis and once I turned down the sensitivity, 
 I found controlling the plane very enjoyable with motion control. Lair however, does NOT allow 
 you to change a sensitivity level, thus your dragon will constantly oversteer, you won't be able 
 to navigate tight areas, and it's just plain frustrating.
  
  The lock-on system is the other area Lair fails at. The lock-on system generally doesn't lock on 
 very often. This means you may make 3 passes at an enemy before you can lock on. The worst part 
 though, is you'll have a mission where you need to target a rhino on a bridge for instance. Easy 
 you say? Not when there's 500 guards next to the rhino and the lock-on system wants to target a 
 soldier instead of a rhino. Lair was supposed to be the next big game on the PS3. It looked gorgeous, 
 sounded gorgeous, but played like garbage. It's such a shame that everything that went into Lair 
 was entirely killed by the terrible control scheme and mismanaged lock-on system. If it weren't 
 for these problems I'd have given Lair an easy 8 or 9 out of 10. Unfortunately, Factor 5 can't 
 go back in time to fix these issues, so it is what it is. Save this one for a rental at best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Lair (PS3) Review
  
  When I first saw Lair in action I was hyped. The game had amazing visuals, awesome combat scenes, 
 a vast land to explore... it looked like a perfect game.
  Reading previews this game just seemed to be getting better and better. Well yesterday I rented 
 the game and man was I disappointed. The controls are flat out horrible. It took me nearly an hour 
 to get the controls down to where I can at least control the dragon. The gameplay is uninspiring. 
 The game looks beautiful but it is very shallow. The game is not fun to play at all, how can I 
 say this? What's more fun than flying a dragon? Well first of all if you have the patience to learn 
 to fly the dragon you'll soon find out that the combat is very basic. Press a button here and there, 
 rinse, repeat.
  
  This game sucks. If you really must play this game I'd say just rent it, the game is not worth 
 $60, it is very short, has a really bad replay value, and is just a flat out disappointment.
  
  Take my advice, don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purgatank
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  As long as you stay easy with the controls and don't try and over exaggerate your motions you should 
 be fine. The fun comes when spewing fireballs or get caught in a mid air fight with another dragon, 
 or simply running rampant on the ground as you watch your dragon wreak havoc. Don't expect to be 
 a master of flight from the start also, this is motion sensing, it takes a lot of self control 
 to get it right.
  
  Controls: Easily the biggest problem of the game for people, but it wasn't turning that gave me 
 a problem, it was issues with the 180, dash, and landing that felt the most unpolished. I never 
 had a problem turning left or right or up or down. The targeting can be sketchy, but it never confused 
 a rhino with a turret or a toro with a turret.
  
  Graphics: Excellent, but I thought the facial renderings on some of the characters weren't up to 
 snuff with other current next gen titles.
  
  Sound: I'm going through TV speakers, sounds fine, but I can't get the full experience.
  
  
 Game play: I found myself immersed in the chaotic battles, loving every time I struck a dragon 
 out of the air and chained it to another dragon, or being on the ground ripping through ground 
 units. The mission objectives for medals are nothing new if you played the rogue squadron series, 
 and if you remember it was no piece of cake to get those medals either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The controls for the game take a while to learn, and they feel pretty unresponsive sometimes, especially 
 the 180 maneuver that requires you to jerk the controller upwards. Most of the time, I had to do 
 it a few times before it would work. I was pretty frustrated in the beginning, but it grew on me. 
 The graphics are incredible, and the story is pretty cool. I have to say that the best thing about 
 it is the soundtrack. I thought the music was really well done. All in all, it is worth checking 
 out, but it probably isnt for everybody 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieldimond
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Stunning graphics mixed with a great story line. Controls take a bit to get use to but after a 
 half hour or so it's very intuitive. The combos and chaining add a nice sense of ripping through 
 your foes. The levels are huge and jam packed full of baddies to take down which ever way you see 
 fit, whether that be slashing them to bits with your claws, blasting them out of the sky with a 
 fireball or a cinematic take down that will put a smile on anyone's face. The scoring system adds 
 some re-playability but not a whole lot. It was a bit short but typical for an action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_son
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  this game looks like a shiny diamond on the outside, but alas it's a giant flaming piece of dog 
 poo. I had hoped i could have had my dragon do what it was told . My only thought is why was this 
 delayed and why isn't there an option for a standard control setup. I would have to say my money 
 feels wasted having pre ordering this . Do your self a favor and don't listen to the fan boy reviews 
 that call this game awesome. Best advise rent it but DO NOTbuy the thing if you want to keep your 
 TV set safe from a flying six axis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailoc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  7.5 for Lair and no I am not a PS3 fan-boy. I actually own a 360 as well. I love both systems. 
 I have no idea why everyone is having such a hard time with the controls? I have the controls working 
 just fine. Granted there is an occasional hick-up, this no where near ruins game play. As far as 
 graphics and sound are concerned they are some of the best in town. The soundtrack alone is incredible. 
 Probably one of the best I have ever heard. Graphics are of course great. Gameplay is exactly what 
 I thought it would be. Go around kill dragons and eat people. Why is everyone saying the game play 
 is bad? What else do you expect to do while fly a dragon? In conclusion I am happy with my purchase. 
 Although I have not had problems with the controls, some people may be lacking in the hand eye 
 coordination department. So I suggest rent the game to find out how bad or good you are at controling 
 the beast. After that buy it. The soundtrack alone is worth the purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryLemon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Did I have frustrations at the beginning because of the new control scheme?
 
  
  Yeah, I certainly did, but then I just went back to the tutorial mode and found that there were 
 several other tutorials I didn't notice the first time I ran through it, and so I ran through all 
 of them, starting with the easiest and moving up. I took a deep breath, relaxed my arms and held 
 the SIXAXIS lightly by my fingers, and began to control my dragon with a much lighter touch.
  
  To read all these reviews you'd think the game was faulty by not being sensitive enough. The 
 problem people are having is they are being too aggressive with the controls and just need to use 
 a gentle touch, otherwise you over-steer and feel like the controls are useless. I'm telling you, 
 a light gentle touch is all that's needed and you will find that if anything it's HIGHLY sensitive. 
 I am flying it without any issue, and can pick off targets by choice quite easily. It took all 
 of about 5 minutes until I was grinning with glee at how awesome it actually works!
  
  This game is a treat, don't let anyone judge differently but yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: douglasthacker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Although most reviews are mixed on this game.... why should it be any different than any other game 
 ever made in that respect. Granted, Lair could have been tweaked a little better; however, in my 
 time playing the game, I have not found the control schemes to be all that difficult once you have 
 surpassed the learning curve needed to master the Sixaxis controls. The Sixaxis controller is fairly 
 sensitive and any over-manipulation of the controller causes poor control in the game. Once I figured 
 this out, I have enjoyed the game quite a bit. I found the same was with Warhawk controls when 
 in the planes and using the Sixaxis controller. This game is far from perfect; however, the control 
 scheme is not one of its faults. Don't get frustrated when you first play the game.... take your 
 time and you will learn that you don't have to swing the controller to get it to work. I give this 
 game a difficulty rating of HARD only because of this fact... the game itself is fairly simple. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infrared13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I almost didnt get this game because of the reviews  but then I saw other reviews on 1up. com 
 and in game informer magazine that had ratings from 7.5 to 8. So I picked up the game  and I am 
 glad I did. The one thing I learned is pro reviews must play so much that nothing is fun to them 
 anymore. I also dont think they spend enough time with the games to learn it all, One reviewer 
 said if you miss a target you have to fly way out to be able to turn around and head back  yea 
 or you can thrust the controller up and do a 180  which btw has worked every time for me. Its 
 a fun game the controls take time to get used to but by the 5th mission I had no problems. I learned 
 how to halt the dragon do 180 flips , target and untarget and steering was easy. The battles are 
 huge and I think anyone should at least rent it and decide for your-self. The main issues on the 
 bad reviews have been the controls  I have no problem with them - now so see if you do. I talked 
 to 2 other friends that bought it and they dont understand the bad reviews either  they like 
 it. Dont say Im desperate for games I have a 360 GoW/GRAW2/Dead Rising/Splintercell/BioShock 
 ect.. and I have a PS3 with  I am a gamer - period, 
 if I thought it sucked I would say -- but it doesn't suck. In fact i am going to play it now! See 
 ya! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS4eva
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I Think this is a tue next generation title using the new SIXAXIS control. Only problem is that 
 everybody not used to it. Its get frusrtating just like any other game when first learning how 
 to play. Ok nobody knows how to do Fatality on Mortal Kombat or any other game but when you learn 
 it, it takes time to lear just like when a baby crawls and then walks. Anyways LAIR is a good game 
 and will get better with maybe a firmwire update from Sony just like people were complaining about 
 Motorstorm and know you can download Time Attack mode. I hope they have a firmwire update on an 
 Anolog control because of the critisize of people and the experience with this game (Gamespot, IGN, 
 and others that are individual) . I suggest everyone have their own opinon because like they say 
 dont listen to everyone you are grown up your self make your own decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  In this games case no is the answer. The sixaxis was such a stupid idea for this game it isnt even 
 funny. The response time on it is just sad. You turn left yet the dragon keeps going straight then 
 you see an ice dragon fly over head of you and you need to take it out so you move up yet for some 
 reason now your dragon goes left. Thats just some of the problems with the controls that i had 
 during the past 8 hours i played the game. The story isnt that bad, it actually surprised me with 
 how good it was. The graffics are a plus as they look spectacular. But visuals only make up a small 
 part of a game. Graffics and story dont make a game a 10/10. The way it plays out, the controls, 
 how different it is to other games is what makes a game good. Yes the controls are truly different 
 from any other games controls but in this case it isnt a good thing. The ground combat isnt bad 
 because you can actually use the analog stick to move on the ground. The different creatures in 
 the game are well thought out. But its those gosh darn controls that bring this game down alot. 
 I would truly say this game would have diserved a 7.5-8.0 out of 10 if they had just aloud you 
 to choose whether you use the sixaxis or the analog stick. Lair was looking great whether it was 
 the trailers, the screenshots, and gameplay movies but it truly is a big disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffysan13
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: As many have said Lair is beautiful. It looks amazing and I don't even have an HDTV. 
 There is some occasional framerate drops and artifacts, but they happen so fast you barely have 
 time to focus on them.
  
  Sound: All around varies from good to great. Nothing incredibly outstanding, but it does create 
 a complete atmosphere. Voice acting sets the mood.
  
  Plot: So far its not bad, not great either. It's at least solid enough to give the game some sort 
 of direction aside from the individual mission objectives, tad too predictable perhaps.
  
  Controls: I don't understand how people are having problems with the basic flying controls, by 
 the end of the training stage I was having no such problems. I found the controls to be tight and 
 responsive, with only small gestures required to bank, dive, or ascend. My guess is some people 
 have a tendency to clamp down on the controller or are either too stiff or they make gestures all 
 the time playing games and never realize it. Either way I think it may be one of those love it 
 or hate things.
  
  However, the special action controls I will agree suck. They require incredibly exaggerated gestures 
 and have a noticeable lag time in execution on the screen. They could have easily mapped some of 
 these maneuvers to the shoulder buttons since they generally only occur under particular circumstances 
 that void the other shoulder button controls during the event anyways.
  
  The lock-on feature, while far from perfect, worked well enough for me, though more often then 
 not I avoid actually locking on and just use the white target that is directly in from of me. You 
 can, with varying levels of success, use the camera to jump from target to target in quick succession, 
 but usually the camera will flip out after 2 or 3 kills and you'll lose your chain, requires luck 
 to do anything past that. This could also have been easily fixed by making the camera stationary 
 during such sequences instead of keeping its position relative to your dragons horizontal position.
 
  
  Gameplay: Once you get the hang of the controls the action is not half bad. Distinctly similar 
 to other flying games, since in all honesty how much variation could their be? I do find it fun 
 to pick up a rhino-creature and toss them into the ranks of soldiers, and since such things are 
 pretty easy to do with the normal targeting and available maneuvers (for me anyways) , you can generally 
 avoid the crappy part of the control scheme. Ground combat is kinda bland, mildly amusing but so 
 far I have not seen any challenge or great purpose for it besides to let out some frustration on 
 those poor little digital soldiers. Dragon combat is pretty simple, and somewhat like rock-paper-scissors 
 when you close in for melee. Occasionally there are some button-press mini-games, for some fights 
 but I have not found too many of them so far. The on-screen help of flashing commands is generally 
 too fast to be helpful or disappear when you actually need them.
  
  Overall: Good attempt, and I find the game enjoyable enough to keep playing. If the six-axis would 
 have been restricted to just the normal dive, ascend, and bank motions with any special actions 
 mapped to other buttons and the camera tweaked a bit more to prevent it's wild gyrations on occasion, 
 this game could have been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrichter6
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  It is so beautiful and the concept is amazing. Too bad most players won't actually play it, do 
 to the abysmal control issues. I can't even get to the first save stage, as locking onto the bad 
 guy is cumbersome and doesn't work. Firing magic weapons lags by several seconds, so guess what. 
 You just keep getting smashed. Save your money, don't buy it, and rent it on a cold winter night 
 (i live in florida) when there isn't anything else to play. How can a game this good be released 
 with such bad controls? Just another almost that wasn't. Anyone want a slightly used Lair video 
 game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMagic22
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  gameplay could have defenitly been better , but i have seen worse. the sixaxis takes a while to 
 get used to , but you can learn it. ign's reviewer didn't really give it much time, i thought the 
 taurus creatures were the easiest to kill , i really don't think he gave it much try.
  look is great , play is ok overall its not a bad game , not the best but not bad, get frustrating 
 at times with the flying but i don't think it ranks a 4, maybe a 7 defenitly not a 4. i think people 
 are just frustrated that factor 5 kinda forced the sixaxis on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  The reviews on this game DO NOT do it justice, its much better than that by far. If the first level 
 dosent suck you in and make you feel a part of something huge i dont know what will. The first 
 level starts out with a HUGE castle embedded in the mountains exquisitely detailed down to the 
 bricks of the structure to the reflections in its windows, a large churning waterfall compliments 
 the front of the castle sloshing and dropping water into the rippling body of water below, the 
 mountains are huge and finely detailed and spread as far as the eye can see, you mount your dragon 
 and jump off into the sky (this is where your eyeballs drop out and roll across the floor) ..... what 
 you see next is a huge village below the castle spreading across a large plot of land all the way 
 to the docks where the sea begins, in the sea are ships armed with catapults, they launch large 
 fireballs at the amazing structure behind you causing crumbling debree to fall, all the while dragons 
 litter the skies as you attack and defend..... and thats the first level, unfortunately not all 
 the levels are this cool or this nice looking but a handful share this magnitude and really suck 
 you in to something HUGE. Music and sound-effects are top notch, it has a very epic sweeping soundtrack 
 to compliment its hail of crystal clear sound-effects. Whether it be dragons screeching as they 
 fall smoking from the sky after torching them, or the sound of rocks crumbling from a damaged castle.... everything 
 sounds perfect. The gameplay reminds me alot of... well... rogue squadron, lots of kill the dragons 
 (tie fighters) or protect the barges (transporter ships) and what not. Control-wise it is NOT diffacult 
 to get around, i found the sixaxis controls to be very responsive and fluid.... very natural for 
 the most part. I didnt have trouble turning, doing 180s, or locking on, it all came kinda natural 
 to me after about 30 minutes of play. A little awkward at first but thats because its something 
 new, just a little practice is all you need. Overall this is a great game, it falls a little flat 
 in some areas mainly some of the levels being kinda short, too many cut-scenes between missions, 
 and just lack of substance overall..... it kinda leaves you feeling kinda empty. I'm happy with 
 this game in the end, i dont regret buying it one bit and to me it did for the most part live up 
 to its hype. Its really what i expected it to be, DONT KNOCK IT TILL YOU TRY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkraven5000
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  I was expecting alot from this game. It has been hyped to death. Then I finally played it and its 
 n64 superman bad. I never thought anything would come close to that but this game has. It wouldn't 
 be so bad but the controls make you wish that the pain of playing this game would end as quickly 
 as possible. Have you ever played a game that you picked it up and was like man this looks kinda 
 cool then played it and it felt like it should be in the bargain bin already that is this game. 
 It has been hyped to death but the problem is there isn't anything there to back up the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eth3000
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game look so cool to me that once it came out i would buy it. But once i put it into my ps3 
 and launched it the first thing i got was a camera that reminded me way to much of Jaws Unleashed. 
 The controls were also very simaler to Jaws Unleashed, very hard to control.... but the main problem 
 with the controls is the camera. Since the camera cannot keep up with the action, the action is 
 nowhere to be seen and the controls lead the action and if you cant see the action then you dont 
 know what the hell you are controling. Hmmmmmm dosen't the gameplay also remind me of Jaws Unleashed 
 .... YEP it does . It is very very very very very very (x 50 ) repetitive! Okay now im going to 
 spell that out for you. R-E-P-E-T-I-T-I-V-E REPETITIVE!!!!!!!!!!! The main thing to do is eat soldiers 
 eat soldiers and breath fire on them ( ocasionally) . I don't think i ever got off my dragon due 
 to cause of packing the game up ( after 2 hours of mindless gameplay ) and going to eb games and 
 returning it . CHA-CHING! That was the sound me getting my money back and them getting their crappy 
 game back. And also if you are wondering how i got the game so early my eb games had it there so 
 i bought it.. that is all. Okay now lets compare this game with Jaws!! (oh gosh no) 1st. They have 
 repetitive gameplay. 2. You play a huge monster / creature that seems cool. 3. The game makes the 
 creatures uncool. 4. The camera sucks. 5. Really i mean they suck!. 6. Same with the controls. 
 7. Most of the time you don't know what the hell you are doing. 8. You destroy stuff / animals 
 / people. 9. The both really are big disapointments. 10. They both suck!!!!!!!!!!! 11. I rated 
 them hard because of the controls and camera.
  
  Final verdict is that you should not buy this game whatsoever because it lacks game. Really badly. 
 If you want to play this game really badly then rent it but i would not advise that if you dont 
 want to play it super badly. THIS GAME WAS A TOTAL LETDOWN!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Lair is a dragon game for the Ps3 wich could have been done way better for instance the controls 
 there CRAP really they are there motion and not normal sticks but strangely when you hit the ground 
 the STICKS come on. The controls are prob the worst part. But the gameplay is fun and getting into 
 fights with other dragons in mid air can be exciting but its the dragon models the steal the show 
 for me there very nice looking but some parts of the game are a bit wierd had an instance where 
 i was on first boss and the Mantas it was eating were flickering and thats kinda ugly. But lair 
 is a game that just could be better i liked it and i think its a worth a buy to some and a rental 
 to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean923
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, the controls are a bit frustrating. I have the game though and have played about halfway 
 through at this point, and am quite impressed with the game overall. Here's why:
  
  - The graphics are positively stunning
  
  -The sound is again, amazing
  
  -The controls, 
 while tough to get the hang of, DO work well when you practice despite what reviewers say.
  
  -Theres nothing quite like landing amidst thousands of enemy troops, slamming the ground to 
 level them, then set fire to all they know and love with a couple of button presses and a shake 
 of the controller.
  
  Maybe I'm a sucker for these kind of games where they try hard to innovate but don't quite make 
 it. But while many say Lair is a disappointment, go into the game and look beyond the controls 
 and you'll find a real gem. If anyone remembers Gun Valkyrie for Xbox, this game reminds me of 
 it ALOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  Having played through the first few missions (I am on the bridge mission for those who are familiar 
 with the game) , I'd have to say that so far, Lair reminds me a lot of my first car. OK, my first 
 car wasn't drop-dead gorgeous like Lair is - but I think I can still swing an analogy here. My 
 first car was an '85 Nissan Sentra. It was beat up, people laughed at it, and it was a stick - 
 which posed a problem since I'd never driven one. I learned to drive a stick on that car, and there 
 were plenty of problems under the hood. Lest my analogy be played off as a sleep-deprived, margarita-induced 
 ramble, let me start drawing some comparisons...
  
  Lair has been brutalized by the gaming media industry, a fickle bunch that praised the glory of 
 Lair when all they had to go on was it's amazing graphics (and they are amazing - which is the 
 giant weak spot in my car analogy... my Sentra was a piece of poop) . Lair was so lavishly praised 
 that I put in a preorder so I wouldn't be the only fool asking Gamestop if they happened to have 
 an extra copy (I must have mistaken it for a 360 game... like there is ever a lack of PS3 product) . 
 Of course, when Lair finally came out (early? late? who knows) , it had been completely torched 
 by the same media for it's control system.
  
  Back to my Sentra... I had a hell of a time learning the stick. Becky from work kept trying to 
 help me with it (and yes, there were the inevitable 'help me with my stick' jokes) , but I could 
 have probably guessed from the fact that she kept starting me out at the bottom of hills that she 
 was enjoying my troubles. Once I learned the stick, I loved that car.
  
  Lair is the same. At least I hope so. I want to love Lair. The graphics are amazing. The sound 
 is fantastic. The story seems epic. Throwing giant bulls at hordes of enemy troops just plain RULES. 
 When the dragon goes where I want it to go, the game becomes a magical nirvana. Just like with 
 my Sentra when I had learned to shift and it was running well, all the garbage falls away. All 
 the times where I tried to turn one way and wound up going the other, all the pursuits gone wrong, 
 all the fight modes where I inexplicably went from full health to dead... they all fade away and 
 I am immersed in a game the way I never would be if Lair was anything other than what it is. The 
 game shifts from a 4.5 to a 10 and moves out of the bargain bin and into the $10 more Game of the 
 Year Edition foil packaging. ... But then I slam into a wall and I remember that it's still just 
 an '85 Sentra.
  
  Heck, I'm just glad to see that my inability to play this game without being victimized by the 
 Sixaxis doesn't mean that I have gotten too old for current-gen technology...
  
  I'd rent this one, folks. Rent it and spend some serious time finding out if you can handle the 
 controls. If you can, it may be one of the best games you've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkkkkkkkmm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  i truly think the 4.9 was too hash from IGN... i really respect them as a gaming site and good rating 
 games from them i've always enjoyed and every low rated games i do find that being a waste of my 
 time, but for their LAIR review this was the very first time i truthfully whole heart-fully disagrees 
 with them.
  
  Dispute a few poor reviews and some very good reviews i give this game a shot and bought it today, 
 after playing it for quote some long time now i can see where the short comings are from and yes 
 the controls do take some getting use to but was far from being any thing but bad. Truthfully i 
 really can't see and don't understand how this game can get any where below a 7.0.. for fans of 
 dragons and fantasy or even people who loved the classic Panzer Dragon series, i think you should 
 give a try for LAIR......... altho i'm not too far into the game but so far i'm really enjoying 
 every min. of this game.. i rate this game an 8.5. This game has a great production value from the 
 start of the opening menu with great graphics and effects of big explosions and beautiful water 
 lakes. From a distance you can see many things are happening in the world and thousands of troops 
 battling in war with dragons in the skies and warring on the ground. The gameplay is fun just like 
 a hyper shooter with dragon, and if you know how the controls work which is the only way to shine 
 on the gameplay of LAIR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmatta16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: like nothing you've seen before.
  
  Musical Score: top notch.
  
  Story: Covers many modern social and religious issues.
  
  Gameplay: If you can't delay gratification 
 for about 15 minutes and use this time to learn handle the NEW control system, then this game is 
 not for you. Just watch more patient people enjoy it, like kids that don't know how to dance or 
 ride a bike, you'll have to sit and watch other enjoy.
  
  Difficulty: Average
  
  Replay Value: High (Try to get all the medals and unlock everything)
  
  In conclusion this 
 is gonna be a nitche title that many people will unfortunately overlook because most people rely 
 on other people (reviewers) to do the thinking for them. Sad but true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustangforlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I was reminded of Blazing Angels in this game. The missions are almost identical but Lair's story 
 is so much better. Its also nice to see what my PS3 can finally do! The graphics are second to 
 none! The controls definitely have a learning curve and can sometimes be downright frustrating. 
 I was really surprised to see no option for a tighter turn radius in the dogfights. All in all 
 i'm having a great time with the game and am still excited its finally out. I honestly bought this 
 game just for the graphics alone. The 4.5 rating given by gamespot does not justify itself. The 
 controls are a bit stubborn sometimes but I find it hard that this game is worse than Madden 08. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdinus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Lair is not nearly the disaster everyone would have you think. In this day of button mashing, Lair 
 is a nice departure from squad based frag-fests, at least on the PS3.
  First off, yes, the controls are a bit to get used to. Within 2 minutes, I found myself jumping 
 around like I had 10,000 volts running through me. The use of the SIX AXIS motion sensing feature 
 hasn't really been exploited and pales in comparison to even the lamest of Wii titles, but this 
 is the meat and potatoes of Lair, from graceful tilting tuns and elevation changes to spasm-like 
 jerking aerial attacks. i did find myself thumbing the analog stick instinctively during even the 
 most mild of stressful situations. The game gives a gentle reminder by flashing the correct control 
 for movement at the top of the screen.
  I've seen a lot of complaints about the sluggish controls, and comparisons (albeit, poorly intended) 
 to MS Flight Simulator. But you have to understand that your not flying a plane here. This is a 
 dragon folks. Flapping wings, trailing tail, fire, the whole nine yards. You're not going to pull 
 a 7 G turn. Imagine a metro bus with wings and a flamethrower bolted to the front bumper and you 
 have your dragon. The first mission shows you that this is going to take some getting used to.
 
  Apart from the control learning curve, Lair offers a compelling story, a good soundtrack, and 
 decent graphics, although not on par with The Darkness or even Resistance, but slightly better 
 than the cartoon-ish Ninja Gaiden: Sigma.
  Lair is certainly not for everyone. If you're looking to sit and twiddle your thumbs on the analogs 
 to the tune of another $60 bucks you donated to Sony, then take a pass. But if your looking for 
 a change of pace that is challenging, intriguing, and may involve a little bit of patience, then 
 Lair could be your ticket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Lair isn't like a lot of other games. It deviates in gameplay mostly, where it counts the most, 
 but for me, this didn't take that much away from my enjoyment.
  
  Sometimes, I don't feel like playing a game as much as I want to just be there for it, if that 
 makes any sense at all, Yes, Lair probably should have been a movie instead of a video game. It 
 doesn't grab me with gameplay mechanics at all. In fact, its rather easy, despite the control scheme, 
 which takes a lot of getting used to. I agree that that the difficulty and challenge in a game 
 should come from the situations you face trying to complete your objectives, not in doing what 
 should be second nature and just plain simple, like controlling your avatar.
  
  With that said, I've come to appreciate Lair for what it is, even in just the limited amount of 
 time I've played so far. Its a fantastic gameworld, brought to life with excellent graphics and 
 animations. In Lair's case, I didn't mind so much that I couldn't be more of a influence in the 
 way things developed. I was just happy to be there watching them unfold and glad to have at least 
 some involvement, even when that was frustratingly difficult to do.
  
  Graphics are excellent as I've said. No need to elaborate here. Its as if I am watching a motion 
 picture sometimes, there is just so much detail, crisp and life-like depictions of men and dragons, 
 in a gameworld that has been brought to life, however, with no help from you, the player. It still 
 makes me want to turn the game on and see what happens next. I just hope that I can manage to advance 
 the game further sometimes, the controls are that challenging.
  
  Sound and music are great. It's not only the next-gen in graphics. The score has been nicely put 
 together.
  
  What most games come down to is gameplay, however, and Lair lacks in this department. Ordinarily, 
 I would really be upset, but I've gotten out of Lair what I wanted that most, and that is a good 
 dose of dragons, fire, and mayhem. I would give Lair a very high score if this mayhem was a lot 
 easier to control, but as it is, Lair is still enjoyable if you realize that you are not in control, 
 but just a spectator with a little bit on influence in how things turn out. It could have been 
 a gem of a game, but I'd call it more of an interactive movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ringraul
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Lair was one of the main reasons I wanted to get a ps3 and now I have no idea what I was thinking. 
 Go buy Microsoft Flight Simulator 30 or whatever they are on now instead. Its basically the same 
 thing except MFS has better controls and probably has a better storyline as well. The textures 
 are beautiful up close but when looking down on those poor unsuspecting soldiers marching along 
 the road, they might as well have been done in 8-bit. If you absolutely must play this game, rent 
 it. You will have experienced everything this game has to offer in the first hour anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericblue21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I just pick up the game today and play for couple hours, I found the game is fun and great. First, 
 the control isn't as hard as I thought it'd be, it is surprisingly easy for me. Second, the it 
 has a decent story line. Third, the graphics are nice, background is beautiful. I enjoy it and 
 I think it's decent game to have. After reading some of the negative feedback, I think people just 
 unappreciated the game and the hard work behind it. If people saying they don't like the control, 
 then I can tell you Wii is even worse (except Wii sports) Just think how you have to use remote 
 control to play racing game or fighting game, It just silly. I can tell you this, I'm gald I pick 
 up the Lair today and I enjoy every mintues playing it, I definitely not regret buying this game. 
 You shouldn't be too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkz007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been involved in computers and games for a very long period of time. Have done programming 
 and work with people that are Video game maniacs. This a game that a lot of those kind have been 
 truly anticipating for a long time. A game that you feel almost not ready to play, you really have 
 that anticipation that you used to get and the feeling in the gut. Wow! As a friend would say, 
 this is the most tech-tech-ch-no, he got so emotional with the game he began to stutter. It truly 
 does change the genre back like the days of Rogue Sqaudron, which Factor Five did as well, where 
 everyone was like wow you can do this - Awesome! Are the controls different - yes completly, in 
 a magnificent way though. You need to know that if your knuckles are white while holding a controller 
 you may have a problem, just maybe. The responses are inuitive and graceful, be precise and steady 
 not everywhere and it will be all good. I think I dropped the controller twice in the first couple 
 of hours because I refused to follow my own advice. What a laughing fit we had over me, especially 
 the shaking part, ha ha. Know though the levels can be long and ardurous very much sometimes - 
 however the gold and special medal are worth it.
  
  My favorite if needing to be chose would be the soundscore, just magnificent. They actually did 
 go to the San Francisco Zoo and did many recordings to get it all perfect, job accomplished. Take 
 a min and appreciate it. Concert Hall really good idea as welll.
  
  The graphics are something I do not need to address really - like duh, they ROCK. Can you say WATER 
 , i swear it has its own AI
  
  Enjoy the game and like the days of Golden eye get ready for some crazy replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Finally I get my hands on LAIR. Its been weeks of bad reviews after bad reviews from different 
 gaming sites. I feel like people are so quick to break down a game because it has a different way 
 of controlling a dragon. I think the way the controls were made up to compliment the game is great. 
 If youre into playing a flying game with motion control and like to try something different than 
 check out LAIR for the PS3.
  
  Not that this is out of the way lets talk about the game itself. The story beginning as one world 
 of ancient people lived together filled with happiness until one day volcanoes start erupting from 
 the world. One world split up into two societies The Mokai and the Asylians. Youre part of the 
 Asylians who are know for culturing and casting light where there is darkness. While the Mokai 
 believe in science and technology and believe that god as sent these volcanoes to cast fear on 
 the people as a punishment. So the Mokai are constantly causing chaos in your world because you 
 have different beliefs. So this is where all the fun beginnings in the game. The Mokai attack your 
 land and youre trying to defend your land and you will be playing this game has a character name 
 Rohen. The next categories of the game are my favorite. I know some people or gaming websites are 
 not too happy with the controls. When I bought the game I knew what I was getting myself into when 
 it came to the controls. So I say dont judge the game by the controls until you try it. I did 
 and Im not disappointed. The starts you off with a tutorial on how to do ground attacks, air attacks, 
 flying moves, controlling the dragon on air, and how to land and fly up. All these things are shown 
 to you and are always available for you to try it out at any given time. I would suggest anyone 
 that wants this game to put in there to on learning the controls so once you play the game it will 
 all feel natural. Now onto the graphics, my God the graphics are great to look at. The cut scenes 
 in this game make you feel like youre looking at an actual Lord of the Ring movie. This has to 
 be the best Ive seen so far in next gen games maybe second to Gears of War. I will not be disappointed 
 with the graphics in this game at all with it says it all. The sound is just as amazing as the 
 graphics. The voice acting isnt that great but who cares the graphics and sound affects make up 
 for it. There is support for PSN for leaderboard for the game. There isnt any multiplayer so this 
 is a single player campaign only. If youre looking for game that has flying dragons with innovative 
 controls than look no further this is the perfect game for you to pick up. If youre not to sure 
 about the game I suggest you rent it and check it out for yourself. Dont let the overall negative 
 reviews of the game get you down. Try it out before you judge this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lusiphur220
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Needless to say this game was actually quite good for the short period of time it takes to beat 
 it.
  The pros for Lair were actually pretty good for the most part. Graphics transitioned from cut-scene 
 to in game rather well. The in game graphics were fairly clean and crisp, no colours flickering 
 or bad transitions throughout the game. This included the load times, which were fairly short throughout.
 
  The controls were fair easy to use once you got use to them. Although I'd say there's about a 
 30 min learning curve. All around this game was actually pretty good.
  
  The cons for this are few, but still worth mentioning. Graphics, as fantastic as they were, had 
 a slight habit of skipping when you were in some close combat situations. Overall they don't harm 
 the game play itself and didn't happen very often, but it does become an annoyance when your killing 
 another dragon and you have to wait for your game to catch up. Aside from that the only other graphical 
 thing I noticed was changing screens from the end of a level to the score board for that round. 
 The game itself would pause the last scene on the screen and very very very slowly fade to black. 
 So not being aware of this would make you think something was wrong with you game. Don't worry, 
 nothings wrong.
  As for the controller setup isn't to bad, but the downside to it is that the analog sticks don't 
 really have much use except to move the camera around. That sort of thing takes a little getting 
 use to especially since all games rely on those. So there is a bit of a learning curve to it, but 
 they do provide a training area to improve on those.
  Now the overall story is actually really good. Some of the game play takes a lot of figuring out, 
 giving you the mission but not what you're suppose to do to finish said mission. For the overall 
 game it's something to give you a little bit of a challenge. The biggest downside to this game 
 is the fact that it's really short. I mean the game consists of 15 levels total, takes between 
 8-12 hours to finish, there's no online play, and unfortunately the final boss is a volcano. The 
 volcano's are part of the story, but they never explain how or why.
  
  So in general the game is good, but not really worth the $60 price tag. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
