-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legends of Wrestlemania
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/legendsofwrestlemania/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting video montages of classic events.
 Great roster of past legends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simplistic, repetitive combat.
 Grossly exaggerated character models.
 Legend Killer mode is grueling and dull.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.4, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 158 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Legends of Wrestlemania strikes a great nostalgic chord but quickly goes flat. 

  Although many wrestling games pride themselves on featuring up-to-date rosters and letting you 
 do any move you want during a match, Legends of Wrestlemania takes a different approach. It appeals 
 to nostalgic wrestling fans, giving them the chance to play as classic wrestlers in historic Wrestlemania 
 matches from the '80s and '90s. It also favors accessibility rather than complexity, and its simplified 
 controls and limited moveset make it easy for anyone to pick up and play. However, this simplicity 
 comes at a price, and the action quickly becomes repetitive. Matches feel the same no matter how 
 many shiny, overmuscled legends you bring into the ring. It's good for a quick nostalgia fix, but 
 Legends of Wrestlemania runs out of thrills faster than a Pay-Per-View event.        

  Once the actual match begins, you are introduced to the glistening character models, which appear 
 to be smuggling large cuts of meat under their skin. The Hulkster was always a muscular guy, but 
 in Legends of Wrestlemania he looks like ballooned-up action figure. These overdone characters 
 are particularly jarring when you've just watched a video of the real wrestlers and have seen how 
 they actually looked. This dims the nostalgic glow, but it becomes less pronounced with wrestlers 
 in the mid-to-late '90s, who tended to be much more physically sculpted. Underneath their armored 
 carapaces, the character models are pretty well animated and convincingly capture individual mannerisms 
 such as Stone Cold's swagger and Undertaker's lanky rigidity.  

            How'd you get so ripped, Hulkster?       

  The gameplay itself is quite simple. Most 
 of the time you'll be using the buttons for strike, grapple, and block to damage your opponent 
 and counter his blows. You can also climb on the turnbuckle, perform an Irish whip, take the action 
 outside of the ring, and, of course, pin your opponent. It's easy to master the basics that you'll 
 need to win matches, and there's not much beyond the basics. Scripted intros, finishers, and certain 
 grapples will trigger quick-time events that challenge you to press the prompted button before 
 your opponent does. These allow Legends of Wrestlemania to show your wrestler doing more-advanced 
 moves, but you won't really get to watch him because you'll be so focused on the button prompt. 
 There are some painful rapid-tapping sequences and a momentum meter that lets you do more powerful 
 grapples, but these don't add much complexity to the gameplay. The action is ultimately shallow, 
 and it's not long before all of your matches start to follow the same repetitive pattern.  

  One interesting attempt to spice things up can be found in the Wrestlemania Tour mode. Whether 
 you are reliving a past event, rewriting history by competing as the loser, or redefining the event 
 by changing the match conditions, each event has a number of objectives that you can complete to 
 earn a gold medal and unlock small bonuses. These range from simple (taunt your opponent) to complex 
 (attack your opponent from the top of each turnbuckle) , and they can add some much needed variety 
 to the proceedings. More-recent events have more-elaborate objectives, but having a longer to-do 
 list doesn't make the match better, just longer.  

            It's all about my Hulkamaniac workout routine, brother!       

  There is also a Legend 
 Killer mode that lets you pit your created character (or an imported character from Smackdown vs. 
 RAW 2009) against grueling tiers of legendary wrestlers. You have to fight 10 consecutive matches 
 to beat one of the six tiers, three of which are unlocked only with a Smackdown vs. RAW import. 
 Each tier is long and painful. You carry the same health bar throughout the 10 matches, so you 
 will become very familiar with the one taunt that regenerates a fraction of your health. Worse, 
 you can't save your progress, so you have to do it all in one sitting. The action simply can't 
 hold up during such a long session, which makes Legend Killer mode little more than a test of your 
 tolerance for boredom.  

  Legends of Wrestlemania also sports a full array of exhibition match types and support for online 
 matches. The robust creation toolset from Smackdown vs. RAW 2009 is included, with the notable 
 omission of the fun Create a Finisher tool. Although it's great see so many legendary stars gathered 
 in one game, Legends of Wrestlemania just can't live up to the hype. The gameplay can be fun for 
 a little while, but it soon becomes an exercise in repetition and boredom. The highlight reels 
 are really fun to watch, but when the most entertaining aspect of a game is a 10-year-old video 
 montage, you're dealing with some serious mediocrity. And that's the bottom line.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  i brought this game with the money i got from the lord of the ings conquest and i was addicted 
 to it all week non stop.
  
  there are to story modes wrestlmania tour and legend killer mode and once you have completed these 
 you can make your own match in exebition. however completing these arent as easy as they seem to 
 fully complete a match in wrestlemania tour mode you have to complete a certain number of objectives 
 and finding out once you have finally beteen your opponent that you did not complete the match 
 this can get very frustrating.
  
  You can create yor own character and do up his stats and there are 40 legends to chose from you 
 can even download superstars from smackdown vs raw 2009 to face in legend killer mode wow.
  
  not much in online play however there is a ranking system which i like alot but wont keep you 
 hooked for hours.
  
  finally this game has trophies and there pretty good and includes 7 golds a trophie lovers dream 
 these deffinatly give you something to work towards very fun
  
  a must by for all who love wrestling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  WWE Legends of Wrestlemania is stacked with the best roster of any wrestling game ever. You will 
 see familiar faces such as: Hulk Hogan, The Ultimate Warrior, Ravishing Rick Rude, Brutus the Barber 
 Beefcake, and more. So here is the big question. Is the wrestling game with the best roster ever, 
 the best wrestling game ever?
  
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  
  Well lets start with the good. The character models are absolutely amazing. Every bit of detail 
 is displayed with such precision. The best looking models that I seen are: The Warrior, Kamala, 
 Hulk Hogan, and Andre The Giant. Though most of the wrestlers are more buff than their real life 
 counterparts. Blood, sweat, and tears glisten on the screen...... Well maybe not tears.
  
  And now for the bad. The rest of the game looks like garbage. The crowd is so pitiful that I am 
 pretty sure my NES had better looking graphics. The crowd up front looks like a washed out PS1 
 game. When the camera zooms out the crowd looks like its in 8bit mode. Obviously this was to focus 
 more on character detail but good googly moogly does the crowd look bad. Other than that there 
 is really nothing else to look at. All the venues look the same and the entrances lack most of 
 the cool effects that you would see on TV.
  
  
  Sound - 5/10
  
  Lets start with the announcers. Jim Ross and Jerry "The King" Lawler do the commentary just like 
 they do for all the other WWE games. And yes they still suck.
  All of the wrestlers have their full length intro music which sounds fantastic over the 5.1 speakers. 
 Thats basically it for your sounds.
  
  Gameplay - 7/10
  
  The controls are pretty simple. Grapple with X and press the right thumb stick in a direction to 
 perform a move. Hold X for a more powerful move. Square is your punch and triangle is your reversal 
 and block.
  The game offers many types of matches such as:
  The Royal Rumble (6 fighters in ring at a time)
  Tag Team
  Ladder
  Cage
  and many more.
 
  You can take the fights to the outsid of the ring if you like where you can perform special moves. 
 Toss your opponent in to the stairs, body slam him on the tables, fight in the crowd, or even chock 
 him with the cables dragging across the floor.
  The main modes of gameplay are:
  Legend Killer Mode (Take on legends to claim your user created fighter as one of the legends)
 
  WrestleMania Tour Mode (Consisting of 3 options: Relive, Rewrite, and Redefine) Relive the greatest 
 fights in WWE history, Change WWE history, Change the type of match from the original.
  
  
  Extras - 7/10
  
  Each fight you relive comes with actual footage of the original match. 
 This helps to get you motivated for your experience. There is a decent create a wrestler mode and 
 I managed to get my wrestler to look very close to me. In addition there are other goodies like 
 picking your own signs, music, and nickname. There are no hidden wrestlers to unlock but there 
 are unlockable videos and costumes that you get as you progress.
  
  Overall - 6/10
  
  Even with all the game modes and the enormous roster, the game lacks in replay value and entertainment. 
 I managed to get my platinum trophy in only 6hrs. The fights are very boring and very repetitive. 
 
  
  Pros:
  * Very detailed characters
  * Relive great matches from the past
  * Very large roster
  
  Cons:
  * Crappy crowds
  * Lack of Career
  * Boring and repetitive
 
  * No Macho Man!!!!!!!
  
  Since this game only offers like 25 trophies, most of which are silver. And can be completed in 
 only a mere 6hrs of playing. I have to give this game "Lethal's Trophy Wh0re" stamp of approval. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingClank
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  What can i say? LoW doesn't have the best fighting system, and the matches aren't very long, but it 
 is fun because of the old school roster, and the fact you can import the Svr09 roster into the game 
 for fantasy matches. If you love punching the hell out of other wrestlers, and living through classic 
 moments, the buy this. If you don't long any of that, than don't buy this game. It is not for you. This 
 game gives you more of a challenge than other wrestling games, because you have to press buttons 
 at the right time to perform specific types of moves.
  
  The roster makes for interesting matches, and you will find yourself pressing the rematch button 
 if you lose. The matches aren't exhausting in length, so it is very easy to enjoy this game. The only 
 problems i had with the game were the kickout system, and the way Steel Cage matches work. This game 
 is limited in moves, but you should be able to not care to much about that. Hopefully in the next 
 game more moves will be added, but it is a pretty good start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Z-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Take an old school arcade wrestling system and add next generation tools / Software and you have 
 Legends of wrestlemania in a nutshell.
  
  
  Controls:
  
  Modeled and influenced from arcade wresting hits such as WWF Wrestlefest and WWF superstars , Legends 
 of Wrestlemania uses a much more simplistic control system when compared to the SmackDown series. 
 Having a simplistic fighting engine also offers an easier learning curve and less intimidation 
 towards casual gamers. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Arguably one of the best parts about L. O. W. is the high detail graphics portrayed into each wrestling 
 superstar and manager. 
  But don't take my word for it, check out the numerous L. O. W. videos circulating the web. L. O. W. 
 is visually stunning.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  Whether you are a newcomer or not, anyone and I mean anyone can have a blast in Legends of Wrestlemania. 
 Whether it is your first time playing L. O. W. on the easiest difficulty or a veteran arcade brawler 
 looking for a challenge on the harder difficulties, Legends of Wrestlemania's difficulty can be 
 customized at will.
  
  
  
  SmackDown vs Raw 2009 compatibility:
  
  If you happen to own SmackDown vs Raw 2009, you can import the entire roster with the click of 
 a button (and SmackDown 2009 saved file on your hard drive) . But this isn't all you can do with 
 SmackDown vs Raw 2009!
  
  
  Online modes: 
  
  Yep! L. O. W. has online versing possibilities. Just in case you wanna take on players across the 
 world without leaving the comfort of your house. 
  
  
  Modes:
  
  Legends of wrestlemania is packed with tons and tons of modes to keep you on the edge of your seat. 
 Online, exhibition, legend killer, world tour, create a superstar, Rewrite, Relive, Redefine, Movie 
 Theatre... you can even import your own created superstars from SmackDown vs Raw 2009 to compete 
 in the Legends Killer mode... how cool is that?
  
  
  Unlockables:
  
  The only true downside to L. O. W. is the short supply of unlockable content. But, this isn't a serious 
 problem at all. L. O. W. was intended to be enjoyed as soon as it was taken out of the package , 
 not gradually after hours and hours of game play.
  
  
  Simply put , Legends of wrestlemania or L. O. W. is an amazing old school wrastlin' game on next 
 gen software. So many memories, so many highlights , just a pure rush of nostalgia through and 
 through. 
  
  
  If you are an old school wrestling fan, stop reading this review and go pickup your copy today 
 because L. O. W. is a truly excellent standout piece to any vintage wrestling fan's collection. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
