-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/legoindianajones/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great offline cooperative play.
 Fun puzzles.
 Tons of replay value.
 Very funny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy friendly AI.
 Respawning enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 428 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The third time is the charm for Traveller's Tales -- logical puzzles and great offline co-op play 
 make this the best Lego game yet. 

  Now that Traveller's Tales has conquered a galaxy far, far away, it has set its sights on giving 
 a Lego makeover to a more terrestrial franchise. Lego Indiana Jones: The Complete Trilogy lets 
 you reenact the key scenes from the first three Indiana Jones movies, with a blocky twist only 
 Lego can provide. The idea of children's building toys pasted atop action-packed adventures may 
 seem strange -- and seeing a Lego monkey is rather unnerving -- but the enduring charm of the movies 
 is the perfect foundation for some small-scale tomb robbing. The surprise is, even without a nostalgic-powered 
 handcuff fastening you to these stories, the seamless co-op and clever puzzles should be enough 
 to draw even the Indy ignorant into the experience.  

  Like the Lego Star Wars games, Lego Indiana Jones is primarily a puzzle-solving game with light 
 combat and platforming elements. While the core experience remains largely unchanged from the previous 
 games, the puzzles are constructed in a much more intelligent and logical manner this time around. 
 Previous Lego games had bewildering sections that would stump even seasoned puzzle-solving veterans, 
 not to mention frustrate casual fans who were just looking for a Star Wars fix. Those tricky sections 
 still exist in Lego Indiana Jones, but now they have been relegated to the bonus missions. Though 
 you'll still spend the majority of your time trying to figure out how to open locked doors or cross 
 perilous pits, the pacing is never halted by overly complex solutions.  

           It's a shame Lego camels cant spit.      

  Even though the adventuring is more streamlined 
 this time, the obstacles you'll encounter are quite diverse. Every level seems to throw a new trick 
 your way that will continually keep you on your toes. The most amusing puzzles involve the severe 
 phobias with which certain characters are cursed. Indiana has no fear swinging across molten lava 
 with his whip or leaping over spikes while being run down by a giant boulder, but if you put a 
 snake in front of him, he'll become nearly catatonic. The boss battles also provide a unique twist 
 in every encounter. From having to figure out how to hurt a man who can regenerate his health to 
 fighting against someone who won't stop jumping, these encounters serve as a fun diversion you'll 
 have to solve quickly, lest you find your Lego head popped clean off. Other sections have you using 
 elephants to cross mud, driving a motorcycle while being chased by a group of bikers, and trying 
 to get a monkey to part with some dynamite. There is also a nauseatingly awesome mine cart ride 
 in  The Temple of Doom  section that, though brief, is quite exhilarating.  

  Though the puzzle aspects alone are enough to make Lego Indy worthwhile, the humor makes it enjoyable 
 even for people just watching the action. The silent cutscenes take you through the journey in 
 a much sillier manner than Steven Spielberg originally envisioned. No, you won't see the Lost Ark 
 melt some unfortunate Lego person's face, but you will see Indy's father fall asleep (because he's 
 old!) and even the Harrison Ford look-alike donning a blonde wig to deceive a foolish guard. The 
 humorous touches go beyond just the cutscenes; there are funny nods all around you. If you have 
 time to marvel at the decor when trying to escape from a burning castle, you might see a painting 
 of the Sphinx with a Lego head. Traveller's Tales also included a few references to its previous 
 Lego games. You can see soldiers wearing Darth Vader masks, Belloq mocking C-3PO, and a clever 
 homage to Hoth hidden away in one level.  

  It's worth playing the levels a few times just to pick up on all the references, but there is a 
 much more tangible reason than that: They are jam packed with hidden goodies. It's actually impossible 
 to get all the bonus items your first time. There are a number of different character-specific 
 traits, so you'll have to unlock Free mode to see all that every level has to offer. The different 
 traits help keep the tasks varied throughout the game. Indiana has his trusty whip, which can not 
 only help him swing across gaps and grab objects from far away, but can also bring the ladies closer 
 (and steal a quick kiss) . There are also scholars who can decrypt hieroglyphics, smaller-sized 
 characters who can squeeze through tiny spaces, craftsmen equipped with a wrench or a shovel, and 
 bad guys who can enter secret Thuggie doors. You'll be lucky to finish 50 percent of this game 
 your first time through, so it's overflowing with replay value.  

  Not everything is perfect in Legoland, though. The artificial intelligence is particularly awful. 
 You'll need your AI-controlled pal to help you solve puzzles sometimes, but you'll find your pal 
 less than willing in a few cases. This can be solved either by inviting a friend to play through 
 the game with you (the best option) or plugging in a second controller to move both characters 
 yourself. Trying to coax the AI to do your bidding can be an exercise in frustration, though. The 
 fighting can also get repetitive, especially when a swarm of enemies continually runs at you while 
 you're trying to solve a particularly complex puzzle. Bosses are usually protected by a troop of 
 soldiers, making them more difficult to defeat. Finally, the jumping portions can be very inconsistent. 
 It's not always possible to judge how far away you are from a platform, which leads to many untimely 
 deaths and arduous retries. None of the flaws destroy the enjoyment, but it's disappointing to 
 see the same problems from the previous Lego games rear their head once again.  

           I'm like a bad penny, I always turn up.      

  The three versions of Lego Indy are 
 nearly identical. The game looks best on the PS3 and 360, but the simple aesthetic works quite 
 well on the Wii. The Wii version does let you use motion controls, but you'll probably ignore that 
 option after it takes you five minutes to dig up a buried treasure. Though it can be fun to snap 
 the controller like a whip if you're feeling feisty. You really can't go wrong no matter which 
 Indy you choose.  

  Lego Indiana Jones serves as the expected progression from the Lego Star Wars games. The great 
 pacing, humorous cutscenes, and challenging-but-not-cheap puzzles make this the most enjoyable 
 Lego game yet. It's not the hardest game, but it has enough hidden goodies to make you play through 
 more than once. Both newcomers and diehard fans of Traveller's Tales' previous Lego offerings will 
 find plenty to enjoy here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 4revanSms825
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  One of the best lego games i've played, great for multiplayer. The levels have a lot of puzzles 
 and there are tons of unlockables plus other characters that you can play as. The game plays through 
 all the movies starting out with Raiders of the Lost Ark. Complete the game with a friend or go 
 solo. I've beaten the first couple of levels without a friend which I still enjoyed. The drop in 
 co-op I think works great as they used it in the other lego games. Its a great gift for any gamer 
 and fan of Indiana Jones. I'd say its better than Lego SW and I'm a huge fan of it. It feels more 
 adventurous and like theres more to complete. Like in Lego SW instead of collecting canisters to 
 build a ship, you get artifacts that are built when all of the pieces are found. The game feels 
 short if you don't collect all the artifacts other then that I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joegopher
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Lego Idiana Jones is obviously the best lego game ever made. It has lots of awsome levels and cool 
 unlockables just like Lego Star Wars. It's simply just awsome 2-player is fun but has a flaw. The 
 2 characters have to be on the screen at the same time. So if one stands still and the one moves, 
 the one standing still will be dragged across the floor. Which is freaking annoying. And some parts 
 of the game realy require a second controlar. If you don't have one then your kinda screwed. It 
 has all the parts from all of the 3 Indaiana jones movies. Last Cruesade , Temple of doom, and 
 Raiders of the lost ark. Raiders of the lost ark is the best one. My favourite level is when you 
 have to jump from truck to truck to get the ark. It's filled with funny cutscenes and LEGO humour. So 
 I would definetly get it if your an Idiana Jones fan or you like LEGO or if like good video games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to imagine a day when we're all jaded and cynical about the endless number of Lego Your-Franchise-Here 
 titles flooding the market, but I don't think that day is here yet. Traveller's Tales -- the developer 
 behind the previous Lego Star Wars games and now Lego Indiana Jones -- has figured out a workable 
 formula for simple, kid-friendly cooperative action with light puzzle-solving elements that will 
 remain viable for a good long while. Just add beloved franchise, stir, and serve to a willing readymade 
 audience. To me, the Lego formula is only as entertaining as the franchises you bind to it, but 
 luckily, Star Wars and Indiana Jones are pretty hard to dislike.
  My problem with Lego Indy isn't that it's the fourth game to get the Lego treatment in three years. 
 It's that there are just too many elements of the gameplay that still feel clumsy and unrefined. 
 On the surface, the game hits the right notes: you've got light-hearted brawling, some decent platforming 
 sequences, and puzzles that don't take a lot of brain power to put together. But there are a lot 
 of irksome aspects in the game's design. The characters' feet get little traction on the ground, 
 so it's easy to slide right into a few pits when running through a platforming area, making you 
 start over repeatedly. Some of the buttons have multiple contextual actions mapped to them, so 
 you occasionally find yourself switching characters when you were trying to get into a vehicle, 
 or hurling away an item you wanted to use instead. You can frequently get stuck in the level geometry. 
 Sometimes your AI-controlled buddy character will disappear somewhere in the level, forcing you 
 to run backwards until you find out where they got hung up and force them to get a move on.
  Lego Indiana Jones has enough entertainment value to make it worth running through, when you're 
 in a casual mood. The series' trademark mirthful animated cutscenes are also in effect here, making 
 the package a bit more endearing. After Lego Batman comes out, though, I hope Traveller's Tales 
 takes a good look at where its Lego games are going and makes the tweaks and additions necessary 
 to keep the franchise relevant.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Order26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  = Graphics are still the same with the other LEGO games like Star Wars, but improved in some ways 
 like the new smoothness of the LEGO characters and a new LEGO things that you can use like a gun, 
 torch, hat, and especially you can ride a motorcycle, elephant, and a car. It's still LEGO-ish 
 though, but smooth, just what I said. Environment of every stages is the one that I really like, 
 it is more usable unlike Star Wars and fun to roam around for hours. Well, that's it.
  
  Sounds:
  
  = Sounds, hmmm... sounds. There's more explosion effects, but that's not the one 
 that will make the game cool, but the original score music of Indiana Jones Raiders of the Last 
 Ark, Temple of Doom, and The Last Crusade are in there and makes it amazing, in which they are 
 sorted upon the level when they were putting the background music in the movie. Not like LEGO Star 
 Wars, the original score of John William in Episode III was "Anakin Vs. Obi-Wan" and that background 
 music was not in it and especially the "Dual of Fates". Another voice effect was improved, it is 
 still only an expression voice, but with a character that you'll use when you press the "O" button 
 and she will shout to break glass, the voice of the actress was great. Nonetheless, this game is 
 awesome of it's sound.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  = They still use the LEGO Star Wars Engine, but improved with its features. Additional features 
 are: Whip-swing, environmental-usage, riding movable objects, and pick-up objects such as guns, 
 torch, hats, etc. Gameplay are much more similar to the SW game, still unlocking characters whenever 
 you finish the level, finding hidden "treasures" to assemble the special LEGO object. And another 
 character was available in the use, in which there are 3 LEGO characters in some stage. An example 
 for that was The Temple Of Doom episode, which you can use Jones, Willie, and Short Round.
  
  Replay:
  
  = Every wanted to be a called as a "treasure hunter"? Then go out there and 
 play the game again and find the hidden items and assemble a special LEGO objects and unlock the 
 very special object. You can last the game for a month at finding all the hidden items. I only 
 assembled 4 objects. LOL.
  
  Overall:
  
  = A great [treasure hunt] indi-game for everyone. It is fun since LEGO Star Wars. So, go out there 
 a make a treasure hunter out of yourself but playing this. I promise, you won't regret it. All 
 the 3 Indi-games are in there. Better play it by 2, so it will be fun and... more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Well...
  
  Story: All three stories are based on the first three movies, and do a very good job of it. There 
 are some funny moments which make you want to keep playing after any bad levels. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Good controls, but some really bad levels. I have encountered a few glitches and there 
 have been a few bad levels. The Temple of Doom is where I found most of these. The second level 
 of The Temple of Doom is horrible, but the game makes up for it a little bit in The Last Crusade. 
 The Last Crusade has some great levels, and some of the puzzles were really interesting. The first 
 movie was good, but not great. 
  There are many choices weapon wise, but after a while, the combat becomes repetitive. Most guns 
 have limited ammo, and the ammo is a bit limited. Also, it is hard to pick up on how the buttons 
 work relative to the controls. 5/10
  
  Replayability: Great replayability, even though some of the levels get boring over time. 8/10
 
  
  Graphics: Good graphics, but not the best on the system. 7.5/10
  
  Sounds: The classic Indiana Jones Tunes are quite good, but get repetitive over time. 7.5/10
 
  
  Overall: A good game worth a look if you can overcome the fact that some of the levels aren't very 
 good. 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I thought lego star wars was ok but they took out so much of that game and made this game just 
 unbalievably boring. first of all, the whole lego concept isnt fun in the first place. its a bunch 
 of nagging puzzles and crappy combat that just gets very repettitive. they also took out some fun 
 things from staw wars II, like the outside of the cantina where everyone fights, and the gold bricks, 
 and an equivelent to the bounty hunter missions that added lots of taste and fun to lego star wars 
 II. Also the use of the force and lightssabers was taken out making combat a total drag. unless 
 you find a gun, your punching them, and all you do is press [] a bounch of times, whats so fun 
 about that? Most of the time you will go around punching random things looking for studs in stuff 
 or peices to the puzzles when you should be doing something fun. Boss fights totally sucked in 
 this game, cause now since you cant have lightsaber duels, you now have to find unique ways to 
 kill them cause they are invinsible to normal attack. What better way to relive the battle between 
 Indiana Jones and that boxer that to build anvils so he can punch it (is anyone that stupid?) and 
 hurt his hand which somehow kills him after 3 anvils? What better way to live the wonders of indiana 
 jones by punching that bush over there so shiny stuff comes out?
  
  There are some posotives the the game. Its sometimes funny, but sometimes they just have corny 
 jkes that they think is funny. the acient ruins (is that what its called? i forget...) is fun but 
 i liked lego city better. Yea thats pretty much it.
  
  thanks for reading
  rpm
  psn: Asherchuck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dulichild
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Lego Starwars-PS2. Lego Indiana Jones-PS3. The graphics make all the difference. Lego Indiana Jones 
 is an addictive game that could be played for one hour every day. This game is almost the same 
 as Lego Starwars. You find hidden collectibles. You build little lego piles and make an object 
 for your objective. The Co-Operative makes for an excellent Random Time game for whenever your 
 bored. Also you get lego cash that can be used as cash to trick out your character and for extra 
 bonuses. As usual there is the stupid part about my reviews that you critisize. The lego Indiana 
 Jones characters get so annoying because they are always speaking in voices without saying words. 
 Sounds similiar that of a deaf person taking up the responsibility to say the homecoming speach. 
 I have nothing against deaf people I'm just using them as an example. I'm seriously agreeing with 
 anyone with the same problem but they should put an option in the game where you can make the characters 
 actually talk, speak like a deaf person, or a setting where you can just set the speech to silence. 
 The cut-scenes can be stupidly humorious, but what can I say... IT'S LEGO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narayan715
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely not perfect, but it's fun to pick up and play with a friend. Playing by 
 yourself can get frustrating because the computer player makes some boneheaded decisions, but as 
 long as your friend is moderately intelligent, it's a good game. Of course, the camera gets really 
 wonky at times and it's hard to get the perspective, but that's really all that mars the gaming 
 experience. The graphics look really good, even on a standard definition TV, and the music is good 
 old indiana jones and the voices are amusing grunts and squirms. The game takes you through the 
 three original Indiana Jones movies with accuracy. Although the game pretty much consists of mashing 
 the square button over and over again as enemies keep running at you (since they keep spawning 
 over and over again) it really isn't too bad because it forces you to not waste time in one location. 
 All in all, definitely fun to play with a second player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  I've liked (not loved) the Indiana Jones movies but I've been a fan of the lego Star Wars trilogy 
 ever since it came out. I figured this would be the same type of game as Lego Star Wars, and I 
 was right, but that's not completely a good thing.
  Story -- the story ties in well with the Indiana Jones films, and there are lots of humorous moments 
 throughout the game. If you've seen the Indiana Jones films, then you'll be quite familiar with 
 the story here and you'll see some enjoyable moments from the movies being recreated into legos. 
 The story ties in with the film well, but it's nothing special.
  Graphics -- the graphics hold up well enough, but this could easily pass as a PS2 game made in 2005. 
 The legos have some detail, but they're not great. The environments surprisingly look good, and 
 a lot of objects throughout the game are made out of legos. The graphics are solid but don't hold 
 up that well on the Xbox 360.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay gets repetitive but is still fun to play. It's fun to play with a partner 
 throughout the game. Each character has basic attacks with X, but there is the new edition of carrying 
 items, such as an RPG, a machine gun, a pistol, a wrench and more. There are also certain abilities 
 with these items you can use on other objects. There are easy puzzles to solve, but get annoying 
 after a while. Despite these few new editions, this is the same Lego-based game we've been playing 
 for years. Nothing has changed in the combat or with the puzzles. The game's missions are a lot 
 longer than previous Lego games, also. The gameplay is fun but gets very boring after a while.
 
  Story: 7.4 -- it ties in with the movies well and has some humorous and memorable moments throughout.
 
  Graphics: 6.7/10 -- there is some mild detail in things, but it can easily pass as a PS2 game.
 
  Gameplay: 6.8/10 -- not great but fun to play co-op and there's lots to do and collect.
  Final Thoughts: If you're an Indiana Jones fan then pick this game up. But if you've already played 
 Lego Star Wars, then there's nothing new for you here. There is going to be a Lego Batman game 
 coming out this fall, but I'm hesitating before getting it. If the next Lego game I buy is the 
 same as this and Star Wars, then my score will definitely be lower. But if you're new to the Lego 
 series or are an Indiana Jones fan, then you'll find plenty to enjoy here.
  
  Final Score: 6.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake24k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  All the lego star wars games were great, so normally I wouldn't mind a rehash. In this case, the 
 fact that its not even as fun as lego star wars is disapointing.
  The gameplay is the same as lego star wars: break stuff, solve puzzle, beat bad guys, have fun. 
 The graphics engine remains the same as well. The co-op is still the main attraction here as it 
 was with other lego games. The only difference is that the combat is not as fun this time around 
 due to its lack of lightsabers, lasters, and other fun weapons. Indys whip only stuns enemies and 
 you are forced to go into hand to hand combat most of the time unless you happen to find a gun, 
 which breaks after so many shots. This game is also significantly more puzzle heavy than the opther 
 games. This means that you will not be doing much fighting in most cases (which is arguably a good 
 thing in this case) and will be stuck in big rooms untill you solve puzzles. Some of the puzzles 
 are good and fun and others are frustrating and unclear on what you are actually suposed to do. 
 The big payoff is the cutscenes, which are funny and enjoyable and do a good job at capturing the 
 films.
  This game is at most a good rental if you have a buddy over or if you like Indiana Jones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Traveller's Tales have brought us another excellent Lego game based on the Indiana Jones trilogy 
 (it was one when it was finished) where you follow the adventures of brave, whip-snapping archaeologist 
 Indiana Jones searching for mythical treasures.
  
  The game follows the same design of Lego Star Wars, you have to collect a number of studs to fill 
 a meter for True Adventurer, there are 10 chests to collect which build a relic for each level 
 and you find red postboxes to unlock special abilities. There are many characters from the films 
 to play each with special abilities; Indy can swing with his whip, women can jump higher, short 
 characters like Short Round can go through holes, Thuggees activate statues and "Nazis" open Guard 
 Posts.
  
  The graphics are nothing special the PS3 version is the sames as the Wii, everything in plastic 
 shines. The music is, of course, the Indiana Jones soundtrack and it's cool to hear as Indy beats 
 up "Nazis". And the comical takes on the scenes are just as gold and iconic scenes recreated in 
 amazing Lego is awesome.
  
  If you enjoyed Lego Star Wars, you'll enjoy this. If you enjoy Indiana Jones, you'll enjoy this, 
 just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  
  Lego Indiana focuses on the 1st 2nd and 3rd Indy movies, in true LEGO style you will go through 
 18 levels solving puzzles and kicking hard LEGO ass!
  
  First of i will begin with the combat, normally this would'nt really matter with a LEGO game but 
 it does in Indy however because most of the main fighting is focused on hand to hand. There are 
 the obvious moves such as punches and kicks, but this would'nt be able to stand up on its own so 
 the good people at Travellers tales have added the special move system, this means that when your 
 fighting baddies you may be able to randomly do a super move such as give someone an atomic noogie 
 of flip them of the edge of a bridge or cliff.
  
  Next up is the character roster, it holds a good number of playable characters each with there 
 own special abilities and weapons to use, there i8s also the return of the strangely addictive 
 character maker, in which you make up your own characters and then are able to play as them in 
 free play mode, you will no doubt spend a lot of your time making yourself or a 007 impersonator 
 as i did!
  
  You may be thinking that this is basicly just LEGO starwars with an Indy facelift, and i'm not 
 going to lie, it is, there is still the red bricks now disguised as mail, and you still collect 
 studs around the levels, but even without any changes, heck because of no changes it is great fun! 
 Because the people at Travelers tales got the LEGO concept so well last time round the term if 
 it's not broken why fix it has never been so appropriate!
  
  Finally to the surprisingly good conclusion, that LEGO Indiana Jones is no doubt one of the funniest, 
 most absorbing, time taking games you will ever play, and with all these hidden unlockables and 
 secrets it is almost certain it will keep you occupied for at least 40 hours! And of course you 
 can't forget the 2 player which is a fantastic laugh! 9.5/10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  LEGO Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures is very good in itself. I have not seen any of the 
 movies, so when I hear people talking about Indiana Jones, the only thing that comes to mind is 
 Harrison Ford running from some huge boulder that drops down from some ancient booby trap. As I 
 said, this is an above average game with cute humor and a large amount of fun gameplay that has 
 a quite a bit of replay value. I wouldn't recommend this game over LEGO Star Wars: The Complete 
 Saga, but it is definitely worth a shot, especially for children under the age of 10. This game 
 makes an improvement on the Star Wars game's graphics, despite the gameplay not being nearly as 
 fun. There is not much weapon variation among all of the characters, and all of the characters 
 seem to have the exact same abilities, even as you progress through the game. Despite all of this, 
 if you are a big Indiana Jones fan this just might be a must-have for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  After unlocking freeplay, which u get by finishing the story mode, theres when the true fun starts, 
 i just say that dont quit this game because u didint like story, free play offers alot more stuff 
 to do and to discover!
  
  some background elements are literally photos, which isnt bad idea beacuse u never cant reach there. 
 It just adds sharpness to game overall visuals.
  
  Audio is kinda mute, but u find yourself thinking it to be the best solution for this game, because 
 who wants to hear legos talking? Its all about gameplay. This dosent mean that theres no background 
 music, it has the famous indiana jones theme, and other fun audio elements. 
  
  this game probably has a little bit too much bugs, like in one level i could go trough wall all 
 over to next level and start solve puzzle. U may occure freezing problem, i only had it once. And 
 i even were lucky to find that developers werent too careful to think through a certain puzzle, 
 there i was solving my puzzle when i found a treasure which was floating too high in air, there 
 was no possible way to reach it, and even women character couldnt jump all the way up to reach 
 the treasure. I had to start my session all over again to find out what went wrong, i found that 
 there was a rock in the middle of the room, which had two purposes, one to move it otherside the 
 room so that other characters besides women could jump from one platform to another, btw once u 
 move the rock u CANT push it back to use its other purpose, so i just left rock as it stands, and 
 when treasure appears in air, u are able to reach it using this same rock. Yeah, u probably will 
 find that developers rushed a little bit when making this game.
  
  But still gameplay offers u great deal of entertainment. Forexample In the lobby u have 3 maps 
 to choose between, each has 6 level to go. Theres so many characters u can use during the game, 
 they all are helpful to find treasures, artfiacts, post a mail (which gives u new abilities like 
 fast digging etc) u can set them on/off in extra menu during the game. Ofcourse before it u have 
 to go to mail room and unlock them, i had so much fun to find all those things this game has to 
 offer, i like its various environments which all have awesome design. theres also cool secret characters. 
 U can go to indis office, to library to buy new characters, got to "create a character" room where 
 u can use your unlocked things to create a freeplay character. Ok, enough about it, otherwise i 
 will spoil the game for u. 
  
  I have to say Lego Indiana Jones is very fun game, and it tremendous gameplay elements makes overlook 
 those aformentioned issues. 
  
  U will find yourself very busy with this game to find all those things, and playing with your buddy 
 using one screen, without splitscreen keeps u interested for many good days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4life15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  great game all round nothing really bad about Lego Indiana Jones great game play, always humorous 
 and just cant help but laugh. it was worth buying it and recommend it. cant wait for more Lego 
 games to come out only thing is why didn't they have kingdom of the crystal skull that would have 
 totally awesome. it was a good break from games like oblivion which is also awesome and gta4. still 
 star wars Lego is better i think. still go and buy it you wont regret it trust me and you will 
 get hrs of fun and entertainment and can be for anyone of any age awesome co-op drop in any time 
 so when friends come over they can join wherever and whenever they want without disrupting the 
 game and if your on a roll. all my friends enjoyed it and shall should you if you own it or planning 
 to buy Lego Indiana Jones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The Lego Indiana Jones adventures follows up LucasArts, Lego series of video games. The first successful 
 venture was Starwars. Which in my opinion was a little bit better then Indiana Jones.
  
  The graphics are great, color and crisp. But you can really see the multiport apeal in this one, 
 with some textures lacking in millions of colors almost like an slight upgrade of the PS2 version 
 with no extra effort. But some things do come out looking really good.
  
  The story is well known, but the game seams to pull you deeper of course into a set path of events 
 that follow the movie, but add character roles from location to location. For instance *spoiler* 
 the very beginning remove the gold artifact while replacing it with something else. You simple 
 have 2 or 3 missions just making your way to this location. And 2 missions leaving. I did notice 
 when the big ball was rolling after me that the level repeated itself. Not sure if because I or 
 my partner made a mistake or if it was just an unorignal tunnel. The game wasn't very good at letting 
 you know if you did wrong. For example like the pod race in Lego Starwars. The whole time I thought 
 each lap was a pit stop. Lets not forget Indiana Jones packs all the charm of the movie, minus 
 actually dialoge. Which for me sucks.
  
  The controls were fluid but basic. Attack, jump, and use button. Pretty much it. But it really 
 does work in a seamless fashion and isn't a button masher really.
  
  Co-op with a friend is really were this game shines. And being able to hit triangle and jump from 
 friendly on screen to another is nice as well.
  
  The games sound is well, simply put perfect. Indiana Jones theme? Check.
  
  Would I buy this? 
 No Was it fun? Yea I rented this and Starwars complete saga and found my self playing Starwars 
 the entire time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmoe82
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Theres just something about taking any series of movies and adding Legos that just seems to work. 
 
  Lego Indiana Jones is very similar to that game. It has comedy such as when indiana sees snakes, 
 Wiliie sees spiders, when the cutscenes make Starwars refrences; there seems to be longer levels 
 in the game than what starwars had; the music makes you feel like you are watching the movies; 
 and the simple fact that not a word is spoken in the game but you understand what all the characters 
 are "mumbling" about.
  The game does have its faults though. The first issue I had with the game is that if you are playing 
 single player, you will find that the computer doesn't help much and to do quite a few tricks you 
 need to plug in a second controller and play 2 characters for a bit. The computer has let me down 
 hundreds of times but you get use to it and it also isn't a very good fighter. The only other problem 
 I notices is when trying to figure out the depth of an object. I have jumped off one item thinking 
 that the next is directly to my right, only to miss because it was further back that it looked.
 
  All in all though, this game is a great buy. It may be a little short but the replay value is 
 high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  By now you are probably aware of the Lego phenomenon. Take one part great movie classic, and introduce 
 one part fun, lovable construction toy. These games have taken the gaming industry by storm. Going 
 from "Hey that looks like it might be interesting," to "What will be the next Lego-ized IP?" (Batman) 
 The simple fact is, like them or not, Lego games are here to stay. After the monumental success 
 of the Star Wars games, Indiana Jones was the next logical step. Who doesn't love the grail seeking 
 adventure of Last Crusade, or the timeless and regularly copied boulder chase from Raiders? Well 
 now you get to relive those and most of the other memorable scenes from the trilogy. Lego Indiana 
 Jones: the Original Adventures takes you through all of the events from the trilogy in that same 
 kooky and silent formula that made the other games so fun. (I suppose it might be worth mentioning 
 that the new movie is not included in this game)
  
  This title sees Indy through his original adventures in all their glory, sans a few key scenes 
 to maintain their ESRB rating to be sure. Those hoping for the classic face melting and heart ripping 
 will be sadly left wanting. Other then that however, the game does a great job letting you relive 
 the classic trilogy. The level environments are wonderfully done and the addition of the complete 
 original music makes you really feel like part of the action. They add a particularly nice touch 
 for the level loading screen which shows you the traversed path between level locations on a map 
 just like in the movies. Indy and the cast have impressively well detailed movement animations 
 that really go a long way in a silent game. They even go as far as to showcase a new character 
 phobia mechanic where certain characters have these fears of certain things, like Indy and snakes. 
 These fears force you to find other avenues to help get frightened characters across perilous paths. 
 This adds a new layer of dynamic realism that helps get that complete movie adaptation across. 
 A throwing mechanic has also been added, since we can't all have force push powers. This mechanic 
 is pretty spot on and includes an auto targeting feature so you can easily hurl a sword through 
 a rope to gain access to a special area. 
  
  Much like Star Wars, this title features different class types where certain characters possess 
 certain abilities. This time around, the classes are much more robust. Abilities include an explosives 
 expert who is essential in destroying certain types of Lego blocks to gain access to otherwise 
 inaccessible areas, a glyph reader who can use his blue book to decipher secret messages on the 
 walls, female characters who can jump higher then any other character and some are even able to 
 break glass with their screams of peril, and of course Indy himself whose specialties with a whip 
 allow you to manipulate certain environments. The shorter characters return as well to help you 
 through the game along with run of the mill gunmen. Helping you to identify when special characters 
 are needed, the game provides a small glowing patch of ground to indicate there is an interactive 
 aspect near. This is also especially useful when using ropes. The ropes and vines produce a small 
 circle of light to help you determine exactly where in the environment they are. Though this feature 
 doesn't make up for the terrible camera, (this is the next generation here and every game should 
 have a player controlled camera environment!) it does help a little with prospective problems.
 
  
  A fixed camera is not the only problem that plagues this recent trip down the Lego aisle. Fans 
 of the genre will note that the game still lacks in the playing time department. Sure there are 
 a few (Three) bonus levels out there but that only brings the total up to 21, a far cry away from 
 the standards these days. You are also going to miss that lightsaber in combat situations. Indy 
 sports a newly revamped fighting system and though it is nice to look at, comes across more cumbersome 
 then anything else. This is mainly due to everyone else having a gun and you left with a whip. 
 Sure it is cool to fling your whip around, but let me tell you, your whip isn't going to scare 
 those bullets flying towards you! The frustration of this system becomes overwhelmingly clear when 
 you continually find yourself being shot by someone off screen. And don't look to your AI controlled 
 counterpart for help, the only thing he or she will be good for is stunning a foe momentarily. 
 The baddies always go for player one first, as apposed to the most prominent threat. This is due 
 to poor AI programming or an attempt at throwing all the action at the player, you decide. If you 
 are fighting with one of three guys, the other one or two will work on your counterpart (it is 
 sort of like a dance seeing as neither one ever gets killed) then immediately following the demise 
 of the foe you were working on, the others steer their attention away from your buddy and set sights 
 on you. You have to wonder why the developer chose this almost infantile form of combat tactics. 
 That doesn't equal out to an enjoyable experience. Throw in a few annoying puzzles, not all of 
 them mind you just a few, and you will have an idea of what aspects this game falls short in.
 
  
  If you thoroughly enjoyed the other branches in the Lego family tree, this one is sure to add an 
 afternoon of excitement in your family home. It is nice to see how they can shake up their formula 
 to incorporate different styles of gameplay specifically for different movie adaptations. Even 
 though some aspects are bad, overall the game is still improving on the original foundations. Taking 
 the limitations aside and looking past the obvious "milking the cash cow" routine, this game really 
 is fun and the only thing that truly hurts it is that it is so dang short. One long afternoon is 
 all you need to see everything it has to offer. Luckily they throw in a few bonus levels and characters, 
 stretching it out to two afternoons. Maybe. Regardless, true fans of the growing phenomenon that 
 is lego-ized IPs will no doubt be completely satisfied with this new addition and at a discounted 
 price, it defiantly isn't the worst game you could buy.
  6 out of 10 -  "Fun"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadoc81
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be honest - the last Lego game I played was in the late 90's. Lego Racers for the 
 N64 was my last taste of action on the video game front, and even then everyone laughed when I 
 bought it! But as you grow up, such things become less and less personal to you, and I feel re-united 
 with my youth that combines not just the hero that I worshipped on screen, but the Lego to which 
 I adored. 
  
  Everything about Lego Indiana Jones is authentic. Everything. So much so that you can't wipe the 
 smile off my face, even as i'm typing this. Upon walking through what should ideally be your starting 
 destination in the game, the College (In which Indiana taught archaeology) you can run around and 
 gaze upon not just what you saw in the film, but what you never saw. The class room is there, and 
 can be broken up into Lego bricks with your whip; the first move that you're likely to "over-use" 
 because of the thrill of breaking everything up! 
  
  Even other nesscesscities, such as the Library, Mail Room, and Theatre are here, amongst the Lego 
 students walking around. But what's ingenious is the fact that each room is seamlessly given a 
 game-purpose. Whether it be typing in simple Cheat-Codes on the Blackboard (just a simple way of 
 getting extra's, for e. g A-G-H-K-L-V-B....) or the fact that in the Mail room, you can exchange 
 bricks for extra items; it's all here, and so beautifully done. 
  
  By obtaining these small bricks through levels, you can exchange them for different silly but fun 
 modes, such as changes in sounds, and my favourite.. Disguise Mode, in which all the Lego people 
 wear moustaches and big glasses! So much fun. 
  
  This is the first thing you'll notice; the game is, without sounding patriotic, quite beautiful. 
 The animation is smooth and has no-lags at 60FPS, while all the textures are kept true to Lego 
 fashion, distinguishing what should be Lego simplicity, to what actually looks photo realistic, 
 such as the stunning College, or mountains, or even the jungle. 
  
  Health is monitored both in a standard '4 Heart' style hit bar, and by bricks. Once all your 4 
 hearts are gone, your player dies and you re-spawn near by. Re-spawning costs you 1,000 bricks, 
 but this is very generous, considering you could end a level on well over 20,000 if you're good 
 enough. 
  Progression is nice and smooth and, although obviously not as long as the average RPG, is made 
 up for by the fact that you're reliving each important film moment in a new way, while the cut 
 scenes are almost alike to that of the films, particularly the starting one. The game is monitored 
 in a simple percentage mode, to which unlocking new items, modes, or completing levels soon add 
 up the percentage. 
  But to progress in levels, you need to over-come obstacles. Some are simple, some challenging, 
 but all range from being obvious, to completely "un-obvious", whereby even if you've seen the films, 
 the extra parts of the game which link these together require good logic. More commonly than not, 
 you're required to assemble bit of bricks to create a new object. 
  Whilst in a level, you can obtain artefacts, which once back at the College, you can turn into 
 it's original form. In each level their are 10 artefact pieces, and it's anyone's guess how you 
 get all 10 of these little things! But we all love a challenge, and to make matters more interesting, 
 once you assemble the artefact-pieces, you're not allowed to add anymore! It does warn you about 
 this before, so be careful. 
  
  In my rush to see what 2 Lego bricks could make, I have the base of a Pyramid and can't change 
 it back! Serves me right. 
  
  All the original sounds and songs in the films are here too; a very neat touch and helps create 
 a very authentic atmosphere. 
  
  Theirs very little to pull a thumb down at, though the game is not without is niggles. On an information 
 ground, I think that the Hallway and actual Quest relationship isn't highlighted very well at all. 
 In other words, when you start playing the game, it isn't well explained where you start the quest 
 and how to access levels. It took me a while but I eventually found the part of the College that 
 gives access to the actual story mode. I think if anything, some parts of the game may not be 'obvious' 
 enough, and could be explained better. Or parts in levels where after the cut, you're not sure 
 what to do and need to keep running around in search of a clue. I think as time goes on, you adjust 
 to what to expect, rather than expecting the answer to fall in your lap. This game is by no means 
 for simple minded! 
  
  As far as vehicle control goes, it's very raw, which is disappointing but as theirs little vehicle 
 use in the game, it's not too much of a hassle. Certain moments in the game, such as the need to 
 drive a truck in the first Indiana Adventure (Level 3) can become a bit crazy because of the camera 
 angle not being positioned behind the vehicle. 
  
  The A. I also has it's moments of "dumb"ness, though this is actually quite funny. Simple moments 
 in which enemies run into walls, or fail to attack are made up for the fact that the Lego men are 
 actually very good Gun Men! 
  
  My only other slight niggle is in the darker area's of levels, shadows aren't marked out very well, 
 thus you could, like me, end up jumping of ledges of mountains constantly. Again, this requires 
 a bit of practice. 
  
  Favourite feature? The fights! Playing as any of the good-guy characters is a joy when up against 
 some henchman, and their are an array of special moves. You can hold an enemy in front of your 
 body so he gets shot, not you. You can even duck and throw when someone goes to punch you, steal 
 their gun once you've disposed of them. For me, the highlight is the fact that when you punch them, 
 they just break up into pieces of bricks! A very fun slant on the film, and even better in such 
 scenes as the 'Bar' scene from the first film, whereby you can even throw glasses, chairs, and 
 other items at enemies! Incredible. Not only this but you can take the enemies hats to get past 
 guards, or even ride horses! Though theirs little logical point, as all you can do is gallop around. 
 
  
  I can't rate this game highly enough and was well worth the months of waiting. All the elements 
 make up for what is a fun, innocent, and quite humorous take on the famous adventurer, that boasts 
 many great ports from the 3 films, as well as new scenes to knit these moments together. The AI 
 can be a little "dumb" at times and lack the prowess of more advanced combat games understandably 
 (Small by Head, Small by Brain I think is the saying....) , but when you can get pleasure from merely 
 running around and taking control of such a great character, I'll let Lucas Soft off from that 
 one. Full marks from me! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Let's start right off the bat:
  
  This is the very first LEGO's game that I ever played and I have to say that this is very fun. 
 Not only for me as an adult, but my 3 year son loves this game. With that being said, I'm very 
 happy to buy this game at it's great cost of only $49.99. 
  
  Play this game makes me want to play the other LEGO games that have came out before this one. Okay, 
 Let's get started.
  
  Graphics:
  I must say for a little game like this is shows alot of detail. Lego's look like real darn legos 
 lol. Everything looks great like if it was placed right infront of you that you could almost touch 
 it. My son loves to play with his legos, so seeing his favorite thing on TV makes him happy. Nothing 
 wrong with graphics, so I have to rate this one pretty high.
  
  Sound: 
  It's pretty good. They might not talk that much, but do Lego's talk? I'll have to see with my sons 
 toys to double check :) The sound of legos breaking up as you 'kill' them is pretty neat and how 
 they fall into tiny lego pieces. Awesome IMO. Soundtrack is top notch and love the Indiana Jones 
 theme no matter how much they play it out. It never gets tired.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's fun with singles, but BETTER with another player. I just found this out a couple of days ago 
 and my homie likes it too. He's even thinking about buying this game, so I hope you enjoy this 
 with another buddy.
  
  is there replay value? Yes, I believe there will be alot of this. There is alot of stuff that you 
 have to go back and get with certain people, so this will take up alot of time and also put alot 
 of hours into ur saved file. Like I said, if you have someone to play this with then yes, it will 
 have alot of replay value.
  
  is the price tag right for this game? Yes. You get to play all 3 Indiana Jones movies and I must 
 say Temple of Doom ROCKS!!
  
  Well, I hope you enjoy this game as much as I do. Thanks for looking at my small review.
  
 
  -RMANPOWER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Indiana Jones was an obvious choice for the next Lego Game. Firstly, he's Geogre Lucas's other 
 film series. Secondly, he's got a huge fan-base. Thirdly, the latest film has built up more hype 
 for this game. And fourthly, well...
  
  Indy's style just fits with Lego!
  
  If you've played any of the Lego Star Wars games, you'll know roughly what adding the prefix "Lego" 
 to a film means. It means making all the characters and objects look like the Lego, making the 
 storyline "funnier", and adding many puzzles.
  
  You really know what to expect; pulling levers, moving blocks, building objects. Deep down, it's 
 the same as the Lego Star Wars games.
  
  But there seems to be more of a story here. Whereas in Lego Star Wars, it seemed to skim over most 
 of the storyline, just pulling out the six major plot points that can be used. But in Lego Indy, 
 more of the story seems to be covered.
  
  Also, the way you play has changed rather a lot. Instead of every character having a different 
 weapon, most of them start with just bare fists. However, the really interesting stuff comes when 
 you find out you can pick up chairs, bottles, defeated enemies guns, spades, spanners and all sorts 
 of other ordinary items, and use them as weapons. This makes the style of gameplay much more varied, 
 and allows you to play the game in a more unique way.
  
  All characters can also carry a piece of equipment, such as a book for opening some passages, a 
 spade to dig, or a spanner to fix things. Again, some characters come with these, and some have 
 to pick them up.
  
  There are also other character abilities. Indy always has a whip (which can be used for a lot more 
 than attacking) , however, can only jump and roll. All the women can jump about twice as high as 
 the males, however lack any other abilities. Some characters, such as thugees (who can interact 
 with certain statues) and Willie (who can scream and break glass) , have unique abilities, and only 
 they can do them.
  
  Vehicles have also been changed slightly. Before, you had very slow little Lego trucks, as well 
 as AT-STs and other Star Wars vehicles. However, now there are a few main vehicles. There are motorbikes 
 (which are great fun) , trucks, and many more, all with different uses (such as motorbikes having 
 good speeds due to wheelies) .
  
  It all sounds a lot more complicated doesn't it? Well, it is to start with, but only as much as 
 Lego Star Wars was the first time you played it.
  
  You see, the thing about Lego Indiana Jones is that it's not old recycled things. The first Lego 
 Star Wars game was good because it was brand new. The second was carried in the wake of the first 
 one. But Lego Indy shouldn't be considered a new version of Lego Star Wars. It's much more detailed 
 and in-depth.
  
  So, here's my break-down:
  
  Graphics:
  Well, what do you expect? They're blocky, angular, very basic colours and fairly ordinary. Saying 
 that, they fit the style of the game perfectly, they still look good in HD, and they're so cute!
 
  8/10
  
  Gameplay:
  There's enough here to keep you addicted for a few weeks, and then loads more for you to dip into 
 afterwards. It's got a great split screen system, and will NOT get boring quickly. The only shame 
 is that it doesn't have online.
  8/10
  
  Controls:
  Although they don't feel as loose and simple as the Lego Star Wars controls, they are suited to 
 the game, and the inclusion of some of the new physics really push this games mark up.
  9/10
  
  Additional:
  Lots of characters, cheats and levels to unlock here, which also boosts 
 up the games score.
  9/10
  
  Overall:
  A great game, definetly worth having!
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherryBakewells
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  LEGO Indiana Jones is the third LEGO game made by UK based Traveller's Tales. After wearing out 
 the Star Wars franchise with three games based on the films, it was time to move on to Lucasfilm's 
 other big film franchise; Indiana Jones. Is it as fun as that galaxy far, far away? Or does it 
 make that galaxy look like nothing?
  
  LEGO Indiana Jones follows the events of the original three films; that's right folks, no Crystal 
 Skull here. It's a bit of a shame that the developers didn't go that extra mile and do the fourth 
 film too, but the original three are still awesome to play. Every character you could possibly 
 think of is playable, although unfortunately Indy doesn't have as many known side characters so 
 you'll be limited to playing with 'Rocket Wielding Enemy' or 'Gun Wielding Enemy'. In Star Wars 
 there were far more individual and recognisable characters. The cut scenes do a great job of telling 
 the story in a comedic way, but unfortunately they cut out all the gory bits such as face melting 
 from Raiders and heat ripping from Temple of Doom. Fortunately, the story is still hilarious as 
 it was with LEGO Star Wars.
  
  Gameplay wise, LEGO Indiana Jones plays exactly like the Star Wars games but it has a greater emphasis 
 on puzzles, platforming and brawling. The puzzles are great in this game; they're often quite challenging 
 but also immensely satisfying and well done. The platforming is solid if a little frustrating for 
 more casual players. The combat is also quite difficult but the brawling and whip play is both 
 satisfying and immensely funny to watch. LEGO Indy features all the fighting, jumping and collecting 
 as the Star Wars games.
  
  The game looks really nice graphically. The characters are detailed and exceptionally well animated. 
 The environments are far more detailed than in Star Wars and all the other effects such as lighting 
 and smoke are done well. The cut scenes look great and overall the game is presented exceptionally 
 well; just like LEGO Star Wars was.
  
  The game features the great classic John Williams score and accompanying it are some great sound 
 effects and character mumbling. The LEGO building sound is still ace!
  
  Co-op play is still a blast but it's a big shame there is no online this time. Despite this, replayability 
 is still good because of unlockable characters, bonuses and free play mode.
  
  Overall, LEGO Indiana Jones is probably better than the LEGO Star Wars games as a game, but small 
 frustrations hold it back. The cutting of some of the gory stuff, and the omission of Nazis for 
 generic baddies is rather disappointing. The lack of online co-op and also the fact that there 
 is no Crystal Skull is a little bit of laziness on the developer's part, but I think Lucasarts 
 are omitting them as an excuse for them to do a LEGO Indiana Jones: The Complete Adventures for 
 an X-Mas release or something-you heard it here first! Despite its shortcomings, LEGO Indy was 
 worth the wait and is a fantastic light hearted game and it is probably the most fun I've had in 
 a game this year.
  
  
  
  
  The Good:
   It's still hilarious.
   Great graphics.
   Fantastic sound effects and music score.
   Fantastic fun.
   Great 
 co-op.
   Best replay value of any game this year.
  The Bad:
   No online co-op.
   No Crystal Skull.
   Cut out the gory bits from the films.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coruscant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  LEGO Indiana Jones takes the existing formula and bolsters it. The humour is as good as in the 
 previous games and there's some nice references to Star Wars mixed in.
  
  The 'sandbox'-style centre of the game is Barnett College where Indy works and the area is detailed 
 and is fun the explore. One of my favourite bits of this is when you go into the courtyard area 
 and can disguise yourself as a plant (you can move around in this disguise, though you can't go 
 up stairs) .
  
  The game, like the previous ones, loosely follows the story of the films but don't really pay much 
 attention them, giving the freedom on nice, playable levels. It still has a tonne of replay value 
 but the puzzles are slightly easier and the extras are easier to find, which means you won't spend 
 ages going through each level all over again many times searching for golden chests and the like.
 
  
  Th only criticism I have of this game is the constantly respawning enemies which can get annoying 
 when you're trying to complete a puzzle and you have to start all over again because some guard 
 just shot you. That's why I'm only giving it 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
