-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: LittleBigPlanet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/littlebigplanet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredibly varied and imaginative levels.
 Excellent musical score and narration.
 Immense customisation and creativity potential.
 High replayability factor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short story mode.
 Camera struggles in multiplayer.
 Building a compelling level can be time-consuming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.4, 71 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 4,979 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Media Molecule
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 27, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Little Big Planet is a novel, imaginative, and highly customisable platform game. 

  Although Little Big Planet could be described as a platforming game, its dedication to creativity 
 in every area takes it far beyond the confines of the genre. Everything from your character to 
 the environment is geared towards user creation and adaptation, via stickers and costumes right 
 up to a full-blown level creator. Each level of the story mode is an unforgettable trip through 
 the wild imagination of the designers, and it would be difficult to find a game that's as much 
 fun to play with friends co-operatively. It's a little disheartening that the Story mode is over 
 so quickly, and although there's some longevity to be had from finding all the hidden extras, you 
 can still see everything the story has to offer in six hours. Then there's the level creator -- an 
 astoundingly powerful toolset that theoretically allows you to recreate anything you see in the 
 included levels and much more. However, it still requires a great deal of time and skill to develop 
 something that people will actually want to play, and despite the best intentions of the developer, 
 it's a feature that not everyone will be able to take full advantage of. The overall result is 
 a game that's incredibly fun while it lasts, and one that has the potential to be taken further 
 by its community.  

           This is the pod, your window on the world of Little Big Planet. Like everything else in 
 the game, it's customisable.      

  The titular Little Big Planet is the place where all human imagination collects -- the planet above 
 the cosmos where our untapped creativity escapes when we're asleep or daydreaming. That's the background, 
 anyway, and though characters occasionally refer to each other in the game, this fantastical journey 
 has little in the way of exposition or backstory. There are eight themed worlds in total, and they 
 vary in style from places such as the African savannah to the Mexican desert and ninja-obsessed 
 Japan. Each world has either three or four individual levels, most of which can be completed in 
 less than 10 minutes, and each level also has a bonus challenge or race if you can find the key 
 hidden within. These bonus levels offer some of the most fun and imaginative experiences in the 
 game, with an homage to Line Rider, skipping contests, and even drag racing competitions.  

  Little Big Planet's emphasis on creativity is completely embodied by its mascot, Sackboy. This 
 endearingly cute rag doll acts as a blank slate for your creativity, and as you collect new materials 
 and clothing in the story mode, you can constantly try out new looks. You can dress him up in costumes, 
 add accessories such as hats and glasses, and even change his covering from that familiar brown 
 to a particularly gaudy pink. Sackboy is also highly expressive, and you can use the controller's 
 triggers and analog stick to move his arms and even smack unruly players. The D pad controls his 
 facial expressions: up for happy, down for sad, left for scared, and right for angry, and repeatedly 
 tapping in that direction further emphasises these emotions. You can also use the motion sensor 
 to move Sackboy's head and hips, nodding knowingly if you win a level, at least until someone inevitably 
 smacks you in the face for being so smug. With so much control over your character, you often end 
 up spending a good deal of time just changing clothes, pulling faces, and maybe even sticking a 
 "LOLZ" sticker on your buddy's forehead.  

           Sackboy is PlayStation's new icon in the making -- customisable, emotional, and irresistibly 
 cute.      

  Although the character customisation may be in-depth, the platforming itself is not. There are 
 only two action buttons: X to jump, and R1 to grab hold of swings and move objects. Sackboy doesn't 
 use any special powers, and he doesn't become any faster or stronger throughout the course of the 
 game. This is platforming in its purest form: jumping from platform to platform, dodging obstacles 
 such as fire and electricity, and collecting blue orbs to score points along the way. What makes 
 Little Big Planet unique is that it frequently goes way beyond platforming into something else 
 entirely, seemingly for no other reason than to satisfy the designer's rampant imagination. With 
 scenarios such as hot-air balloon riding, animal prison breaks, and ninja henchmen battles, every 
 level of Little Big Planet demonstrates incredible imagination.  

  The main story mode follows a sequential progression, so you open up new levels by completing them 
 in order. However, even when you've finished a level, you'll want to return to collect the hidden 
 items, keys, and point bubbles that you likely missed the first time around. Collecting items allows 
 you more creative freedom in the form of stickers and costumes, whereas music and materials can 
 be used in the creation mode afterward. You can also collect loot drops by putting stickers down 
 in certain places, and there are puzzles that you can only solve by playing in the two- to four-player 
 mode. These include gates that can only be opened remotely, objects that require multiple characters 
 to pull, and in one brilliant scene, a car driven by one character while another dangles on a trapeze 
 underneath.  

  Little Big Planet poses a bit of a dilemma; it's miles more fun in multiplayer, but also more flawed. 
 Figuring out the puzzles and experiencing the set pieces for the first time with others is one 
 of the most memorable experiences we've had this year, and chances are that you'll find yourself 
 recounting the best moments with your friends afterwards. Unfortunately, there's a downside to 
 playing in multiplayer, and it's something that often afflicts platforming games: the camera. It 
 frequently struggles to frame the action, and considering many precision jumps are required, certain 
 sections become nigh-on impossible. The generous spacing of respawn points lets you retry most 
 of the tricky sections, but if you fail after using up your lives, you have to restart the entire 
 level. There were many occasions in multiplayer in which we intentionally killed ourselves, just 
 so that one player could try a section without the camera jerking around all of the time.  

  Sadly, with no scalable difficulty level and relatively few truly testing challenges, stalwarts 
 of the genre will be able to reach the last boss in less than six hours. This isn't counting the 
 time it takes to go back and collect everything, but the fact remains, you can see all the main 
 levels in one prolonged sitting. Clearly, if the community jumps on the creation tools then this 
 longevity will be extended, but it will take time and great skill from home designers to match 
 the creativity and professionalism of Media Molecule's work.     

  Once you've finished the story and built up a stock of items, stickers, and other creation tools, 
 you'll want to head to the My Moon that orbits Little Big Planet to start building your own levels. 
 The creation tools are comprehensive, which is why you have to go through plenty of tutorials to 
 learn the basics. You begin by moving items around, but things become a lot trickier when you start 
 creating characters and moving objects. For example, enemies and allies have to be given an AI 
 routine so they know whether to follow or run away from a player when they're approached. The physics 
 system is easy to understand, so making things is common sense, but it can still be very time-consuming 
 to construct even the most simple moving objects. You can create structures and glue everything 
 together with ease, but it takes a lot more work to use motors, pistons and springs. These help 
 to set traps, make puzzles and add vehicles, which makes for more interesting levels, but creating 
 and testing everything is a lot of work for the creator. Given the work required to build even 
 simple systems, it's a pretty momentous task to re-create something on the scale of the levels 
 made by the developers.  

           The creation tools are both accessible and comprehensive, but it takes some work to produce 
 something that people will actually want to play.      

  Thankfully, the task has been made easier by the inclusion of premade objects and level templates 
 from the main game. This makes it a lot easier to start dropping in characters, structures, and 
 vehicles, although you'll still want to adapt them to create your own look. The other problem for 
 budding designers is that the game has three separate planes to work on, which lets players move 
 between fore, middle, and background when playing. This means that unless you think on all three 
 levels when making obstacles, players can simply pop into the foreground and avoid them completely. 
 Once you have all of your main content in place, you can add finishing touches such as respawn 
 points, dynamic music that changes according to player proximity, and characters that offer instructions 
 on what to do. You can also throw in point bubbles and prizes to encourage players to play your 
 level, and of course it's a good idea to play through repeatedly to make sure that others won't 
 get stuck.  

  With all of this in mind, it's no small feat to create a Little Big Planet level that people will 
 actually want to play. The reality, at least according to what we've seen happen in the game thus 
 far, is that home designers will use the tools to make much smaller-scale creations than the levels 
 in story mode. We've seen some great creations based on a nightclub and even TV show  The Crystal 
 Maze , in addition to video game homages such as Space Invaders and Breakout. They're simple ideas 
 that incorporate systems already built by the developers, and they're probably a good indication 
 of where the community is going to go with the game.  

  Going online with Little Big Planet is a breeze as you can see which of your friends are online 
 and jump straight into their pod. The multiplayer online mode works well, even if it's not as smooth 
 as the local multiplayer. You also cant play the create mode online, though a future update will 
 purportedly enable this feature. Sharing is also well implemented, and you can choose to move levels 
 from your My Moon to the online Little Big Planet. When people play a level here, they can choose 
 from preset tags to help describe the level for other players. This helps Little Big Planet to 
 group similar levels together, so if you like what you're playing, you can search for creations 
 that players have awarded similar tags. You can also add a heart to your favourite designers and 
 search through all of their levels, and the system streams content live from the network so you 
 don't have to save anything. There's even an option to play 'Cool Levels' from the main menu if 
 you want something at random. If you really like a level or fancy adapting what you've seen, you 
 can take levels submitted by other people and copy them to your own moon for later. All in all, 
 it's a system that looks like it can cope with the content that's set to come out after the game's 
 release.  

           If you find a level you like, you can play more from that user or search similar tags 
 to find other levels like it.      

  This is a beautifully assembled game, with a patchwork visual style that covers the technical achievements 
 underneath. There are smaller details such as reflections in the collectable balls to look out 
 for, as well as some really nice fire, smoke, and electricity effects. It may be cruel to watch 
 Sackboy die, but he can be electrocuted, burned, and disintegrated in a variety of ways, each resulting 
 in highly detailed effects. Special mention should go to the physics system, which is pitched just 
 a fraction beyond realistic to allow for some amazing stunts, jumps, and races. Then there's the 
 soundtrack, a mix of genres from indie artists such as The Go Team and Jim Noir that all suit the 
 game to a tee. Finally, a nod has to go to the pitch-perfect narration from British comedian Stephen 
 Fry, and apart from his insistence that you don't post anything rude online, his voice is just 
 as charming as the rest of the game.  

  Little Big Planet is a startlingly imaginative take on the platforming genre, and its story mode, 
 while short, is truly outstanding. It's down to the community to elongate the life of the game, 
 and while only the most ardent fans will be up to the task of making compelling content, the tools 
 here certainly have some potential. If you've not got a creative bent then you might feel like 
 you're getting half a game, but that doesn't stop Little Big Planet being a star that burns twice 
 as bright, half as long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (309 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: luch881
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  There is no game out there that is like this game! There is no game that has little sack people 
 running around, jumping, swinging, flying everywhere and that you don't get bored of playing after 
 hours. The graphics are very good in this game. There is no story plot in game but a good flow 
 to the game. The story mode levels are great. The intro to the game is very unique. The game does 
 not end when you beat all of the story mode games ... there are hundreds and thousands of player-made 
 levels that are posted online. You are able to play other people's level that were posted online 
 with friends or alone. Obviously, you can make your own levels. When you start up the game, you 
 are in your "pod" which is like your little sack person's home. You are able to decorate your pod 
 with stickers and decorations. Stickers are .. obviously stickers that you can stick anywhere in 
 the game and decoration are 3D objects that you can post anywhere. You are able to make your own 
 stickers and decorations. You are able to customize your little sack person. PlayStation Store 
 add-ons are available to add to the game. It is a great game overall. It doesn't stop being improved. 
 I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicr2u
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 4:59 am PT
Review:  This game has a twist in it. It ties together adventure, humor, imagination, and fun! The patience 
 for waiting for it to load is just making it more exciting to see where you will end up first! 
 In a plane? Fighting a crazy man? Skateboarding through the jungle? Just awesome!
  First, I will lay down the real review.
  
  Adventure: 8. The levels in Story Mode excite me 
 a lot!
  
  Humour: 10. I love how you can explode, create a mustache, change facial expressions and more!
 
  
  Imagination: 9. You want to know how LittleBigPlanet works? Your imagination. Nothing could be 
 possible without it!
  
  Fun:10. Just go on Playstaition network and see all the levels! Fun awaits you in each level!
 
  
  Overall: 10. Good job, SCEA. This game rules.
   ooooooooooo  
 oooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NortePadrote
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I did like this game, didnt love it but it grew up on me. For some reason Little Big Planet reminds 
 me of super mario. Basicly its almost the same gameplay. You jump gaps, kill your enemies by jumping 
 on top of them and you are killed by just getting touch by the enemies or the risk around your 
 enviroments. Now The reason I didnt really love Little big Planet is that right there, its anoying 
 when you waste all your life circle you have to star the whole level by the begining. Now that wouldnt 
 be a problem if getting far on a level wouldnt be so hard. This game is good I gave it a 9 cause 
 this game deserves it, I would have rated it lower but it wouldnt be fair just because the game 
 got to hard almost at the end.
  
  Okay good stuff about the game, I love the graphics they are top notch, nothing bad to say about 
 them. All those videos you saw of lbp prior to the realease are all there. The graphics are beutiful. Nothing 
 bad to say about the graphics.
  
  I like the soundtrack. Not every song but I like most of the songs. Almost every level has their 
 own song. The songs are of unknown bands. Only time youll get anoy by the music is when you get stuck 
 and the song keeps playing over and over again.
  
  I have only created one world I really havent spend alot of time at it, but while I was making my 
 level I really got into it. Takes alot of time but its fun and eganging. I know lots of gamers are 
 really into the user created stuff which Lbp offers alot. You probably got Lbp cause of this feature.
 
  
  Now gameplay is the reason I didnt really felt in love with Lbp like I wanted to. Controls are responsive 
 so theres nothing to complain about. I wonder why they had to go with such old school gameplay 
 which is really frustrating. I think the developer should had given sack boy a little more defence 
 instead of just jumping on top of your enemies. Pretty much if your touch by them or fire etc you 
 imedialty die. Now the question is why did they have to do the gameplay so old school? Right now 
 Iam about to finish the game but iam stuck becaue as you progress the levels get harder and harder. Its 
 seems like every level you finish is by luck. Which I did finish by luck. Iam not a patient gamer 
 probably the reason I did not love Lbp so much.
  
  The story is... umm. Well each world has its own story. There not bad but I wish Sack boy would so 
 some more inmerse in each the story of each world. Thats my only gripe about the story.
  
  Well if you own a PS3 and grew up playing mario this game is for you. Be warned if you decide to 
 get Lbp be patient and prepared to be challenge take it as it is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever felt you were seeing something ahead of it's time? Something pushing ahead of everything else? 
 This is what playing Little Big Planet feels like, a game pushing the features of the console it's 
 on, and it's all the better for it.
  
  Little big Planet is a platformer that was so fresh and unique when first announced it was inevitably 
 swept up by the hype train to heights that many were worried it wouldn't actually reach. Fast forward 
 several years and Media Molecules hard work is clear for all to see because LBP is one of those 
 games that lived up to the hype it had generated, if you own a PS3 then do yourself a favour and 
 buy it, no matter how old you are this game has something for everyone.
  
  The story to the game seems vague at first as you progress through the world of little big planet 
 however you soon discover that a being called the collector is stealing all the people you meet 
 and it's up to you to travel to his lair and set them free.
  
  LBP's gameplay is very simple and yet if you want everything out of the game, incredibly complex. 
 Your character is sackboy, a cute humanoid doll like character who you control either running, 
 jumping or grabbing though various levels. These levels can be played either on your own or with 
 4 friends online or offline to solve puzzles and collect points, doesn't sound that special does 
 it? But it is.
  
  Little Big Planet is all about being social, your sack boys arms, hips and facial expressions can 
 all be controlled due to a clever control scheme to show to the other players exactly how you feel 
 including varying amounts of happy, sad, afraid and even angry expressions yet every one is quite 
 frankly adorable.
  
  That is not all though, every sackboy is completely individual as they are all in a way, like Mr 
 potato head and completely customizable with a variety of hairstyles, eyes, clothes, colours and 
 various other designs in which to experiment with including iconic characters on PSN such as Kratos, 
 Old Snake and Nariko. No two sackboys are ever quite the same and the continuous updates each week 
 mean the game is continually changing.
  
  In each of the main story levels there are more costumes to collect in bubbles as well as stickers, 
 materials and objects. These are all usable on the flip side of LBP, the community. Every level 
 that comes with the game is possible to be made by you, the gamer. The tool set is given to you 
 to make whatever you like and put online for other people to play and there are thousands. There 
 are levels on there that have simply blown my mind that people who bought the game have made including 
 musical themes, epic boss fights, tomb raiding levels etc, you name it, it's on there. In many 
 ways Little Big Planet is the game that never stops growing, with more packs being released by 
 media molecule for items / materials and the ability to make your own stickers using the playstation 
 eye the amount you can create is never ending if you think about it.
  
  Visually Little Big Planet may not be straining the PS3 texture wise or anything but the level 
 design is a breath of fresh air as is the whole feel of the game, joints are everywhere, hinges, 
 and clever use of in game materials really give LBP such a unique style it's hard not to love it 
 or sackboy due to his surprising emotional range.
  
  I would like to say just two words regarding sound: Stephen Fry. His voice is amazing, who better 
 to be the narrator to the game? He voices all the tutorial explanations as you go and is just perfect 
 for the feel of the title. Musically the game is also just so out there with some fitting bouncy 
 tracks, and the occasional film like epic piece for boss confrontations, all of which can be included 
 in the levels you build.
  
  The main story levels don't really take all that long though there are a fair few as well as collecting 
 all the items, doing them all without dying as well as collecting the trophies, but as i said the 
 game is never ending with people creating their own levels all the time, never mind media molecule 
 adding their own stuff like the Metal Gear Solid levels, added materials and costumes some of which 
 are free.
  
  In conclusion Little Big Planet is a game for everybody, it sucks you in with it's charm and fresh 
 design and just doesn't let go. There are few games that actually manage to hit the level people 
 build them up to be, when one comes along like LBP, why are you missing it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyad-93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is certainly one of the best games in 2008. LBP lives up to all the hype and 
 then some. it's just amazing and fun.
  
  Story 8/10
  there really is no story in the story mode except rescuing people. in the story mode you travel 
 across the world playing the creators levels and rescue peoples in these levels for example groom 
 and other people. it's not pure gold but still good and fun.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  the graphics in LBP are amazing, the physics engine is great and that makes LBP an enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  Gameplay wise lbp is very good, the controls work great and it gets more challenging and satisfying 
 as you proceed in the story mode and it reaches it's highest level when you meet the collecter. 
 Do you have a great imagination ? then good you can use your imaginative brain in the creation 
 mode where you can make your own levels and share it with the other players and there is so much 
 depth/options in the creation mode also there are lots of things to collect in the single player 
 that can be used in the creation mode and the possibilities of what kind of level you can make 
 are ENDLESS! 
  
  Trophies 4.5/5
  LBP has an awesome replay value because of its cool, fun trophies but some of them are really challenging 
 and hard to get.
  
  Bottom line is that this is a fun highly addictive game, it's all about messing around with your 
 friends, playing each-others levels!! and I would recommend it to most anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cguibault
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is a game filled with adventure, puzzles, and lots of fun! Little Big Planet 
 offers a wide variety of choices and creativity. Customize your character, create your own levels, 
 and compete with up to four players using wi-fi connection. Make your characters look funny, mismatched, 
 or just plain stupid. Use stickers, fabrics, or download new clothes and styles off of the PlayStation 
 Network.
  
  You can compete with up to four of your friends, and annoy them to death by dragging them across 
 the screen, or decorating them in stickers. Go through each level collecting stickers, fabrics, 
 clothes, and survival challenge keys. Try to see if you can score high in the leader boards!
  
  Make your own levels, and share them with friends or with people around the world. Rate other 
 levels people have made, and have people rate yours. This game will keep you coming back for more! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumbinator
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet (or otherwise known as LBP, to some) is a game that is only based on the PlayStation 
 3 (PS3) . LittleBigPlanet, offers some of the most enjoyable, and creative gaming experience out 
 there. It allows players to customize their "sackboy" character, by being able to make them wear 
 costumes, change their sex (by giving them a wig or something to change their appearance from a 
 boy to a girl) . As well, costumes can be purchased from the PlayStation Store, which every so often, 
 new costumes are made to appeal to newer game releases. Some of the costumes include Metal Gear 
 Solid 4, Killzone 2, and even themed costumes such as Santa Claus, to name a few.
  
  Also, this game allows gamers to customize levels, and to even use things such as stickers to give 
 the game a more kid-like approach. One of the neat things I found while playing the full retail 
 game, was that your sackboy character is able to change expressions. These expressions can be anything 
 from Happy, super happy (sackboy will stick his tongue out, which looks pretty cool) , angry, sad, 
 and even just plain normal (no expression) . getting back to the customization of the sackboy characters, 
 you are able to make them any way you wish. From the color of their body, to wearing a TV on your 
 head.
  
  The levels in this game are very vibrant, and full of color. Each level has their own difficulty, 
 so you'll have try at a few of the harder ones a few times to get the feel for it. The game itself 
 I think is best played with friends, or even online. This allows the gamer to have a fun time with 
 friends as well, to have a chance to play with other LittleBigPlanet gamers all over the world.
 
  
  To conclude this, I would recommend this game to anyone who is looking to play a game that will 
 last several hours, and likes to change and customize the appearance of things. This game is well 
 suited for all ages, and will be a good game to add to your PS3 collection. The game will not disappoint 
 anyone who wishes to purchase the game. Other then that, have fun playing this fantastic game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvanaphoenix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:04 am PT
Review:  Ok I'm not going to my usual by going over the story (not sure you could call what LBP has a 'story') 
 basic premise.
  
  Guiding your little Sackboy through the levels already on the Blu Ray is a lot of fun. Although 
 it may may take some time, and sometimes the jumping in the Z axis can be frustrating, solving 
 the puzzles as you go along your way and overcoming a gauntlet of treacherous obstacles gives you 
 a great sense of achievement. Espescially when playing with a friend, me and my Dad (whos 40! and 
 NEVER plays games) played this for ours and end and had a laugh goofing around. You can of course 
 play it online with people online but I'll get to that later at the point where the review (and 
 the game) goes grim...
  
  Of course the Story won't last forever, unless you fail to pray to whatever God you believe in 
 (or didn't before this) enough to pass the Bunker or try and get the Trophies for not dying and 
 getting 100% bubbles. So, LittleBIGPlanet gives you the novel and ingenious ability to MAKE YOUR 
 OWN LEVELS!!! Wow, eh? Loads of tools and gimmicks, all of which SIR Stephen Fry will teach you 
 how to use in an unforgettable way (by making you laugh until a little wee comes out) in his perfect 
 Brit Schoolmaster voice. Take that yanks with your wrestling ring narrators. 
  
  To make a really good level, you're going to have to invest a LOT of time, which is fair enough 
 because it really does pay when you upload them to the online world. You can play other peoples 
 levels which they have made. You can play them with up to four players (friends or randoms) online. 
 Sounds great doesn't it?
  
  BUT IT'S RUINED BY A little (I mean HUGE!) GAME-BREAKING THING CALLED 'LAG'
  
  I don't just 
 mean lag, I mean failing to connect, getting signed out of PSN, losing connection to Internet altogether, 
 freezing almost EVERY time I go online. It cause me so many headaches and when I finally do connect 
 to a game, the ingame lag is awful and really ruins a game where precision and timing is everything. 
 When you choose a level online, either it'll try and drop you in halfway AFTER the other players 
 pass the second check point, or it takes so long to load its too late to start playing, and you'll 
 see your self die and the other players run to where they are now very quickly while the game catches 
 up. It's appaling. What makes it so awful because every other PS3 game I have has a really smooth 
 online. 
  
  *I'd like to add I have a Static IP and get 80-90% wireless strength, yet still get internet failiures 
 and I'm not alone in this.*
  Killzone.
  Overall, it could have been a 9.5 out of ten if the was up to the standard of say, 
  
  
  
 Why not a ten, well there are other really annoying issues that really make me lose faith in this 
 game. Costumes.
  
  You'll see people who've got costumes that make them look like the Thing, Cloud, Venom, Pikachu 
 and loads of other Sack versions of famous characters from game and film media. But when you go 
 to the levels that give you the necessary stickers, you'll find applying them is IMPOSSIBLE. When 
 you trying to apply them to your head, for example you'll find your half your head and half your 
 arm stickered. It's so annoying and it's really hard to sticker round the back of your body. Why 
 can't they include better options for colours? 
  
  Probably because they want to rip us off by charging stupid amounts for costumes that are easy 
 to use that let us look like our favourite characters (or if you're not a fan of Kratos then you'll 
 have to wait for EVER until yours is released) . Seriously, apart from the Metal Gear Solid levels, 
 none of the DLC is worth it at all. We shouldn't be getting taken advantage of like this. 
  
  On the surface LBP is a great game, the level creation mode is great and the Sackboys are oh 
 so cute. Controlling their body parts with SIXAXIS and analogue sticks is really clever. The music 
 is catchy and the voice overs are great (British) but the online issues are, and I hate to say 
 it; Game-BREAKING.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Innovation is something that is usually not taken seriously by most gaming companies. These days 
 it seems like making sequels is the way to go, because the risk of people not liking the game is 
 far less then with a New IP, honestly you have no idea how popular The new IP will be until it 
 actually comes out. LittleBigPlanet is a prime example of a game that tries something that has 
 never been done before.. provide the tools to create your very own game. Since Man made Video games, 
 Man has wanted to create video games.. this is the first time you could actually make your own 
 unique stage, and really there is no limit to what you can do.
  
  Meet our Main character in this game, Sackperson.. or Sackboy. Which is basically a Brown little 
 stuffed creature who can be totally customizable by the players.. and Man there are tons of different 
 ways to customize. The game offers tons of clothing, Skins, and Stickers to be placed on the characters. 
 
  
  Also new DLC is out weekly giving players new clothing and stickers for there sackpeople.. DLC 
 is a great way for Media Molecule to get money, kinda like Build-a-bear. However these costumes 
 are freaking sweet, most are from other games such as Killzone 2, God of War, Ape Escape, Resistance, 
 Street Fighter, and many others out and to come out in the following months. So far there has been 
 one REAL DLC that provides new Media Molecule levels, items, Music, stickers, and Costumes in one 
 pack.. its the 
  
  MGS pack, which includes 5 stages, 1 costume, Tons of new stickers, 4 new songs, and 1 new background.. 
 also new items such as Rockets, and the very popular "Paint gun" which can be used to shoot and 
 destory enemies.. now this adds a whole lot to the MGS levels, as well as the User generated levels 
 as well. This pack is pretty cheap and adds a whole lot new content.. expect more of these kinds 
 of packs in the future.. Right now we have seen quite a few mini packs, which include stickers 
 along with costumes.. Overall you know that LittleBigPlanet is taking Huge advantage of DLC.
  
  LittleBigplanet offers a main story mode, which is levels made up by Media Molecule off of 
 different themes of the globe. For example you will find Safari levels while in Africa, or Car 
 levels in America, or Dojo levels in Asia, each represent each area fairly well and each has something 
 unique about each level that adds a new style of play.. for example America gives players the ability 
 to drive cars, Mexico is all about explosives, and India is all about puzzles. All the stages from 
 Media Molecule are well made and are overall very enjoyable. To beat the Single player quest it 
 will take about 8-10 hours, which is a standard time for most games these days.. its not long, 
 however each stage is made to be replayed over and over to get all the collectible items such as 
 costumes, stickers, textures, and other goodies that give you more content for your stage. 
  
  LittleBigPlanet is basically a platformer at its core.. you run, you jump, you grab, pull, 
 swing, fly, collect, etc... like all other platformers before. Yet LittleBigPlanet's levels have 
 a different style about them, like different people made them. Say your playing a Mario game, each 
 stage you visit is generally the same with a different background and slightly different task.. 
 LittleBigPlanet's stages feel different from country to country, which I talked about earlier. 
 The only real problem with the platforming elements is that 1, the controls are not as precise 
 as you hope for a platformer.. the jumping can be a little touchy, but its minor. Also the Idea 
 of the 3 differnet sub layers in the stage can be troublesome at times. Switching platforms from 
 one to another is usually easy, however there will be times where you will accidentally get pushed 
 forward or backward while attempting to jump to a ledge.. Its not a game killer, but it is something 
 to be noted. Overall even if the game was just a single player adventure game with this awesome 
 style of graphics, the game would still be a great pick up.. however this is only part of what 
 the game has to offer
  
  Like I said before user customization is a very big part of LittleBigPlanet. After Beating the 
 first set of stages in "The Gardens" you will gain access to Build your own levels in your very 
 own "moon" you will be able to hold many different stages, so space is never a concern. Here you 
 will be dropped into Blank stage with the tools that were used by Media Molecule. So you have all 
 the tools that they did, however making a stage can be harder then it looks. You can't jump in 
 and make a top quality stage.. it takes a huge amount commitment from the player to make a top 
 tier stage. First its very wise to go through the tutorials of the game, each are fairly simple 
 and give you an understanding of each tool. After completing these you should do some trial and 
 errors to get the full grasp of each item, what they do with this, what they can do, etc, etc.. 
 So you could spend countless hours just messing around with the tools they give you.
  
  Now once you feel ready with all the tools you can make your own stage.. now literally you can 
 make whatever kind of stage you want.. you got an Idea, Boom it can be done.. the game can let 
 you do pretty much whatever you want. You want to make an entire stage based off Donkey Kong, go 
 ahead, you want to make a haunted house, go ahead.. anything is possible. You will see how many 
 things you thought were impossible that has been done by other users. The whole creation process 
 does take time, but its totally worth it if you make a very fun stage that can be enjoyed by not 
 just you can your friends but by everyone, which brings me to the other big selling point of the 
 game..
  
  Sharing you stages.. Once you make a stage you can submit it online to be viewed by everyone.. 
 make a good enough stage that people like, and boom you can have a ton of fans. Not only can you 
 submit things, but you can view all the other submissions by other players. Here you will see almost 
 every kind of game.. some are mini games, some are tributes, some are completely Original Ideas, 
 and some are just nonsense.. but you can search for the top ratted stages to eliminate bogus stages, 
 plus you won't find anything profane, since it will be removed from the server. so it keeps out 
 all the crude things that can possibly be offensive to some gamers. Actually playing other people's 
 stages is one of the best parts of the game.. the reason being is that there is always new stages 
 to play, everyday new fun stages are there so that you always have some to play. so you can never 
 really say you have done everything in the game.
  
  Overall The Play-Share-Create slogan is pretty much what the game is. You can play all the great 
 stages, both made by Media Molecule, and those made by your fellow gamers, Plus share your own 
 works of art for everyone, plus make anything you want. Create your own Icon, Create a cool sign, 
 Create stickers using the Eye Camera, or by taking a picture of your work of art. LittleBigPlanet 
 gives you so much to do, this game can be played for years with new stuff to do and play. LittleBigPlanet 
 is the first game to really turn User generated Content, into its own genre. Its your Sandbox, 
 do what you want.. literally
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Touchy Controls and questionable layer system get in the way of the platforming, overall 
 its unique and inspiring.
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking games i have ever seen, everything works in real physics and 
 each item acts like it would in real life.. all the different materials looks like what they represent 
 and the game is very cute and colorful
  
  Sound: The Music fits very well with the game.. you will definitely see tunes you will sing in 
 your head.. also Sound effect are eerily realistic walk on some glass and hear the sound you expect 
 from the material.. 
  
  Value: Endless replay value with new content every week. yeah its well worth the price.. even if 
 the regular single player ends in 8-10 hours
  
  X-Factor: The game has something about it that makes it a blast to play.. however its one of those 
 game you play for a month straight, don't touch it, then have the urge to play again and make new 
 levels.. 
  
  Overall: This game has changed the way I view User Generated Content. Its growing bigger and bigger 
 as time goes on, but one game that truly nailed it would be LittleBigPlanet.. This is a must buy 
 for all Ps3 owners, and your library is not complete unless you have LBP.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacj53647
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is a really good game. There is just so much things you could do and it never 
 gets tired. This game is suitable for both guys and girls. Customizing your own character makes 
 the game more interesting. Each character can do many emotions and gamer is able to move the hands 
 of the character. Multiplayer in this game is just so fun. You get to drag around friends, slap 
 'em, help them and it all requires teamwork. When you are done, you could create your own level 
 or go online to browse levels created by other gamers. It takes the classic "walk and jump" to 
 the next level. The graphic is smooth and the animation is, too. Plus, this game has very good 
 soundtracks that creates the mood of the game. Gamer will always stop and smile from time to time 
 playing this game. The characters are so much fun and the multiplayer too. It's definitely worth 
 buying and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTiD1NG0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  When Littlebiplanet was announced, some people though Baah, Children's game or maybe it's another 
 one of those Nintendo Wii Rip offs, Well rest assured Littlebigplanet even hearts the maturity 
 side of gamers and is more of a unique game than so called gimmicky. Very few games like Littlebigplanet 
 deliver however Littlebigplanet does deliver. 
  
  Well, what most of you might ask is what Littlebigplanet is? It's hard to describe what Littlebigplanet 
 is except that is just fun, fun, fun. The story isn't a summer blockbuster special but it has certainly 
 got a neat story which not just compels you to the very end but does so with its own unique level 
 design. Each level is different and while in the same environment in each act they feature completely 
 different platforming sections which to adds to the intricate level design and has so much variety 
 that the game never wears thin of boredom. From the start you are Sackboy, the cute ragdoll on 
 the front cover. After a short and quick introduction to Littlebigplanet you are placed in the 
 Gardens, the King of Littlebigplanet greets you and asks you to find his wife throughout a basic 
 tutorial. Once you have finished the peaceful act which should take about half an hour, it's down 
 to business and things get serious, well kinda, slowly throughout each act villains begin to get 
 more and more evil and only throughout the story do they get more devious and nasty. The story 
 will take about eight to ten hours and although it's short it doesn't feel like it. You'll have 
 explored six different environments with 20 different iconic levels which are all appealing and 
 superb in their own special way. The difficulty scales relatively well and won't quite give you 
 a "Just Right" challenge until the second half of the story but that's not to say the first half 
 is easy, anything but. It's not just story on offer when you're offline, Littlebigplanet also features 
 mini-games with two for completing each act while one might be inferior to another, and most are 
 balanced and are well designed each with a different task. 
  
  Being a brown ragdoll would just be boring and that's why your Sackboy is so special, because you 
 can make him/her emotional, unique and most of all active as of course you play alongside him/her 
 all your life as part of the Littlebigplanet community. First of you can make him emotional which 
 isn't anything great but it's worth pointing out as each button of the D-Pad expresses a different 
 emotion for example the up button makes him/her happy but oppositely the down button makes him/her 
 depressed or left will make him/her confused. Another addition to this is the ability to dance 
 while holding both L2 and R2 you can make your Sackboy dance by also pointing the analogue where 
 you want them to point as they dance. Or if you are a bit devious as I am, you can slap another 
 innocent Sackboy by really using the same dancing method by very quickly changing the analogue 
 from left to right if they're on the right of you it will land a slap and vice versa. Using this 
 you'll slap them right in the face! It can be a bit hard to master because dancing is so familiar 
 to the slapping technique but it all works out in the end. Next you have costumes probably what 
 differences one Sackboy from another, Costumes! Not literally one part costumes but you could have 
 a Helghast Costume and not just have it as one bit but a mix of a Helghast helmet with Kratos shorts. 
 The combinations are endless from the exploration of costumes throughout the story to the downloadable 
 weekly costumes on the Playstation Store ranging from cost free to 1.60 or extra value with four 
 costumes for 1.60 to 3.20. 
  
  There's also downloadable content such as God of War and Killzone 2 packs to customize your own 
 levels and pods with. Or maybe even downloadable story packs like Metal Gear Solid 4 story conveyed 
 into Littlebigplanet style. What's best about this is the fact all the content mainly free is even 
 at prices are made affordable. What encourages replay value is prize bubbles in offline levels 
 and even online levels. These prize bubbles contain many different things differing from costumes, 
 monsters and even stickers to place in your very own levels. That's right; you can even make your 
 very own levels which might take up hours to make an incredible level, only an hour at most is 
 needed to make a level worth playing might be said for online players. If you're a bit lazy you 
 can just simply use the objects including creatures and stickers from your story inventory and 
 place them in your level, or if you're creative use the tutorials to learn the most conventional 
 uses of making and playing levels. Although we were quite disappointed to see the tutorials can't 
 be revisited as some players might forget something and want to go back to it.
  
  The buttons are quite simple as earlier said, the D-Pad can be used to express emotions and the 
 L2 and R1 combine with the analogue can be used for dancing or slapping. By holding R1 you can 
 hold on to attachable objects which can be really fun when swinging from a tree to tree in a custom 
 made level if implemented in it. The triangle button can be used to read a speech bubble from a 
 custom made character or implemented radio, then the circle button to close. Even though it doesn't 
 heed much, the L1 button shows what the guest players or online players are to the game host. For 
 example your buddy could be round and press L1 and it would highlight him/her in secret crush, 
 it scatters randomly and is rather pointless but better used than none at all. Although some buttons 
 like the square button are made prone it isn't much of a shame because there isn't much more need 
 of buttons anyway. The game play may be remarked to some people who looked at the game for the 
 first time as they said Gimmicky it would be sloppy like I first thought, but really Littlebigplanet's 
 most focused area is the polished and refined game play. All levels consist of three layers what 
 I mean is the fact its 2.5D, there are three changeable layers so to easily pass by a two layer 
 creature on the first and second layer all you need to do is change to the third layer and go past 
 it but if you were clever enough to put a challenge to your level, you would know to put an object 
 on the third layer. All in all the three layers is perfect and only on the smallest occasion might 
 it be difficult to change layers. 
  
  Seeing as the game is played in 2.5D it is hard to say the graphics are awesome but you can say 
 they are probably the best graphics you're going to get for a 2.5D seen game. The graphics could 
 be described as solid, nothing has roughed edges and everything is nicely textured with no blemishes 
 in the backgrounds to make it bad.
  
  Littlebigplanet is far from original in sound but that's what makes it so good it and uses some 
 really tense music seen from Viking films or easy going music from television adverts. I mean imagine 
 creating a Silent Hill level with easy going music when you're getting chased by a black hooded 
 figure. Moving on to the voice acting you have the voice acting, that's right you have Stephen 
 Fry being the whole and only voice cast from the tutorials at the start to the exciting multi player 
 experience. He really suits the part and really does a good job of it, he rightly paces every word 
 he uses and really makes you feel a part of Littlebigplanet.
  
  The main part of this enjoyable experience has to be indefinitely the outstanding multi player, 
 everything can be played with up to four players locally or wit online players and maybe a mix 
 of both. It's really fun when you have you and a friend playing with someone else that you may 
 know or not know because it just adds to the overwhelming experience. The multi player is always 
 expanding because of the limitless levels, to date over three quarters of a million levels have 
 been created, some are terrible but most are enjoyable and some absolutely terrific. For there 
 are some disasters but underneath them are some incredible levels such as a custom made Dead Space 
 or Silent Hill level then you have the Killzone and Resistance levels. To separate levels from 
 each other you can search for levels in different criteria's such as Coolest (Picked by the creators) , 
 Most Played levels even newest levels and many more. You can also comment, rate and even tag levels 
 once finished on them. The experience of Littlebigplanet is really fresh and never does it feel 
 boring. You can just simply type in so and so forth in the search engine then select the level 
 and once more and Woolaa! You are playing a level whether online or on your own. Although playing 
 with other people online can sometimes be laggy especially when there is a level filled with background 
 effects like fog which can mess up your connection easily, aside if you're playing a level on your 
 own or with guests it's fine. Littlebigplanet does a fine job on it's multi player and triumphs 
 in every single sense.
  
  If this doesn't help to you describe what Littlebigplanet basically is, then it is simply put; 
 one of the most enjoyable friendly like party experiences exclusive to the Playstation 3. If you 
 were to ask is it worth buying a Playstation 3 for it? You would already know what the answer is 
 whether you already own a Playstation 3 or not, buy this game!
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Pros
  .Each buttons have uses which while not great are quite funny and worthwile.
  .Each of the 20+ story levels are unique in their own special way.
  .Seven in total environments 
 to explore which enrich the players experience.
  .Incredible multi player covers the main bulk of the game with 725,000+ levels created online with 
 a great easy to use interface.
  .It's possible to play four player locally online or with other people online or with a mix of 
 both which broadens the experience.
  .Prize Bubbles adds alot of replayablity to story levels especially since you can play four player 
 locally.
  .Oustanding copyrighted theme tunes which really adds to the core experience of playing a level 
 not to mention the voice cast on the whole is only played by Stephen Fry who suits the part.
  .The story while not to intresting helps it move along nicley
  .There isn't really a learning 
 curve to the game, just pick up and play especially since the game play is made easy to switch 
 layers.
  .You can customize your sackboy through story exploration costumes to free downloadable costumes 
 form the Playstation Store.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Cons
  .Occasionly changing layers can sometimes be unresponsive.
  .When the host has bad connection, the game play can deeply suffer.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Story Missions: 9.5
  Story Plot: 7.5
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Online: 
 9.5
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall 9.9
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettak81
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is the best side-scroller that is out for any current generation console. My 
 girlfriend and I played this game religiously for hours when it came out. Eventually we collected 
 pretty much every item and sticker and we beat the game so we had to stop. But it's one of those 
 games that you never want to end because of the entertainment value. The costumes are awesome. 
 The graphics are awesome. The levels are awesome. The online play suffers some pretty mean lag 
 at times... that's probably my only gripe. 
  
  I'm hoping that the sequel stays true with the formula of this first game and doesn't go tweaking 
 anything too major. 
  
  I know a lot of hype is around the level creation, but i'll be honest i haven't created one single 
 board myself. i guess you're either into it or you're not because i don't have the patience to 
 sit and do that. 
  
  i don't care how much of a "guy's guy" you think you are and even if you're into gta4 and call 
 of duty and madden, this game will instantly be one of your favorites of all time. hands down! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoff-uk123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  At first, I'd got this game with my PS3. It never intrested me at first. I was more interested 
 in playing Skate 2. However, when I was begged by people to give it a go, I did, and I can honestly 
 say it is one of the best and most fun games I've played in a while. 
  
  The story is interesting, the soundtrack is great and you could go for hours browsing levels online. 
 There is so much creativity in the level editor. Although I've never created any levels (As it 
 is quite a challenge) I still know you can create almost anything you can imagine.
  
  The graphics are another great point of the game. Levels have a lot of detail. You can even unlock 
 new stuff like objects, stickers and clothes for your sack person.
  
  I highly recommend this game. As a first game from a new developer, its stunning. Great soundtrack, 
 Great graphics and Great level editor make it worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zak_martinez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  little big planet is a game that stands its own ground. You cant really compare it to another game 
 .It is unique in every way from level creation to even character creation .It is an amazing game 
 but we'll start off with the bad news. It has a very weak story and the story levels can be beaten 
 in very minimum time around 2 hours of story play At the least .although you might find yourself 
 playing through the story multiple times to try to unlock all objects and costumes. Now onto level 
 creation. Level creation is the best i have ever seen in level creation you'll find yourself placing 
 blocks of wood or sponge or really anything .Which you then can bolt string or even attach elastics 
 to making little big planet levels isn't hard just time consuming .Now for online online is one 
 of the best features in the game where you can take a couple of your buddy's (or even complete 
 strangers) into levels you or a random person had built. overall this game is one of the best in 
 2008 i can only hope that there are more to follow for 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 4:53 am PT
Review:  When I originally bought LBP, I was immensely disappointed by it. To me, as a very anticipated 
 game, it had to tick all the requisite boxes.
  
  Unfortunately the game had not. Mainly because of the controls and the difficulty level of the 
 game. I'll come back to that in a minute.
  
  I originally gave this game a score of 5.5 and thought I would probably destroy this game if I 
 ever wrote a review about it, so I held of.
  
  Turns out, after a while, and having finished all my current games, I went back to LBP, and maybe, 
 I over-reacted a little bit. I have therefore decided to rate the game a 7 against my previous 
 scoring. Here's why:
  
  LBP is a charming game, it is hard to resist the cute little sackboy. The overall presentation 
 is complimented by the voice support of British actor Stephen Fry. It takes a while for the game 
 to get started as the tutorial is very long winded. Something that is probably necessary given 
 the variety of things that can be done in LBP.
  
  The graphics are very pleasant, colourful and detailed. The physics are impressive. The game has 
 tons of replay value however the controls, in my opinion, are still unacceptable. When the difficulty 
 level of a game is set so high (in some parts) , the one thing that could set things rights are 
 the controls, unfortunately this is where the game fails. How many times have I tried to jump on 
 a obstacle only to find my character has suddenly decided it makes more sense to jump a notch in 
 the background? This kind of situation happens a lot in the game and really does frustrate.
  
  The difficulty level could have been more progressive. I found it took a rather steep climb 
 too early in the game. A better saving system would have probably avoided players to restart a 
 level again and again simply because you could not make a jump after several attempts.
  
  Nevertheless, as with any games, you tend to get used to the controls after a while and practice 
 becomes perfect. Difficulty level is not going to change so it might be a good idea to see it as 
 a challenge. Overall, I feel this game has been hugely over-rated by a lot of people, so much so 
 that this game's flaws have been swept under the carpet. 
  
  In my opinion, the game does not deserve a 9 or a perfect 10, far from it. By the same token, I 
 was wrong to give this game 5.5 originally, as the game has a lot to offer despite being hard and 
 somewhat uncontrollable.
  
  A try before you buy by any means, I would not suggest this game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  Well, where to begin? On paper this was a very, very exciting concept. A beautiful looking 2.5D 
 platformer on one of today's machines. Which to me sounds like a fabulous idea & exactly something 
 I'd been waiting for & would love. Also comes with the added bonus of a level creation tool that 
 can be used to constantly create new levels that can be played by anyone for free for the rest 
 of time giving the game an infinite lifespan. Great right? Well. Not exactly.
  
  Let me explain what it does right first. Now my biggest worry at first was the huge emphasis on 
 user created levels. Lets face it, most user created content is complete pig crap. There's a reason 
 companies pay out loads of money for professional level designers rather than just getting any 
 random public off PSN to do it for them. Which holds true but is something I'll get to later. No, 
 my concern was the single player length & how much effort would be put into this seeing as though 
 they seemed to be putting all their power into pushing the creation side of things. I thought it 
 was going to be an after thought, like the single player 'feature' in Unreal Tournament games. 
 
  
  Luckily this doesn't hold true. The main story mode is actually pretty well thought out with mad 
 characters, ingenious levels & a healthy length. The levels take place across various countries 
 around the world, each having a unique style, yet consistent look. Middle eastern countries are 
 sandy levels & American levels are city based etc. So far, so predictable you may think. 
  
  But what makes them stand out is the fantastic, varied & very imaginative level design. Each 
 & every step usually uncovers beautiful landscape, mad item to use or old school, jumping over 
 pits, platforming bliss. They are completely crackers, made me genuinely chuckle & just wowed me 
 in the way they've been made & thought out. Even more impressive is knowing that each & every level 
 has been created by the tools available in game to all players. There's sometimes many different 
 routes to take & finding all the creation items (this games collectables  items for the creation 
 mode) will take some serious exploration & thought as you try to figure out how to reach that item 
 that's just out of reach. Some just requiring old fashioned god like platforming skills to get. 
 
  
  You also cant play this game without commenting on the graphics. They look fantastic. Everything 
 has a 'built' & natural look to them. Very surreal & very charming. Take animals for example. Its 
 not just a block. But actually many different items that have been altered & attached to each other 
 to make it look like whatever you want it to look like. Even water is layered blocks moving at 
 different times to create depth. It can almost be described as watching a moving puppet show. For 
 some reason it just looks great & raises a smile in its simplicity, its incredibly charming. 
 
  
  Then there's the sack people which just exude charm from every millimetre of their being. They 
 are possibly the most brilliant characters ever devised. Anyone who doesn't like them is a macho, 
 heartless git or is lying. Their animation, facial features & just whole look is genius. 
  
  But then you start playing it & somehow it all falls apart. In a platformer obviously the platforming 
 action is its strength. Just like handling is in a racing game. Your character should be manoeuvrable 
 on a pin & jumping should make you feel confident & as though you could land on the point of a 
 spike. Its something you expect any platformer to get right. Especially one as polished as this. 
 That's why with great sadness I have to say its just doesn't do any of this. 
  
  The jumping is just way too floaty & inaccurate. Its also nowhere near responsive enough. I've 
 once seen the jumping be described as being "as woolly as the characters themselves". Which is 
 pretty much how I feel. You'll press X & it'll take your character a long drawn out second or 2 
 to actually get any height at all. Also to jump higher you have to press X for a bit longer or 
 harder. This is quite common in other games & not really ever caused me a problem before. But in 
 this it has countless times. If you're in a rush to jump some small platforms (which you will in 
 some levels due to time limits or being chased) you'll somehow always press it the wrong amount. 
 Press it too hard & all you can do is wait for what feels like forever while sackboy is floating 
 in the air until you die. Press it too light & you'll either not reach the next platform or only 
 just reach it but find out it was a platform you were actually supposed to jump over because of 
 the time it takes to get sackboy in the air again whatever's chasing you will have caught up & 
 you'll be dead. 
  
  Then there's just the simple platforming parts with no pressure & somehow it still doesn't recognise 
 your button presses properly. Its sometimes felt as though I've needed to jump on the X button 
 to get him to do more than a hop. Its just needlessly frustrating. The floaty jumps also lead to 
 overshooting pits or just missing ledges as you are correcting sackboy mid-jump. While in mid air 
 it'll look like you are about to miss a jump so you naturally press right a bit more, only to find 
 you've actually got another hour in the air before landing. It maybe something you can get used 
 to but I've completed the game & I never felt comfortable with the controls for a second. It just 
 shouldn't require this much effort & is needlessly frustrating. Add to that die more than 3 times 
 at a single checkpoint & its back to the beginning of the level again *Sigh*.
  
  The next problem is the 3 tiers each level has. Every path lets you move into & out of the screen 
 creating 3 different paths. The jumps also take advantage of this. One platform will be at the 
 front, the second platform a the back. When you jump, the game usually does a good job of putting 
 you on the right path automatically. However it does sometimes get it wrong which can be hugely 
 annoying when you're trying to pass what should be a simple area. There was on part where it took 
 me about 15 minutes to go up a sloping ledge because the damn game wouldn't let me go on the correct 
 path for it. That's before even mentioning the annoying (but infrequent) sections where you have 
 to go behind the scenery & cant see you're character  sometimes leading to random deaths.
  
  Then we get to the physics engine. Now physics in a 2.5D game like this sounds like a recipe 
 for fun. As structures collapse & get pushed to create makeshift platforms & chaos. Unfortunately 
 this brings with it more hazards to the platforming. In the chasing stages in particular you'll 
 be jumping along all the while whatever is chasing you knocks over the stage behind you. Knocking 
 structures into your current platform, causing you to fall. This may sound good but all it does 
 is create inconsistencies & differences at every attempt that makes accurate jumping impossible. 
 & if you are planning on collecting every item then be prepared for many deaths & much swearing 
 as it'll be pure luck if your needed platforms stay in a position where they can be used. There 
 was also the odd occasion where the stage would fall in such a way I would be trapped or have no 
 way of progressing because the platforms didn't land in the right way. 
  
  Behind this games fluffy exterior is a recipe for huge frustration & ways of causing more anger 
 than most games I've ever played. Only Mario Sunshine has brought untold levels of violence out 
 in me like this did. I've not got a problem with games being challenging. In fact I relish a good 
 challenge. But when they are unfair & this frustrating it ruins a lot of enjoyment. Take Super 
 Mario World. A game that can be very hard & quite frustrating but it was always your fault if you 
 died which is how it should be. In this, quite often it is the games fault you can no longer progress 
 or have met your death for the 10th time. This I find very hard to forgive games for. 
  
  After all this I thought id better take a look at the games biggest selling features to see if 
 it could repair some of the damage. Not so. The level creation tools are incredibly complex & creating 
 a level will take hours upon hours. Something I've not got time for. With my little spare time 
 I want to play games not work at them. Even if you do find the time, it'll probably not work properly 
 or just be rubbish. You will also be missing many of the items that can be useful for creating 
 a great level unless you are willing to track them all down in the story mode first  not a task 
 to be taken lightly.
  
  So next I take a look at the created levels that are out there already. What do I find  loads 
 of trophy & item whoring levels which require nothing more than holding right, that somehow have 
 been given 5 star ratings & pushed to the top. Next to follow was loads of "death to 360", "Why 
 PS3 is better than 360" levels. Its not enough fanboys have taken over most websites but I have 
 to see it in games as well now? Fantastic. These have also been rated 4-5 star so are at the front 
 of levels offered. What a waste, I'm very disappointed in the community so far. I did manage to 
 track down a couple of decent levels from looking around & recommendations from the net. But even 
 these were small curiosities that were undoubtedly fun but not a patch on professionally made levels. 
 Admittedly a couple did wow me on how professional they looked  but honestly past the initial 
 "I cant believe someone made this" they ultimately weren't that great to play through & I doubt 
 I'll ever feel the need to play through them again. They're nothing more than little distractions. 
 I don't believe a game like this should make you put so much time, effort & work into finding the 
 odd level that might be decent. I've got better things to be doing.
  
  But even with all these problems, its not actually a bad game. Yes, the actual platforming is average. 
 Yes its frustrating as hell & can feel a little broken. & yes, its biggest selling point of user 
 created levels is - IMO - a waste of space. But the game is just overflowing with character & charm 
 which can count for a great deal. You also cant ignore the ingenious level design & incredible 
 variety of the main campaign. Even though the game will anger you immensely you just have to keep 
 playing to find out just what the game will throw at you next. Its just such a shame the platforming 
 & controls are just so messy. It could have been amazing rather than just good. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: invisible-aki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought little big planet because of its gorgeous art design, cute humour and because gamespot 
 recommended it.
  After playing it I was very dissapointed. i thought the game was meant to be light hearted fun 
 for children easy to beat and simple to use.
  THE CONTROLS ARE NOT SIMPLE and making even a level is immensely difficult. And new parts to build 
 levels can only be unlocked by playing through pointless and lengthy tutorials.
  Don't get me wrong though... LBP is a great game once you get used to it the game looks amazing, 
 talking full advantage of the ps3's graphical capabilities 
  i wouldnt advise creating levels unless you are extremely comfortable with the creation tools and 
 have ALOT of free time on your hands.
  the online multiplayer is badly executed the drop in system doesn't work
  and there is a fair 
 amount of lag in the game even when running of a high speed wireless connection. 
  LBP is a game of ups and downs that will have you hating it one moment and loving it the next
 
  but in my opinion it is too inconsistent to reccomend and is not worth the large amount of money 
 needed to purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sackboy15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet the never ending game that`s what i think. In this game you could play levels, 
 make your own, and share them with the world. You start off in story mode playing through levels 
 and collecting many things. Then you unlock the moon where you create and publish levels. You should 
 still continue story mode to get more items to get more ideas and more things to make your levels 
 better.
  You could also decorate your pod the place where your sack person
  chills in between adventures. You could also decorate sack boy/girl
  with many different costumes 
 and stickers. the pod can be anything that you want it to be. you could play with your friends 
 up to 4 people per game when you play with your friends. you can have many different expressions 
 with your sack person on the d-pad up is happy, down is sad, left is worried, right is acting tough. 
 To sum it all up Little Big Planet is a game where you can Play, Create, Share. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piplupbob
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Who ever made this game is a complete genius. I have been playing this game for over 4 months straight. 
 When your stuck on a story mode level... no problem click play online and you and a new buddie 
 can beat the level together, and if you still can't beat it go to MY MOON and make your vary own 
 level and when you're done making it publish it to the Little Big Planet community and let everybody 
 who owns this play it with a push of a button! This game changed my life. I would have to say this 
 game would be my favorite game ever made, even over Resident Evil 4!!!! Once you have gotten into 
 level creator (my moon) you can make your own car, gun, and anything else you can think of. If you 
 have a PS3 and don't own this game you should do one of the following:
  
  A: Kill yourself
  B: Rob a bank and get $60.00 to buy this game
  C: Feel so ashamed of buying 
 barbie other than this you die
  D: Tell the guy at gamestop to push you off a cliff
  E: All of the above
  
  I think people who don't have this game should do E. This has been a 
 review by PIPLUPBOB... Add me to your friends list my account is Lincoin47 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coleslaw893
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  For years now, gamers have wanted to make their own games. We've written down our ideas on paper, 
 shared them with our friends, and more recently, written blogs about them for others to comment 
 on. Now that LittleBigPlanet is here, we can finally put some of our imagination to use, and show 
 our creative prowess to the world.
  
  The gameplay in LittleBigPlanet is simple, all you need to know to get through a level is how to 
 run, jump, and grab. The actual platforming, however, can be rather imprecise. This is because 
 of the "plain" system that LittleBigPlanet uses. Your Sackperson won't always jump onto what you 
 want them to, and this leads to occasionally frustrating cheap deaths. Its particularly annoying 
 when there's a prize bubble that's out of the way of the main path and you can't get your Sackperson 
 to reach it because they want to remain on the main plain. This never becomes so frustrating that 
 you want to throw your controller at the television though. In fact, the platforming in LittleBigPlanet 
 is very fun and enjoyable most of the time. You'll just have to deal with some floaty controls.
 
  
  The main "story" mode in LittleBigPlanet lasts roughly five to six hours. There's plenty of replay 
 value to be had with these levels though. There's plenty of prize bubbles, and keys to collect 
 that unlock various mini-game challenges that you wont be able to access on your first playthrough. 
 The official levels also serve as an inspirational garden of ideas for people to use in their own 
 levels, which is the core component of LittleBigPlanet.
  
  LittleBigPlanet's level editor can seem very overwhelming at first, but there's an hour long set 
 of tutorials that show you how to make things move, dissolve, blow up, and more. Once your ready 
 to start creating, starting small is key. But once you've mastered all of the mechanics, you can 
 make pretty much anything your imagination cooks up with relative ease.
  
  This brings us to the biggest concern about LittleBigPlanet since the beginning, will users be 
 able to create quality content that others will find enjoyable to play? Well I can safely say the 
 answer is yes. There's already been a slew of levels that absolutely just blew my mind away. Some 
 are even more imaginative and more impressive than the campaign levels, even though they might 
 not always have the same polish. I can't even count how many times I've been playing through user 
 created levels and said, "How did they do that?" Yes, worry no longer, the gaming community is 
 completely capable of making fun, quality levels. Of course there's some real stinkers in the mix 
 as well, but you can successfully avoid them as long as you stick to playing the levels with high 
 play counts, lots of hearts, and positive tags.
  
  There's sadly more negative than positive things about playing online cooperatively though. First 
 of all, its difficult to even join a game, since most of the time a "Failed to load all player 
 profiles" error message will come up. Once you are playing with others, the game starts to have 
 to have some lagging issues. And the camera also presents a problem, like the Lego games it doesn't 
 pull back far enough, so those that fall behind won't be able to see where they are going. This 
 applies to both online, and offline co-op. Which is unfortunate because playing cooperatively with 
 others is some of the best fun to be had in LittleBigPlanet.
  
  The graphics in LittleBigPlanet would even impress the guys at Pixar. The visuals are cute, clean, 
 stylistic and simply beautiful, and the art direction is absolutely top-notch. The soundtrack is 
 as perfect as it gets, LBP features plenty of British pop-rock and Indy tracks that fit the game 
 perfectly. And the rest of the sound work is excellent as well, from the clashes of different materials, 
 to the pops and squishes, it simply sounds great.
  
  Overall LittleBigPlanet is one of the most creative and imaginative games ever made, and the best 
 platformer since Super Mario Galaxy. Its also one of the best games available for the PlayStation 
 3, and a title that all PS3 owners should play. Despite its problematic online and offline cooperative 
 play, the fact that LittleBigPlanet looks great, plays great, sounds great, and has nearly limitless 
 replay value should tell you one thing, play LittleBigPlanet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bla687
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Flashy graphics have never been enough to convince me of the merit of any game. When I had first 
 seen previews and information about little big planet, I thought it looked undeniably beautiful, 
 though I wasn't sold on a game what I expected to be a child oriented romp through 2D levels as 
 a dress up doll. I then heard it had an editor. Being a fan of user created content, and liking 
 to create my own from time to time, this intrigued me. Then a friend of mine actually bought this 
 game and I got to try it out. Shortly thereafter I had bought a copy myself.
  
  The absolutely best part of the game is the level design. Though they start out extremely easy, 
 and with a few exceptions stay that way, they are extremely creative, and more importantly, they 
 are extremely fun to play. The only controls are move, jump and grab, but the variety of mechanical 
 elements that make up the levels, having you swinging, getting launched, or piloting hot air balloons 
 through levels always keep things interesting. Perhaps one of the most exciting part of the levels 
 though, is just looking at how the objects in the levels are interconnected, and getting ideas 
 for your own contraptions in the editor.
  
  The music is also great. Though I can't guarantee everyone will like the style of some of the songs, 
 being an indie music lover myself, I thoroughly enjoy the soundtrack. But even if the music styles 
 aren't your cup of tea, the songs fit the feel of the game and the levels to a tee, something I 
 would never have expected to say of a bizarre avant garde band like battles. 
  
  The controls are great as well. Though you really only need an analog stick and two buttons to 
 play the game, the use of motion controls for moving either your head or your pelvis, the R and 
 L 2 buttons for your arms, and d pad for facial expressions is a great touch. I can't guess how 
 long me and my friends have run around the pod in full on slap wars. That leads me to my last note.
 
  
  The cooperative play is what really brings this game to life. It's really not too hard to play 
 through the game solo, acing every level and getting every item that doesn't require multiple people 
 to get at. Playing with multiple people is considerably harder, the more people the harder it is 
 to stay alive. But when you've got three friends just having a good time messing with the incredible 
 levels media molecule has created, or with some of the generally inferior (but there are still 
 some very good) user created levels, you'll find it doesn't matter if you die a lot, because you're 
 having a lot of fun in the process.
  
  The game did feel a little short to me, but maybe it's because I played it so much when I got it, 
 but I've still got a long way to go in getting all the hidden items, and I'm in the process of 
 making several levels. 
  
  Though I'm sure making levels isn't for everyone, if you just take advantage of the work of people 
 who do enjoy devising intricate designs with an editor capable of making every level included with 
 the game, this game is well worth whatever you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet in my opinion is one of the best games of all time. Seriously, its that good! Definately 
 in my top 5. Even 3! This game brings you what no other game out there brings, to do anything you 
 want, and I mean anything! You can create your own levels to your liking, anything! And then you 
 can muck about and play in it. As well as that you can publish them for everyone else in the world 
 to play! Now theres too much to say. First of all, I would like to praise Media Molecule for their 
 dedicated hard work on this project. At the beggining on the very first level, it shows you the 
 credits, and whats better? You get to play through the credits! Beat that! It shows you a picture 
 of every member who made it while jumping your little sackboy past them. They come up in all kinds 
 of cool different sequences. The story levels are fun and addictive with different features and 
 backdrops for different levels. Also, if you complete a level, you get stickers and new things 
 and materials to use within create mode for your own levels! There are a decent amount of trophies 
 as well to collect. I've got 86% of them and they're really easy to get. Now the online community 
 has got to be the best you can get available on the Plystation 3 at the moment. With over 300,000 
 user created levels and rising, (I can claim at least 5 of those) , its got an amazing community. 
 Then you can put your levels on for the whole world to play. You can heart levels which is adding 
 to your favourites and then you can play them whenever you want! There are levels for everyone, 
 you name it, from army to dinosaurs, from space rockets to houses, everything, thes a level for. 
 Now the Playstation Eye comes into great use where you can take pictures of yourself and stick 
 them in the level. Some people cleverly photo army models and stuff to put big battles on in the 
 levels as you walk past. And you can interact with the things as well! Say you pulled over a model 
 action figure photo, he would topple over and the physics react very realisticaly. It great! Its 
 got the best online system possibly available on the Playstation 3 and you can play with 4 other 
 people online on your levels, story levels, their levels, hearted levels or random levels. Its 
 great! You cant beat it. With the quick play feature it enables you to quickly find a match that 
 has randomized settings. You can also decorate your Sackperson by editing him. You can decorate 
 your little house thing as well. The created levels that you make can also have sound effects that 
 can be customized with over 5000 options including the position and the que to come one as well 
 as the toggle sounds with the game. Its amazing! Theres so much to say. Too much to say. It will 
 keep you entertained for ages and has got me playing it for up to 89 hours so far! Ive calculated 
 that... its amazing fun for the whole family, even grandparents will enjoy it due to its simple 
 controls and amusing sixaxis controls that will make you laugh your head off. An amzing game and 
 a must get! One of the best games ever! Thanks for reading. Bye!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexspy99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Littlebigplanet is a revolutionary game for the PS3. It is customizable in any way you can think 
 of. The level creator is the best creator for users with thousands of objects to use (collected 
 in Story mode) and it is also very simple.
  
  The story mode has 8 acts with each act having 3 levels. The First level is usually introducing 
 the player to the act's environment and gameplay. The second level is making progress through the 
 world getting to the 3rd level. The third level is always the hardest with a different type of 
 gameplay (1st level you might be swinging off of trees but in the third you could be using a flying 
 machine to get into a volcano) At the end of the third level there is always a boss. The 8 levels 
 are modeled off of the real world. 
  
  Graphics: 9.0 Great environments, colurful
  
  Gameplay: 9.5 The game is neverending with the thousands of levels to download and with the objects 
 to find in the story mode.
  
  Summary: A must buy for any PS3 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokittoya
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is an extremely beautiful, and adorable game. It has great graphics, great creativity, 
 and overall is a just a big barrel of fun. It's no hardcore game that you'll obsess over but it 
 will win your heart over.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  This game is beautiful. Everything seems to be well designed, and all the levels just have that 
 gleam, that shine, that just brings you in. Everything is detailed, up to the last blade of grass, 
 or last piece of string on your sackboy/girl.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  The gameplay is lots of fun. It combines 2D and 3D platforming almost perfectly. Sometimes it can 
 be kind of confusing figuring out what layer you're on, or being in the right layer while jumping, 
 but it works fine. Also after you beat the story mode, the gameplay really just depends on the 
 world you're playing. If its not done well, chances are you're not going to have a good time, but 
 there are some amazing designers out there, and i encourage you to look for them. However the gameplay 
 itself just feels like its missing something.
  
  Story: 6/10
  Theres a story? lol
  There isn't really much of a story to this game. you're basically just going through worlds and 
 solving problems.
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  This is just my experience, but i tend to lag alot when playing with strangers. However with friends 
 its fine. Multiplayer is good. Theres plenty of things to do that require more than 1 player to 
 get through, and its always fun to slap the other sack boys around :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:57 am PT
Review:  Before I start let me give a frame of reference concerning the reviewer: I'm a 26 year old male, 
 and I speak on behalf of what I've thought and heard from my peers (both female and male) .
  
  Whether it has been explicitly said or not, LittleBigPlanet (LBP) is a creative masterpiece 
 that revolutionizes what games can be while being appropriate for all ages.
  
  First, the game does not derive its fun factor from massacring other humans, aliens, or god knows 
 whats. In a time where it seems like most game developers have the deluded idea that a game must 
 involve violence to be good (no thanks to Microsoft's firm 'killing is the best fun' policy) , LBP 
 stands out as one of a kind. How strange that we humans would want games to be 'realistic' when 
 reality is realistic enough! Surely an imaginary world is better than copying our own imperfectly 
 and with its imperfections.
  
  Second, LBP's gameplay is excellent both in its single-player and multi-player modes. The multi-player 
 modes are admittedly more fun, and they're accessible either online or on a single PS3. The game's 
 replay value is high, both because the disc levels are full of things to collect, and because there 
 are many creative user-designed levels online. The platforming is reminiscent of older game generations 
 like the SNES and Genesis/Megadrive, while simultaneously being new both artistically and as far 
 as the character interaction mechanics are involved.
  
  Third, LBP delivers a good platforming experience, but where it really amazes is in the level of 
 customization it allows. Your sackperson (the character) can be dressed up, can be made to wear 
 different expressions, can have all its joints/limbs move (e. g. you can make him/her dance) , can 
 have stickers placed on itself and its environment, and finally can even have its own world created 
 from the ground up (i. e. you can make your objects which eventually can go into your own level) . 
 I think this customization is really what makes LBP stand apart from all other games. An adult 
 can enjoy and be truly challenged by this, it really does push the limits of creativity. Even more 
 importantly, if one has children, I cannot stress how good LBP can be for a child's mind. It is 
 creative, light-hearted, and accessible (with parental help) , offering an experience that is on 
 par with constructing a world out of Lego pieces. I really don't think any game offers that. The 
 Wii, for all the hype its gotten, is yet to offer a game that is even in the same ballpark as LBP.
 
  
  Finally, Sackboy/Sackgirl is an incredible character. Nothing so cute, personable or memorable 
 has been introduced in years. I would surely think that 10 or 20 years down the line, Sackperson 
 will still be with us, much like other gaming mascots like Mario. The fact is that sackboy/girl 
 has been given such a range of animations, emotions and appearances that I find it hard to believe 
 that any human will not be taken in by this fictional character.
  
  Needless to say, I fully recommend this game. Not only because it's a worthy investment, but also 
 because I feel we need to reward those who work on producing true art. It would be a shame if a 
 game like this went unrewarded, perceived to be worse then the many first person shooters that 
 crowd the market with their ideals of murder. We might one day end up with nothing but them, and 
 that would be a real tragedy.
  
  Rami 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  At first thought and mention of the name Little Big Planet I was thinking "kids game for sure!" 
 In a way that's true and in other ways it's far from the truth. This game is comparable to side 
 scrollers, but is also unlike anything before it. This is the first true console game designed 
 with community and online play in mind. 
  
  When I started playing LBP I had no idea of some of the things that might be inside of it. I just 
 thought it was a good online community game. The more I played the more I came to realize that 
 this game was going to be something special. 
  
  Story -- The story in the game merely serves as a back drop to teach you how to play online. I can't 
 even describe it to you, but it's there. The way the game starts is definitely a joy to see.
  
  Graphics -- In its own artistic way the graphics are top notch. Sack boy moves, jumps, and handles 
 with grace and style. While simple the looks work. The lighting is on point and the style of the 
 game is in great taste.
  
  Sound -- This game truly shines here. The narrator is an absolute delight and is quite amusing; 
 so much so that I was willing to replay stages to hear what he had to say over and over again. 
 The music kicks in at just the right times and the sound effects are a perfect fit. 
  
  Game play -- This is creepy, but as simple as the controls are (and I mean simple shoot all you 
 really do is run, jump, and grab things!) the game play is surprisingly deep. I think that comes 
 from the atmosphere and from the smart level design. When played the exploration and challenge 
 of not knowing what a stage will bring is the biggest prospect here.
  
  Online -- This is what Little Big Planet was made for. You can travel from planet to planet of online 
 members who have made any number of worlds. You can look into the mind of some of the gaming world's 
 most creative players. You can stick to the games preformed worlds and have fun too. The best part 
 is you can make your own world upload it and share it with the world. It is quite simple to do 
 so. The interesting, funny, and poignant tutoring system makes it fun to learn how to design a 
 world. You can invite and play in worlds with up to four friends. Compete for time or scores and 
 just mess around in general. I don't quite know how Sony pulled of the chemistry in this one, but 
 it's one that works like a charm.
  
  I have seen or own most of the PS3's exclusive titles and they are site to behold. This game is 
 no different in a world of online gaming this is a king as far as I'm concerned. If the PS3 had 
 an online community that the 360 has this game would be busy NON STOP!! This game is no less a 
 master piece than Kobe Bryant is a Basket ball player. PEACE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, if you don't have any friends and you're not online, don't bother with LittleBigPlanet. 
 As a single-player game, its pretty boring. But with a friend next to you, or some buddies online, 
 its non-stop shenanigans! This game is probably the single, most enjoyable platformer ever. And 
 underneath its apparent simplicity, it is remarkably deep and interactive. Having the freedom to 
 move your character's arms and set facial expressions is a nice interactive touch, but it is too 
 bad that these aspects don't come into play in actual gameplay (unless you have the MGS DLC pack, 
 in which case, you can aim a paint-ball gun by controling the character's arm) .
  
  Everything in the game is customizeable. Except so far, I haven't seen away to create your own 
 custom color patterns or textures, which is kind of too bad, because I was really hoping to deck 
 out the whole game's menu interface in Chicago Bears blue and orange. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RasutoSSAikou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is that game that no one really knows how to describe until they play it. That's 
 how I was when I first played it. At first, it seemed like a normal platformer. Nothing more, nothing 
 less. Then I went online.
  
  Hoo boy, did that just fling open the doors of entertainment for me.
  
  See, the whole point 
 of LittleBigPlanet is: If you can dream it, you can make it. And it goes along with that statement. 
 Any level you can dream of is there. And if it isn't, LittleBigPlanet gives you the tools to make 
 it. 
  
  The "Story Mode" is a tutorial of how the game works. You can also collect objects to use in the 
 Level Editor and clothes for your Sackboy (your character) . The story mode is definitely worth 
 a go around, since they're the most tame levels. Once you beat it (or feel confident enough) , you 
 can go online.
  
  The community made levels is where the game really shines. You want a level where you are in a 
 giant candy machine? Done. Want to go on an adventure in a human body? Done. Want to play Super 
 Mario Bros., but on a PS3? Done! That's the beauty of LittleBigPlanet, anything can be made by 
 anyone.
  
  Your Sackboy is your avatar in LittleBigPlanet. He lives in a pod, overlooking the globe. Customization 
 is very important to LittleBigPlanet. You can use stickers you collect to decorate your pod, and 
 use clothing items to dress your Sackboy however you want. From a cowboy to pirate to rapping ninja 
 gangster, you can dress your Sackboy however you want. 
  
  Now onto the gameplay. Depending on the level you play, the gameplay will change slightly. The 
 basics remain the same though; get your Sackboy through the obstacles alive, and reach the scoreboard 
 at the end. How this is accomplished greatly varies. Sometimes you'll have to use your platforming 
 skills, other times you just have to hang on for the ride, and still others have you fighting off 
 enemies to get to your goal. 
  
  You can grab on to certain objects and swing from them, or activate certain vehicles or devices. 
 The grab function seems trvial, but it opens up a whole new world of ideas. Certain levels revolve 
 around the grab function.
  
  Another little extra feature is your Sackboy's emotions. By pressing a direction on the D-pad, 
 you can be happy, sad, angry, or scared. Pressing the same direction up to three times intensifies 
 the emotion. A happy Sackboy sticks his tongue out, a sad one cries, etc. It doesn't do much for 
 gameplay, but it helps to smile at a fellow player when they do something right.
  
  The only quirk I have about LittleBigPlanet is the Level Editor. Seeing so many awesome levels, 
 one can easily feel intimidated. Especially with all the tool thrown at you. Granted, each item 
 has a tutorial on how to use it, but trying to make them all work together to form a whole level 
 turns a lot of people off. That's too bad, because I'm sure people have a lot of ideas they'd like 
 to put onto the LittleBigPlanet world.
  
  Final Recommendation: Buy it. With such a strong community behind it, and a great (but hard to 
 get used to) level editor, LittleBigPlanet will have new ideas and levels for the coming months. 
 
  
  And who knows? Maybe you'll be the next famous creator.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilguy15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  From the cute child friendly levels to the canyon deep level creating. this game has it all. this 
 is hasnt just raised the bar for platforming. it has smashed to an orbital level of height. leaving 
 it out of reach from any other competitors.
  their is only one flaw. the length of the main story (which are probably the best platforming levels 
 ever) is a bit on the short side. but that doesnt mean this game doesnt have life. it has loads 
 all thanks to the online community which has been embraced by thousands uploading levels of varying 
 success. from the downright boring to the levels shear brilliance. but thanks to a user rating 
 system it makes sure that good levels rise to the top. also online their are level kits to download 
 and costumes to. these all add to it and will spur you on to be creative in the most groundbreaking 
 part of the game. the level creating
  for years level creating has been in many games. but its always been a last minute add-on strapped 
 to the back. which is either to complex or just so simple you cant do anything of any good. littlebigplanet 
 has it all though. as you can take it as far as you want to. you can just make little jumps if 
 you want or you can make huge levels which are so complex that when i see them you have to congratulate 
 them on their genius.
  littlebigplanet is the most important game to own on the ps3. and no matter of what age you should 
 own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun. Going around as a sack person and exploring the world. Fighting odd bosses 
 and avoiding strange enemies. Leaping across fire pits or avoiding chunks of coal. It's a little, 
 big planet out there!
  
  Believe it or not, this game actually frustrated me at times! There were almost impossible jumps. 
 Some confusion in where to go. Annoying and sometimes hard bosses (SOMETIMES hard) . Holding bombs 
 when flying an uncontrollable jetpack backpack. Gripping foam to swing across pits or cling onto 
 rotating wheels. Believe me, some of this stuff ACTUALLY IS kinda' hard!
  
  Although it may seem like I'm being negative - I'm not! I actually love this game. Customizing 
 your own sack person, creating your own levels, oh and riding high - speed cars! (which you can 
 even decorate with stickers!)
  
  And although I LOVE creating levels - it is a bit time consuming. The first time a built a level, 
 I spent about an hour. When I finished, I went through the level in about 3 minutes! 60 minutes, 
 equal to a 3 minute level!?!?
  Anyways, I did get better at making levels, and now it takes about 2 hours for me to make a productive 
 level.
  
  Another thing, the tutorials give you a ton of items when you complete them! Do a shape tutorial, 
 get 10 shapes! Do a sound tutorial, get 5 sound effects... and on and on! Although, some tutorials 
 give bad instructions and can be a bit hard.
  
  
  So overall, LBP is a great game! Although there may be some frustrations, and although it is a 
 teensy - weensie bit overated, it is a good game.
  8.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashking777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is a action game but i see it as a adventure game since you go through stuff collect 
 stuff and avoid stuff, but anyway... This game is among one of my favorate games of all-time its 
 certainly overwhelming at that your head will spin at first but as you go through youll find yourself 
 getting through it all in no time (but its still hard at times) . then there is a endless mode called 
 community where you can share and play other peoples levels. to most people i think this is one 
 of the games good and bad points. Now you may be thinking what dose it takes to make my own level? The 
 answer to that question my friend is enedible because there is alot to talk about. The multiplayer 
 is also one of its strong and weak points. let me do this one on a graph.
  
  If your playing by yourself
  ---------------------------------------
  Pros.:
  +theres a better 
 chance you can get most of the in-game awards such as getting thru the level without dying
  -takes less time to get thru levels
  no worrying about you being off-screen and dying
  Cons
 
  -its impossible to get all prize bubbles becuase of the specail co-op thing
  -you might get a little lonely (specially when riding rollar coasters or paintball)
  -if you 
 die you would be sent back to your last check pint possibly wasting time.
  
  If your playing with other people
  -------------------------------------------
  +considerably 
 more funner considering you are playing with 3 other people who are somewhere else
  +possible to get all the prize bubbles
  +fun challenges set on community levels just for 2 or 
 more players
  Cons:
  -less chance of you getting to the end of the level without dying (cause the game is very hard 
 ok T. T)
  -your *friends* may ditch you leaving you off-screen to die
  - the dredded lagg will occur sometimes (10-20% chance of it)
  
  thats the end of that and 
 heres a few of my end-of-review scores
  
  concept: 9/10
  story:10/10
  online: 8.5/10
  graphics:9/10 (although some childish graphics the flames and electricity effects are cool)
  
 music:10/10 ahh you should listen to some itll be stuck in your head 4ever
  replay vaule: very high due to its endless collection of community levels i dont think this game 
 will ever get old
  
  buy or rent: definatly buy youll just end up wasting money renting the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalityFreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  At first when I saw Little Big Planet I thought this game was going to be for little kids that 
 are new to video games. But when I got it for Christmas I put it on and the game started getting 
 addicting. Now the story is short but collecting stickers, mini games and created levels by people 
 playing online keeps the game fresh and feeling new. The graphics look incredible and it will blow 
 your mind. Plus trying to collect the trophies is a difficult challenge and buying the Metal Gear 
 Solid pack makes the game even more fun. It's great to play Little Big Planet online or play with 
 your friends next to you. This game changed my opinion and it is a great game. So if you have a 
 Playstation 3, I recommend this game. To those players that are into games with gore you might 
 not like it. But I say you should give it a chance. Plus it uses the Playstation eye, microphone 
 and is Dualshock 3 compatible and they all work well. Once again this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_prince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  When I first encountered this game I really wanted it bad, everything is just so good looking about 
 this game and it never gets old. I really think this is a successful game, Media Molecule out done 
 their self's and this is their first game. Just like Ninja Theory with Heavenly Sword. From the 
 good collection of songs, collectable stickers and gameplay I think LBP should become a Greatest 
 Hits and Platinum. Online gameplay gets a little crappy sometimes and some things are a little 
 hard to get as LBP is physics based. Some levels are also unnecessary as you might need to be 2 
 - 4 players to get some stickers, what if you don't have internet or don't have enough controllers 
 or you don't have game playing friends. This game rocks anyone who owns a PS3 buy this game its 
 cool and exclusive to PS3. Media Molecule should keep up their work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes, finally reviewing my first PS3 game. And after at least 40-50 hours of playing, I have 
 a lot to say. So here I go!
  
  LittleBigPlanet for all I know was highly anticipated, and had great expectations. I for one didn't 
 know of it until maybe a month before I got my PS3, but then I thought to myself "hmm, this looks 
 interesting, shall I try it out?" Well good thing I did.
  
  The first thing you may want to do in LBP is to complete it's very short story, which consists 
 of eight "chapters" if you will. Well actually first you'll go through a tutorial and all so you 
 know what the heck you are doing. Anyways, each level has 3 sub levels if I remember correctly, 
 which can take roughly 10 minutes or so it seems. That means the story (all the levels made by 
 Media Molecule) may take at least 4 hours to complete if you just run through it. There are many 
 pit stops along the way. If you are playing with a friend, or online, there are various 2 player 
 spots which you can do to collect prizes bubbles. There are also many unlockable challenges as 
 well. 
  
  But that's about it for the main story (which isn't much of a story really, but some of the levels 
 are fun, and you can always go back for prize bubbles you have missed)
  
  Next I will go ahead and give my thoughts on the multiplayer. I have not played with anyone else 
 using the same PS3, so I can't give my thoughts on that, but supposedly the camera gets kind of 
 screwy in splitscreen mode, so just a head ups.
  
  The online is both brilliant and flawed. The bad thing is the lag, I would hope there would be 
 almost no lag after this game has been out for months... but the best way to avoid it is to not 
 play levels with other people online, which is a darn shame. Simple things will lag online, like 
 typing out a message (which is a great pain unless you have a different typing device)
  
  The great thing about the online play is obviously the player-submitted levels. To be honest, the 
 majority of them are crap and oftentimes incompleteable. But guess what? There has got to be thousands 
 of levels on their to explore, and some of just simply fun, and others feel like a real level, 
 possibly even better than ones made by MM themselves!
  
  So yes, many great things about this creative and simply adorable game, but there are some things 
 that just get on my nerves. First of all... the controls. 2 words... they suck. I meen you are 
 using like 3 buttons here. It's not just that, I like games being simple, but the controls just 
 don't seem to be very responsive. The jumping is horrid, dare I say. You gotta like hold the freaking 
 button down for a "bigger" jump, and just jumping alone has drived me insane.
  
  This isn't a complaint, but more of a statement. This game is very time consuming. Big deal right? 
 I say this in both a positive in negative way. The positive is that this game really passes the 
 time when you need to, and it is also addicting, so you usually want to play it anyways. But the 
 bad thing is some of the levels you may be playing online stink. Actually the main time consuming 
 feature of this game is the level creator...
  
  Yes, it's very neat to be able to make your own level, but at what costs? Several hours of hard 
 work, maybe, for a decent level. Here's the deal though, you can be creative. It doesn't need to 
 be a platforming level. Heck, it can be a race, rollercoaster, sliding, etc. etc. etc. Building 
 a level can be a pain and very complicated, but luckily you can use items from people who actually 
 know how to make them.
  
  A few more things to wrap this up. I personally loved the trophies for this game, so if you are 
 in to getting trophies at all, then this is a great game to collect them. I think it gives you 
 something to accomplish while playing the game, and that's exactly what it feels like. I have like 
 64% of the trophies, so I would say the majority of them are rather easy to get.
  
  Another thing is DLC for this game. Yeah it all costs... I wouldn't reccomend buying much except 
 for the MGS4 bundle, which was kinda disapointing. It's 5 short levels, you got a couple of boss 
 fights, but the rest is basicly button mashing with the paintball shooter (which is really cool 
 to use in some player-made levels)
  
  To conclude this, I would say that this game has surprised me, because at first I never thought 
 it would be so addicting (or good) It can be hard to get into this game, but the uniqueness and 
 creativity of it all is just hard to deny. Basicly, it's hard to hate this game overall. Sure sackboy 
 (or sackgirl) can die way too easily in a variety of ways. Many of which are annoying or "how in 
 the world did that happen" but just try to think of it as funny when he dies.
  
  So overall I would reccomend this game to anyone out there still thinking about buying it. Try 
 getting it online for about $40, it's well worth it because I guarantee if you like this game, 
 you will be bound to put countless hours into it.
  Enjoy.
  
  Overall: 8.7
  Graphics: 9 (forgot to mention, but they do look great. The detail especially, but minor graphical 
 glitches.
  Gameplay: 9.2 (it's infinite with online)
  Controls: 4
  Multiplayer: 8.5
  
  And so on and so on...
  Thanks for reading :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harley89bo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is just so enjoyable that I can hardly think of anything to say, because I spent 
 so much time having fun while playing this game that I never stopped to criticize it for any of 
 its flaws; which it has very little of.
  
  The real drawn to the game is the art style. The game is beautiful and the levels are unique. And 
 if you don't like the ones you are given, then make your own. The simplistic controls are what 
 really make this the greatest. You just run through the level grabbing things, jumping, or falling 
 with style. 
  
  The story is cute but nothing memorable. Sack boy is the coolest character though.
  
  The difficulty 
 increases quite well in the main game. I never felt bored playing this game. It is for newbies 
 and hardcore gamers, and even old people can play too. It's fun just watching everything happen 
 that you forget your playing at times.
  
  Now for a little negative. This game is only at its peak with friends. Playing alone just isn't 
 as much fun. And it would be nice to create your own clothing or even play as different "Sack Boys" 
 like a bean bag type one or pillow. :]
  
  In the end this game is so much fun for everyone and anyone. Get it now and help them make a sequal 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexnollent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is a great platformer which is a one of a kind.
  Gamespot is my fav game review website BUT the comment they gave on the length of the game's story 
 is wroong. They said that it was to short and that there wasn't much depth. The games story is very 
 long and it has alot of depth! And, even after you have finished the challenging story mode, you 
 can go through it again and collect all the prizes that you missed out before.
  
  Good things:
  Lenghty story
  Great musical score
  Great lobby offline and online
  Good 
 Graphics
  Good narrative
  Downloadable content is vast in amount
  
  Bad things:
  Long loading times
  Some online lag
  Camera doesn't work very well online
  
  Overall, it 
 is a great game. Maybe one of the best games of 2008 although it is not good enough to squeeze 
 past GTA IV and Metal Gear Solid 4.
  It is a great game and deserves a 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  Now alot of people are going to pass on this game simply because of the presentation, but what 
 ever happened to not judging a book by its cover? Anyways LBP is a game you can seriously chill 
 with. That doesnt mean its not exciting, but this isnt a "God of war type game".
  
  Graphically, the game looks great. Everything is very polished and detailed. Gameplay wise is where 
 this baby really shines. THe mechanics built in the game work very very well. The main character (s) , 
 the sackboy/girl is completely customizable. You can change eyes, attire, and color. 
  
  Of course thats where this game really shines, customization. You can create your own stages!! 
 BUt this takes a while, so i havent really made many stages. The game really shines in mulitplayer, 
 especially online. Thats right you can fly through other peoples created levels, with other people.
 
  
  The downside of the game is the story is too short, but thats not much to complain about... If you 
 got a ps3, pick this one up, you wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Music: 10/10
  Creative, suits the levels... Just plain great.
  
  Sounds: 9/10
  Old-school sounds when you hit your friend it makes an epic sound and when you do it with a saucepan 
 its even funnier. The sound the sackboys and girls make when they jump is pretty epic as well.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Epic, epic, epic this game is unique. Your a sackboy or sackgirl. Almost everything is customizable 
 in this amazing sidescroller. You star off learning to jump and run and grab and go through unique 
 levels that all have there own soundtrack. The flaws are that you are sort of forced to replay 
 a level if you missed an item, the story is way too short and going back and forward because you 
 are on the wrong layer can get a little confusing. Otherwise it is great.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The design of this game is amazing, everything seems to be made out of some 
 sort of material. It is very imaginative and beautiful.
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  Couldn't stop playing until it ended.
  
  Value: 8.5/10
  The story is too short, but the online 
 sometimes makes up for it.
  
  PROS:
  Level Design
  Originality
  Music
  
  CONS:
  Story is too short
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE:
  If the story was a little longer it would be a 10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikicobra
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is undoubtedly one of the cutest games to be released on the PlayStation 3 so far, 
 and you can see throughout the game that it's extremely proud of that. The game's characters, music 
 and levels are all cute and happy, and the main motive of the game is to have fun. The biggest 
 problem here is that the game encourages you to be creative throughout, and then somehow punishes 
 you for it by making you unable to connect a certain amount of blocks because the shape is too 
 complicated, or by making Sack Boy extremely hard to color due to either him moving around too 
 much or stickers being too small to cover everything you want them to. This doesn't completely 
 ruin the creative aspect, it just means that to make anything that's especially interesting, you 
 have to invest a lot of time into it, and also be extremely patient with your work. It can take 
 ridiculously long amounts of time to do simple things like connecting a platform to a wall, or 
 coloring Sack Boy's arm. However, if you're willing to surrender a few hours of your time, you'll 
 be able to make some fun and creative stuff.
  
  Something ironically puzzling is, where did these clever puzzles we were promised go? There really 
 aren't any puzzles in the game, and in the few instances where there is something that can be considered 
 a puzzle, that particular puzzle is extremely easy. In fact, it's usually as easy as pushing a 
 block into a hole. There are some clever multiplayer puzzles, but they're marred by the fact that 
 the answer is basically given to you before you begin. And speaking of multiplayer puzzles, it's 
 just a big hassle if you don't have enough controllers and have to buy more to be able to get the 
 items, as the online is full of slowdown and graphical glitches that can make the game unplayable.
 
  
  Graphically, LittleBigPlanet looks good. The art style is creative and the textures and levels 
 look good, but there are a lot of weird graphical glitches, mostly involving clothes, as well as 
 a lot of clipping issues. The decision to make everything a lifeless cardboard dummy makes the 
 game feel more lonely, and it definitely loses a lot of its personality because of it. Still, there's 
 no denying the cuteness of Sack Boy, and the game's happy atmosphere in general. It's a shame the 
 story is so overly simple. Actually, it's hardly there. And this has a lot to do with the game's 
 lifeless characters, because you never become innovated in the experience, and you certainly couldn't 
 care less if the Collector isn't sharing things with others. Half-way through the game you'll most 
 likely forget there's even a plot, considering you knew it in the first place, because there's 
 no cut scene or anything to explain what's happening. In addition, there's never any change of 
 pace; it's all jumping, all the time. And while the areas offer some decent variety, nothing here 
 is memorable.
  
  The thing that really brings LittleBigPlanet down, though, are the controls. Jumping is a big pain 
 at times because of the overly-sensitive physics, and having to hold X to jump makes the platforming 
 take a lot of getting-used-to. Sack Boy also doesn't have any attacks. He can't punch, kick, butt 
 stomp, or anything of the sort. Every enemy is killed by simply being jumped on. This makes the 
 gameplay get repetitive fast, because all you're ever doing is jumping. Sack Boy can hit his fellow 
 teammates, but all this does is knock them down and piss them off, and it usually leads to boring 
 slap fights.
  
  LittleBigPlanet is cute and fun, though the controls could be tighter, the graphics have clipping 
 issues, and the online play is slow. If user-created content and new costumes are your thing, then 
 LittleBigPlanet is sure to have a long life, but if you're not willing to pick through the mountains 
 of garbage to find something fun to do, then LittleBigPlanet is best left aside, because its main 
 focus is on its community, and that can only keep it going for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet, in short, is a series of platforms, bungie jumps and small mazes begging for 
 exploration. What seperates this game from all the other titles out there is that for one, that 
 bridge you'll be running on is made out of paper clips and two, everything is fully customizable. 
 If you haven't bolted and egg to your wall yet, here's your chance, mess free.
  
  For it's simple, innate gampley and crafty graphics, this game is feels almost real, despite you 
 are playing as a dummy made of sack. As are most sack dolls or puppets, your very own SackBoy comes 
 equipped with beady eyes, a big zipper and stitches. After just a few levels, he can become an 
 venturous astronaut menced with the bottem of a wild west themed cowboy.
  
  Unlike many PS3 games, which is quite tear-jerking indeed, Little Big Planet (LBP) is a great multiplayer. 
 You can do absolutely anything you can do with a single player, only with two extra nubs on your 
 shoulders. After being introduced to the world of LBP, you are ready to begin your vast, juicy 
 expedition of the imaginative planet.
  
  What's interesting about LBP is that it captures many bookish moments where you just can't help 
 but screm "aha!" Many of the obstacles infact, need a bit of brainwave patterns to operate. Step 
 by step thinking conquers all! After you complete the obstacle, you can go back to the level editor 
 and place it in your very own user created level.
  
  Admittingly, the lever editor does have some tacky flaws, but for the most part is a joyous experience 
 to play knowing it is your very own creation. For one, the level editor can be annoying at times, 
 for example the object you just made appears to be 2D and therefor cannot be stood on. And after 
 you finish that, you realize you have nothing with which to hold that object up! But the good news 
 is that the produces took their time with the game, allowing for easy creating-ness.
  
  What I'm trying to say about this game, is that with every obstacle you can't help but think, "wow, 
 how genius would someone have to be to create something like this?" And indeed it is true, the 
 work pays off. The game is incredible, single or multiplayer, and truly brilliant in the world 
 of brainstorming. If you haven't yet played, go out and get, no renting needed. You will love this 
 game definately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet may be one of the most unique video games ever created- you can design your own 
 levels, send them to friends, and play a multiplayer story mode. This game's graphics are totally 
 amzing, and you should not miss on this great experience.
  
  The Good:
  -You can create your own levels, and there are literally infinite options, just how far your ,mind 
 can imagine
  -It has stunning music, visual effects, and it is very cute
  -The gameplay is highly addictive
  
  The Bad:
  -The Multiplayer mode has a bad camera
  
 -Short story mode
  
  Overall, I only played Little Big Planet at my friends house, but it still rocks out loud!!!!!!! 
 I hope to get a ps3 someday and get this, but I'm still very greatful of the games I have for ps2 
 I don't care if I don't have this, but it is still a great game. 
  
  Overall, 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikeR1C3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game has the most amazing and easy to use create a level mode. it was so easy i bet anyone 
 could do. but back to the game play. i will be focusing on what they do in the game. play, share, 
 create. first play. playing is very simple. plus the controls are easy to remember and use. the 
 x button is to jump or select. square is to open popit menu (heart, costume, try again and stickers. 
 R1 button is to grab. (only items you could grab on) R2 and L2 is to move your arms. and the directional 
 pad is for your face expression. (up is happy, down is sad, right is mad and left is scared. The 
 story is short and yes its hard when your fellow sackboys are left behind because of the camera 
 has to split because there is no split screen. Game play is very simple and fun. Note: the last 
 boss battle is the easiest boss battle in the hole game. I found some other boss battles harder 
 then the last one. second share. share is simple. create your level and publish it on a place you 
 want to publish it. People can comment rate play and heart the level. third is create. as you know 
 the to says it all. the create is easy to use and very very very creative. this game is probably 
 the most creative game in the market right now and i can't wait for LBP2 coming out. i give little 
 BIG planet (or LBP) 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratos788
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I didnt really look into lbp until it was like maybe 3 weeks away from release. I quickly upon 
 looking up more info on it, was grabbed by what may be a fun game. I looked on youtube for videos 
 that people had posted from the beta, i saw some user created levels, and it looked really fun. 
 I then found out about the kratos dlc and i was hooked. I preordered it and i loved it. Me and 
 my friends have a blast on it, we spend hours of fun just playing user created levels and smacking 
 each other around. The amount of creativity is amazing, you can create your own costume by either 
 using clothes you unlock, or create your own outfit my pasting stickers on yourself. The level 
 editor is very useful and innovative, although pretty complex in areas, it is very satisfying to 
 play through your created level, and then post it for others to play. You can keep track of how 
 many ppl have played it and how many like it, by hearting it. People also rate your level on a 
 scale of 1 to 5 stars. This is all around fun for everyone, and worth the 60 $. It also suits casual 
 gamers because even though it can be time consuming, it doesnt have to be for non harcore gamers. 
 So if you're interested in a new experience that can give u hours of fun, or just casual every 
 now and then fun, then this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:20 am PT
Review:  Little BIG Planet is one of my favorite games of all time! I spent so much time fooling around 
 with my friends and building levels. This game was a hit! There was almost nothing wrong with it!
 
  
  Little BIG Planet's multiplayer was probably te biggest thing in the game! You can play online 
 with your friends on any mode. Whether it's the story levels or the community levels, it's always 
 packed with fun! 
  
  The mechanics of the Sack Boy ( Main character ) are great too. There are so many things you can 
 do with him! You cna change his facial expression from normal to sad, happy, mad and scared! There 
 are also three levels for every expression. You can also move his hips and head around along with 
 his arms to make him dance and if you move his arms really fast you can slap other players!
  
  Another thing Little BIG Planet did and is still doing is adding downloadable content including 
 many costume packs to dress up your Sack Boy with and also, one major kit Sony made was the Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 Levels Kit! This included 6 MGS4 levels and MGS4 stickers and decorations. There is 
 also a surprise inside this kit!
  
  One last thing Little BIG Planet did great on is the story and graphics! The story line levels 
 were so beautiful and fun to play in and they always had a challenge for you to find the prize 
 bubbles which can include costumes to dress up your Sack Boy with or stickers and decorations! 
 The graphics were also great and the combination of the great graphics and fun gameplay made an 
 awesome experience!
  
  To tell it quick, this is one of the best games ever made! There are about 50 trophies that always 
 keeps you setting goals for yourself and the way they have so many things you can do with your 
 Sack Boy like change his emotions and apperence are very fun to fool around with! Also, the thing 
 that makes this game revolutionary is how you can do almost everything online with friends! This 
 is an awesome game and a must have for any gamer!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Littlebigplanet for the PS3 is a groundbreaking title that lets you build anything (and I do mean 
 anything) your heart desires. As long as its in the perspective of a 2.5D platformer.
  
  You play as Sackboy, a tiny and uber-cute character that is purposely plain. He jumps, grabs and 
 dies (alot) throughout you LBP adventure. As a game, LBP is pretty hard and has alot of great 2D 
 game concepts. As a platform enthusiast I was really looking forward to LBP, but if you are looking 
 for a solid platformer you will be disappointed. The tragic part of LBP is its physics engine. 
 Its such a good engine that many of the tasks you must complete in the level are near impossible 
 and ungodly frustrating. Also, in the level creator, the physics cause your levels to do extremely 
 unexpected things. Another one of the main disappointments is the inability to use the d-pad to 
 control sack boy. For those of us that grew up playing 2D platformers with a D-pad and for one 
 to be available on the PS3 controller, the omission of this function is unforgivable. Instead what 
 we have to work with is a sub-par PS3 analog stick that combined with the floaty and unforgiving 
 physics taints an otherwise strong premise for a platformer. 
  
  The part of LBP that really shines is its level editor. The more you play, the more you can build 
 and you can build pretty much anything. Many of the user created levels are stellar and help round 
 out the overall experience. The level editor isn't as user friendly as Media Molecule promised, 
 and its very easy to completely ruin your level with the press of one button. If you have a creative 
 bone in your body you are going to love the level editor, but after fiddling with the creator and 
 creating the strangely titled level "We are Gopher Death" I became exhausted with the process and 
 quickly moved onto another game. 
  
  Since its obvious that the story mode is simply an advertisement for the level creator, as you 
 can imagine it is too short and un-fulfilling. LBP sports alot of good ideas and looks outstanding, 
 but falls short in too many areas to really be a must buy. My caution would be to know what to 
 expect before playing LBP. Chances are, what you think it is, is not what it actually is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogeymanuk
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  this game probably is one of the best most funnest games ever, the customization is amazing a bit 
 hard to start off with but once you get used of all the tools you can create anything. Also the 
 story, lasts quite long if you go through it collecting and doing everything there is to do. Character 
 customisation is also brilliant you collect clothing throughout the story and also you can stick 
 stickers accessories and a whole lot more onto your character. Now some bad points.
  First there is no making levels online YET, there is no paint tool which i think would make a great 
 addition to the game instead of just sticking stickers to objects. I almost forgot about one of 
 the best things i think that they have used in the game, the playstation 3 camera, you can use 
 this to take pictures i use the pictures as you see fit using them as textures, backgrounds and 
 even stick them on your character. 
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpah-krayonzz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  Almost nothing this game did dissapoints. In spite of having no real challenge at all, it's probably 
 the best game i've played recently, and, if I make no mistake, the third best I've ever played. 
 I'm more of a racing afficianado, which keeps this game from top spot. FYI the second is NFSU2 
 and the first is GTA4. Rad games all.
  
  The create mode is *almost* flawless. You can use material of all kinds to create all different 
 shapes, from the basic square to arrows to sackboys! (not real ones... they're made of material 
 too.) You can also put bolts on stuff, which can make it swing (automatically or you can do it) 
 or spin. (you can set wheels to spin automatically when you are near via sensors to make baddies, 
 or hook it up to a switch of various sorts so you can make it go.) The camera can malfunction once 
 in a while, though. 
  
  this game teamed up with Metal Gear Solid, too. Thanks to that, you can dress up as Old Solid Snake, 
 Raiden, Maryl, and Screaming mantis if you buy their costumes online at the PS store. This also 
 spawned the Paintinator, a paintball gun. Online, there's a parody of MGS4 called, "Paint of the 
 Paintinators" in which there's this rad thing where you kill diamonds or something. There's also 
 something called Loco Roco the game tied itself to, but it's gay, so we won't get into that. Out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tecbarrera
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  Severely overhyped game. It's basically your normal platformer, with the ability to create you're 
 own levels, if you have the patience and the time to do so. You need to collect objects and stickers 
 from different levels before you can even start creating things. Sure the sack boy/girl is cute 
 and you can move its arms and change facial expressions, but seriously... This game gets old real 
 quick. The soundtrack's not bad though. I particularly like the Volver A Comenzar song by Club 
 Tacvba. 
  
  Online play can be fun, although you do come across characters that will annoy the hell out of 
 you by waiting for you to activate triggers to certain items, then quickly take them all for themselves, 
 or slap you around so you get pushed off cliffs or into traps. I like that if you're hosting the 
 level, you can kick those particular uncooperative players out.
  
  Customizing sackboy/girl is not nearly as easy as advertised. Rather than being able to use tools 
 to create objects or draw on the character itself, the only way to customize (other than using 
 clothing articles picked up through levels) is to make stickers and stick em onto your character. 
 EXTREMELY FRUSTRATING.
  
  All in all, a game kids would enjoy, and a few newbie gamers still satisfied with original Super 
 Mario (NES) 2D style platform gameplay (with heavily improved graphics of course) . Otherwise, don't 
 waste your money on this one... Rent it. If you like it after a few hours, then consider buying. 
 As for me, I'm trading it in ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertwarnes91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  Side scrolling platformers have seem to become obsolete with today's more powerful home consoles. 
 However they may be making a come back thanks to British developer Media Molecule's hot new game.
 
  
  Little Big Planet is described in the game's introduction as the world made of people's dreams 
 (well healthy dreams) . You take on this world with your sackboy (lets avoid the jokes please) . 
 Basically its a sack doll, and with him or her you can customise its appearance with various accessories 
 and clothes. More can be obtained in levels or purchasing off the PSN store, which don't come quite 
 cheap.
  
  When you start the game you well be presented with a level that acts as tutorial and the opening 
 credits. You are guided by warm-hearted English man who sounds like the narrator from In The Night 
 Garden. His dialogue alone reveals that this game is not intended for mature gamers, but the reality 
 is, that a lot of people who will play this will be over the age of 13. So listening to the tutorial 
 voice will make a player feel very well un-educated. His voice you will be hearing a lot with seemingly 
 endless tutorials during story mode and many more when using the level editor.
  
  Now Little Big Planet, being said is a side scrolling platformer, however the graphics are not 
 in 2D like the traditional one is, but in 3D. The graphics themself look beautiful and effects 
 like fire look quite real. Strangely this game for a side-scrolling platformer has a third axis, 
 which soon becomes a pain because this makes jumping on to some platforms annoying. The gameplay 
 mirrors every side-scrolling platformer, your objective is to reach the other side of the level 
 avoiding some hazards alone the way. However there some interesting new features to the genre, 
 such puzzles wil spring up and you can even drive a car at break neck speeds. Also a section in 
 which you are timed, acting as a small race. The developers haven't forgotten those bosses you 
 find in these games, interestingly they are quite complex and difficult to defeat. Liittle Big 
 Planet consists of seven worlds, based on the continents of our planet, each level has its own 
 unique style and challenges. Reminds me of "Its A Small World" ride. Initial levels are not challenging 
 since you are given a set number of extra lives which is re-set to the max number when you reach 
 a checkpoint. But the later ones will definitely require numerous attempts and you won't have so 
 many extra lives to rely on.
  
  Finding a key in levels will open up a side level which features a race or some insane challenge 
 like avoiding King Henry's tie pushing you off into water. These make up for fun competition in 
 multi-player modes.
  
  The main story mode is very short, only taking the average gamer a good ten hours to complete, 
 but you will miss a lot of the hidden extra costumes and objects for the level editor. Not to mention 
 the ones only acessible in co-operative mode and bonus levels to open. One shouldn't forget the 
 incredible level editor to keep the player busy and the thousands of community made levels to play. 
 However for those who don't have broadband will sadly be limited in level which is why the story 
 mode needed to be longer.
  
  Little Big Planet is a fantastic game which allows one to express there creative and is an overall 
 enjoyable game to play. Althought some minor things like the short Story Mode does rob it off being 
 perfect. However no PS3 library should have this absent from it, unless you find its children's 
 nature off putting.
  
  GAME SUMMARY
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Despite the genre, the game has taken advantage of the system and produces some very rich graphics.
 
  
  Sound - 7/10
  
  Nice relaxing tunes to prevent one from getting frustrated, the narrator's tone can make older 
 players feel poorly educated.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Just innocent fun, instantly can be played without skill and the level editor is limitless in possibities. 
 The z-axis and the never-ending tutorials can be annoying.
  
  Length - 10/10
  
  Story mode is disappointingly short, however with a large community creating levels and you spending 
 time to make your own. The game will keep the player occupied for many weeks.
  
  Overall - 8.5/10
  
  Sony resurrects side scrolling platformers on home consoles, thanks to 
 a limitless level creator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arconic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is the definition of platforming. This simple yet entertaining game is a one-of-its-kind. 
 With astounding visuals, well synchronized music, and great gameplay, this game is one of the top 
 games to have on your list. The newly introduced mascot of the Playstation 3, the lovable and cuddly 
 sackboy is a great character to this game. Sackboy in his basic self represents a blank canvas 
 upon which you can do anything you want. The same goes to the Create feature in LittleBigPlanet. 
 The amazing quantities of objects, design tools, and create options are abundant and the only thing 
 that can limit you here is (forgive the cliche') your imagination... and the capacity thermometer. 
 The levels created in this game are amazing, and you can post them online for everyone to see and 
 play. The music really synchronizes its self really well with the gameplay. The music doesnt just 
 become a background you just forget, it blends into the level and makes and gives it a certain 
 awareness that blends into the level giving it a fun and interesting "feel". The graphics are fantastic, 
 simply fantastic. You would almost think you could be able to put your hand in the tv and grab 
 it. The level of detail is great with the sponges, metals, and many other materials that you can 
 use to edit your levels. After your done with them you can publish them and let other people around 
 the world see what they think... though you will learn that some people are... mean. Basically, LittleBigPlanet 
 is a great game that every PS3 owner should have, both for fun and to unleash your "inner" sackboy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  So finally, LittleBigPlanet has arrived. Since the dawn of the PlayStation 3, this has been one 
 of the great exclusive hopes for the system. And at last Gamestyle has managed to tear ourselves 
 away, to give you the final verdict.
  
  Surprisingly, the game is already receiving some heavy discounting. Sadly this is arguably because 
 of its originality. Cutesy platform games are the staple diet of a bygone age. It seems without 
 an epic storyline or masses of weaponry to hand, a game will struggle nowadays, and for us that's 
 a real shame - simply because LittleBigPlanet is one of those releases you will remember in years 
 to come.
  
  What's original about LittleBigPlanet? Admittedly jumping is one of the first gaming commandments 
 and one that splits most gamers today. At its heart, LBP is all about overcoming obstacles, collecting 
 items and reaching the end of the level. There is a storyline of sorts (wonderfully narrated in 
 parts by Stephen Fry, a great choice) , which just serves up the chance to globetrot and experience 
 the realms of what's possible with the tools Media Molecule have designed. Then, unlike most games, 
 when the levels are completed, your adventure is only just beginning.
  
  The game at its core is all about creation, customisation and playing together. The lasting impression 
 you have is one of fun and pure enjoyment, as you set off on a voyage of discovery. Not only are 
 you able to play levels with up to three other players online (or off) , but you can also set about 
 creating some of your own and sharing these with a vibrant and appreciative community. Levels can 
 be completed playing on your own, but to reach select items or new areas then obstacles will require 
 a friend. Luckily there are plenty of volunteers out there to give each other a helping hand.
 
  
  The main character is of course 'Sackboy', but you can create your own unique plaything whenever 
 you wish. This can be achieved via a random option, or piecing together your own design from the 
 hundreds of items available throughout the game. Media Molecule has included facial expressions 
 to sum up your mood, backed up by a joyous soundtrack. And if you tire of building your own puppet, 
 then a wealth of characters are appearing via the PlayStation Store, with some being thankfully 
 free.
  
  The side on viewpoint works extremely well, with levels providing field depth beyond which we thought 
 possible. The sheer imagination on display by the developer and the community is mind-boggling. 
 The ability to share and experience new levels is where LBP continues to give long after other 
 titles have been traded in. As with Easy Golf: Course Architect, the support of a thriving community 
 is key. Without this, the additional content would soon wane and users would not feel the need 
 to keep on pushing the envelope. Currently the material on offer and growing support means that, 
 for 2009 at least, you won't struggle for things to do.
  
  A title that relies on jumping will always reopen the debate regarding difficulty and save points. 
 The balance within the game is almost ideal. Some of the homebrew levels do induce bouts of frustration 
 and critcism of the limited number of lives. For Gamestyle, Sackboy's ability to take a few extra 
 steps after landing a jump, or seemingly struggle for grip often led to unnecessary deaths. Yes, 
 very annoying, yet the charm of the experience meant we were not turned off from continuing. Fantastically, 
 LBP is one of those rare games that manages to cater for all gamers regardless of age or skill. 
 Even those normally allergic to platformers may be snarred by its charm.
  
  Visually, as seems to be the case with most PlayStation 3 exclusives, the game really shines. It 
 is a work of art in motion, and as you start each new level, you'll never know what quite to expect. 
 It's the little touches that really impress; Gamestyle almost felt inclined to reach out and touch 
 the textures.
  
  LittleBigPlanet is a must have purchase for a system that needs more AAA titles in its library. 
 As a PlayStation 3 exclusive, it's almost worth buying a system to experience. Yes, it's that good. 
 For Gamestyle, it represents one of the most original, emotional and entertaining releases we've 
 had the pleasure of playing during our existance. Simply brilliant.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashkan_kharazi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Alright, im sure you heard that Little Big Planet is the best multiplayer and BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH!!! come oon yooooo its not even worth that 60 bucks!!! every ones like yeah this is going 
 to be the best game EVER! PUT A SOCK IN IT!!!! i've played MUCH better games than this! Maybe a 
 9 year old would enjoy it but even like 30 year old were looking for this!!! LIKE O. O! overall 
 if ur older than 10 dont buy it!! if u want to buy it then wait till the price drops cuz this aint 
 pretty!! the online isnt that good either!! well i mean obviously its fun but i rather play on 
 my own or play with someone that is NOT online. 
  
  I remember when i wanted to get the game from Toys R US and i was so freakin excited!!! i went 
 there and theyre likethe game came but we had to send it back cuz there was the wrong disc in 
 it!!" LIKE WTH?????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6644kk
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  So you might think this is a child's game or not fun at all, thats what I thought first I got farcry 
 2 and I didnt like it so I exchanged it for resistance 2 which was fun but got boring like farcry 
 2, then I looked for a review for littlebigplanet and thought it would be better and fun so I exhcanged 
 resistance 2 for littlebigplanet and I was not disappointed.
  
  First I got it I was all worried, was it good or will be letdown and not live up to the hype.
 
  
  When I got the game I amazed, the great voice of the narrator and the graphics and it looked 3D, 
 soon after an hour I found myself in the africa with other sackpeople, the sackboy's costumization 
 knows no boundary and you can even decorate yourself with stickers, after I finished the game I 
 was went back and got everything, as I was still getting stuff and acing levels I thought "Damn 
 wish there was a gun in this game" and then I found the mgs pack and instantly bought it and there 
 was not a gun but something far more awesome THE PAINTINATOR! 
  So I got some friends and played the pack and it was so fun, we painted each other and then I saw 
 the costume pack and the screaming mantis looked awesome so I got it, by the way I never played 
 mgs before so I am not a fan of it but the littlebigplanet version of it is awesome and family 
 friendly, sure you might get a bit upset if you cant ace some levels but you are going to have 
 to pratice and the sweet moment when you stand on the scoreboard and win a costume piece is awesome.
 
  
  Get it you wont regret it and the user maps are great and the fresh supply of dlc from the developers 
 make you come back to play this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercedxdenizen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:20 am PT
Review:  The basic story levels are creative and fun to play, the music is catchy at times but always enjoyable. 
 Endless online fun to be had, with or without other players. Always more stickers to find with 
 the community levels and always new friends to make in Little Big Planet. Only thing i think it's 
 missing is offline multiplayer, me and my girlfriend love this game and wish we could play it together 
 at times, especially for the multiplayer stickers and multiplayer board creating. Other than the 
 one flaw, this game is remarkably innovative and i think the lbp franchise is going to be very 
 big. Ibp has a definite mario feel for me, the basic run and jump from platform to platform, but 
 with all the added maneuverability and customizing of your character, i think your 2D mario days 
 are over, and lbp will rule the 2D platforming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Since the PS3 has been released, Sony has had a hard time catching up with the head start Microsoft 
 had with it's 360. Besides games like Resistance and MGS4, the PS3 has had few games that were 
 truly great. And all too often any games that were great on the PS3 were already on the 360.
  Now we have Little Big Planet, the much highly anticipated exclusive, one that would take Sony 
 to the next level in the current generation of video games. I'm happy to say that Little Big Planet 
 lives up to these expectations and is just as much (if not more) of a killer app than any other 
 title on the system.
  Let's start with the basics first. The game looks and sounds AMAZING! Each level has a theme and 
 the use of colors and music is designed to fit that theme. But that's not to say the level design 
 is predictable. As you progress through each level, the landscape changes and the music plays in 
 a way to adjust to changing environments. LBP is very much aesthetically pleasing.
  But even more important is the gameplay. The game is basically run and jump platformer. The object 
 of each level is not just to finish, but to collect all the items hidden in them. These items can 
 be used to customize your character, to unlock more items in later levels, or to aid in building 
 your own levels, which brings me to my next point.
  Where LBP truly shines is in the online multiplayer. the level design in this game is so intricate 
 yet easy to use. You can publish your own levels and have other people play them and you are really 
 only limited by your imagination. You can find all kinds of multiplayer maps online, some great 
 and some not so great, but it really does bring a community of gamers together and the results 
 are nothing less than great. I mean if you love to make and customize things, you need to buy this 
 game or at least give it a shot! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeylukey10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Little big planet is a great game but it only really lives up to its potential when played with 
 friends. The story mode is surprisingly long and is extremely fun however, it is a lot better when 
 played with friends. This brings me to the one thing that I believe could have been improved upon 
 and that is the fact that when playing multiplayer in the story mode, the camera is atrocious and 
 it is sometimes impossible to navigate across swinging logs while your friends are jumping into 
 the lava causing the camera to get stuck in a random position somewhere. However, it is still extremely 
 fun and the constant dying sometimes adds laughter to what is already a very funny game (mainly 
 because of the great voiceovers by Stephen Fry) . However, the create mode and online modes are 
 where Little Big Planet truly excels. Little Big Panet truly is a benchmark in gaming history for 
 online community based games. Never before has a game been created that gives such freedom to create 
 whatever you want. From ziplines to rocket propelled cars. And then other players can play your 
 levels, rate them, and then check out your other stuff. It is extremely fun trying to beat the 
 highscores on levels set by the person who made them. (Although very hard) and it is even more 
 fun going online with friends and trying to find a great level where you can play together. Never 
 in my life have I ever felt that gaming has utilized online play so well. You have got to buy this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancefd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  I usually choose from a lot of games when I buy. LBP caught my attention because of the reviews, 
 videos, and screenshots. It was more interesting from the other great games coz it's something 
 different. It's something unique. Another factor also was I was looking for a game that I and my 
 girlfriend or sister could play. So I bought it and it really didn't disappoint me at all. It's 
 the funniest and cutest game I've ever played since I started video games when I was not even in 
 school yet! When I got home me and my girlfriend played it. She was really smiling coz she found 
 Sackboy very cute. And you can move its head, hips, and arms! Hahaha. When me and my sister played 
 it we we're laughing so hard when there's a pit we're about to fall or when Sackboy dies. Created 
 a level where we both have to ride a skateboard down. And our Sackboy's head was shaking against 
 the wind hahaha. And yes you can create your own level!
  
  The level creator was one of the things that made me buy LBP, besides the awesome graphics, sounds, 
 and fun factor. It makes the life of the game looong. You can burst out your creativity in here 
 by creating any level you want.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game is really fun especially with two players or more but when you want 
 to ace each level with "No Lives Lost!" to get the bonus unlockable items, it's hard. Took me 2 
 days straight coz there are tight spots in the game and your need quick reflexes to not die. Or 
 else you have tp repeat from the start of the level and not the checkpoint just to get the bonus 
 items.
  
  This game is a worthit buy. It fun to play with others and it has some serious moments when you 
 want to unlock the bonus items by doing a "No Lives Lost!". The level creator and the online community 
 where you can share your created levels and play created levels other players made makes this game's 
 life die when everyones creativity dies. Which is probably never :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is a plat former. It plays mostly traditional with a few little tweaks that make 
 this game special. Complementing this is the creativity and originality. 
  
  Game-play- At heart, this game is a plat former. You have to basically make it from one end of 
 the level to the next, with tons of little challanges and things to collect on the way. It has 
 a two dimensional play to it, but you can flip between the foreground, middle-ground, and background. 
 This let's you reach alternate routes and secret spots. You can manually select these paths, but 
 there is an automatic jumping mechanic to get to the correct one. It works really well, but just 
 to be safe, I always just push on the analog stick to the one I want. What I have explained is 
 essentially one half of the game. It may seem boring, but surprisingly it's a blast. There are 
 hundreds if not thousands of challenges you will encounter, and can create, and the levels look 
 gorgeous. The single-player consists of 2 or 3 levels in a certain theme. There are around 10 of 
 these themes. The levels are pretty lengthy though and tons of unlockables make them worth replaying 
 tens of times. It is important to mention how pleasant this game is. It is extremely friendly, 
 funny, and cute. This may sound like a child's game but it is for everyone, truly. The narrator 
 is a really funny British man who makes a ton of puns, some of which are laugh-out-loud funny. 
 Your sackboy person is completely customizable and I never get tired of changing his clothes. Throughout 
 this single-player, you can experience marvelous ideas translated into equally appealing levels. 
 Things you unlock include clothing, stickers, and gadgets and gizmos for the create mode. This 
 mode is extremely deep, and even though people claim it is super easy to get into, for me I never 
 could get a good hang on it. I have yet to make a nice level. Granted, it is fun to make a box 
 with a ton of beach balls and place a rocket in there and watch the chaos. If you are pleased with 
 a level you make, you can send it online so others can play it. Most of the levels online are pretty 
 fun, with certain ones sticking out, both in good and bad ways. In this sense, the game has endless 
 replay value, but the core game-play of the game can get a little tedious after a while, seeing 
 the same traps and tricks over and over again. That being said, the game is very charming, and 
 for the first couple weeks or so, it will be hard to put down this game. Sackboy is lovely, and 
 playing with friends is a ball.
  
  Graphics- No other game looks like this. It has a cute cartoony feel. The motion blur is top notch 
 and character animations near flawless. You can even make your sackboy make faces! Overall, it's 
 a pretty gorgeous game, with a few little mishaps here and there. The one thing that I appreciate 
 about the graphics is that you can customize your sackboys actual texture and color. You can make 
 him laced, leather, cotton, and more. They all look distinct, even if the color is the same.
  
  Sound- This game has some of the best in any game. The only rivals I can think of are MGS4, 
 MOH: Frontline, and GTA. The surround sound on this is great, with dogs barking and cars honking 
 in the far left and right, depending on the theme. The narrator is hands down my favorite in any 
 game, and the music is very memorable and cheery. Lastly, the voices of in-=game creatures are 
 halarious. The sound in this game is the best part in my opinion. 
  
  Value-The single player doesn't take too long to complete, but unlockables keep you coming back 
 a lot. Multi-player levels are constantly being added, and the create mode is fun to fool around. 
 This game is one of the best to play with friends as well. The only flaw in it's replay value is 
 that the game itself falls a little flat after a long time of play. 
  
  It is worth buying this game simply because of the mood. It is really cute and happy all the time. 
 If you get a little depressed by all the violent video games, this is the game you should buy. 
 It is a ton of fun and will last anyone a long time. I'm looking forward to where this new kind 
 of game goes. Instant classic for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyirishmikey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlant looks like a game for kids ... and is completely different and out of my comfort 
 zone from my usual choice of games (RPG's, FPS's) ... but I must admit it, I really enjoyed playing 
 this game.
  
  I'll tell you how this game came into my collection ... my wife has been looking for games that 
 we can play together, so that "we could spend more quality time together", and let me tell you 
 LittleBigPlant does not disappoint. If you are looking for a game that you can use to spend more 
 quality time as a family with your wife and kids this is the game for you, it's a lot of fun for 
 all - you can have up to four (4) sack boys on the screen at a one time, although you'll all have 
 to work together to complete the level (s) .
  
  Now, I'm not going to lie to you ... this game can be very difficult in places, and if you're buying 
 it for yourself to play alone I'll bet that you'll find more than one place that you wish you had 
 a young person as your partner as you explore the different worlds.
  
  I'm not going to go into details on secrets on how we beat the game BUT I will give one little 
 tip if you are playing with more than one person ... when you life portholes go red (no more lives 
 available) try to go back and activate the last porthole you pasted that still has lives left.
 
  
  Oh yeah, one last thing ... if you start a multi-player game in LittleBigPlant you're not restricted 
 to continue on as a multi-player game - you can go ahead by yourself and complete or explore levels 
 on your own and then have other players return to the game and continue on from where ever you 
 are (however they won't have any of the stickers, decorations or costumes that you have collected) .
 
  
  I highly recommend this game for the family aspects.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassinX01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  AESTHETICS:
  *Audio*: (~9.5)
  Soundtrack: 10
  Voice Acting/Sound Effects: 9
  *Visual*: (~9.7)
  Presentation: 10
  Art Design: 10
  Technical Execution: 9
  GAMEPLAY: (~9.2)
 
  Depth and Variety: 10
  Lasting Appeal: 10
  Multiplayer and/or Story: 9
  Execution (out of 20) : 16
  -------------------------------
  subtotal: 93/100 (see 'FINAL SCORE' 
 for the overall score)
  _______________)
  Merits and Demerits (no more than +5 or -5) . . . ----------------
  utterly unique (+1) : There's 
 absolutely nothing like LBP; the level of flexiblity and power offered to the player with the robust 
 level editor is unparalleled. Universal appeal (+1) : If you aren't 'awed' and 'awwed' by LBP, you 
 have no soul. Seriously.
  Virtually unlimited content (+2) : so far, there are 2 million LBP owners. Let's say one out of 
 every 10,000 makes a great level; that means you have over 200 levels to play through online. And 
 the number is only growing. A platformer without a story (-1) : Alright, so this demerit could've 
 come out of the 'Multiplayer/Story' category, but the multiplayer is so deep and enjoyable the 
 game deserves nothing less than its current score in that category. However, such a paltry, loose 
 story is woefully underwhelming when compared to the rest of the game.
  -----------------
  FINAL SCORE: 96/100 (100+ denotes 'masterful', a 105 is considered 'perfect')
  
  Summary: LittleBigPlanet 
 is what happens when you take Mario, replace him with an adorable burlap-doll, and throw physics 
 into the equation. It's adorable, brilliant, and utterly enjoyable. The sad part is, this game 
 thus far has been written off (by the uninformed masses) as a kiddie game, a notion that couldn't 
 be further from the truth. LBP appeals to people of all ages, and due to the flexibility of the 
 level editor, realistically a level of any sort can be crafted. Multiplayer is a riot, and thanks 
 to the ability to emote your sackboy's face, as well as control his head, arms, and hips through 
 use of the SixAxis and analog sticks, you will probably lose several hours simply running around 
 while wearing a terrified countenance as your friend chases after you in a desperate attempt to 
 backhand your avatar. I know I have. Online is robust, and allows you to both upload your created 
 levels to the community and play the levels of others. You can simply drop in and play in a party 
 with up to three other strangers (or friends) , and thanks to the near limitless content, you'll 
 never have to play the same level twice (though some levels certainly merit a second and third 
 run through) . Additionally, up to four people can play LBP at time offline, which makes this an 
 excellent 'party' game. There are a few qualms, despite all the superlatives you can attach to 
 this game. The physics system, while an entertaining means to spice up the enviorment (it's always 
 a blast to grab onto a swinging wheel of death and hurl yourself through the air) , is a bit floaty. 
 Jumping through a platforming level can be a bit frustrating, as the controls are also imprecise 
 at times. This is compounded with the fact that LBP is '2.5 dimensional;' that is, it is a 2D side 
 scroller, but there are three planes to interact upon, and while most of the time your character 
 jumps from plane to plane properly, there is the occasional frustrating glitch that sends your 
 sackboy to his untimely demise. The camera can be a bit uncooperative at times, which will sometimes 
 make your adventures more difficult than necessary. Lastly, there's only the loosest of stories, 
 and while it's a forgiveable offense in certain genres, it's regretable that as a platform LBP 
 lacks any sort of genuine narrative (no matter how cute the intro is) . However, all these compaints 
 are immaterial considering all LittleBigPlanet has to offer. Hopefully, the mainstream media will 
 someday be able to recognize this game for what it truly is: the most important game since Super 
 Mario Brothers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  It's refreshing to see a game come out that is really good, and that caters to more than just the 
 adolescent / adult male. LBP really boils the genre down to its roots and then allows the player 
 to do whatever they want in their own levels. This game reminds me a lot of Guitar Hero 2 in the 
 way that it allows a lot of different types of people to pick up the controller and enjoy it.
 
  
  First I will say that the story is weak, and ridiculous. But what do you expect from a game who's 
 main protagonist is a boy made out of a burlap sack? The variety of levels does keep the game entertaining 
 and helps to keep the players imagination running on different types of levels that they can create 
 themselves. Additional content (sack boy costumes, free user made levels) keeps the game fresh. 
 The automatic choice to play every level online with other people is fun as well.
  
  the development tool is easy to use and allows for a lot of variety in the levels you can make. 
 It will be interesting to see how long the life span of this game will be with people creating 
 their own levels.
  
  The Good - Sold platforming experience that is accessible to all ages, customization of your own 
 levels and your sack boy.
  
  The Bad - a weak story, but it does allow for a lot of level variation
  
  The Ugly - more professional 
 levels a la metal gear please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  LittleBig Planet: The forerunner of the "Game 2.0" movement, a 2D sidescroller that allows the 
 common man the power to create their own levels.
  
  Story : The supposed storyline existence behind the world of LittleBig Planet is that all stray 
 bits of imagination from human minds floats up and condenses in space as part of this giant planet. 
 I know this to be a lie, judging by the lack of breasts in LittleBig Planet.
  
  Calling the "Story" mode of LittleBig Planet a "Story" mode is the second lie this game has told 
 me. The "story" has you hopping from one loosely-tied together sequence of events to another, doing 
 unlikely jobs for non-living NPC characters. Their "dialogue" is minimalist and so blatantly to-the-point 
 in regards to doing the developer's will at the expense of any kind of continuity. A character 
 that you just freed from prison will tell you to hop on this car that came out of nowhere and then 
 advise you to go to Mexico and play with explosives. 
  
  Not that anyone is playing LittleBig Planet hoping for the next great cinematic epic, but I'd like 
 to think that the people at Media Molecule could at least come up with a better ending than the 
 self-serving "isn't our game great?" crap that you get for going through the "story mode". 
  
  You play as Sackboy, the third lie in LittleBig Planet. The Castlevania games notwithstanding, 
 LittleBig Planet has to be the first sidescroller with a transsexual protagonist. You the player 
 are free to dress up Sack-thing any way you like, male or female, and there's an online store that 
 allows you to purchase new threads to dress up your character from an assortment of fashions for 
 men, women or Raiden from Metal Gear. There seems to be a good degree of freedom within the Sackboygirl 
 editor to create an interesting puppet-hero, or at least that's the impression I'm given based 
 on how people have created levels online with snapshots lined up of their Sack-Dragonball Z character 
 designs. 
  
  Satchel-Ass's abilities as an actual platform hero include run, jump, grab onto things, push, pull, 
 pointlessly flail his arms around and go through emotional mood swings with the d-pad. He or she 
 can also bring up a menu that grants the option of taking photos, throwing stickers around carelessly, 
 inviting friends or trying his/her damnedest to blow up and commit suicide. As an aside, you can 
 play any level co-operatively, online, with up to four people, and goof around to your heart's 
 content. Just be sure to stick with friends; in my attempts to join strangers online, I was often 
 thrust into a game that had just finished and was deprived of any swashbuckling adventures. 
  
  There's this sort of pop-up-book/grade school art style that pervades the entire game. On one 
 hand, it's unique, visually appealing, and even the levels other players make will look at least 
 visually competent in comparison to most attempts at a Flash game you'll see online. On the other, 
 except for Sack-object, there really isn't a single living organism in LittleBig Planet. All of 
 the NPCs are practically talking signs in the background and all of the enemies are basic objects 
 or trains with green buttons on them that you jump on to thwart them. I couldn't help but have 
 a feeling of emptiness as I journeyed across the levels. I never realized just how much personality 
 a goomba added to a game world. 
  
  But on the other hand, there is the occasionally solid platforming sequence. The developer-made 
 levels sometimes feature strong obstacle course-like areas that you'll want to pat yourself on 
 the back for accomplishing, and you'll occasionally see an interesting set-piece sequence, like 
 a particular sequence of tunnels occupied byflaming worms. However, they're not all winners, and 
 you'll feel like there's perhaps one vehicle sequence too many where you hop into a ride and let 
 the game do the rest, or areas that are all too blatant with their attempt to show off a new possible 
 tool to use, like explosions or lighting. 
  
  But the game lays a LittleBig turd when it comes to the game physics. Platformers tend to have 
 their own set of largely unrealistic physics, but they were largely related only to the character 
 the player was controlling. It's rather unintuitive that Simon Belmont will phase through a staircase 
 (and probably die) in a Castlevania game unless the player presses up near the ledge, but that 
 could be begrudgingly accepted and worked around. Here, the entire boobless world of LittleBig 
 Planet is dictated by an unsavory set of physics. While that at least makes events feel less scripted 
 than they were in older games, it also lends to some setbacks. Teetering platforms can become too 
 far apart and thus impassible. Too much momentum can cause Sackey to fly off a platform spontaneously. 
 Slipping off platforms is a common occurrence. How much height you get from jumping off a moving 
 platform can sometimes be random. There's also this system of layers where you can jump back and 
 forward between the background and foreground of key areas. The controls for doing so manually 
 is clumsy, and the game's attempts at automatically making adjustments can lead to unwanted shifts 
 into a corner or slipping to youryou guessed it, accidental death. To sum up; you will die accidentally 
 quite a bit. You have a set number of lives that resets upon reaching a checkpoint, but you'll 
 swear that it isn't enough with the sheer number of nonsense deaths awaiting you. 
  
  Along the way of playing through this campaign, you'll collect a dizzying number of items to use 
 in the level editor. From mystruggle to create a level, I can tell you that this level editor 
 is very powerful. You have a strong degree of freedom to edit any object to your heart's content 
 and create your own dream level. I at least get the idea that this level editor is powerful based 
 on the game's long tutorials, or rather long-winded tutorials, as the British narrator who explains 
 all of the game's concepts is very good at speaking for long stretches of time without actually 
 saying anything of value. 
  
  If LittleBig Planet did one thing correctly, it's successfully give me a whole new level of appreciation 
 for side-scroller video games a level of appreciation that most actual LittleBig Planet players 
 haven't quite adopted yet. It takes a great amount of time to conceive, plan out, design and test 
 a level that functions, let alone one that's entertaining to play through. There exists a wealth 
 of user-created levels available for download in the LBP universe. It's just that most of themwell, 
 they suck. To all of the LBP fans out there viewing this, you guys are letting me down right now. 
 
  
  Oh, there are certainly some visually interesting levels. There's a large amount of supposed tributes 
 to movies and games, but the gameplay of the vast majority of content is subpar, basic, a second 
 thought in the designer's mind besides "yeah! I'm going to have Virtual Buzz Lightyear!" I'll attest 
 to having played through at least one or two genuinely fun platformer levels, but I had to look 
 far and wide to find them amidst the sea of "ride race" and "check out my Star Fox theme" levels. 
 The folks at Media Molecule need to conceive a better way of organizing user-generated content, 
 perhaps into categories such as "actual levels with fun gameplay" and "useless gimmick levels that 
 I think is cool", rather than the set of generic "moons" that showcase everything thrown at them. 
 
  
  Right now, LittleBig Planet is like Youtube; it gives the player the freedom to create whatever 
 they'd like, no matter how bad it is. As a platforming sidescroller, LBP is decent but flimsy in 
 comparison to actual 2D sidescrollers that focus on single themes rather than try to be the all-encompassing 
 omni-platformer ruled by one governing set of physics. As a user-driven game, the potential for 
 LittleBig Planet is vast, but unorganized, and any potentially great concept will be drowned out 
 in a sea of user-generated crap. And if you're a LittleBig Planet user-content-generator and this 
 semi-scathing review enrages you, great! Use your anger to produce better levels and contribute 
 positively to your game world, as opposed to polluting the LBP environment with another lame driving 
 stage. Because a game that's driven by its user content is only as strong as its community, and 
 right now this 3 and a half stars is for both Media Molecule and you. 
  
  Pros : I got Rick-Rolled in a user-made level once. 
  
  Cons : I really, really, really hate 
 that narrator. 
  
  3  stars
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAbleAssassinx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  
  I know it's been a long time coming but you know I do have a life outside of this blog, which surprisingly 
 takes up a teeny bit of my time. Anyway the game isLittle Big Planet, if you've never heard of 
 it, chances are you were looking for some kind of astronomy article and not, as it were, a game 
 review. Alas if you have read this far your probably in the right place. LBPis the second venture 
 from the guys at Media Molecule, whom you may know from their previous titleRagdoll Kung Fu. A 
 little known, low budget indie gem that combined the endless joy of ragdoll physics and floppy 
 limbs, with the not really as fun repetitiveness of the fighting genre. Somehow managing to create 
 something in which the fighting was actually enjoyable for more than about five minutes. With this 
 achievement under their belts they decided to move on to bigger and better things, this time combining 
 ragdoll with the platformer (clearly there fond of physics engines) . The end result is what you 
 find before you, LBP.
  
  The real appeal however, does not lie with the gameplay itself, instead what's interesting about 
 the game is the way it leans so heavily towards the community aspects of gaming i. e. content sharing, 
 creativity, expression, freedom, networking, etc. Things that are usually associated with, aimed 
 at and found amongst PC gamers. What Media Molecule have attempted to do in bringing these elements 
 of gaming to the console world is genuinely ground breaking and warrants a great deal of acclaim. 
 The question is, were they successful in achieving their goal? At the core of the game is a very 
 solid, enjoyable platformer. It may be lacking in terms of difficulty, but it's debatable as to 
 whether or not that's even a bad thing. The game sees you play as Sack Boy, who in terms of gaming 
 icons is already up there with Mario and Lara. The "Planet" itself consists of different continents, 
 each with it's own theme and ****of the levels and enemies. Every continent has around 3 or 4 levels 
 plus unlockable side missions which are effectively mini games that utilize the games creative 
 tools. This is all explained to you by what gametrailers. com called a friendly british voice, but 
 who I instantly recognised as the legendary Stephen fry.
  
  The game is essentially like any platformer, there is an extremely loose story leading you from 
 location to location, and you follow blindly with an inexplicable sense of duty and self-worth. 
 Levels are basically a series of obstacles to be traversed or overcome, whilst enemies are killed 
 with a sonic-esque jump on the head. Alone the gameplay and story are decent, but with a bunch 
 of friends this game really can be very fun to play.
  
  Ever since it's announcement, there has been huge hype surroundingLittle Big Planet'slevel creator. 
 It's goal was to simplify content creation, whilst enabling gamers to create anything they could 
 imagine. They did this by introducing a set of fun and unique tools and materials to work with, 
 as opposed to the pages of code and numbers real programers have to deal with. In fact the system 
 works very well, the number of options can be very daunting at first, as you really don't know 
 where to start. But after a load of tutorials from Mr Fry himself, which I highly recommend if 
 you want to create anything worth while, and a play through the story levels for some inspiration, 
 you really do begin to experiment and create truly strange things.
  
  Already gamers have begun to create jaw droppingly complex and beautiful levels, based on all sorts 
 of things, from toilets and gardens, to games and movies likeMirror's EdgeandDark Knight. The tools 
 themselves are extremely user friendly, most actions are done with the 'x' button with the analog 
 sticks and shoulder buttons only used for some rotating and resizing. And once your used to them 
 there actually quite easy and fun to use, and although the process is time consuming (played for 
 4 hours just creating a level, felt like 30 mins) , it really does fly by, and is worth it to see 
 other people playing and enjoying your levels.
  
  Presentation is clearly something that has had a lot of time and energy put into it, there is a 
 definite personality to the games appearance. From the cardboard cut out enemies to the, felt solar 
 system and customizable box space pod. The emphasise is on customization, fun and creativity. As 
 a result, the game does have a very kiddy vibe, and any non-gamer would assume it belonged on the 
 Wii; and the truth is it would feel right at home on the Wii, stylistically and thematically it 
 is perfectly suited to Nintendo's console and target audience, but Sony would never allow it.
 
  
  Don't let it's child like manner decieve you, LBPis a very grown up hardcore/casual hybrid of a 
 game. And this is true of it in every aspect, from its mature ambitions to the genuinely great 
 graphics. As all surfaces in the game are based on real life, house hold materials, a great deal 
 of effort has been put into making the appear as they do in reality. The physics are second to 
 none aswell, as constantly boasted at gaming events, they focused heavily on the physics, and it 
 shows, they sharpened their skills onRagdoll Kung Fuand implemented them excellently here. However, 
 under this vail of pleasant colours and shapes is a half finished online world, it should have 
 been called 'Loosley Pulled Together Planet'. This game is plagued with network flaws, difficulties 
 and glitches. You could accuse me of basing this just on my connection, but go on any forum, read 
 any other review, you will see I am not alone. Now several updates have been released in attempts 
 to rectify these setbacks, but it is still far too difficult to connect to other players, share 
 content, even find other content, anything. This was Sony's big chance to prove to us they were 
 as internet savvy as microsoft, and the sad truth is, it has not worked. Yes I can join my friends 
 games, but try and join a random one in quick play, and you'll be lucky if it even loads the level 
 with you alone in it.
  
  On the content side of things, the system has held up reasonably well. Except that there are hundreds 
 of levels being created and published, and there is only ever about 20 on offer to quick play every 
 time. Until recent updates, the search functions rely solely on 'tags'. These are in game labels 
 you give to a level once you've finished it. Yes you've always been able to rate and comment on 
 levels, but they seemed to be irrelevant in the networking process. One positive is that the game 
 makes it very easy to get lost in different peoples planets. By this I mean you only have to find 
 one player to see there levels, played levels, favourite levels, who made those levels, who made 
 their favourite levels, who made their favourite level makers's favourite level, and so on. This 
 slightly made up for the limited search functions, but the game has now been updated to include 
 highest rated, most played and newest categories as well as others, plus you can now enter any 
 text to search exactly what you want.
  
  This game really exposes how far behind sony are in terms of having a fully integrated online service. 
 "Sure I can surf the net, but I can't find my gaming friends." Yes the v2.40 update took a huge 
 leap in catching up with Xbox Live, but right now PSN just doesn't compare, especially since the 
 NXE has rejuvenated Microsofts console, and made it even more of a streamlined online gaming experience. 
 It's all well and good to have a console that doesn't brake down, but you there's more to it than 
 reliability. What would you rather have, a ferrari that might brake down, or a Honda that won't.
 
  
  The game has some almost crippling flaws, but still manages to provide and an extremely fun and 
 quite ground breaking gaming experience. If you have friends over a lot, the online problems may 
 not pose as much trouble and in that case this is a purchase, otherwise I suggest renting it before 
 you hand over your cash.
  
  Read More at http://ourmisspentyouth. blogspot. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPTrandom1982
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:30 am PT
Review:  I knew this game was going to be great as the developers spent a very long time creating it. The 
 final product on the other hand is just so much better then we could have imagined.
  
  Sackboy the main character is loveable and can be controlled using the six-axis to move his head 
 or hips. Triggers and analog sticks allow sackboy to move his arms around. Great for drawing attention 
 to details in level without having to use the text input options.
  
  Levels are brilliantly designed and when you start to create your own, you'll appreciate them even 
 more as some real thought went into it. Online play is great and you can visit user created levels 
 as a break away from the story mode for some light hearted creativity! 
  
  The game focus is based around customisation and creative thinking above and beyond most peoples 
 imagination.
  
  I'll keep this review short - it is a must buy for any PS3 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flameducky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  GOOD
  
   Sackboy- Sony's adorable little mascot is indeed... adorable
  
   Physics- Most believable platformer physics I've seen in a long time.
  
   Creativity- 
 in-depth tools are amazing
  
   Online- Always better with happy gladders!!
  
   Online community- I found amazing online levels. My favorite is Litttlebigdeadspace. This level 
 is a masterpiece. It should be under the highest rated section in an online search.
  
  BAD
  
   Tutorials- if you accidently skip a tutorial on something you have to figure out 
 how to use it yourself. For example, I accidently skipped the tutorial on a winch so can someone 
 help me learn to use one? Send a video on how to? Anyone? (Cough)
  
   Physics- The physics can also be frustrating.
  
   Rookies- Half the time when playing 
 online I end up joining a bunch of rookies who haven't a clue. One of them couldn't even open up 
 his pop-it menu.
  
   Time- It takes a long time to make something someone would really want to play.
  
   Money- 
 Have to buy most good costumes.
  
  LBP lives up to all the hype. And I strongly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Whoa, this game really surprised me. Just back in September i remember my friends talking about 
 LittleBigPlanet and saying how excited they were about it and I remember myself trash talking the 
 **** out of it. Boy was I wrong.
  
  Storyline:
  
  This is the only real flaw in this game... The storyline isn't really there but the levels can have 
 some interesting dialogue if your into reading every single sentence that a character has to say. 
 I heard from Gamespot's review that the storyline was "ultimately way too short". This is the complete 
 opposite of the truth. I have beaten both Resistance 2 and Call of Duty: WaW in one weekend but 
 have still not beaten LittleBigPlanet after almost a month which brings me to my next subject: 
 difficulty. This game starts off fairly simple and easy and the first 5 or so levels were a breeze 
 but once you hit about halfway, everything changes. In a way this is a good thing because you get 
 better as you continue to play through but that is why i still haven't beaten this game. Let me 
 take a moment to reflect on the last level "The Bunker" for a second. #@!&*!@ ** Yeah, that's 
 pretty much how hard it is.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Wow, they are simply amazing in HD and the textures are amazing and the lighting is great as well.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Obviously the biggest part of this game is the gameplay and it doesn't disappoint one bit. The 
 smooth double jump feature and R1 grab feature also add to this games fun problem - solving platforming 
 style as I like to call it. The different variety of materials and physics and sounds are just 
 great and really make this game unique as a platformer. The 4 player local multiplayer works great 
 and is probably the funnest you will have with this game seeing as you are actually with other 
 people playing it. The camera does get a bit wound up every so often but it's the gameplay flaw 
 in this game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Now this is where this game was mean to excel and it does in every way. The fact that you can just 
 choose to play any level offline or online from the same menu is just amazing. The community levels 
 and the friends function and messaging and inviting is simply astonishing. The level editor is 
 probably the best online feature of all. Although a good level takes forever to make, the finished 
 project is sure to blow you away. Playing other players levels is a blast too. When you do play 
 another persons level your score goes ont he leaderboard, you can favourite the level, favourite 
 the creator, comment on the level and rate the level all from an easy to use online menu system.
 
  
  Overall: Hard storyline mode, Amazing textures and graphics and the best multiplayer features ever 
 make this a game that shall not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Little big planet is the reinvention of the platformer and father of the user generated content. 
 Through a bunch of Media Moloecule made levels you can play your hearts out alone or with 4 friends 
 or family members. It's a great joy to see a game that your 5 your old sister can watch and play 
 with you instead of telling her to leave the room because your playing the "Tranquility Lane" level 
 in Fallout 3. When you have had your fill of story mode and found all the prizes and earned all 
 the single player trophys, you can be delighted to find you can make your own levels ( after you 
 watch an un-godly amount of tuturioals) . When your done creating your masterpiece you can upload 
 it for other people to see, rate and play. And you yourself can do the same to play other peoples 
 levels. Overall LBP is a great game with a tight online community (that allready has generated 
 some amazing stuff) and another huge reason to own the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  wot a joy to play this game is a classic u get to play with every thing .its the best platform 
 game iv ever played .u get to use simple tools to make whatever you can think up in amazing world 
 s . with u sackboy u can go online and see wot other s have made and u can play then so its endless 
 online ther is nothing quite else like it it has charm and most of all its brilliant fun. versatile 
 tools mean endless potentile. the game is simply to play u have a jump button and a hod on button. 
 it comes with a huge single player game and great online play once u masted the creation system 
 thers no stoping u to wot u can bulid. in the game u jump to get stuff . and the rewards u get u 
 get to use them in creat mode one of the most inportant games of this generation . dont be put 
 of thinking its too kidish .its not am 29 and i love it. u have a pod has well its like u home 
 . u can decorat it with the cool stuff u pick up in the game. then thers my moon wher u bulid u 
 own cool levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzz0414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is kindly short but very fun. You'll get plenty of fun with the sack boy customization 
 and facials expressionsv and you can buy or download for free some disguisement for your sackboy. 
 You can slap your friend when they are bad. The levels are very funny to do and become more hard 
 at the end. You gain stickers by completing levels or finding them in the levels, you can decor 
 the pod (place where your sackboy lives) . You can play level with other players to make it easier, 
 get more stickers and do the parts of the level where you need to be more than one. When you finished 
 the game, you still can have fun with the level creation, create and test with your friends on 
 internet, there... is ... no... limit at this game, you can do everything, it worth the price and 
 the time. you will surely have a lot of fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qazwexyb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game a very fun game. Platform is is funny. The story is a bit short but the online helps 
 a lot with that. Great to play with your friends, and jump around and smash each other in the face 
 and drag around with your friends. Making your own level is also very fun, maybe it take a bit 
 time killing. You maybe got a good imagination if, this game will help you find it and use it.
 
  
  Gameplay: Very much grip and swing but it is still fun. The levels by Media Molecule is great done 
 with funny characters and beautiful environment and some of the online levels is also great. Some 
 levels may you need to think alot, and I like that.
  
  Graphics: In this game you doesn't care so much about the graphics, but it is still great graphics, 
 maybe not 1080p but this game doesn't need full HD.
  
  Overall: Great game to play with your friends or over the Internet. Level building may take a time 
 but you may do excellent levels.9,7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hbazerbashi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  Since the beginning you could see how creative and different the game is. Showing the game credit 
 was fun too. Maybe it is the first time in my life I looked the game credits! And it was fun!
 
  
  It was fun going through the game with its nice calm graphics and music.
  
  The game fun lasts a lot since there is a huge community out there creating new content every day. 
 Playing online is the best thing about this game. If you are planning to play it offline I don't 
 think you will have much fun with it.
  
  It is building levels which makes this game special. Just build your level and see how people are 
 playing it, rating it, and telling friends about it. Show off your skills and entertain people. 
 Cool :)
  
  The company keep on releasing new patches for the game which has new features and tools sometimes.
 
  
  I love the game, but the Lag is killing the fun for me. I hope they will fix it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to say that this game has no age restrictions. I'm 23 and usually play action/adventure 
 and shooter style games. I'm here to say that I thoroughly enjoy this game. It's great to play 
 with friends or family. I play the game in 2 player mode most of the time with my wife, who doesn't 
 really get into other types of games that I like. The graphics are great and the creativity is 
 through the roof. The narration at the beginning of the game is very funny which right off the 
 bat made me really get into this game. Overall, its not too hard. Its about as difficult as any 
 classic side scrolling platformer such as Mario... but this one tones it down a bit. I found myself 
 going back and looking for stuff quite a bit so I could achieve a greater completion percentage 
 per level as well as trophies. The game is very addictive, and my wife and I have played for at 
 least 4 hours straight on several occasions. 
  This is a great family game, or singles game. The networking feature is great and you can play 
 in coop mode with people all over the world in order to get to certain parts of levels otherwise 
 inaccessible. Also, there are community created maps that you can play which enhances the overall 
 experience of the game because you don't have to stop playing the game once you play through the 
 entire world. In addition to this, I feel the game has a very high level of replayability. As I 
 said earlier, you will find yourself going back to previous levels to find more stuff that you 
 can unlock since you finished another level.
  Anyways, very great game... I recommend it for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion_of_Jrock
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Little big planet or LBP is one of the best games I have played in a while. It great for any age 
 and it over loads your senses in the cuteness factor. 
  
  The best thing about LBP as the endless possibilites to customize your little sack boy or sack 
 girl, there are a few costumes to choose from along with hair and eyes and the best thing about 
 it all is if you do not like the color of something just grab a sticker and color it whatever you 
 want. Another good thing about the game is the online side of it, you get to create your own levels 
 and then share them with other LBP players and vice versa. A lot of the time you play with other 
 people on line which is fun and enjoyable but at the same time it can be irritating when you have 
 to wait for you internet to catch up so you can play.
  
  One of the down sides to the game is the limited levels, in my opinion I think there should of 
 been more levels or they should come out with more that you could download from the LBP store. 
 Another downside is the fact that if you buy this game you will more than likely end up beating 
 it rather quickly and if you do not have your PS3 connected to the internet it really isnt worth 
 playing after that. 
  
  Overall Little Big Planet it a amazing game and I gave it a nine out of ten, so get out there and 
 start playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljahofman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:05 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet might just be the best platformer ive ever played. Ever. Period. No questions 
 asked. Its just one of those games that grows on you. First you buy it and your sceptical (as i 
 was) . THen you get home, kick off your shoes, turn on your ps3, put the cd in and relax. The next 
 part is my personal favourite. PLAYING THE BLOODY THING. The controls are so simple that their 
 genius. The guys at SCE Australia made sure the game looked amazing in the fact that every, single, 
 stinkin stitch on every one of the sac boys is noticable. Its also fair to say that the productin 
 team were up for weeks making sure everything was as realistic as possible. And it shows. Everything 
 looks great. You cant really speech about LBP without noting the amazing level creator. It is the 
 most simple to use Level Creator i have ever and will ever use. The controls make it possible to 
 create anything and the user generated content has made this game about a hundred times bigger 
 than it ever would have been without it. Finally, on a more personal note the Metal Gear Solid 
 4 costume pack puts two of my all time favourites together and i just love it. 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhalo43
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, just to get it out of everyone's mind, THIS GAME WAS NOT MADE FOR JUST LITTLE KIDS! This game 
 has everything (besides gore and guns) from awsome looking costumes to incredible level building 
 to just doing whatever the heck you want to do. This game is just so different in a good way. The 
 game has a good story. I hate it that gamespot said it was short cuz ur gonna go back in it with 
 friends to get different things or just to get things by urself. The graphics look great and the 
 camera is good to. The jumping gets confusing at times. The levels people built are great. People 
 are gonna be making levels for a long time. I just played on where someone built a level that your 
 in the army. He made gun shots and tanks. I can go on but I have to finish. The game is just incredible. 
 PEOPLE, STOP RENTING IT AND JUST BUY IT ALREADY. O yeah, there are trophies 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indescent_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that once first announced has been waited for and waited for and waited for. And 
 I can say it was worth the wait.
  
  Little Big Planet, is a puzzle platformer game that relies on user generater content in the online 
 play. It is developed by Media Molecule and
  published by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. mYou play the game a a Sackboy or Sackgirl, which 
 is a small avatar that you can customize. 
  The game features pre-built levels that players can explore and collect new costumes and items. 
 The game has an inbuilt planet called My Moon,
  where players can create custom levels. Bascilly let there imgination run wild. Originally intended 
 for a release in mid-to-late October, a last-minute 
  delay involving a licensed song in the game's soundtrack delayed the game's release worldwide. 
 It was released in North America and Japan at 
  the end of October 2008, and in Europe at the beginning of November 2008. 
  
  
  
  This 
 is game had a wondrous time playing. It seems so childish that it is fun, to any age group. 
  The main storyline is weak, the levels are wonderfully built and there are quite allot of them 
 but, there is no story structure.
  And in the character customisation, it is nearly limitless, with being able to create custom stickers 
 you can virtually become anyone you want,
  But that takes time. The game has a vast selection of costumes to use, which are unlocked as you 
 progress further into the game, and even play
  with friends online. 
  
  The game makes up for the lack of story structure with its fun and unique level building system. 
 This system of creating your own levels and then 
  immediately playing then is fun and does spark the imagination. You just need to look at YouTube 
 to see how many creative levels have been 
  created including a fully working calculator. Another feature this game has is the POD which is 
 your space ship for you to explore Little Big Planet
  and it's surrounding planets such as My Moon. 
  
  
  
  The game is narrated and has voice-overs 
 from Stephen Fry, how in the game helps you out with everything to do with it. 
  The tutorials are really helpful, and yes there are lots and lots of them, But each one rewards 
 you with new items. 
  
  All in all this is a game every PlayStation 3 owner needs to play, although it seems very childish, 
 It is and you will love it. I certainly did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razinak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is an extremely exciting game, addicting and has loads of things to unlock, which 
 require you to search in different areas and cause you to think outside the box.
  
  Before I got the game, I'd ask friends to explain it, and it's a hard game to explain when somebody 
 doesn't know what it's about unless you spend a long time talking about it. All my friends would 
 say, is "Just buy/rent it and you'll see, you'll like it,".
  
  I still believe that today and I tell people that when they ask me, and some friends I showed it 
 to said "It looks like it's for little kids," but after we played co-op, they decided they were 
 either going to buy or rent the game.
  
  There may be some haters on Gamespot, but everybody that I know likes this game. It's hard not 
 to.
  
  Now, onto the review....
  Gameplay: 9.0
  This game will have you hooked for hours on end sometimes, with an urge to unlock new items and 
 to finish what you can. It is a really original game, so it doesn't seem like a repeat of a different 
 game, so since it is a new style, it is really fun to play. The only complaint is that sometimes 
 the game may tick you off if you can't get to an area, or have to restart the level because you 
 run out of lives. (Keep in mind, unless you are trying hard to unlock something, it is hard to 
 lose your lives and have to restart.) This is not a kids-only game at all. Another great thing 
 about this game is creating your own levels, or joining someone else's created levels.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  With a game like this, you don't need really good graphics, it's meant to look 
 this way, and I think it deserves an 8.0 because it suits the game extremely well.
  
  Replay Value: 8.5
  This game can have you going back to every single level to unlock more clothes, 
 or stickers. Because of this, it has a great replay value.
  
  Online: 8.5
  This game can be played online also with people that it randomly puts you with, but 5% of the people 
 don't want to play the game, and just want to mess it up for you, and sometimes there is lag. On 
 the good side of the online, creating levels and joining other people's created levels is an awesome 
 feature, because you have a whole planet to add levels to. The "hearted" thing you can do to a 
 level is like favouriting websites, just so that you can go back because you enjoyed the level.
 
  
  Creativity: 9.5
  This is about as creative of a game as you can get, and like I mentioned before, so original. It's 
 almost hard to describe at times, but that's what makes it so fun, the 'unkown' factor, that there 
 could be yet another feature in the game.
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
  Summary:
  An awesome gameplay and replay value have you trying to unlock all of the items that you can. The 
 graphics are fun and suit the game, the online features are fun yet has some minor downsides, but 
 they aren't common and can be fixed. The most creative game of today, is all what makes this game 
 a 9.0. 
  
  Well deserved, and a great job done by the developers/creators. Sometimes while playing I would 
 wonder, "How did they think of all this?"
  
  So I will leave you with one line, "Try this game,".
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dltn12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game was the first game i had ever gotten for my ps3 and I'm so happy i did because it is 
 just what i hoped for. As you get farther in the story the more items you get. The more items yo 
 get the more things you can do such as customize sack boy, decorate pod, and hey make your own 
 level. if you have PlayStation network than this will be really fun because of the publishing of 
 your levels, playing other peoples levels, downloading stuff, or just playing a random level with 
 friends or other people. You also have to give it up for the wonderful graphics, i mean they're 
 the best I've ever seen without the HD cords plugged in because the 3-D looking display is one 
 of the many great and key features to this game. So this is definitely i game i would spend my 
 money on for the ps3. Oh and one last thing if you play this game and don't smile at anytime in 
 the whole thing let me know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dafugativ
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  When I had seen the previews and read the reviews, I figured that this game was about to be one 
 of the best platform games that I had played. But upon the first 10 minutes of gameplay I knew 
 it wasn't for me. At the beginning you realize that you are a cute little burlap sack that can 
 be customized from head to quilt. As the game progresses you are shown the "Little Big Planet" 
 in which you must save various kingdoms and help those in need. Once finally into character, you 
 are immediately thrown into the mix. An awesome array of characters and beautiful backgrounds makes 
 it feels as if its something more only to find out that it is just a pretty kids game.
  Jumping seems to be the most problematic for me being that I felt that it didn't jump far enough 
 at times or high enough at others. Or that it feels like the game is missing a certain flare that 
 all other great platformers have. Not to mention there are no power-ups, only bubbles and extra 
 customizable options for your quilt doll. Though the visuals are outstanding and its a very ambitious 
 game, to me it falls short of gameplay.
  On the bright side of things it does have great online options from co-op to downloading other 
 user generated levels to keep your Little Big Planet new. Also the intuitive create your own stage 
 from scratch is an extra bonus. Alas a create your own stage or not, it doesn't live up to the 
 hype of the original Sonics or Super Mario's of the early 90's. Nor did it keep me glued to the 
 720p TV screen where as to be playing for 3 hours for it to have felt like 30 minutes. Quite innovative 
 but just not enough to keep me wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven13131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:21 am PT
Review:  LittlBigPlanet is by now one of the highest rated Playstation 3 games, and it deserves every last 
 positive reviews it got! It is incredibly creative and amusing! This game is usually identified 
 with its incredibly cute characters ... Sack Boy. Sack Boy is just the tip of the iceberg though. 
 Although the controls can be kind of slow especially when it comes to getting Sack Boy to jump, 
 it is not big enough to ruin this gem of a game. It never cease to amaze me at every new level 
 I play. Although I have yet to try out the level creation capabilities of this game, the pre-made 
 levels are incredibly wonderful by themselves. This gem is one of the most amazing things to come 
 out of the Playstation 3's game line up. It is one of those games that even you find it hard to 
 beat a level, you still feel eager to retry a couple more times because of the way the game just 
 keeps you wanting more. In fact after I finish the pre-made levels, I plan to replay them all in 
 order to "relive" the wonderful moments in the single player part of the game and in order to try 
 to get all the goodies that I missed. The bottomline is that this game is an incredible, re playable, 
 and innovative platformers to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:53 am PT
Review:  Although the game is VERY simple, it is also fun and enjoying. It brings back the old mario days 
 where simple = fun. And with it being so simple just about anyone can learn and play which adds 
 user-base.
  
  I've been dying to find a PS3 game I could get my girlfriend to play since I've been getting tired 
 of the Wii and all of the games on PS3 seem to have too high of a learning curve. Well not LBP!
 
  
  For the people complaining it is too simple and easy should of watched some videos for it before 
 trying it out. It is so obvious in the videos and reviews that the game is shall I say simply SIMPLE!
 
  
  But it was done very nicely. It is very cute and very humorous, and I believe people claiming they 
 did not like it because it was too childish are those macho guys who are afraid to open their mind 
 and enjoy it because all their friends are saying they should be blowing limbs off like in Dead 
 Space.
  
  I'll put it out there like this... If you like Disney movies and kid movies because they are cute, 
 innocent, and funny then you'll like LBP. If you refuse to enjoy a Disney movie because of these 
 traits and have that manly pride that keeps you indulged with blood, gore, and guts then this game 
 is not for you at all.
  
  "No enemies"!?!? The game is full of enemies. It's full of Robotic-like enemies and elemental enemies 
 (Fire, Electricity, etc.) Including bosses of all sorts. So I do not understand this claim by any 
 means. This person (Who I will not say) must of only played the first couple levels.
  
  "No story" "Pointless"!?!?! There actually is a story, again they must not have played past the 
 first couple of levels. And it can be pointless at times but thats what makes it so fun. Running 
 around in GTA games and blowing people up and causing destruction is pointless at times too, but 
 its freakin fun. So alot of times in this game being pointless is the point.
  
  For everything else you guys can check out the other reviews most of them are accurate for the 
 most part.
  
  The conclusion:
  I (a hardcore gamer) enjoyed it very much and had alot of fun. Now that the story is over and I 
 Aced every level and played tons of user-created levels I am more than likely done with it, but 
 I enjoyed the time I had with it and don't regret buyingit at all. The first and only game I got 
 my family to play including my MOM!!! (Who has never touched a game EVER) Who have all enjoyed 
 it. Which to me says a lot. Let your inner kid come out (For adults) and let your childish imagination 
 go even farther (for children) .
  The Multiplayer does get laggy on occassion though. The only downfall I saw in it other than the 
 short story.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  *Physics*: 10
  Multiplayer: 8 (Due to lag issues)
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Me_L33T
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay, granted when i first bought this game, i was like "wtf why is i buyin game ment for lil kiddys?" 
 but when i popped it in, i was all like "omg thiz game is totall roxorz!!!!11!!!" 
  
  Sorry for that little blurb before, but i kinda had to.
  
  But really, this game is pretty 
 much amazing. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics for this game are Adorable. The Sackperson (Sackboy, Sackgirl, Sackgenderunknown) 
 is the most adorable thing that I have seen in forever (yes i own one) . The lighting for this game 
 was quite impressive, and the overall graphics were excellent
  
  Sound: The soundtrack and sound effects for this game were really good. It's kinda sad to hear 
 your sackthingy explode after landing on an electrical platform.
  
  Gameplay: This is one point where the game kinda fumbles. SOmetimes, the controls are not as precise 
 as they should be, so there are a few cheap deaths, but other than that, no problems. This game 
 is also one of the greatest multiplayer games that i have played in quite a while. My friend and 
 I always play this game when I go to his house or he comes over. 
  
  Overall, this has to be one of my favorite games of all time, plus a steady stream of downloadable 
 content, this game seems like its going to go strong for quite some time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abo19
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  its gives u a tease it may look silly but its the best game on ps3 right now cute and charming 
 i love this game allot so addicted best buy best game ever cute cute lovely charming sacks i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_bored
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is a highly creative game. Where you can create your own level and share it with 
 anyone in this planet (i guess thats why they called the game LittleBigPlanet.) The gameplay is 
 great (Camera isn't that great on mulitiplayer. But it doesn't matter when your having fun.) Also 
 there's amazing created levels from other creaters like...
  
  Little Big Piano created by Cloud87, Wiggler World - Theme Park and Rollercoaster!! v3.1 created 
 by TheWiggler, Nightlife created by Nathan900, Adventure in ruins created by Ciao_PSN, Colors in 
 the dark! created by SirenRose, Houston, We Have a LittleBigProblem created by Dead_Air, METAL 
 GEAR: Sack Eater (level pack version) created by HooChiLee, NOBODY's Little Big Home !!! --- NOBODY's 
 LV8 created by X-NOBODY-X and many more. These are just levels I recommend.
  
  You can play with people around the world story levels and created levels. But if you prefer to 
 play alone you can to. There's many things you can do in LittleBigPlanet. Even make your own costume 
 with stickers or just use clothing and mix it all up. You can bring a creature to life. This game 
 is something that can be played over and over and over again. So if you like playing a game that 
 you won't get bored of it easily. Buy LittleBigPlanet. But remember this...
  
  What I Said Is Just The Beginning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:04 am PT
Review:  I hesitated to get this game with my gamestop gift card i received for xmas. At first I thought 
 to myself... man this is going to be sooo kiddish, boring, and lame. Boy I was so wrong. The main 
 reason I bought it was because of 4 players co-op and it was reserved for my nephews and nieces 
 whenever they come over to visit, but I ended up spending massive amount of time playing it. It's 
 a big suprise that the game turned out really fun and cute. Ahem yes I slipped and said cute especially 
 coming from a guy who likes hardcore video games. No matter if you're a macho guy ... this game 
 will make you still feel like an adult but with a young heart. LIttle Big Planet is refreshing 
 and fun if you want to get away from all the shooters and racing games. THe online community / 
 user created levels had grown a lot and is a good time to own this game. Plenty of unique and amazing 
 created levels. I'm glad I got it and had no regret at all. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps30wner76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay the first things first i thought this game would be gay something so stupid you would puke. But 
 turns out a was wrong i was dead stinkin wrong.
  
  Story-LBP has a cute short yet enjoyable story, sackboy must go around the LBP world changing himself 
 and helping weird toys in need it has a cute E rated (i mean in 6+ no not failed) child lovable 
 story.
  S-10.0-Perfect.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is amazing and it is what a game should really live its well gameplay lol 
 most game designers are thinking hey good graphics meen great game but ya know what? IT DOESNT. LBP 
 gets it right with focusing on this the gameplay and we'll see why. first the story mode will take 
 you through 6 hours of jumping collecting, and transforming costumes. next after story mode go to 
 the best thing in the game ,LEVEL BUILDER. The level builder is fun making levels decorating .Wanna 
 make a death trap? YOU CAN. you can also share there on playstation live. great right? IT GETS BETTER. with 
 5 small dollers you can upgrade your LBP into metal gear solid 4 with the pack. new levels new item (paintator) 
 and a totally wicked sack design make it amazing. and itll STILL keeps its child feel. not only that 
 but street fighter costumes are available! And whats more the game will keep you coming back for 
 more and more and MOOOOOOOORRREEE.
  S-Perfect-10.0
  
  Design/Graphics-Not only does it nail the gameplay but it nails the graphics to. areas look amazing 
 and just... to good! seriously it takes full advantage of the blu-ray!
  S-Perfect-10.0
  
  VA-There is only one awsome voice actor in the game and he is the nararator seriously just listen 
 to his voice and you will see the truth!
  S-perfect-10.10.
  
  Multiplayer-In case you havent noticed it has great story mode but with 2 people its MEGA enjoyable 
 seriosly my friend who said he hates E games says he LOVES this! You can go through youre whole 
 levels and the story with 2 people.
  
  Music-Great music nuff said.
  S-Perfect-10.0
  
  Overall-its an amazing game sackboy has touched my heart.
  S-Perfect-10.0.
  "Yahoo"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay the first things first i thought this game would be gay something so stupid you would puke. But 
 turns out a was wrong i was dead stinkin wrong.
  
  Story-LBP has a cute short yet enjoyable story, sackboy must go around the LBP world changing himself 
 and helping weird toys in need it has a cute E rated (i mean in 6+ no not failed) child lovable 
 story.
  S-10.0-Perfect.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is amazing and it is what a game should really live its well gameplay lol 
 most game designers are thinking hey good graphics meen great game but ya know what? IT DOESNT. LBP 
 gets it right with focusing on this the gameplay and we'll see why. first the story mode will take 
 you through 6 hours of jumping collecting, and transforming costumes. next after story mode go to 
 the best thing in the game ,LEVEL BUILDER. The level builder is fun making levels decorating .Wanna 
 make a death trap? YOU CAN. you can also share there on playstation live. great right? IT GETS BETTER. with 
 5 small dollers you can upgrade your LBP into metal gear solid 4 with the pack. new levels new item (paintator) 
 and a totally wicked sack design make it amazing. and itll STILL keeps its child feel. not only that 
 but street fighter costumes are available! And whats more the game will keep you coming back for 
 more and more and MOOOOOOOORRREEE.
  S-Perfect-10.0
  
  Design/Graphics-Not only does it nail the gameplay but it nails the graphics to. areas look amazing 
 and just... to good! seriously it takes full advantage of the blu-ray!
  S-Perfect-10.0
  
  VA-There is only one awsome voice actor in the game and he is the nararator seriously just listen 
 to his voice and you will see the truth!
  S-perfect-10.10.
  
  Multiplayer-In case you havent noticed it has great story mode but with 2 people its MEGA enjoyable 
 seriosly my friend who said he hates E games says he LOVES this! You can go through youre whole 
 levels and the story with 2 people.
  
  Music-Great music nuff said.
  S-Perfect-10.0
  
  Overall-its an amazing game sackboy has touched my heart.
  S-Perfect-10.0.
  "Yahoo"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Before we start, can I just say that LittleBigPlanet is simply brilliant. Quite honestly in my 
 view, the most unique game ever. The games concept is difficult to describe, so too is the gameplay, 
 it's one of those games. It's so random and odd, but superb. Basically it's a 2-D platformer which 
 has a 3-D twist by having 3 backgrounds, which you switch back and forth to get items. There's 
 no real point in the game. It's mainly just about having fun.
  You collect items which can be in various forms such as stickers, clothes, and items for creating 
 levels which you can upload online so others can play. Already there is a vast plethora of levels 
 online. Some include races, for instance one hilarious level includes a skateboard where players 
 have to pull the skateboard down the slope, jump on and hold on until the finish. Sounds quite 
 boring, but when you can consider how fast the board goes and the fact you can slap and pull other 
 players 'sackboys' or girls. It can conjure up some laugh-out-loud moments as you race for the 
 finish line.
  And this is where LittleBIGPlanet succeeds with its community gaming. You can download levels; 
 play with other players on all levels. The only problem I had with LittleBIGPlanet at first was 
 trying to gasp what the whole point of the game is. It's a very random yet unique game and all 
 I thought you did at first was collect items. It is great fun nevertheless. And also may I point 
 out the gameplay because it is brilliant. Anyone who loved the old 2-D games with Mario and Sonic 
 for example should regard this game as a definite purchase. Furthermore there are trophies to collect 
 and a reasonably long singe-player mode.
  But I guess the whole point of the game is community, to meet new people and generally have fun. 
 All games don't have to be filled with guns and violence like Call of Duty or Grand Theft Auto 
 to succeed. Or do they? Well, creative, charming games never get the attention they deserve. Some 
 get rave reviews, but sales wise they fail miserably. I bet LittleBIGPlanet will be the same sadly, 
 despite it being a super game.
  As I said it's difficult to describe and takes a few times to get into it, but once you do you'll 
 discover it's a great game. Out of all the games available on the PS3 I recommend this one the 
 most IF YOU HAVE ONLINE. Just get it, see if you like it, if you don't trade it in. But I think 
 that's very unlikely for one reason, the game is too good for you to consider to get rid of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  When you think of 2D platformers, chances are you won't think of an endearing, family friendly 
 PS3 game starring puppets without strings and Stephen Fry. After playing Littlebigplanet you certainly 
 will -- like it or not, Littlebigplanet has forever changed the face of 2D platforming. Whether 
 that's a good thing or a bad thing is debatable -- Littlebigplanet outclasses most (if not all) 
 2D platformers in terms of presentation and innovation. Once the initial sense of ingenuity wears 
 thin, however, you'll realize Littlebigplanet lacks traits we take for granted in other 2D platformers.
 
  
  First and foremost, Littlebigplanet is a presentational guru. An excellent soundtrack fits the 
 cutesy, friendly feel of the game and you'll be humming the tunes in your head for weeks to come. 
 LittleBigPlanet has fantastic art direction; it's hard not to love the adorable sackboys, which 
 you can customize extensively. LittleBigPlanet also includes multiplayer, a rarity in the genre.
 
  
  As innovative as LittleBigPlanet is, the core concept is the same as any other 2D platformer; run, 
 jump and, in the case of the new Metal Gear expansion, shoot past side-scrolling levels filled 
 with obstacles and enemies. Unlike traditional 2D platformers, however, LittleBigPlanet has 3 planes 
 that you can access. You can navigate them easily for the most part; in fact, the game tries to 
 help you navigate around the 3 planes. Key word: tries. Occasionally cheap deaths will occur thanks 
 to the game not doing its job correctly.
  
  Another gripe I have with Littlebigplanet is the floaty physics and, as an extension of that, abysmal 
 controls. Yes, abysmal. In 2D platformers precise controls are a -necessity-, not a suggestion. 
 The terribly awkward, floaty physics in this game don't give you the precision you need. You will 
 die a LOT because of this issue; it may not sound bad at first, but dying can often mean having 
 to replay a level or not getting a trophy you've been working hard for. The new Paintenator/Metal 
 Gear Solid pack controls are no good either -- you have to use the right analog stick to aim your 
 gun. It isn't always as accurate as you would like it to be and it's painful to try and jump while 
 shooting, which is often required.
  
  Chances are, though, if you're buying LittleBigPlanet it's because of the level editor. Have no 
 fear, the level editor is extensive -- unfortunately you have to go through hours of boring tutorials 
 if you want to be able to do and understand everything. Creating a level is also extremely time-consuming, 
 although it's understandable considering the Dualshock3 isn't exactly an optimal controller for 
 level creation (port it to PC, Sony!) . Even if you don't want to make a level yourself, there are 
 tons of good online levels to play through, which largely increases the longevity of the game.
 
  
  But despite my quibbles of the the cheap deaths and terribly awkward controls, what really counts 
 the most is that LittleBigPlanet is fun to play (by yourself -- multiplayer isn't nearly as fun 
 thanks to the botched camera) . The level creator is extensive and allows for some pretty good online 
 maps, and the game is bursting with humorous personality (Stephen Fry is a fantastic narrator) . 
 Make no mistake; if you're a gamer that rarely leaves their comfort genre of 'action' LittleBigPlanet 
 may feel boring to you. For everyone else this is a solid 2D platforming experience.
  
  If you're a fan of the genre and have tolerance for frustration, you would do well to purchase 
 LittleBigPlanet. If you've ever played a 2D platformer before, chances are you will recognize and 
 dislike the imprecise controls, but LittleBigPlanet makes up for them in various ways. There are 
 certainly superior 2D platformers out there, but none can come close to matching LittleBigPlanet's 
 unparalleled presentation. Don't let the inane exterior fool you -- LittleBigPlanet is a good game, 
 if not all it's cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanyb
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  One of those game that has everything.
  
  You will enjoy the character, the music, the levels with all the surprises in them,.
  
  And 
 be careful, It doesn't end by finishing the level, u will always go back to perfect ur work. Even 
 if you are not in the mood to play, u will go in to shake up the costumes, mix and match and stick 
 those decorations on ur face et voila, u have a unique style for people to envy
  
  And for those who likes to be on top of the score board, this is going be a nice challenge.
  
 
  And the multiplayer! i haven't laughed like that for years. Who said video games are making life 
 less sociable?
  
  The only thing that would make it even more perfect is if we could somehow export an image of our 
 characters :)
  
  A must have in the collection, and one of the few games that I didn't toss aside after a while.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlobo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece. When I first played it and I only played the Story mode for about two days.. I wasn't 
 impressed . I thought to my self, this is a story, but I haven't finished it yet. The levels where 
 okay. Then I finally started create mode and was blown away. I'm still trying to finish my first 
 level, but I 'm having so much fun. When I'm at work I get all these idea's for my level and my 
 imagination goes crazy. I feel like a little kid again. I play for an average of three to four 
 hours at a time. I feel like I'm on that show MythBusters, where I'm trying to get an idea (or 
 myth) to work and if they don't work, then I'll try a different approach. There's so many idea's 
 that I can't wait to see if I can get to work. You really appreciate the story level once you try 
 to create your own. You realizeWOW, how they do that? I'll create a moveable character out of 
 wood and see if I can get him to get from point A to B and not fall apart on me in the process. 
 On a side note my wife was watching and said that it's the cutest game ever, more cuter than her 
 Animal crossing: City folk. 
  
  The Graphics are Amazing, the objects that are made out of wood, you can see the lines in it, like 
 a tree that's been cut down and when it hits something it sounds like real wood. Metals look shiny 
 and sound cool. All the things you see in story mode, you can create too. Your using the same tools 
 that MM did (well that's what they Claim, but I'll take their word for it) . So you can just about 
 create anything you can think of.
  
  The sounds are very funny, from animal sounds to a old evil man laughing. The music is unforgettable 
 and I like it. a lot. You can add so many sounds and music to your creations it insane.
  
  The online is great for the Community levels, there's no jokehundreds and thousands of levels 
 made by people all around the world, resulting in endless levels and hours of play. I've seen Mario 
 bro levels, Toy Story, Metal Gear, Dinosaurs land, Christmas land and the list goes on and on. 
 Trying to play online with someone else. well right now it's kind of hit and miss, it depends when 
 you play. Play late at night ( and I mean late around 1 a. m. or so) and you can connect to people 
 and have fun. During the day it's works sometimes and sometimes not.
  
  I think if you have a PS3 and like platform based games like Mario Bro. or like to create things 
 and show them off ,you have to buy this game. Try to create something first for about two hours 
 ( cause of all the video's they MAKE you watch to explain how to use each tool) and then play story, 
 I think you'll then appreciate the levels and objects working in them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkdhotshot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Well little big planet had its moments wether it be swing from vines with ninja cloths on or trumping 
 a huge mechainal beast in a dress lol it had its moments!
  
  The story seems to be repetitive to the point where the story seemed to long but in all facts it 
 was too short. To play the added features such as create ur on world or play in some else's was 
 amazing besides the fact that the lag would sometimes send you flying in the direction of the spikes 
 placed well... anywhere lol! story gets a 7.
  
  Replay value is through the roof with billions of things to do and man places of anyone else imagination 
 to explore. hence 10
  
  soundtrack besides the minor racial slur which had to game released well 2 weeks later (not saying 
 i got the original or anything *giggles*) About an 8
  
  Lastly well what else is there to say the machinics of the game are fantastic with the rag doll 
 effect and the abilities to chop and change anything u want in to looking like anything you want.
 
  
  i wanted to give this game a 10 but when it came to the online playing and constant needing to 
 go into story mode to unlock that one other thing i would have. 
  
  so overall a great game and woth the buy! I gave it an 8.5 overall!
  
  Goodluck and good gaming 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricFWaters
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  When I unwrapped my cousins gift this christmas to find Little Big Planet staring back at me, I 
 freaked.
  After all these months of savouring screencaps of the Canyons and watching the clever online videos 
 with the dry british voice waxing on about how neat the game was, I finally had a chance to try 
 it.
  
  From the wacky opening credits I was hooked. 
  
  When I finally thrust myself headfirst into the Gardens level I was sold. The connection this game 
 made with me was astounding. This game looked like me and a couple of friends had drawn it on cardboard 
 in my backyard and we're dicking around with it and all our action figures we could carry outside.
 
  
  I have now reached the Lowrider levels and I am just losing my mind with the sheer joy this game 
 brings. This game is everything I ever dreamed it would be.
  
  My only qualms emerge in multiplayer. I found it more than a little bit of a hassle trying to get 
 my friends and myself organized so that we weren't constantly dissapearing of accidentally falling 
 into fire pits on the Savannah levels. But it wasn't enough to detract from the genius of this 
 game.
  
  All in all, this is by far the most ingenious platformer released in years and, despite having 
 played it over and over and despite its simply play mechanics, I have never been bored once while 
 playing it.
  
  Kudos, Media Molecule. Kudos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  PSN name: Scifi-fan88
  littlebigplanet is an immersive world powered by imagination and the ability to create. the game 
 also features the most adorable main character i have seen in my life. you can make him happy, 
 sad, worried, and tough looking by using the directional buttons. it will also wear anything you 
 want it to wear, from capes to googly eye glasses. when you start the game, your only option is 
 to complete the gardens, a tutorial stage, where you learn the 3 actions needed to succeed, move, 
 jump, and grab. once the gardens is complete, you gain the ability to complete levels. but i would 
 not start doing that until you complete the relatively easy campaign. it gets tricky near the end, 
 but is possible. if you need help, just write to me. once the campaign is complete, you will have 
 alot of things at your disposal to be creating levels. the game has tutorials in level creator 
 mode that teach you how to do tricky things like creating monsters and making motors. if you are 
 still getting used to tutorials, and need a break, go online with some friends and check out other 
 people's creations. once you finally finish your first level, you give it a name, a discription, 
 and post it. don't feel bad if your first creation doesn't score well with the other players. over 
 time you will improve your skills and create complicated things like vehicles and the such. 
  
  overall, littlebigplanet is one of the best PS3 games of 2008. if you have 60 bucks, and your 
 imagination is about to have an overload from not being used enough, buy littlebigplanet
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaTouHorse
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I have never written a review for Gamespot, but I feel compelled to tell people how great I think 
 this game is. I would consider myself an occasional gamer, I have enjoyed playing many different 
 types of games, fps, rpg, rts, and I find many of them fun and addicting (halo, counterstrike, 
 ff7, starcraft. However once I played Little Big Planet and got comfortable with the community 
 element, I realized that this game was an experience on a whole different level, it is like youtube 
 for gaming. It was unbelievable to see levels with such high production values coming from ordinary 
 people, and it was even more amazing when the levels were not only beautifully designed, but a 
 blast to play as well. One user created level was in a shipwreck setting had my sackperson running 
 along a collapsing pier as a large shark chased him, with every missed step resulting in an instant 
 death by chomping, but instead of making me restart the section, the level creator ingeniously 
 designed the respawn point to hang above the players as they ran so the sackperson would spawn 
 right back into the action, this made for exciting gameplay, but also made me appreciated the cleverness 
 of the creation and the robustness of the tools that allowed such an intricate design. The quality 
 of such user created levels rival that of the designers and makes for endless enjoyment, with unlimited 
 potential for expansion and replay value. What is also great about the online element is the level 
 rating and tagging system which takes advantage of user input to make sure the best levels get 
 the recognition and visibility they deserve. After playing a level, the user is asked to make a 
 rating, followed by contributing optional descriptive tags to give new players some color on the 
 type of gameplay the level offers. Users can then add that level to their favorites list, which 
 not only allows other users to see which levels are being played the most, but have been favorited 
 the most too, and with the added search functionality, it really allows players to get to the best 
 levels and quickly enjoy the best experiences together. LBP standalone may not have the narrative 
 intrigue of a well written and produced studo title, but the creative element alongs users to fill 
 those elements along as they go, with fun platforming to boot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTimatelee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  Before i got this game id had a few bad weeks where id made some lame choices to buy other games- 
 for example POP- what a let down! After speaking to some american friends of mine id heard that 
 Little big Planet wasnt as good as they said and that it was a kids game and apparently got rather 
 boring and fast!!! What were these ppl thinking    Are you crazy! This has to be one of the funnest 
 games out there- not just to play alone or with a friend or online. This game is seriously something 
 else. The weirdness of the graphics and clearly the cuteness of Sackboy all pretty much makes for 
 a good time playing! Clearly cos im a chick i love the fact i can change sackboys clothes and pod 
 when eva and how eva i like- but i also do believe that the game play, althou easy ( much too easy) 
 in parts and that has been done before ( like ne platform game from the 80's 90's) It has never 
 been done this beautifully- the music and the scenarios themself could make this game something 
 excellent but combine that with a cute lil dude and the chance to play with friends off line or 
 on makes for a great time had by all! Seriously even if you bought this game and didnt think it 
 was that cool- play online or like make ur own levels- honestly after awhile this game will and 
 has to grow on you! It sold me from the moment i popped it in the ps3 and watched the intro:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheaster2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Before I was introduced to LittleBigPlanet I had no imagination what-so-ever. I hated myself. Then 
 LittleBigPlanet came into my life and changed everything. I dressed up like a mad ole doodle. I 
 created some reasonable stages and I loved my self again. That is why this is my favourite game 
 ever. If you dont believe me check my top 10 games ever on it. To me this game is similar to animal 
 crossing. You can get tonnes of stuff. the never ending fun is great. If you dont have online on 
 your ps3 then I suggest you get an online account. I have played loads of levels online that make 
 me go Wowsers! My personal favourites are metal gear sacklid and snakes first mission. Sometimes 
 its very annoying but I get over it. The multiplayer zones are cool aswell. Only if you have a 
 buddy though. 
  
  Rounding off statement.
  I f you have got a PS3 get this game. You will fall in shame if you dont get 
 
  This is just my opinion on this awesome game but some of you guys may think differant. 
  Born to be good is what LittleBigPlanet was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangster480
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  One of the best game that was release in 2008 was littlebigplanet. Ever since Sony revealed it 
 to the world. Everyone has been dying to play it. and it delivers. The gameplay is very childish 
 and fun. The story would take you about 6 to 10 hours to finish if it goes smoothly. although levels 
 later on are somewhat hard. But then that is just the beginning. You can go online and experience 
 the real fun of littlebigplanet. either play with your friends on the levels that comes with the 
 game or play with levels that users and yourself has created. And I'm not kidding when I say ANYTHING 
 IS POSSIBLE in this game. I have played a God of War level, a dead space level and there is so 
 many things you can do with the creation tools they gave you. overall, littlebigplanet is a very 
 enjoyable game. But there are often a few glitches and you will get stuck. and online is fun but 
 if your connection isn't good enough you will experience some difficulty. the camera goes crazy 
 if the players are a bit far apart. but nothing can ever be perfect. And this game is recommended 
 to everyone who is looking for a game to express their creativity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iHak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game, was worht the hype, it has given me...40 hours + of play. I completed the story mode 
 within 3 days, i was expecting that a nice short story mode. I new this would happen because, of 
 the online play.... There are hundreds of different levels in the community (online) to heart, play, 
 and make loads of new friends. As you start off, you wont have a clue where your going as soon 
 as you get used to it, you would start to appreciate it and play more and more. After you have 
 compelted the story mode, you would obviously try your own, make your own level as you woudl have 
 many ideas from the story mode and obviously the community. :D
  The trophy system (if your a trophy whore) is very easy, so i reccomend this to you. There is also 
 a DLC thats very exciting, the MGS pack. And more trophies on there aswell.
  
  The good:
  
  - Create your own lvls
  - Story mode (short) good
  - Community is great
  - Loads of people 
 to have races with
  - Trophies are easy to get
  
  The bad:
  
  - Lag on the online mode.
  
  This game is awsome and i reccomend this to everyone. Score: 9.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2tom
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  I have been trying really hard to enjoy this game, and failing. I keep finding myself popping in 
 NHL09 or headed to the computer for some left4dead action and thinking to myself "i'll come around 
 eventually. I HAVE to be missing something here".... well unfortunately i'm beginning to think it's 
 not going to happen, I'm getting ready to ebay it. I'm sure for a of of people it's genius but 
 I'm also sensing an "Emperors new clothes" effect going around in the write up's and ratings for 
 this game. Just because it's innovative and cute and different doesn't mean it's fun. I would definitely 
 recommend renting this game first, if you love it great you just paid an extra 5 bucks for it. 
 
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykodorito
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  limitless adorable game play that makes a great party game even your girlfriend will play with 
 you! rating system lets the good levels rise to the surface and the bad ones get lost down by the 
 end of highest rated, the metal gear solid expansion adds new depth to the game by giving you guns 
 turrets and the ability to make your bosses and enemies have health, i dream of this game all the 
 time when i wake up i can make what i dreamed up!10/10 buy a ps3 for this 
 
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  !!!!!!!!!!!!
  !!!!!!!!!!!
  !!!!!!!!
  !
  
 
  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   
 and girls of the world unite!
  !
  ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet for PS3 Review.
  
  Imagination collects here, because in Little Big Planet, it's all about you, and your limits of 
 imagination.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  -Story Mode
  Like, well, pretty much every other game out there, there's a story mode. The story mode has some 
 worlds, each with their own theme, such as The Gardens, or The Savannah. The story mode is extremely 
 fun, with tons of switches to pull, things to swing on, gaps to jump, puzzles to figure out, and 
 tons of other things. Throughout the various levels, you will find many, many items and things 
 to collect, such as point bubbles, of which if you collect 5 in a quick succession you get a multiplier 
 that will make your amount of points ascend faster, and there are stickers, which can be put in 
 your pod which accesses all the various things to do in Little Big Planet, objects that can be 
 used in the My Moon, which I will get to later, and various kinds of clothing to mix and match 
 and clothe your Sackperson with. Let me say that Media Molecule has done made an amazingly creative 
 job of putting together a fun story mode. But aside from all this, story mode holds a huge flaw 
 that leaves a giant hole gaping in this game: Length. The story mode is very short and will only 
 take you around 6 or so hours to finish, which means you can see the entire story mode in a few 
 sittings. But put that aside, the story mode is extremely fun.
  -Multiplayer
  Most games nowadays have multiplayer either by two players or over Wi-Fi. Little Big Planet has 
 both. You can play two, three, or four-player or you can play two, three, or four player over PlayStation 
 Network. You can play Story mode, Community levels, Quick play, or go to the My Moon and create 
 a levels with others. Multiplayer has headset support, which adds more fun, or you can use text 
 chat, but the text chat has an in-game keypad like that on a cell phone, so it may take up some 
 time to type a message. But a flaw here is the camera. The camera usually affects platforming games 
 in general, and it does here. The camera can really struggle in multiplayer, and considering the 
 fact that most levels require hard jumps, this can really be annoying. There will probably be times 
 where you will purposely kill your sackperson to just let one player try a section. There are some 
 lag problems, nothing like Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and they can be annoying, but shouldn't cause 
 any real problems.
  -My Moon
  When you feel you have enough creation tools, you can head over to the My Moon, where you rule. 
 It is where you can create your own levels, however you like. You can do pretty much anything there, 
 but there are many, many, many tutorials that you will have to go through just to get the basics. 
 The game is physics-based, so it's not easy to make a level like the ones in story mode. Only the 
 most hardcore players will be able to make compelling levels like the ones of Media Molecule's 
 creation.
  -Community
  This is the place where user-created levels are put. You can either publish a level you created 
 here, or play other player-created levels. I've seen all kinds of levels here, from levels based 
 on TV shows such as Silent Hill, levels based on other games, such as Metal Gear Solid 4, Dead 
 Space, or Bioshock, levels to help you earn trophies, levels based on houses, and all kinds of 
 other things. If you're looking for somewhere to show off the limits of imagination, then here 
 is your place.
  -Quick Play
  Quick play is based on multiplayer, and it's pretty simple. You just hit quick play, and it automatically 
 puts you into a level with other players. You can choose a level and hit Play Online, and other 
 players will come in automatically. That's all there is to it.
  -Trophies
  This is a PlayStation 3 game, and so it has trophies. There's a pretty good amount and should take 
 some time to get a Platinum. Trophies can be earned for things like going really fast or really 
 high, completing levels without dying, earning a certain type of multiplier, etc.
  -Your Sackperson
  Your character in Little Big Planet is a sackperson. As Steven Fry says: Aww, 
 bless, you're quite a cute one. Your sackperson can be customized with the various clothes you 
 find throughout the story mode, ranging from hats to hair to shirts to pants to teeth to glasses. 
 Your sackperson is also very, very cute. You can change his/her facial expression by using the 
 control pad. Up is happy, down is sad, left is scared, and right is mad. You can move his/her arms 
 by holding L2 and R2 and moving the analog sticks. You can move his/her head by using the Sixaxis 
 motion-sensing, or press L3 to switch to hips and use the Sixaxis to move his/her hips.
  -Extra
  Also, Little Big Planet uses at least 600MB of space, is rated E for everyone for Comic 
 Mischief and Mild Cartoon Violence, requires a Broadband connection, is compatible with the PlayStation 
 Eye camera, and has support for the DualShock 3 rumble feature.
  -Overall
  Overall, the gameplay is amazing, and highly creative. This is one of those games that makes you 
 feel that the world is in your control.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics of Little Big Planet are artistic, but they look great. *You can see the individual 
 stitches of your Sackperson while running around Little Big Planet. And the backgrounds of Little 
 Big Planet look very realistic, like in The Gardens levels, the grass looks like a close-up of 
 a real blade of grass. Little Big Planet has support for 720p. Pretty nice.
  
  SOUND
  -Voice Acting
  The only voice acting to be found in Little Big Planet is the narration of British 
 comedian Steven Fry. He narrates the story mode, hints along the way, and does the tutorials in 
 the My Moon, his voice is just as charming as the rest of the game. And he is a comedian, so expect 
 a few jokes here and there.
  -FX
  The sound affects of the game are great and they fit the game nicely, from Sackperson jumping to 
 popping when you retry.
  -Music
  The Little Big Planet music is very catchy. I had to buy a song or two on iTunes. There is the 
 game-developed music of this game which has a soundtrack called Little Big Music, and it has a 
 few liscensed tracks, such as My Patch by Jim Koir.
  
  OVERALL
  Overall, this is a highly creative, cute, and fun game and is any easy pick for any PS3 owner of 
 any age.
  
  Score: 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  -red0584
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  Kind of a Big Deal
  
  It's hard to explain what LittleBigPlanet is exactly. On a basic level, it's a platform game crossed 
 with a set of creation tools wrapped up in a warm and fuzzy layer of happiness that has the same 
 effect on your mood as looking at pictures of cute kittens or getting a hug from your grandmother. 
 Seriously, you can't help but smile when you experience it. Jumping around, grabbing onto objects, 
 donning jetpacks and hovering about-it's all insanely addictive and more importantly, fun. Even 
 just manipulating your sack puppet's facial expression-done with a flick of the D-pad-is engaging.
 
  
  The real strength of LBP, however, is the tremendous sense of freedom and creativity that it instills 
 in you. Running around in the lush and vibrant world of the little sack people gives you the feeling 
 that anything is possible. It's a truly freeform game and while there are timed challenges, obstacles 
 to overcome and point orbs to collect, you'll have the most fun just messing around and exploring 
 the many options available to you. You can slap stickers all around the level, dress up your character 
 with various costumes and delve into the immense level editor to craft your own virtual worlds. 
 The possibilities truly seem limitless, especially when you consider the online capabilities of 
 the game; while the retail product comes loaded with pre-made levels and content, the game's true 
 potential lies in the user-created content that is no doubt flooding the network as you read this.
 
  
  Have It Your Way
  
  I just saw a video online of someone who'd created a functional calculator that can add or subtract 
 two two-digit numbers. What's most mind-boggling about this is that I would have never imagined 
 that something like that was possible. But that just goes to show you the game's potential: the 
 tools are robust enough and open-ended enough that, in the right hands, they will lead to some 
 tremendously original and unique creations.
  
  Navigating all that user-generated content is ridiculously easy as well: you're given a treehouse-like 
 hub armed with a television and a giant PS3 controller which pulls up a world map. From there, 
 you can nav to the many user-created levels and hop right in. You can play online, which opens 
 up the world for other people to join in, or offline where you can play alone. You can also rate 
 the levels and attach adjectives so other users know how you felt about it; hopefully, this'll 
 allow the good levels to rise to the top while the terribly designed levels sink to the lowly bottom 
 where they belong.
  
  Go Anywhere, Do Anything
  
  From a presentation standpoint, LBP shines with an amazing sense of style. The sack puppets are 
 ridiculously cute, the environments are sharp and crisp and the music is uplifting and whimsical. 
 The only thing I didn't like about the game is that sometimes, the controls were a little fickle 
 when it came to moving your character among the three planes of perspective; it's also not technically 
 a game so much as it is a sandbox to play around in, so if you crave structure and plot in your 
 games, you might be put off by LBP's freeform nature.
  
  I'm also a little worried that the online network will be filled with a bunch of crap levels and 
 you'll have to dig through a mountain of garbage to find the one level that's actually worth playing. 
 But after seeing some of the levels already out there, I can't wait to see what the more creative 
 users come up with. Recreations of popular video games like Super Mario Bros.; amusement parks 
 complete with working roller coasters; dizzying fantasy landscapes populated with bizarre creatures-who 
 knows what to expect?
  
  All Around The World
  
  There's really nothing I can say other than this: if you own a PS3 and you don't buy LittleBigPlanet, 
 you are robbing yourself of one of the most unique gaming experiences ever designed. It's one of 
 those games that leaves an indelible mark on the industry and I expect it will lead to some tremendous 
 things, not only in terms of the levels and objects that users and companies create but in terms 
 of how we think about and approach gaming.
  
  But that's a conversation for another day. Right now, all you need to know is that it's amazing, 
 it's fun and it'll leave a smile on your face that won't go away for a long while.
  
  
  Overall
  The Good: One of the most charming, unique, creative and fun games I've ever played.
 
  
  The Bad: The controls are a little fickle at times; those looking for an actual 'game' might be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: In-Flamez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  My favorite game to date. Yeah yeah, i've played COD and Halo and all that crap. It's just so creative 
 and addictive.
  
  Reasons I love it:
  
  1. Amazing design, many items to collect.
  
  2. Community created content.
  
  3. Amazing level editor software.
  
  4. Great soundtrack.
 
  
  5. Somehow humorous.
  
  and more....
  
  Reasons why it didn't get a ten:
  
  1. Story mode is short.
  
  2. Camera sucks.
  
  STORY:
  
  uhhhh.... Five out of ten/ 
 5/10
  
  Games don't need a story.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  Nine out of ten/ 9/10
  
  Easy to pick up.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Ten out of Ten/ 10/10
  
  Great style in graphics. 
 Nice job.
  
  Sound:
  
  8.5/10
  
  Soundtrack: 9.5/10
  SFX: 8/10
  
  Overall:
  
  9.6/10
  
  Other random stuff:
  The hype surrounding this masterpiece was amazing.
  
 LittleBigPlanet lived up to it, and maybe it was better than thought.
  When I first saw this game back in 06', i've been leaving it to the side, hyping the Wii and it's 
 games. Don't make that mistake. Please. Don't. I'm begging you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiscuitDeath
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is original. Its the most original console game out at the moment. It is probably 
 going to be wrote down as one of the best platform games ever, and it should. Even though to be 
 honest, it isnt just a platform game. 
  Its a giant game, were when the developers say "The Possibiltys are Endless"
  
  They 'aint lying.
 
  
  Mario Level anyone?
  Drag racing anyone?
  Horse racing anyone?
  (Insert cool object here) racing anyone?
  Rollercoaster creator anyone?
  Ice 
 
  
  Basiclly, anything is possible with this game. Its THAT good, and the money you spend on it pays 
 you back as soon as you open the game box. Its extremly hilarious, being voiced by Steven Fry who 
 is very entertaining to listen to , as he mumbles on about everything in Little Big Planet.
  
  So okay then, the story isnt too long. But trying to get 100% drags on for a while, as their 
 is an infinite amount of items to collect on your way! The levels have decent storys to them as 
 well, wether its visiting a king because you broke his submarine or just simply fighting an evil 
 boss!
  
  The graphics, wow, they are soo , i cant think of a word that describes them. The patchwork world 
 works brilliantly, looks perfect and to be honest cant really be beat at this moment in the platformer 
 series.
  
  The gameplay is fun as well, the grabbing onto most items also works a treat, and makes fun, entertaining 
 gameplay a complete reality here. The simple levels that at first glimpse shout "EASAYYYY" Become 
 places were you will spend and hour on one little part that looks and feels impossible.
  
  The multiplayer? So fun. Me and my freinds played it and we had the greatest fun we've had in a 
 long time. Wether it was partying through story mode, or making small levels just so we could play 
 in them, it was all a great time. Slapping, racing and just simply playing in the world that is LBP. 
 The online is great, even if your playing with an idiot that finds it funny to drag you about and 
 slap you. 
  
  The user generated content is the real part of LBP Though. Looking at peoples amazing creations 
 and playing them is truly exilarating and completly hilarious. Wether its people making crude digs 
 at the xbox, or football arena's, Everything is fun.
  
  
  If you have a PS3, and not this game.
  GET IT!
  If you dont have a PS3.
  UNLUCKY!
  
  
 
  
  (And no im not a fanboy , Gears 2 IS SPECTACULAR)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Not as much as this though ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluefire9016
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I found myself laughing at the little swack people. These little dudes are so funny and cute at 
 time. No im not gay for saying cute and being a guy. But im sure that if you played the game you 
 would agree. I think this game was a antastic buy. Limitless amounts of content. and when the crtitics 
 say "Let your imagination run wild in the create a level section" They truly mean it i i mean i 
 created a freaking vehicle that flew 100 mph. Not really but it was fast. this game is every bit 
 as good as it is made out to be. You just have to give it a chance. i thought it looked more like 
 a kids game at first. I mean it was a decision between LBP and SOCOM Confrentation. I couldnt decide 
 so i flipped a coin and got this game. It hasnt let me down yet. a Fantastic multiplayer, Awsome 
 single player. Let your imagination roar. and publish it for the worlt to see! See you in the little 
 big world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zain-Midori
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  ok little big planet is...... damm near effing perfect.. i mean god damm
  this game is soo awesome if u are even thinking of game design as a career i suggest u buy this 
 game its an awsome way to get ur ideas down for level design
  ive gone online and checked out the user made levels and people have made some awesome things with 
 the tools on little big planet execpt that guy who made a penus stage.... i mean wtf....
  now everything else iam sure will be in part 2 if they make it so u can make level for more genres 
 of gameing like third person shooters , maybe some hack and slash action hell maybe even fighter 
 . but even so if i ever get to meet the team who made this game i owe them a handshake and a sundae 
 XD hopefully in the near future we will hear more from the team till then make level s be creative 
 and as always game on people game on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volsung555
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:16 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is an absolute brilliant concept. A game that is all about user creativity and 
 simple gameplay.
  
  story mode- imo the funnest part of the game. play with ur friends and u have a blast. some parts 
 though are extremeley frustrating and seem more annoying then fun. level design is great but it 
 just seems lacking with an only 3 control game essentially.
  
  online mode- a great way to express urself but in all honesty its not as fun as it seems playing 
 someone elses level. the level creation is just too hard to execute therefore it makes levels way 
 too simple due to extreme time to make them.
  
  overally little big planet is one of those games between must own for ps3 gamers and just a great 
 game. for me the game gets boring but then again i prefer first person shooters. its an innovative 
 concept and one that works well. it really shows wat a family friendly video game should be like 
 with fun gameplay thats easy for even the nubs of your friends and family.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  If there is one thing the game industry needs more of, it's originality. That is why I wanted to 
 like this game. I wanted to so bad.
  
  Things started out great. The visuals were sharp and the artistic design was very impressive. Humorous, 
 English-accented voiceovers guided you through the ins and outs of LittleBigPlanet.
  
  You have your little sack person and you can dress them up in wierd ways and what not. You could 
 also paste stickers, jump online and play with others and even design your own levels.
  
  That's all well and good and it's all implemented pretty well.
  
  The problem is, the game 
 itself is not any fun. The levels are brillantly designed, but the platforming is lame. Really 
 lame.
  
  There's no real story to speak of and who the hell wants to run around stickering things anyway?
 
  
  I'll give Media Molecule all the credit in the world for trying to make a truly original game with 
 tons of customization, but don't sit there and talk to me about fun when the gameplay is so bland.
 
  
  Some people really love this game, so you may to. Just be sure to rent it first.
  
  As I prepare to receive angry messages, let's go to The Simps-o-meter.
  
  Presentation: Excellent
 
  Gameplay: Ay Caramba!
  Story: D'oh!
  Polish: Woohoo!
  
  Overall: Meh
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The multiplayer is great. Some of these levels that other people make are 
 just amazing. The Tutorials are funny. The facial expressions are great. Also, this game has a 
 lot of trophies. I have found very few problems about this game, two to be exact. First, occasionally 
 this game has a LOT of lag. Sometimes you have to quit because it freezes for a second and you 
 keep jumping into spikes by accident. but this only happens occasionally and it might just be my 
 connection. And the second problem is very minor but still annoying. When you are creating your 
 level and you are making a big object and you want to zoom in, you can't if you are floating and 
 you have to turn of floating and either manually zoom in or move a little and it will zoom in slowly 
 automatically. but these are minor problems and you will definetly get over them. This is a must 
 own game for anyone who owns a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the first day it came out & decided to review it now because I am off work. 
 Lol. Lets go!
  
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is cool & very fun! The levels are very very VERY creative & fun to play 
 with others. I play this game with my girl & it's very fun even though she falls off of things 
 like crazy. The way you get to create your characters & their looks is also very fun. You get to 
 choose from many costumes & looks for your characters that fit the levels.
  
  
  
  Visuals- Visually the game is pretty nice. There is nothing jaw dropping or eye popping but it 
 is very cute to look at.
  
  
  
  Music- The music is awesome!!!!! I love the music in this game & even find myself singing along 
 to the tunes on certain levels.
  
  
  Replay- The replay value is pretty high when you have company over. I can't see myself playing 
 this by myself, so I can say with company the replay value is high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggriff94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The best word to describe LBP: Incredible! 
  
  Don't take my word for it, do some research on it. The ratings will right off the bat tell you 
 how great this game really is and you will not be disappointed with a game like this. This type 
 of game can be popular with many types of gamers due to its highly addictive almost "mario like" 
 game play.
  
  The game really shines if you have a friend to play it with but If not just head online where there 
 are tons of players to jump into games with. The last time I checked late in November it had over 
 80,000 user created levels and there's got to be over 100,000 levels now being over a month later. 
 Getting four friends together and charging through these levels really will even make the least 
 competitive gamer furious over falling off a cliff or being slapped in the face by his buddy. Also 
 pushing the buttons of the kid in your group who thinks he's the best at everything never gets 
 old either.
  
  The story mode is kind of short being only 50 levels or so but there's tons of content in every 
 level being it new outfits or those little blobs you pick up as you go on and this makes replaying 
 these levels sometimes better then going through them the first time. 
  
  I'm not sure how creative some of you are but the level creation I've heard is unbelievable. The 
 options are endless when it comes to creating levels. You can pretty much create ANYTHING and I 
 mean ANYTHING and that's easy to see just by viewing some of the crazy levels people have made. 
 Some of the most popular user created levels in little big planet dont even play like all the others. 
 I've seen levels that have really thought outside the box such as a remake of Konami's seminal 
 shooter named Gradius. I saw a mario remake level that I felt was very fitting seeing as the game 
 plays like the old school marios.
  
  Here's the link to 1up's top 10 user created levels:
  
  http://www.1up. com/do/newsStory? cId=3171190
 
  
  I'd like to try creating one but I heard it's a little time consuming and I'd rather just play 
 everyone elses and have fun without the work. It's said to take around 7-10 hours for a basic level 
 design to be completed. There is also a voting process after you complete a user created level 
 online so that it filters out the bad levels and pushes the good ones into the focus of everyone 
 else.
  
  With as much stuff as LBP has to offer you can go wrong. This game has something for everyone. 
 You'll find yourself having a great time each and every time you play. LBP will really bring the 
 child out in all of us. 
  
  Like I always tell everyone if its a game your not sure about just buy it used from gamestop/ebgames 
 and try it out. You have seven days to return it if its just not for you. Or if the game doesn't 
 hold any replay value play through it once and return it. 
  
  LBP is definatly a game with a ton of replay value. So much you'll probually wont even graze the 
 surface of all it.
  
  Def give LBP a chance you wont regret it!
  
  Big Griff Out
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is a 2D platformer specifically for the PS3, and has been one of the platform's 
 most highly anticipated exclusive titles. The main reason for Little Big PLanet's hype has always 
 been it's level editing and community tools, which if implemented poroperly- would potentially 
 give the game nearly limitless value. So- has Little Big Planet lived up to this hype? The answer 
 is arguably yes and no.
  
  Yes, Little Big Planet's community tools are some of the best and most accessible available- especially 
 for a console game. And this is what makes Little Big Planet one of the PS3's must-own titles, 
 despite the fact that the quality of the platforming itself does drag the game down a bit.
  
  When you first start the game, you'll want to at least go through the first section of the 
 game's story mode- which is the main set of levels that the games ships with. Once you've completed 
 the first section of the story mode however- just about all of the other game's options become 
 available, leaving less reason for you to go through the story mode. The story mode is a very good 
 place to get ideas for level designs however- and also provides plenty of unlockable items if you 
 can find them. Once you decide to leave the story mode- you can go online and play various community 
 levels posted by other players. You can also play with your friends locally and online, though 
 you'll want a very good connection for online play- since lag can be a major problem in Little 
 Big Planet.
  
  Little Big Planet's best feature is easily it's level creation tools- which are not only the most 
 robust tools available in a console game, but are also some of the best tools available in games 
 in general on any platform. While you'll have to go through a large number of tutorials to unlock 
 all of the level creator's capabilities- your time with these tutorials will be well-spent as they 
 effectively show you how to pull off some more complicated level designs rahter easily.
  
  It's these tools that make Litle Big Planet as recommendable as it is- as these tools are quite 
 accessible overall. Those who haven't used a level creator before shouldn't have much problem understanding 
 the basics of the game's tools, and those who have used a level creator before will probably absolutely 
 adore Little Big Planet's tools.
  
  What holds Little Big Planet back is the platforming itself- in that the game doesn't get it quite 
 right. Little Big Planet's platforming is completely physics based. The result is that Little Big 
 Planet's platforming controls are very loose- at best. This in turn makes precise platforming in 
 Little Big Planet quite frusterating when it's called for. Other aspects of Little big Planet's 
 platforming however, such as the game's swinging and grabbing, make up for the looseness of the 
 game's basic jumping.
  
  Graphically, Little Big Planet looks very unique, and looks incredibly sharp in the process. Environmental 
 textures and particle effects for fire, electricity, and smoke all look excellent. But Sackboy 
 easily steals the show graphically, due to his outstanding animation. Little Big Planet also sounds 
 great- due to a nice soundtrack and an entertaining narrator for the tutorials.
  
  If Little Big Planet was just a platformer- it would have recieved a much lower score. But it's 
 quite clear that Little Big Planet is all about the community and level creation tools- which is 
 where the game succeeds.
  
  Pros:
  - Excellent level creation and community tools give the game nearly endless replay value for those 
 who adore platformers or level editors.
  - Gorgeous graphics and great sound
  
  Cons:
  - Platforming controls are a bit too loose.
  - Online play can be horrendously laggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Playstation brand has always been one that fully supported quirky new franchises, and with 
 titles like WipEout and God of War, there's always been this certain charm of originality that 
 other platforms have never been able to match for better or worse. This year, Sony's stepped completely 
 behind previously indie-developer Media Molecule, and the two have teamed together and delivered 
 LittleBigPlanet, a platformer that's obviously high on style, but how about substance?
  
  At it's heart, LittleBigPlanet is a simple platformer. It's got intuitive controls, with X as the 
 jump button, and R1 to grab on to stuff. That's really about it. There's no plasma rifles or machine 
 guns to be found here, although the adorable Sackboy is still able to handle his own against whatever 
 craziness levels may throw his way. The platforming feels really old school, using a 2D style sidscrolling 
 method to navigate through levels. The twist on this is the ability to shift between three 3 dimensional 
 planes, giving the game a little more depth to the overall platforming. The level design by Media 
 Molecule (which are the levels strewn throughout the story section of the game) are all fantastically 
 designed with some really intriguing gameplay mechanics involving vehicle control, crazy boss battles, 
 and several other mechanical contraptions.
  
  Because of the superb physics engine that LBP runs on, all the platforming feels very original. 
 Sackboy is able to manipulate the cardboard and sponge like materials throughout his homeland with 
 a series of cute animations and facial expressions. The physics are just a tough above realistic, 
 providing some really interesting events occurring on screen. It can be a real blast simply to 
 navigate through levels, which is what platformers are supposed to be about in the first place. 
 It's here where LBP really nails it.
  
  Of course, Sackboy's going to have a ton of obstacles such as fiery pits and beds of nails, crumbling 
 walls, explosions, and deadly creatures. This adds some more excitement to the action, ensuring 
 that the correctly designed levels really are about as fun and engaging as possible.
  
  Sackboy is extremely customizable as prize bubbles are filled with collectibles such as new outfits 
 and accessories for your character. Players can choose what their Sackboy is made of (literally) , 
 what he wears, and with the press of a few D Pad arrows, what mood he's in.
  
  Of course, it's not just how fun the platforming is, and how pimped out Sackboy can get that makes 
 LittleBigPlanet such a well put together platformer. It's main selling point is the game's level 
 creator, which bloody well lets the player do whatever they want. The tools are all there to let 
 players create whatever comes to their mind. Good levels take a lot of thinking time, and item 
 collecting, but when a good idea comes to you, actually creating it is part of what makes it so 
 worthwhile.
  
  My only real gripe with this is that the tutorials tend to drag on and on, and although they really 
 are necessary, some players may just want to jump right into creating a true epic masterpiece.
 
  
  Great levels may be tough or even damn near impossible to make to the simple minded folk like myself, 
 but after about an hour or two, I had made a rather interesting level consisting of high speeds, 
 steep slopes, and lots of beach balls. Fun stuff.
  
  Publishing a finished level is a true breeze, at it only takes a matter of seconds. The community 
 feature of LBP is a big deal, and its interface is about as well done as possible. You can easily 
 search, play, rate and comment on a level, and even favorite it. People finding your own levels 
 is common, so your creation will probably never go unnoticed. As more and more people land on the 
 BigPlanet, the community support will only grow, really bustling into something incredible.
  
  LittleBigPlanet's cartoony art style hides a damn near perfect looking game. The characters 
 and environments of the game truly look photo realistic comparable to an elementary art fare diorama. 
 It's remarkable. Animations are fluid, effects are great to look at, and only the slightest amount 
 of lag every once in awhile is the only blemish. It looks great.
  
  The game's soundtrack is also a behemoth, with some really cheery and epic tunes to fit whatever 
 trouble Sackboy may find himself in. The voice acting takes a Banjo-Kazooie like approach consisting 
 of grunts and mumbles, which sometimes falters, but when Sackboy screams under his breath, or when 
 the right song hits, all is forgiven.
  
  The story mode in LBP can have as little or as much shelf life as you want. The levels are so well 
 designed and fun, that players may play several times just for the hell of it, or looking for inspiration 
 for their own levels. Not to mention the thousands of collectible items, online leaderboards, multiple 
 paths, and side missions which act as fun minigames.
  
  The full 4 player coop support is excellent, not just for being able to play any level there is 
 out there, but being able to create levels together, decorate each others' HUBs, and share content 
 online. The game was built to be played with others.
  
  Players can create up to 20 of their own levels, let alone the robust community interface which 
 allows them to search and play other levels quickly. With thousands of copies flying off the shelves 
 over the lifespan of the Ps3, downloadable content, and the sheer joy it is to play LBP, there's 
 maybe too much to do.
  
  LittleBigPlanet is something that just needs to be played. It's imaginative, great looking, and 
 most of all, it's a hell of a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who enjoys flexing their creative muscle in any way should at least start paying some attention 
 to LittleBigPlanet. It's the type of game designed for people who fill their homework pages with 
 drawings, mess around with photoshop to pass time or are into any sort of art form. It's an awesome 
 and currently unique way to flex your creative muscle. The level-creator is a blast to just fool 
 around with at first, and once you get the hang of it you'll be designing intricate levels based 
 on all sorts of ideas and themes. Right now I'm working on recreating scenes from Homer's Odyssey, 
 which will be no small task but I look forward to putting in the necessary time. All you artists 
 out there will know that there is no better feeling than creating something that you are truly 
 satisfied with, and the parallel feeling in LBP is the one you get when you've finally figured 
 out how to construct something or create a particularly effect that you previously thought impossible. 
 Trust me, there are loads of possibilities here. I personally enjoy creating levels far more than 
 I enjoy playing other people's levels, but others will feel the opposite and the rest will enjoy 
 doing both equally.
  
  The single player game is pretty cool too, and I must say, some of the levels are very impressive. 
 Those in-game levels are mainly there to inspire, but despite that I honestly believe that the 
 roughly fifty levels alone, without the level creating and online sharing, would make for a good 
 game. The graphics are surprisingly realistic and the physics are well constructed, so you should 
 find no problems here.
  
  My main gripe with the game is that the controls are not as tight and precise as they should be. 
 Jumping is sort of odd as Sackboy tends to float a bit in mid-air and I never really got used to 
 it like I hoped I would. Also, I suppose the music is fitting but I personally found some of it 
 to be a little creepy. It's probably just me, but there were several times over the course of the 
 game where I missed the simple bleeps and bloops from the SNES days. Finally, I really would have 
 appreciated some sort of paint function so that I didn't have to rely on using stickers to color 
 parts of my levels. All in all, these are minor quabbles and they shouldn't prevent you from picking 
 the game up and giving it a try. For the first time, picking up a controller is like picking up 
 a pencil and sketchpad. Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  LITTLE BIG PLANET BLEW MY MIND! i first saw it and i said, im definetely trying this out! and the 
 way people talked about it, you would think that its overrated but when i tell you that this game 
 is fun, i mean it! =) if you liked mario games (who doesnt really) then you LOOOOOOOOOOOOVE tyhis 
 game! you can customize your own sackboy, do whatever you want with him you can make him dance if 
 you want! you can make your own levels, play other peoples levels, and ALOOOOOOOOOOOOOOT MORE! you 
 can put stickers on your sackboy and levels! you can play with the paintball gun (you have to buy 
 the pack at psn store for it! it costs $6) doesnt my review text say it all about this game? its 
 not perfect, but itsmclose to being perfect, lets hope sony continues perfecting this game until 
 we can really call it, a true masterpiece. WARNING: this game contains highly addictive content 
 lol once your on, your never off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olorin26pa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  I received this game as a Christmas present and have been having a blast since the moment I put 
 it into my PS3. Even the intro is entertaining. Wonderfully simple yet satisfyingly complex. The 
 music and the graphical design of the game will fill you with an overwhelming sense of joy. Fun 
 for all ages, I am 30+ years old and this game is pure fun. This is the best game I have ever played.
 
  
  You can just run through the built in levels or take your time and try to find all of the hidden 
 prizes. If you plan to make your own levels I recommend collecting as many of the prizes you can 
 find. You will want to use them when you create your own level.
  
  Whether you like single player, local multi-player or online multiplayer this game has it all. 
 If for some reason you want a break from the built in levels, you can play a level that someone 
 has published online. Some of the player made levels are absolutely amazing and tremendously creative. 
 
  
  Creating your own level will take a significant amount of time if you want to do it right. It will 
 take a little bit of practice to figure out how everything works. The tutorial is very helpfull 
 but, you will still need to tinker around for a while before you get the hang of it. It can be 
 a little frustrating when you can't get something to work the way you would like it to. I suggest 
 you play through your level a few times to work out the bugs before you publish it.
  
  This game lives up to all the Hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stone601
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Just great overall. Worth the money and time. Highly recommended. The level design is very colorful 
 and thought through. And keeps your mind active with the puzzles and challenges you'll encounter. 
 The character customization is pretty lengthy and fun. Especially if you get the DLC, such as the 
 MGS pack. Even though the story is exactly up front whilst playing, it's pretty funny. If you choose 
 to follow the game to its very end, you'll find that you've successfully wasted many glorious hours 
 of your life in a fashionable manor. After your finaly all said and done with this fenominal game, 
 there will be a feeling of accomplishment, that you took a risk playing a game that seemed out 
 of the ordinary. So to you my good Man/Woman, congradulations, your not afraid of "Nee and Exciting." 
 Thanks to you, this "Little Big Planet" we reside on can prosper freely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottoj
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The first time I popped this baby into my $400 dollar dream machine, I was shocked at the creativity 
 of the game. Before I received LittleBigPlanet for Christmas, I was skeptical about whether or 
 not I would actually like it. I thought it was just another one of those pointless sidescrollers 
 with a lame story and character. I was wrong (for a while) . I started with the opening credits 
 and was amazed at how Media Molecule even incorporated pictures and names in a level. It literally 
 blew my mind. After playing the first couple of levels made by Media Molecule, I began to think 
 to myself that this game was really not as great as everyone said. I kept playing and eventually 
 got extremely bored of the levels, so I started creating my own. Another surprise! I did all the 
 tutorials and still had no idea how to create a good level. I started a new one and realized that 
 every little object had to be placed, adjusted, moved and even changed with sound or new material. 
 This frustrated me even more. I played some other people's levels, and was impressed (for a while) . 
 Eventually I realized that wow, this game IS just another sidescrolling platformer. Now, don't 
 get me wrong, this game is fun for a while and is extremely ambitious and creative, but ultimately 
 is much too challenging, frustrating and boring. The pre-made levels are very annoying at times 
 and may deem impossible. Customization of your cute little SackBoy is fun at first, but choices 
 are limited unless you spend your hard earned money on extremely weird or pointless costumes on 
 PlaystationStore. I would rather play an FPS, but LittleBigPlanet is a nice break from blowing 
 a guy's head off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omid1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is probably one of the best games! Well you know it's a new kind of gameplay like 
 you know there was Sims and those kind of games but LittleBigPlanet is different, Much , Much Different! 
 In Sims all you do is move mouse, click, move mouse ,click ...
  So if you don't like Sims don't say you don't like LittleBigPlanet!
  As you know LittleBigPlanet 
 company (Media Molecule) won the best company award! From VGA2008 (Video Game Awards2008) .
  I really enjoyed playing this game because first it was fun playing the story and also I could 
 make my own levels and then upload them on the LittleBigPlanet online so other people could try 
 it and say their comments and stuff! It's an addictive game!
  Anyway it's a new kind of game and I really recommend you to play this game and get some easy trophies! 
 So try it and have fun! good Luck And Thanks For Reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nash_latkje
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the trial version of this game, I have to admit I wasn't really impressed. 
 Okay, so it is nearly a side-scrolling/adventure game with a knitted cloth character. So what? 
 What's the big deal?
  I thought that the idea of giving the players the ability to create customized stages and then 
 publish them was pretty good, though. In the trial version there was a very nice stage based on 
 the world of Shadow of the Colossus, which is still one of my favorite games. This stage gave us 
 the idea of what kind of things could be made.
  
  When the game was released, my friend made such a ruckus about this game that I bought it just 
 so he could stop bugging me.
  Okay, so I played the first stage, which gave us an introduction of the character and the controlers, 
 showing us a very creative way of putting the game credits (do you remember the credits of the 
 Playstation 1 classic Pandemonium? It was pretty much like this: credits in-game) . Then the second 
 one, which showed us the basic controls. When I least expected, I just couldn't leave my remote 
 control. This game is surprisingly addictive.
  
  The story is pretty simple, yet very fun. You control a small doll, the Sackboy, and you have to 
 go through a world of other people's dreams in other to recover stolen pieces of dreams.
  Each stage is made mostly of materials you can find commonly in maquettes, like sponge and cardboard, 
 and you can interact with some of these objects, dragging them around and stuff.
  
  The controls are pretty simple too. You can run around, jump and drag objects (actually after the 
 stage is completed you can hold L2 and R2 and dance Macarena, LOL. You can also shake your head 
 and knees using the PS3 movement sensor) . The game is pretty much of a side scrolling with more 
 than one plane, meaning you can go closer or further in the scenarios and find hidden items. The 
 control response is okay and the movement. The physics are VERY realistic. Even the Sackboy's reactions 
 towards things such as high speed, slippery floors and tight places are realistic. Another cool 
 feature of this game is being able to change the Sackboy's facial expressions, such as happiness, 
 sadness, anger, dorkiness and stuff.
  
  The items you can find are basically stickers, which you can use to make your scenaries look better, 
 objects you can you to make your own stage and points to increase your score and even clothes.
 
  Yes, you can modify your Sackboy's colors and clothes accordingly to your personal tastes. And 
 new clothes releases are not few. You must've heard of them: Metal Gear clothes, Locoroco clothes, 
 Street Fighter... among others. And I have good a feeling that there is more to come!!
  
  The amount of downloadable content is also enormous, which is other great feature of this game. 
 Not only you can download new costumes and stage packs, you can also play in stages created by 
 other people.
  
  Another cool thing: the online mode. You can't really complete the game in 100% if you don't have 
 a couple of friends. There are some objects that can only be reached when you have another friend 
 playing with you. Which is good, at least from my point of view. One is good, two is better (and 
 some things can only be reached when you have three more friends with you) .
  
  Bad things about the game? Perhaps the lags in the online mode. When the servers are busy, you 
 can see not only your game lagging, but it will also glitch, stretching your Sackboy's arms.
  
  But in general, I OBVIOUSLY recommend this game. If you needed a reason to buy a PS3, this 
 would be it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is all about creating unique levels so how does it look and play.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well first of all the gameplay is basically like a 2D platformer with areas that 
 either need a vechile or some well timed jumps. If you press jump twice you go higher. If you ride 
 something like a horse or a car it goes down a long ramp. It is really fun when you get use to 
 it. You press R1 to drag things and you do actually get a tutorial on how things work like how 
 to swing onto things and how to create your very own Sackboy. Your Sackboy can also do impressions 
 and have his photo taken as well.
  
  The online is really good you can play levels made by other people or even make your own and you 
 can play them either alone or with someone else. It can be cool playing it with someone else and 
 some levels created by other users require it. You also have a Pod to see what levels have been 
 created and you sometimes get vistors to your Pod as well and trophies as well. You can even decorate 
 your Pod. The gameplay is really good online because of being able to play other peoples levels 
 is so amazing and it is virtually gonna keep you playing for ages.
  
  
  Sound and Graphics
  
  The sound is brilliant and so is the voice over as well of the introduction 
 of the game. The graphics and very nice in terms of design. The amount of detail makes this game 
 look really good.
  
  Lastability
  
  With turns of different types of levels being made by other users and added content will make this 
 game last a very long time. Checking out oher peoples levels is so cool. You could basically find 
 a new level everyday.
  
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  Overall this game has so much charm to it that you will really appreciate it. It's really unique. 
 The ability to play on other peoples levels is cool as well as build your own is something probably 
 many gamers have wanted to do for along time. Little Big Planet is a must for any owner of a PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceyLuigi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is a game that will dazzle millions, it has very creative gameplay and the main 
 character (and you're new best friend) is a SackPerson, a cute timid little knitted ragdoll that 
 has customisable clothing, emotions and a great fashion sense!
  
  If your looking for a cool puzzle game, this one of 'em! Even though the story is short but, just 
 right, it is a great game.
  
  Online Mode:
  
  The online mode is excellent and fun to play, it can go up 1-4 players approx, and will keep you 
 happy for hours. Problems are; the camera gets worse, as you play with more players; apart from 
 that - LittleBigPlanet online is a excellent way to have multiplayer fun!
  
  Also, the narrator, Stephen Fry, will keep you entertained with his short, but, funny tutorial 
 movies, his voice fits the game perfectly!
  
  I recommend you to buy this game, trust me, it is NOT a waste of money AT ALL, so get your copy 
 of LittleBigPlanet today!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet a game where the title contridicts it self. This game is absolutly ment for kids 
 this game lacks everything a platforming game needs i mean the only thing you do in this game is 
 jump, take pictures, or put stickers on stuff. what happend to games like donkey kong or super 
 mario if they would have went off a idea like that were there are actually enemies and a objective 
 this game would have been fun but this game is pointless you just go through all of these mini 
 levels for no reason at all.
  
  
  The good
  -Looks good
  -Take pictures of stupid stuff is fun
  -good level designs
  
  
  The bad
  -repetitive
 
  -Very Very Boring.... ZZZZZZZZ
  -Customization is hard to understand
  -no eneimes
  -No objective mainly just doing a whole bunch of random jumping
  
  
  The Thing i dont get 
 is why everyone likes this game i just dont get it all you do is jump to get through the level 
 seriously ive had more fun watching grass grow or watching paint dry what were they thinking when 
 they made this ohhh yeah wait they werent because u dont need to think to play this game just need 
 to be able to hit the x button alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  In few words about this title.
  --------------------------------------------
  GOOD.
  - Some clever ideas.
  - Family value title
  ---------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------
  BAD.
  - Way childish and cartoony. ( i am not a little kid ) .
  - Repeative and boring after a while...
 
  - Controls are bulky.
  - Some cheesy moments...
  ----------------------------------------
  CONCLUSION.
  It's ok as a family game but it is not 
 that great for an adult gamer like me. It's way Childish and the controls kind of suck.
  Also the game becomes boring pretty fast.
  I recommend it for kids but for an Adult gamer well 
 it is another story...
  
  The bad is that I do not have any kids to give this as a present and now this title is getting 
 dusted as i have no interested about it.
  
  SCORES GRAPHICS = 7.8
  SOUND = 7.0
  Gameplay 7.5
  FINAL SCORE = 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  The first game of it's kind
  Really fun online
  Tons and tons of items to find and unlock
  Creativity is unlimited
  Good graphics
  Very artistic
 
  Other PlayStation 3 games are incorporated into the game
  Fun Multiplayer
  Revolutionary game (I'm sure there will be copiers)
  Only for PlayStation 3 (if you can count 
 that as a positive :P)
  Great Downloadable Content
  Worth hours of fun
  Level customizer is easy to use and FUN!
  Deep level design options
  You can play other players 
 levels
  
  THE BAD
  
  Laggy online
  Game freezes frequently or has minor loading glitches
  
  There's no reason not to get this 
 game. LittleBigPlanet is probably the best game I own for my PlayStation 3. If you're thinking 
 about buying this game, don't think... do! You won't be sorry! After playing for a while the game 
 simply sucks you in and puts you into your own world. The best part is, you can make it however 
 you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocacolafresh
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  ok so, everyone i asked said little big planet was awsome and a must have. so, i picked it up, 
 popped it in my ps3, played for 30 minutes, and took it out. Its a very clever idea, great graphics, 
 awsome character, cool features, but most of all, its boring. All i do is... hop around as sackboy 
 to try to get to the end of a level. This is like beefed up maro.. except with worse controls. The 
 three sections that you hop between are interesting, but VEERRY frustrating to use, whenever im 
 jumping, i always end up in a different zone. I tihnk if this game had better controls, and a little 
 more to do, it might be alot more fun. Just having better controls for switching zones would make 
 this game for me a 7/10 instead of 5/10. just my opinion. if you your a creative person, this game 
 would be pretty sweet. But me, i either like to blow stuff up, or have more of a challange. In 
 this game, all you do is keep moving foward... no complications or screwups. there are occasional 
 mess ups, and you can redo from the last "checkpoint", which is great, but its just... boring. This 
 game looks awsome and has some cool features, but its just not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RingCollector
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and deserves to be the game of the year. There is so much stuff you can do 
 this game. It never gets boring and you will be playing it for a long time.
  
  You can beat the story mode which will take a few hours and trust me its a lot harder then it looks. 
 Also in story mode you can do co up so bring a few friends to play with you. You can build stages 
 then send them online or play other ppls stages from around the world. Noy only that but there 
 are 100s of items to be found in story mode to help build your stages. Also there are lots of stuff 
 to buy from the playstation store to upgrade the game. A metal gear solid one just came out. The 
 reason why I liked megaman powered up (PSP) so much was because I loved building stages and that 
 could be why I like this game so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bionicle123
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  il keep this short.
  
  some parts are fun to play others are bad
  
  very repetitive at some points
  
  controls are mushy and they dont feel responsive... they are 
 actually really awful 
  
  beat it in 12 hours
  
  multiplayer is fun but makes it 10 X harder, at times a players would kill them selfs just so u 
 could get through, the reason for this is the terrible camera... one of the crappiest cameras i 
 have ever seen
  
  dont buy this game... rent it and beat it... then go get a good game like mgs, far cry or nhl 09
 
  
  
  x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x xx x xx x x xx x xx x xx xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x xx x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x xx x
  asfsad fas as fa as sdaf asdf sad fsafsdah, fsadkjf hsafh skajdhksdja hj fsadjf sadhf kj f sadh 
 jlsah fjsa h jklf hsdjak fsjka hfkasj ss sjkf sjka j fkjsa hfjkasfh ak afh jash fkla kf ashkf s 
 ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris1112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game blew my mind. I played it on my friends ps3 and it made me want to go buy a ps3 just 
 for it! Too bad im broke and can't afford a ps3 right now, but hey this game is extremely addictive 
 and will leave you wanting to play it again and again!! If u asked me for one recommendation, I'd 
 say BUY LBP WITH A PS3 RIGHT NOW!!!! Hands-down this is the game for all other games to try to 
 beat. It has endless user created content (which is amazing fun to see what creative people come 
 up with) , detailed graphics for a platformer, and best of all an easy control scheme w/very smooth 
 animation. Over-all I give this game a 9.5/10 for one con. It isn't for Xbox 360 or PC........ 
 because i have a gaming PC and a Xbox 360 but I haven't had the money to buy the ps3 so I would 
 like to have the ability to buy it for something I do have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet had quite a bit of hype to live up to, when the game was first shown off many people 
 were skeptical and wondered how this game would actually work, but now that it's released it blew 
 away the expectations of many critics. LittleBigPlanet is a game focused entirely on creativity 
 and imagination, if you have neither creativity nor imagination that's why Media Molecule included 
 the feature of being able to play levels created by those who do. The player controls a customizable 
 character known as Sackboy/Sackgirl, depending on your preferences, you can dress your Sackperson 
 the way you want and even control its emotions with the push of a button. LittleBigPlanet is a 
 fusion of 2D and 3D gameplay, while it is a 2D platformer you can move your character between 3 
 different planes; foreground, midground and background. The gameplay is fun and immersive with 
 tons of replay value considering that there are a vast amount of collectable items on each level 
 which you should try to collect if you want more options to choose from when building your own 
 levels, and this is what makes LBP truly special, the ability to create your own levels will bring 
 out the game designer in you and you are given so many tools and items to choose from that it can 
 seem almost overwhelming, creating a great level will take some time but it's fun and engrossing. 
 The game is a lot of fun to play, while there isn't much story in the single player, the multiplayer 
 is what you really want in this game and it's an awesome experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTDansoh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Here is the game everyone's been looking forward to, LittleBigPlanet, because of its innovate idea 
 of allowing people to "Play. Create. Share." levels they have created. The game has actually nearly 
 lived up to what it promised, but it is held back by a few problems. But first, the basics.
  
  If you're looking for an epic, dramatic story in LBP, you will be royally disappointed because 
 the story in this game is insignificant and just seems there to give the campaign a purpose for 
 the character. You star as Sack Boy and the world of LBP is in danger. A villain has taken the 
 creations and refuses to share them with the world, so you are taken on a quest though eight differently 
 themed worlds to restore LBP. Like I said, the story is unimportant, but what matters is what you 
 experience in the story, which is pretty impressive.
  
  The actual game plays like a 2-D side-scroller with a twist. There are three movement planes and 
 along the way, you will have to leap through the planes in order to survive. With friends, the 
 game is a lot of fun, and the best aspect of multiplayer is that players have the freedom to jump 
 in and out of a game if they please, which is a nice addition. There are tons of different obstacles 
 you will face, enemies to fight, and vehicles to ride in, which take you to insane speeds. Probably, 
 the only problem with the core gameplay is that jumps are too floaty, and landing on small platforms 
 can be very tricky, along with the fact that the camera is all over the place when characters separate.
 
  
  There is also and online mode, where you can play levels in the story, or levels created by users. 
 Sadly, online mode does not work as well as you'd like it to. Online usually suffers from noticeable 
 lag, and sometimes gets to the point where the game becomes unplayable. However, when you do get 
 a good connection, you can have a lot of fun with friends (and strangers) , leaping, running, and 
 giving the fan-favourite "end-level backhand."
  
  Now the most important part of the game: the level creator. Creating a level is very deep, but 
 surprisingly simple to do. You get what is called a "Popit", which is used to move, place, shape, 
 grow or shrink, delete, and anything else you want to do. You can create anything you want with 
 the popit, as long as it is tasteful. In addition to the platforms, you can add enemies, vehicles, 
 hazards, swings, and just about anything else that comes to mind. There's nothing wrong with it... 
 except if you lack patience. In short, making a level people would like to play takes too long. 
 Because of this, the servers are jam-packed with lame levels, with the exception of a handful of 
 levels that people will end up going to for a long time.
  
  Overall, despite its few flaws, LBP is a great game for anyone looking for a platformer. Do not 
 be fooled by its cute graphics direction. This is a game for people of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Dreams are wonder, they make you see wonderful things, create a new world, people and so forth, 
 yes we all dreamt about a new world at some point. Little Big Planet is a game from Media Molecule, 
 designed to make our "dreams" come true, it's designed to let us built whatever we want, but does 
 it succeed?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There really ain't a story in Little Big Planet, you play as a sack boy, and have to get from 
 one end of a level to the next. There are small parts of story, though it seems that there's only 
 one small story within each chapter, it's nothing special, but the bits that's here are funny.
 
  
  7.5
  
  Gameplay
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game is a 2D platformer, typical like the early days of platforming, you can grab stuff, run, 
 jump and that's pretty much it, there's no fancy bullet time effect, no fancy fighting system, 
 it's simple and fun. Each level has 3 layers you'll have to switch between in order to advance, 
 it's a good idea, but switching between the layers can become a problem, especially when switching 
 layers mid-air. Which leads to another problem, jumping can somewhat hard, especially when navigating 
 the jumps and such, it can also easily mean that when you jump to another platform you accidently 
 end up in a hole.
  
  But really the 6 hour single player campaign ain't the main focus of the game; it's really just 
 used to inspire ideas for the level creator. In the single player, you collect various objects 
 which can be used for creating a level, you have to put special stickers on cardboard stuff and 
 explore the levels fully (and mostly with a few friends) to get all of the items, it's fun to collect 
 and those bastards can really be well hidden, especially since some of them can be hidden behind 
 objects, which can easily be gotten by switch layers.
  
  Then there's the level creator, which is very huge, you can pretty much create whatever you want. 
 It looks overwhelming at first, but there's thankfully a tutorial which makes things really simple, 
 though there's endless amount of tutorials. There's a lot of options you can do, add themes, objects, 
 characters, dialogue, and music (though not your own music sadly) , and sound effects. There are 
 already a lot of videos uploaded of people creating their own levels in the game and that alone 
 shows the endless possibilities. 
  
  When a level is made, it can freely be uploaded to the internet for other people to play, there's 
 already a lot of levels made in the beta, so support for the game should be very, very good.
  
  The single player is around 6 hours long, but the possibilities in the level creator are endless. 
 There's also multiplayer where up to 4 players can play through a level and find stickers by cooperating. 
 It's fun and chatting is extremely easy. There's also trophies and the promise of downloadable 
 content. One note however is that the game becomes harder and harder the more you play it, so there 
 might be a controller or two that will get broken.
  
  Graphics
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics are beautiful, the environments are somewhat simple, but their beautiful made and 
 have a charm to it, plus it has a lot of imagination to it. The sack boy is adorable and while 
 you may get to see them on lots of advertises, they at least look cute enough to not make you sick 
 of them. It's a game that really shows what the PS3 is made of.
  
  Sound
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There's not a whole lot of voice acting in the game, mostly there's one narrator (Stephen Fry) 
 who explains about the game and the tutorials. He sounds familiar, but there's no denying that 
 he does a great job and there's some charm to be found in his voice. The soundtrack is great too, 
 using some really catchy beats.
  
  Overall
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall this is one of the PS3's finniest games, it's fun, cute and it's one of the few games 
 that really let's you create everything you want. Thought suffering a little from the difficulty 
 and controls, it is one of the best games this year and one of the best for PS3, it's a game everybody 
 can enjoy and the level creator is simple once you get used to it. Buy it, it's an amazing game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj_simmons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5
  
  the graphics in lbp are truly amazing. from the textures of building materials to to the fabric 
 of sackboy, you will be blown away with with aw when looking at lbp.
  
  however there is a small graphic glitch. sometimes sackboy will partually sink into a spongeball 
 when swinging or into an object when jumping and climbing. but this will only happen rarely and 
 dosn't really take away from the gameplay
  
  overall this is one of the best looking games you will play.
  
  
  Sound: 9
  
  while the 
 sound quality may not be as good as games like metal gear solid 4, you still want have any problems 
 hearing the cute and comical sound effects of sackboy being electrocuted when touching an electrofied 
 object or the sound of sackboy consatrating so hard he blows up when you get stuck and have to 
 try again.
  
  cute and comical sound effects pluss an amazing sound track equals one great sounding game.
  
 
  
  Story: 5
  
  the narative in lbp is all the dreams of the always dreaming citizens of planet earth gather and 
 create a world of pure imagination called little big planet, and you explore little big planet 
 as a sackboy and meet the diffrent creaters. each creater you meet will have a problem they will 
 need your help with as they send you off to explore their worlds and complete various objectives 
 and defeat various bad gays.
  
  however, there isn't a real plot to the story, and while you will meet many diffrent and enteraining 
 characters, the story never fully develops its characters.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  even though little big planet is a 3-d game, the overall gameplay resimbles that of 2-d platformers 
 such as mario and donkey kong. moving horazontally from one side of the screen to the other, you 
 will be doing plenty of jumping, climbing, swinging, dodging, and occasionally even riding as you 
 solve various enviremental puzzles. 
  
  while the gameplay is extremely solid, it will ocassionally fell a little buggy when jumping or 
 pushing and pulling objects ( even when not playing online) , however, this only happens rarly and 
 for the most part are stable.
  
  
  Entertainment: 9.5
  
  from the stunning graphics and amazing sound track, to the cute and charming sound effects, little 
 big planet is one of the most entertaining games you will ever play. from the puzzles to the boss 
 fights each level is completely diffrent from the last, eliminating the sence of repeatitiveness 
 that most plafromers have. even though the main story levels are short, the fact that players can 
 create and publish there own levels ensure that you will never run out of great levels to play.
 
  
  the only thing that takes away from the entertinment is the rare occassions with the controls fill 
 buggy that can lead to frustation.
  
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  little big planet is a great game that will be enjoyed by children and adults alike, and is a must 
 own for all aspireing game developers and hardcore platformer fans.
  
  while it isn't a must play game persay, it is a very highly recomended game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAAS599
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  LBP is awesome and it is only getting better!!! The DLC has been consistently good and this weeks 
 DLC is great. MGS4 is coming to LBP in a big way with new levels staickers and costumes. Oh yeah 
 and a LBP first, a weapon. Its a paintball gun you can aim and shoot. May not sound like much but 
 in the world of LBP it is one more thing on the list. This is a great game and a must own, along 
 with MGS4, for anyone with a PS3. This is my first review and it is a little fanboyish but both 
 these games are only on PS3. If you dont have a PS3, find someone who does. There is a very good 
 chance that he/she owns one or both of these games. LBP can be summed up by saying it is very easy 
 to jump into and very hard to pull yourself away from. I am still finding new levels that I never 
 would have thought were possible. I have had this game since launch and I would bet I haven't played 
 half the levels online.
  
  10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Losarii
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- 10/10. Sometimes amazing graphics isn't about detailed models, shadows, etc. but about 
 eye-stunning visuals and creative levels filled with more colors than your mind can handle. 
  
  Gameplay- 10/10. Creating levels can be both difficult and easy, and it all depends on your 
 creativity. You are in control of nearly every aspect of this game, and the power given to you 
 is sometimes too much to behold.
  
  Storyline- 8/10. Cute story. This game certainly isn't about a perfectly developed story. Consider 
 the storyline a taste of what you are capable of creating; the true storyline is the masterpiece 
 you will produce upon purchasing this game.
  
  Value- 11/10. No, that isn't a type-o, I actually rated the value 11 out of 10. Every time you 
 turn on your console to play Little Big Planet, your gaming experience will change. There are countless 
 levels created by countless players with unique stories. Also, replaying the story mode is very 
 rewarding as you can find objects, stickers, and costumes that you may have missed and use them 
 to create your personal sackboy, master level, or cool pad.
  
  Sound/Music- 11/10. Okay, I had to add this. I've owned Little Big Planet since the launch (and 
 even played the beta) and I still continue to whistle the many catchy tunes. Just like Mario had 
 his own theme song, Sackboy now has his. 
  
  Overall Score- 10/10
  
  NOTE: I don't recommend purchasing this game if your ps3 does not have online capability. For users 
 without online, rent it; otherwise, you may become bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregalodon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really interested in LittleBigPlanet, beyond the cute factor, but a friend had it and 
 let me have a go. I bought it the next day.
  
  The game is deceptively simple, and though the controls are sometimes not as smooth as they could 
 be, it rarely interferes with the overall enjoyment. It really is a blast, and the the world Media 
 Molecule has created is truly wonderful and completely unique. 
  
  This is one of those games that can be enjoyed by everyone, kids and grown-ups alike. The puzzles 
 are challenging, but with a little creative thinking just about any obstacle can be overcome.
 
  
  Do be aware that, like many platform games, the later levels up the ante on frustration, but if 
 I can finish it anybody can... Just don't ask me to Ace 'em (that is, finish without dying) .
  
  The real joy of LittleBigPlanet is in the creation department; I've only scratched the surface 
 of the level builder, but after having seen some spectacular levels made by the community, I can't 
 wait to try it myself.
  
  Given the new content already made available and the hints of things to come, this looks like a 
 game with a bright future.
  
  That's all, go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I tell you what, I was sooo happy when I first laid eyes upon this game. So, I bought it the day 
 it was released (yes, the collectible version) I played it about all day :P Played it till about 
 mid November, then I just quit. The level maker thing is cool. But to make a good level, its very 
 very tricky. It also takes a loooooooong time. Now the graphics are very nice, and so is the gameplay. 
 But the side-scroller isnt for me. I often get stuck behind things and miss careless jumps. I guess 
 I'm just used to FPS. I heard some people say, its a break from all the violence!! Sure, it is, 
 but then thoughts ran through my head about sackboy being blown to a billion peices. Too bad you 
 can't do that. lol
  
  If you are a little kid, sure buy this game. If you want it for online, stay away. Very laggy. 
 Anyways, I had high hopes, and sure it was cool, but it gets old way to fast.
  
  Graphics:8/10
  Gameplay:7/10
  Sound:8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4life15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  its fun for everyone of all ages perfect mix which sums it up. The story is good and enjoyable 
 and even better with online play so that you and friends can enjoy at the same time and help each 
 other out. There is always something to do like create your own levels to creating and pimping 
 out your sackboy and to finding all those little collectables along the way. All those tricky stickers 
 and objects to collect. And if thats not enough you have all the trophies to try and complete. 
 Easy to use and anyone can pick up a controller and play either by themselves with friends or online. 
 and also the feature to create and share levels with the littlebigplanet community out there. Thats 
 another thing to do if you run out of things to do is to publish levels and play other peoples. 
 Only bad thing about this game is that the story ends. to sum it up Fun Fun Fun.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildDangles92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Games are supposed to be fun, friendly and imaginative and LittleBigPlanet fills those shoes perfectly. 
 If you want people to see how creative you are, make a level and show them. If you really want 
 to mess with someones mind, create a level so challenging that even you (the creator) have a lot 
 of trouble finishing. The sky is the limit, and the possibilities are endless. The game features 
 an addictive array of music that will have you tapping your feet and bobbing your head.
  
  The only criticism I have with this game is the single player mode, it is somewhat short and you 
 could easily finish it in one sitting if your dedicated. Another small criticism is the tutorials, 
 some are a necessity and have to be used in order to be a master creator, but some are worthless 
 and it is quite boring having to listen to them just for the reward of watching them all. The camera 
 is also a little buggy when playing co-op. It will follow the lead player more often and could 
 leave others in the dust.
  
  Overall, the positives of this game completly obliterate the negatives and LittleBigPlanet is a 
 treasure that everyone of all ages can enjoy.
  
  Story: N/A
  Graphics: 9.5
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Replay Value: 10
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaxafreon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  LBP
  
  Game Play 9
  
  The inuitive and thoughtful level designs with a simple controls make for a very fun and enjoyable 
 experiance. The story mode so far is intresting and for anyone who likes getting secrets and trophies 
 will be happy to know that there LBP has plenty of them. Only downside is that the online gameplay 
 is cripled with really bad lag and thats if you find someone to play with. Though if you have friends 
 with the game it might be easier to play online co-op
  The game being simple ( but not meaning a walk over ) allows for non gamers like my sister to enjoy 
 this game and even start creating her own levels. As im on the topic of the level makin is that 
 it is very hard to make a good level especially compared to the story mode and very time consuming.
 
  
  Sound 10
  
  When i heard steven frys voice in the game i knew i was going to give it a 10!
  Furthermore there 
 are also some quirky and funny sound effects like fart noises and babyy talkin. The music fits 
 the creative background of the game perfectly
  
  Graphics 9
  
  The levels all look beautiful and the animations too though nothin ground braking.
  The custimisations 
 of your character also look pretty cwl allowin u to create at least 100 in a 100000 unique sack 
 person
  
  Value 10
  
  With all those trophies to collect includining some quite tricky ones which if u not good at level 
 building (like me) u will need to practice to get the level design trophies which include being 
 hearted ( favourited) and played
  As well as trophies there are also thousands of stickers and object to find in lbp which i would 
 think incrase the game time by at least 10 hr or so.
  And with online play and with some quite good levels out there mae by players will mean you will 
 still enjoy this game for moths or even years to come
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodOfFire12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is one of my favorite games to play. Its like someones imagination because it is 
 so creative and well thought out. LittleBIgPlanet is probably the best Playstation 3 game out this 
 year. It is for all ages. Kids would love it, Teenagers would like it, Adults would even play it. 
 Its just that fun. Everyone who has a ps3 should get the game. if they are an only child then they 
 can just play online with someone across the world or you can play with your friends and it would 
 be just as fun. it is also fun creating your own levels and sharing them online or trying someones 
 stage to and rate them to tell them they did a good job if it is really fun. it is also fun to 
 wait for the costumes they have in the playstation store, and collect all of the costumes in the 
 regular story. this game is just the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdude5678
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is an amazing game. It is one of the most comprehensive level creators I have ever 
 seen. Which is why you should buy the game. If you want it for a platforming story mode game, this 
 isn't what you're looking for. It has a six hour story mode, but it isn't that great. It is really 
 just to show you what you can do with the level creator. Everything in the story mode you can build... with 
 an amazing amount of patience. As I said before, it's comprehensive. You can spend 5 hours on the 
 creator building a level 1/3 the size of a level in the story mode. But if you have a creative 
 itch, then you will love this game. But this game isn't for everybody. Then you can send your level 
 to the internet for other people to play, favorite, or copy, if you allow it. There are some very 
 amazing and imaginative levels. You can literally build anything you want in a level. You can build 
 you own enemies, elevators, doors, cars, characters, put pictures of yourself on the level, etc. 
 But to learn how to build complex levels, you have to go through about an hour's worth of tutorials, 
 that are entertaining while very informative and useful. So if you've got a PS3, a creative mind, 
 and a little bit of patience, then LittleBigPlanet is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SERG360
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  I just finished the story mode abut 30 minutes ago and my god it was fantastic! the story mode 
 alone make this one of the best games I have ever played.
  
  I even liked it a lot more than Super Mario Galaxy, which was a great game but had a lot of problems, 
 repeated challenges and level design, and a lot of short and unsatisfying ones, this game has none 
 of those problems, the level design is continuously ingenious and creative, it's exiting and even 
 for me, sometimes moving (especially the part near the end where you get all the character objects) , 
 I enjoyed it as much as any of my favorite platforming games like Donkey Kong Country or even Yoshi's 
 Island, this people know how to make excellent games and I can only hope designers take note.
 
  
  A lot of people and reviewers have said that the story mode is really short but actually, I think 
 this is only partially true, if you take your time to explore the levels and try to find as much 
 of the hidden items as you can in your first playtrough and find the keys to the clever and very 
 much enjoyable side challenges (which aren't too difficult to locate) , you'll get a lot more playtime 
 and overall enjoyment out of the story mode, not to mention the game encourages you to "Ace" (finish 
 a level without dying) all the levels and find all the hidden objects (which often requires more 
 than one player) rewarding you with costumes and extra objects and decorations per level, granted, 
 not everyone will have time to do this or let alone care, but the replay value is there and the 
 entire thing it's just too good to be played only once, you will go back to play it sooner or later.
 
  
  The only real problem i had with the game was that the boss and the ending at the end of the final 
 level did their job, but i still was kind of disappointed by the lack of a true ending, you know, 
 with credits and all.
  
  Before finishing, I'll like to clear up that I'm not some kind of fanboy trying to get this game 
 attention because of stupid console loyalty. I own all three mayor consoles, a gaming PC and the 
 two mayor portable systems, I mainly bought a PS3 to play MGS4 and rent some other games I was 
 interested in, and then I would give this game a chance, to be sincere, I had no expectations at 
 all for this game until like a month ago when reviews, and most notably, people praises started 
 poping out in the Internet, since the first trailer and before that, I thought the game was going 
 to be pure garbage, a poor attempt of Sony to gather people attention with their cute little graphics 
 and music and enthusiasts that ate up that the game was going to be revolutionary and actually 
 believed the creation mode was going to be any different from so many other console games creation 
 modes that had mostly turned out to be garbage. I have eaten my words already
  
  Anyway, I just finished the game and was exited as hell abut it and had to take it out of my system, 
 and to think this is just half the game, I'll probably take the tutorials tomorrow and see what 
 I can do, I have some ideas that have been lingering in my mind and notebooks since my childhood, 
 but after going though this masterpiece of a game, I don't know what else they expect me to create. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gswhite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of quirky games, I thought this would be a game right up my alley.
  
  I was right!
  
  Amazing cutesy GFX, with in-depth levels. I admit it's slightly on the easy 
 side and it will not take long for individuals to complete every level, but this is were the user 
 community will step-in.
  
  Providing the ability for users to build their own maps, is a stroke of genius for the PS3 game. 
 Then making these available for users to download at there leisure is both smart and clever.
  
  Re-running each level to unlock every customisable part of the game, from extra functions to 
 add to your custom maps, to individual pieces for your cute and loveable Sackboy provides individuals 
 with the ability to fully customise and change their character based on individual taste.
  
  At face value, LBP is a left-to-right side-scroller -- Mario with even fewer options. You can 
 jump, you can grab, and that's it. It's purposefully focused design at its finest, and it puts 
 the spotlight on the interesting environments. Spread over eight worlds, LBP's story mode features 
 some of the most endearing 2D levels in modern gaming, packed with secrets and even sporting a 
 few devious bosses. Sackboy trots the globe to African, Japanese, Indian, and Southwest-American 
 locales (to name a few) , each thematically distinct and sporting tons of individual objects and 
 artwork. The main exploration quirk is in the triad of 2D movement planes that each world's divided 
 into. While the game is supposed to handle the act of hopping from a background object to a foreground 
 object automatically, it's not 100 percent reliable; I found it easier (and more effective) to 
 just do it manually each time. Other than that, the simplicity endears and perseveres, and the 
 perilously clever levels kept me smiling straight through to the end (and then again with a friend... and 
 once more in the hilariously hectic four-player co-op mode) .
  
  The story levels serve another purpose, too; any objects and stickers that you collect unlock in 
 LBP's level creator -- where the real adventure begins. This ridiculously powerful suite of tools 
 and decorations allows you to create almost anything of your own and share it with the world. Platformers 
 are a good starting point -- but why stop there? Within a scant few hours of consumption, I played 
 through logic games, murder mysteries, music videos, and more. Making good levels takes time and 
 patience, but the creative satisfaction is immense. It's easy to get lost in the potential and 
 spend time away from LBP simply dreaming up new things to try. 
  
  A really great game that deserved the game of the year award. I think the unique GFX, game play 
 and customisation options really allow each individual to have their own unique experience whilst 
 playing.
  
  I look forward to the forthcoming Little Big Planet 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet for the PS3, of course. Revolves around creativity and imagination. The story 
 is about everything that we dream, will eventually become a planet. That's where Sackboy comes 
 in. He's cute and very loveable and always has fun. Think of him as your other personality. The 
 story fits the game and more importantly gives you the ability to use your imagination to create 
 your own little world.
  All the good things are there as soon as you start. You get very attached to the character. You 
 will like the levels, they are very creative and unique. They are filled with crazy and funny characters.
 
  Also the fact that the game will let you create your own levels and publish them for others to 
 play, kind of makes it unlimited replay. You can go online and play other levels that people have 
 made and there are always new ones available every day.
  Oh, and in my opinion one of the coolest things is all of the outfits and clothes that sackboy 
 has available to him. Plus they are adding on tons more, so you can customize him even more to 
 suit your personality and whatever mood that you may be in that day.
  As far as bad things or problems with the game, there are none in my opinion. THis game is a one 
 of a kind game and very enjoyable. It is for all ages and everyone will love it.
  PS SACKBOY RULES!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Littlebigplanet is many things; a video game, an interactive art project, an outlet through which 
 creativity can flourish. But the fact remains that first and foremost, LBP is a platformer video 
 game, and while the artistic and creative aspects of the game outpace all competition, the gameplay 
 that holds these aspects together does not. That's not to suggest that LBP is unplayable; far from 
 it, the simple controls and solid framerate should make for a very playable game. However, something 
 about the ways that Sackboy moves and interacts with the environment feels floaty and imprecise, 
 which can make even simple tasks frustrating. Sackboy can never settle on one solid jump length 
 (sometimes he'll make the jump, sometimes he won't, no matter how long you hold the button down. 
 It's only a problem in a few levels, though) and the physics upon which the game is based are unpredictable. 
 Couple that with the schizophrenic difficulty of the story mode, and a playthrough of LBP's built 
 in levels typically ends in annoyance rather than the intended feeling of inspiration. This is 
 especially vexing given the way that LBP is being marketed as a casual/party game. Casual audiences 
 won't get much from the detailed level-editor (more on that later) and many of the story levels 
 will prove difficult for them, and the buggy online performance makes me want to do anything but 
 party. For all of the flair that the levels have, some of the gameplay is just dull.
  
  Player created levels typically fare better, if only because the community as a whole probably 
 expects less from them. These expectations are often proven ignorant. Sure, you're bound to stumble 
 upon some crap in your search for great levels, but there are some real works of genius out there 
 too. Make no mistake, the level sharing aspect of LBP is the biggest reason to purchase the game. 
 
  
  The "Create" aspect of LBP is startlingly in-depth. This is not the easy experience portrayed in 
 the trailers. Sure, it's easier and more intuitive than most other level editors, but creating 
 even a decent level will take a lot of planning and dedication, not to mention lots of trial and 
 error (especially during your first few hours of editing.) Bear with it, and the rewards are great. 
 Actually completing a level, a task that, if ambitious, could take upwards of ten hours, just feels 
 great. Letting other people play on it and reading their positive comments and suggestions feels 
 even better. Overall, the execution is much more complex than initially portrayed but it is satisfying 
 if you have the time. 
  
  The audio/visual package in LBP is much more consistant than the gameplay, in that all of it is 
 amazing. The game sports an art style that is unique and fully realized; each realm of the story 
 mode sports a look that spoofs the feel of different parts of the world, but in a whimsical way 
 that captures the imagination. On a technical level, the graphics are amazing and it truly is impressive 
 how much can really fit into one level. The music in LBP is a mixture of liscensed and original, 
 and every song fits its respective level perfectly. 
  
  While LBP can become tedious thanks to the sometimes dull gameplay and the amount of effort that 
 it takes to make a unique level, the reward is worth it. But let's be honest, this isn't really 
 a casual game. The learning curve on the level editor is steep at first and the gameplay can be 
 imprecise. Get past all of that, and LBP is a remarkable art project with a fairly entertaining 
 game attatched. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10: Amazing art style complemented by superb detail.
  Sound: 10/10: Perfect music for every situation.
  Gameplay: 8/10: Create? Share? Great. Play? 
 Not so much.
  Entertainment: 8.5/10: Floaty and sometimes dull gameplay coupled with a marketing tactic that 
 portrays the game as being much more simple than it really is (thereby making playing the game 
 a bit disorienting) mar what is otherwise a whimsical and entertaining journey. Oh, and don't expect 
 a story out of the Story mode; there really isn't any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobb23
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I so wanted to like this game. And it was so close. Most the people rating this game simply have 
 not played it long enough to see how bad this game really is.
  
  A little history. Lots of people when they were little played games like Mario and played many 
 hours. Most people finished these games. Some people played the games until they had them memorized 
 and redid everything until this had every coin. They continued playing a game long after their 
 friends had quit to max everything out. These people are called hardcore. Unfortunately for everyone 
 else on the planet, apparently only Hardcore gamers grow up to be game makers, except for a few 
 other that have all been captured by Nitendo.
  
  The problem with the hardcore is they mistake challenge for "fun", when for most people it quickly 
 becomes tedium. This is the primary problem with LittleBigPlanet. From the very beginning the hardcore 
 roots are there, with the need to procure the building blocks for your own levels by finding secret 
 places and accomplishing extra hard feats. Its not clear why these are even linked?
  
  Why should I have to even play the single player levels to unlock things in the building phase? 
 This just reeks of hardcore game design that makes no sense.
  
  Well, the first few levels are great and fun with appropriate challenge, but the longer you play 
 the more you run into hardcore levels and challenge that turn casual "I want to have fun not work" 
 gamers off. It turns into tedium.
  
  Long ago game makers would make you start levels over if you missed a jump. Soon it was realized 
 that was horrible and un-fun. No one told Media Molecule. Cruising on a level and doing great, 
 get to a hard part and miss a jump 5 times  well its time to start the level over! This is inexcusable 
 in a modern game. Rachet and Clank and Drakes Uncharted save the game before difficult areas, and 
 you can redo them a million times without starting a level over. Why? Because they are not making 
 games in the 1980s and realized making you replay the easy parts 10 times to redo the hard parts 
 is retarded and boring and makes people write reviews about your game and how you emphasize the 
 lame parts. 
  
  Hardcore platformers are acceptable if the controls are up to it, but this is the final strike 
 against LittleBigPlanet, the controls are mushy and don't respond consistently.
  
  Now, someone could say I just suck at games, and maybe that is true, but that just emphasizes I 
 want fun and reasonable challenge in my games, not tedium and game design from 1980. Some might 
 say  well, make your own levels. And I would, but I am locked out of half the materials because 
 I am not hardcore.
  
  Sadly in the end, LittleBigPlanet is cute and loveable, but deeply flawed as a fun game
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I recently traded in my copy of COD 4 and Warhawk for COD5 and this. Let me tell you, i'm happy 
 with half of my choices.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  
  Not perfect but the cute burlap sack men and cute drawings had me smiling.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
 
  
  Two games in one: a Halo3 forge-like game and a mario bros like side scroller, but better!
  
 
  Replay Value (10/10)
  
  NO DOUBT IN MY MIND!!!! It may have cost me a good game in warhawk, but i still don't doubt my 
 choice. 
  
  Sound (8/10)
  
  Cute music and sounds for a game that people call "too kiddy for anyone 10+" which is totally not 
 true!
  
  Online Value (10/10)
  
  Trophies, challenges, new friends and newer rivalries, comparing levels and our completion speeds. 
 No doubt about, LBP is the icing on the cake of the PS3 X-mas lineup. 
  
  Overall (47/50) = 94%, rounded to 95%
  
  Have a PS3? Own COD 4 and 5? sell that overhyped garbage 
 and get yourself a copy of LBP!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Media Molecule had the almost overwhelming task of creating a game which allowed players to do 
 anything and everything. A game which indeed stretch the boundaries of linear and straightfoward 
 platforming. LittleBigPlanet manages to provide an outrageously charming world of patchwork, sponges 
 and silly-talking queens of electricity as well as an infinite array of tools for you to use when 
 making up your OWN level. Simply, this 'kiddy' platformer has so much depth it could be mistaken 
 for the Marianas Trench.
  
  The single-player mode is a bit sketchy, but manages to captivate you enough for you to want to 
 know what is next. It follows Sackboy's adventures helping, aiding and working for the Seven Creators, 
 a group of misfits responsible for LittleBigPlanet, a world where all of Earth's escaped imagination 
 floats up to. Sound kooky? It's because it is. 
  
  The graphical style is suitably adorable and you simply haven't met anyone cuter than Sackboy (or 
 girl) . Technically, the graphics are fantastic and there are plenty of bells and whistles to pay 
 attention to while you make your way through Media Molecule's stupendously awesome levels. The 
 time and effort required for these kinds of levels is beyond astonishing, and yet everything comes 
 together in a fused, heavenly and totally playable level.
  
  The ending is incredibly cheesy and many of the campaign's main plot points are not handled well 
 and sort of skipped but really, did anyone want LBP for the story? No, they wanted it for the multiplayer. 
 And you what? It's magnificant.
  
  Once you feel confidant enough to tackle on someone else' (or make your own) level, you begin to 
 witness just what a masterpiece MM has made. Everything you see in the campaign can be transferred 
 to your own level, so technically someone could replicate the entire single-player mode. Essentially 
 multiplayer heavily relies on the audience's imagination and riskiness, but no doubt a player will 
 always be there to make up another tremendous level.
  
  4 players can join in the one game at a time, and these instances are a hoot. Often some puzzles 
 can only be solved with a certain amount of people, and this adds to the whole replayable factor. 
 You can 'heart' a level or an author so it is easily accessed in the future. You can rate, tag 
 and comment each community level to let the authors know what you think. LBP really is a collaborative 
 effort. Authors rely on players for feedback, and players rely on authors for the actual levels.
 
  
  Making your very own level is both time-consuming and painstaking. You WILL get frustrated. A switch 
 won't work, a door won't open or a ledge will be just too far to be reachable. It will take a lot 
 of time to create a level, but the satisfaction of publishing one is astonishing. I've only made 
 one level so far, but the feedback from it has been very good and you are always encouraged to 
 continue with more levels. The amount of possibilities and opportunities given to you by the vast 
 range of tools and goodies is gobsmacking and it is quite daunting at first.
  
  Frankly, the game is full of frustrating moments. There is nothing worse than dying and having 
 to start the level again just because your Sackboy slid down a flimsy platform, or if you notice 
 a prize bubble but have absolutely no clue on how to get to it. The control scheme seems a little 
 off, too. Jumps will feel awkward, Sackboy won't react as quickly as you'd hoped and often the 
 game won't notice you'd pressed 'x' until a few seconds later, and you end going through multiple 
 options and you delete something and, and... listen, things will not go as you'd planned, okay?
 
  
  The game's licensed soundtrack is aptly happy and joyful and adds to the already fantastic mood 
 set by MM. Sound effects are quite silly and ridiculous but you never feel as though it's annoying 
 or condescending. An absolute stand-out for me was Stephen Fry's narration. His voice combined 
 with the script provides some pretty laugh-out-loud moments and he always applies the right amount 
 of intellect and wit to his tutorials. A definite plus for LBP.
  
  The lifepsan of the game rests entirely in your hands. The campaign is around 10 hours long, less 
 if you really rush. However, there are stacks of prize bubbles to collect and getting 100% will 
 certainly take double the normal time. Online is where replay value shines, though. There are hundreds 
 of levels already, and after a month upon the game's release, this number will only continue to 
 grow. 
  
  LittleBigPlanet is a game where several things collide, fuse and mish-mash together to create one 
 of the best games on the PS3, this year and even this generation: the unique and utterly charming 
 graphical style, the subtle yet fantastic animations, the hilarious voice-overs and great music 
 would form a simply great game, but it is the stunningly imaginative and creative multiplayer where 
 everything is playable, tweakable and creatable is where LBP flourishes, blooms and does all sorts 
 of plant-related actions. For this game not only ensures that gaming's future is in the player's 
 hands, it also offers a glimpse into the future of interaction: a world full of wonderment and 
 intrigue, a world of customisation and collaboration, and more importantly, a world called LittleBigPlanet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaj1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  I myself was skeptical when i brought it as i am more used to killing Nazis than platforming but 
 my skepticism soon turned to amazement and then to pure joy. Starting off with a friendly commentary 
 courtesy of Stephen Fry who told me the basics and helped find my way round. The first levels keep 
 it simple which was much appreciated as i was trying to get a grip of navigating this new world 
 and son i was swinging away happily getting distracted by the hilarious characters and laughing 
 at my sackboys expressions. The levels are clever and brilliant to play but this you see is only 
 the beginning; once online you can play other peoples levels (there are thousands) and even better 
 make your own level! After going through the tutorials i was soon able to start making my level 
 and i have spent most of my time on that so far. The amount of creativity is huge so each level 
 you make has a personal feel to it and the amount of satisfaction when someone hearts your level 
 is incredible. In short ;BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Once you start this game and hear Stephen Fry, and do the first level, you are automatically hooked. 
 And it's "Play, Create, Share" slogan. is truly the definition of the game. 
  
  The "play" part is the easiest, it only takes like 10 hours or something. But it's very fun. I 
 enjoyed playing the levels in places around the world, like China, Africa, America, Europe, Australia 
 etc. 
  
  The "create" part is, in my opinion, is the hardest. I don't really understand it. But it is pretty 
 cool that you can create levels and have other people play them.
  
  And finally the "share" part is my favorite because you can play all of the other people's levels. 
 It can also give you ideas for your own levels. I love this part.
  
  This game is one of the better games I have ever played. Oh yeah, and another thing is that this 
 game gives you trophies! I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Play: There is a story mode that come with the game and even though the levels are fun they tend 
 to be more an arena to collect items you can use when creating your own levels. If you want to 
 find it all your up for a challenge though.
  
  Create: After finishing the quite extensive tutorial you're set to go. Let your imagination flow 
 and create something great. There are some pretty fun user created levels out there. This part 
 of the game is great. Be sure to follow the rules though or you'll get moderated without notice.
 
  
  Share: After creating you are free to share your masterpiece. There are a lot of fun to find among 
 the user created content. If you can come up with a cool thing you also can share that through 
 the prize bubbles.
  
  The controls take some time to get used to. This is the part that takes away the 10-pointer and 
 even if it gets frustrating sometimes it is something you get used to after a while. The other 
 thing that is frustrating is when you play four players and is left behind. You end up outside 
 the screen and die. So, coop is the key to multiplayer success.
  
  I strongly recommend this game, it's new, it's innovating and it's pure fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akagitsune
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is a great platforming game and its core; fun, bright and vibrant. There are 
 puzzle solving elements as well as traditional  elements, 
 so it's a snap to pick up too. It has a great look and sound, as well as overall 'cuteness' factor 
 that can't be overlooked. The levels Mm made are great, and set you up for everything else in the 
 game. It *thrives* on user content, which there is a NEVER-ENDING amount of, and I am SUPER impressed 
 by the support it has on PSN. I mean stuff was up the day of/after the game came out, so that was 
 a big plus for me, I like to see that kind of support. 
  I highly reccomend this game for anyone who wants something fun to play, loves map-editing tools 
 and the like, or just has an overall creative streak/urge to make whatever they can dream up in 
 the game. Multiplayer is super fun too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Remeber when you were a kid and you'd kept drawing on your notebook in school and always wanted 
 to create your own video game. Well I guess your dreams have come for most gamers at least who 
 will finally have a chance to do that. 
  With E3 2007 just last year being a huge success and a lot of people fund this particular game 
 cute and charming. LittleBigPlanet is a world where you can be creative and let your mind go wild 
 by creating your own levels. You can also create and play your very own Sackboy/Sackgirl person 
 and play through the LittleBigPlanet world made by the developers of the game. 
  
  Gameplay= at the very start of the game you will have an introduction level welcoming you to the 
 game with basic tutorial you would have to go through. The game also has sixaxis that lets you 
 tilt the movement around your sack character by looking up, down, left right. You can use the directional 
 buttons to switch the moods of your character like up as making your character happy or the down 
 button making your character sad or a face of a smack bottom. You can have your character scared 
 and worried or you can have your character grumpy and moody. The whole game is focussed on 2D- 
 style gameplay if you have played through games through the 80's and 90's you should feel welcomed 
 by playing through a world full of creativity.
  
  Now moving on to story mode you are playing through 8 countries from around the world, first you're 
 at a Castle/Fantasy level then the next part your in India. But it can be a challenge for most 
 gamers who want to earn trophies and the hardest one would have to be completing the whole game 
 with out dying once and yes it will take a lot of practice to finish a level and collecting all 
 prize bubbles. 
  LittleBigPlanet has a few puzzle elements by placing stickers on things or playing through mini 
 games which are fun and addictive. But for most gamers who have played through games from the 80's 
 and 90's yes there's a lot of user levels that have been remade like you can play through Green 
 Hill Zone from Sonic 1 or the God of War level or even Shadow of the Colossus.
  
  Graphics and Sound= with the game being fun and addictive. You've even got Stephen Fry who does 
 most of the narration, a reprise of his role as the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and threatens 
 to steal the show. But Stephen Fry's voice mostly does the voicing for the introduction levels 
 and creating your own level which you can do when ever. 
  
  For most levels you've got a great amount of detail and a lot of imagination if you think about 
 it. You'd be wondering how many hours have they poured through creating a level. The 8 countries 
 on story mode are based on there own country like Europe Africa, Mexico, Japan, or New York. When 
 you're going through each country you can dress up your sack character to what ever outfit you 
 like or make your character ridiculous. Every week on the Playstation Network there will be outfits 
 you can buy for your character like a Chimera outfit from Resistance series or Kratos from God 
 of War.
  
  The music for the game has been well used for each theme but some tracks are repetitive but there 
 will be one or two tracks you'll like listening too and you can use the music for your own level 
 if you plan on making one. For most object and enemies you've got a lot of sound effects like a 
 music notes, animal noises or comedy voicing. 
  
  Overall= Story mode can take you up to six hours to beat or longer if you want to get everything. 
 The real challenge in LittleBigPlanet is making your own level which can take you hours to make; 
 you would have to do tutorial levels to make sure on what you're making for your level. But if 
 your one of those hardcore gamers and want to create a perfect level it will take you more then 
 hours to make a level. 
  
  You would have to play through story mode in order to get more objects which you can use to make 
 your own level. You can also play through community levels meaning you play through your friend's 
 levels and earn more objects which you can use. Online can be really fun you want to play with 
 your friends and having fun or do co-op puzzles on story which will come in handy if you want to 
 collect everything. If you have an eye camera for your PS3 you can use your photos and use them 
 as stickers and decorate your pod room making it feel like home. The only thing I found bad about 
 the game was when you're playing multiplayer with your friends the camera for the game can struggle 
 knowing where you're going to go next. 
  
  But overall this is one of those games you should seriously get if you've wanted to make your own 
 levels through out your life.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Yep, little big planet, the future of gaming. It's a must have for all families who enjoy slapping 
 each other with frying pans. Yep, It's just that good. This could put xbox in the lead of the so 
 called system wars, we'll just have to wait and see. Little Big Planet, the future of gaming indeed. 
 You can have just as much fun online as you can offline. This game allows you to create levels 
 of your own will. You can create a re-enactment of ww2 nazi camps or you can make an enchanted 
 meadow with unicorns.......... that explode. What I'm saying is, Little Big Planet, you rock my 
 world! Anyone who disagrees must have absolutely no child left i them. This game will awaken you 
 and make you feel like you're ten again. Or it could make you feel 5, if you're already 10. Just 
 plain and ordinary fun. Like my description says........... just wow! Yep, it's an instant classic 
 indeed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WASDPwned
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who purchased a PS3, Little Big Planet was on our minds. Similar to games like as Garry's 
 Mod, this title allowed you to create virtually anything you wanted and bring it to others over 
 the internet to enjoy.
  
  For the most part, that's entirely the problem with the game.
  
  For the most part, LBP is simple. You run, you jump, you grab, and you collect your way through 
 various amounts of levels to reach the end goal. Occasionally there will be a race or two, but 
 the goal generally remains the same. To keep things interesting, there's also a point system and 
 internet scoreboards for both story levels and user created content. It's a simplistic platformer 
 at heart.
  
  The other side of LBP is the level creation tools. The game urges you (after hours of tutorials 
 to unlock items and tools, of course) to go out and create your own levels using the exact tools 
 used by the game developers to create what you saw in the story mode. The possibilities are nearly 
 limitless in what you can make, and you're free to use your imagination to it's fullest extent. 
 After you're done, it's possible to publish level into the LBP Community where it can be played 
 by others.
  
  Here's where I see the game start to fall apart. For one, the simplicity; no matter how hard you 
 try the game will literally be the same thing. There's only so many actions you can do, and in 
 that respect there's only so many things you can see. Many of the online levels seldom show anything 
 absolutely unique, although there is a few that do stand out. Many of the levels I played were 
 absolute rubbish compared to what I could see in the story mode. Hell, even I couldn't seem to 
 come up with anything I felt would be worthy of publishing when anyone could hop into story mode 
 and pretty much see everything I made in a different order; the only difference between me and 
 others in the community is that I realize what I create for the most part isn't worthy of being 
 posted.
  
  One of the larger annoyances is the community itself. The easiest way to see this problem is to 
 go onto any LBP forum. There's seldom anything constructive I would expect like unique ways on 
 using tools or objects to create something awesome to help out level designers, but rather 500 
 pages of HEART MY LEVEL PLEASE or PLAY MY LEVEL. A larger exploit of this would be the comment 
 system in the game. Every level's comments, including the story ones, and completely PACKED with 
 HEART FOR HEART and PLAY MY LEVEL comments. It takes 4-5 pages sometimes just to see a real comment 
 for what people just played. It's the most annoying thing I've ever seen and I would absolutely 
 hate to be someone with a successful level only to have thousands of comments for people begging 
 for others to play there levels. Even when you sucker up and do this, their levels are atrocious 
 to the point where, once again, I'm simply moving back to the story and seeing more creativity. 
 There has been some creative levels, and the deserve being posted. I've gone so far to see makeshift 
 Guitar hero levels or even fully functional SHUMPS.
  
  Finally, the largest problem I see is that with all these tools they are never able to be used 
 to their true potential. The game forces you to see things in two dimensions, and when you desperately 
 want to move the camera and put something behind another or twist something to work the way you 
 wanted the game cuts you out. The amount of things you want to do but can't is stifling when you 
 would just wish the creators would have let you rotate the camera and put another working motor 
 bolt on the opposite side of what you are making. It's really easy to screw up, too; I've ruined 
 several hours worth of work because for some unexplainable reason I may have glued my entire level 
 together and ruined some of the more intricate contraptions I have made. There's a rewind button, 
 yes; but sometimes it's hard to pinpoint when exactly things went wrong. As for the gameplay itself, 
 the developers did try to throw in the idea of a powerup but never explored the concept further. 
 This game could have had so much potential for different concepts if they would allow people to 
 do things like pick up customizable powerups or weapons for Sackboy to pick up. The lack of what 
 you can do gameplay wise is stifling, and you will see it sooner or later.
  
  So is Little Big Planet everything we wanted? Well, in this regard; we got everything we basically 
 saw. There was no hidden surprises in what you could do; the gameplay remained rather unchanged 
 from the videos we saw two years ago. I feel there's so much wasted potential and I constantly 
 just find myself running back to Garry's Mod where I can do everything I'm missing, as well as 
 what we see in LBP today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Little big Planet is an amazing game for all ages. It's fun to play with friends, and fun to make 
 levels but it can take quite a long time to make a good one. This game has but only one limit your 
 imagination. Althought the story can be short it's still fun to keep playing the levels over and 
 over. But if you do get tired from them you can always play the community levels which are still 
 great depending the ones you choose to play. This game is for everyone who wishes to test his/her (s) 
 imagination it's really quite unique. Fixing up your own sack doll is fun too there's plenty of 
 items to choose from to make him feel just right. With multi player the game becomes even more 
 fun you get to chat with the players too. While playing along with them. Although there are some 
 glitchrs like all games have there's a restart option whcih brings you back to your checkpoint 
 instead of restarting your whole level which I find very usefull and less frustration when you 
 actually do need to restart in other games. Little big planet is a fun and cute game that I'm sure 
 any one wil enjoy whether it's young or old the fun comes from your imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I think it says volumes about my character that I refused to buy LittleBigPlanet on lauch day because 
 I heard that you couldn't actually KILL anything. I had read the reviews, where it recieved "10 
 out of 10" or "5 Stars" across the board, but I ignored them, thinking that such a game couldnt 
 appeal to me because it lacked any combat. However, when I decided to finally buy the game a few 
 days ago, I was proven wrong. 
  
  The game's story isn't exactly up to the standards of Final Fantasy or Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, 
 but it is still a cute little narrative about a world in need of a hero. As it so happens, that 
 hero is a creature known as a "sackboy", who is made out of fabric. This hero will be required 
 to run, jump, and manuever his way through the challenging single player campaign. Well, maybe 
 challenging isn't the right word. This game had its moments that I couldnt get past right away, 
 but this game really isn't overly difficult. It doesn't feel too easy, and yet it isn't ball-crushingly 
 difficult either. It's a nice balance.
  
  The player created levels are where you can find the real difficulty. They are completely dependent 
 on the player who created them, and some of the them are pretty tough. In fact, it's the player 
 created levels that give this game its so called "endless replayability." As long as there are 
 people out there creating and uploading levels, you will always have something new to do. How great 
 is that?
  
  Graphically, this game is incredibly impressive. The graphics have a level of realism to them, 
 while still maintaining an aesthetic charm. Everything in the game looks as though I could reach 
 into my TV and pick it up. It really helps the immersion factor. The levels are varied, and the 
 bosses are similarly stunning. The bosses obviously aren't your standard variety of "find their 
 weakness and then mash the attack button." Each boss will move in a different way to attack you, 
 and you will have to figure out how to avoid it. The bosses aren't overly challenging, and I never 
 had to battle a boss more than once. 
  
  The sound design is superb also. The music is amazing, varying between levels, and really immersing 
 you in the gameplay. At times its happy and cheerful, and at times its ominous and seemingly prophetic 
 of some great danger to come. It really makes you FEEL like your sackboy or sackgirl. It's quite 
 impressive actually.
  
  So at this point, you should be wondering if there is anything wrong with this game. I mean, it 
 has great gameplay, great graphics, and great sound! What could be wrong? Well, I have the unfortunate 
 task of telling you:
  
  First off, the physics engine can lead to some rather cheap deaths. It is incredibly easy to miscalculate 
 a jump by a hair, and die because of it! It really doesnt seem very fair, as you need pin-point 
 precision, and the game doesnt seem to want you to have that. In fact, pretty much every death 
 in the second to last level can be contributed to my character landing on a safe spot, but slipping 
 off into the electricity! It's not a HUGE deal, but still, it get's annoying.
  
  Furthermore, it seemed like there were some hit detection issues. At times, it seemed as though 
 I had cleared an obstacle, only to collide with it, causing me an instant death. Perhaps it was 
 my own mistake, and I am just making too much of it, but I am just relaying what I saw. 
  
  All in all, these gripes are minor when you continue the production values and longevity of this 
 game. It's fun, it's family friendly, it's addicting, and most importantly, it looks, sounds and 
 plays great. If you are looking for a good PS3 game to keep you occupied for a long period of time, 
 look no further than LittleBigPlanet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuginowarrior2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Yep, little big planet, the future of gaming. It's a must have for all families who enjoy slapping 
 each other with frying pans. Yep, It's just that good. This could put xbox in the lead of the so 
 called system wars, we'll just have to wait and see. Little Big Planet, the future of gaming indeed. 
 You can have just as much fun online as you can offline. This game allows you to create levels 
 of your own will. You can create a re-enactment of ww2 nazi camps or you can make an enchanted 
 meadow with unicorns.......... that explode. What I'm saying is, Little Big Planet, you rock my 
 world! Anyone who disagrees must have absolutely no child left i them. This game will awaken you 
 and make you feel like you're ten again. Or it could make you feel 5, if you're already 10. Just 
 plain and ordinary fun. Like my description says........... just wow! Yep, it's an instant classic 
 indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect game for almost everyone. The new Metal Gear Solid download is supurd 
 not just for the gun but the levels are enjoyable and you want to play them over and over again. 
 This games creation system is great its easy and you can great great levels in a few hours which 
 isn't long for what your making, I have made 16 levels which I play over and over again and the 
 fact that you can make your own mechanisms in the game it's brilliant aswell as the fact that sack 
 is customisable and can be moved freely with the sixaxis and the thumb sticks.
  
  iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbon-Sniper
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say, Media Molecule took a big leap when they released Little Big Planet. At first 
 glances i think most people would've passed on the look of it, but at further glances it's a thing 
 of beauty. It's a game that's proved itself to be the most innovative game of the year. With great 
 narration from Stephen Fry and the game also offers up to 4 players offline.
  
  You play as Sackboy, who can be customized with different material, Eyes, Mouth, Nose, Hair, Hats, 
 Legs, Torso, Feet, and much more.
  
  The levels are all at good length and bring challenging puzzles to the table. Although the initial 
 Story mode is quite short, you'll more than make up for it in replay value getting items you didn't 
 find in your first playthrough. 
  
  LBP also offers without doubt the best level editor any game has scene. Anything you want to make 
 you can, Planes, Cars, Complicated obstacle courses, Light saber duels. You name it.
  
  To really appreciate this game you need to have a network. Otherwise the game will just feel short 
 and less fun than what can be achieved online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guideman62
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Normally a FPS addict, I bought this game out of curosity and for a change of pace after reading 
 many rave reviews. Initially I was attracted to the idea of being able to create levels and the 
 online multiplayer aspect. Turns out this is a fantastic, fun and entertaining game not just for 
 young kids but for older folks as well. LBP has just a few minor problems but for the most part, 
 they won't detract from your overall saisfaction of the game. My little biggest gripe is that Sackboy's 
 jump is too weak. The little fellow needs to hit the gym in order to improve his jumping skills. 
 Couldn't a patch remedy this Media Molecule? Overall, the game is impressive, not to mention the 
 replayability. Definitely a top contender for game of the year this is one title that should not 
 be overlooked or underestimated. It's a classic and truly is a must buy. Try it, you'll like it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is the first game from Media Molecule and is nothing short of a Masterpiece 
 
  
  PROS: Great game for co-op! an elaborate level designer were you can make basically anything you 
 can think of, huge online community where you can enjoy other player created levels, no end to 
 the fun
  
  CONS: lack off a good single player storyline, when there is more than one player in the camera view 
 and one of them gets ahead it messes up the view a little (this is not a reason to stay away from 
 co-op!) 
  
  Little Big Planet is a superb game. you can do tons of stuff for enjoyment. The game is still amazing 
 only counting the single player, but when you add the level creater and the huge online community 
 this is a game that for no circumstance should be missed. The game is best when played with a friend. 
 If you are scared that this is some stupid kids game you are wrong, this game is fun for everyone. 
 If you don't believe me just rent and you be put under the same spell as everyone else. thanks 
 for reading and hope this helped 
  
  email: red_dawn345@yahoo. com
  
  Playstaion network: Altairian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet also known as LBP for it's biggest fans. LittleBigPlanet game but not so as you 
 would expect LittleBigPlanet's story is much too short you could probably finish the game in 5-8 
 hours. LBP story takes you too an imaginary world where all the humans dreams go and form this 
 place. There isn't really a real story but you get attached to your avatar in this world Sackboy. 
 A Sackboy is just what it sounds like, a "sack" "boy".
  
  What really shines in LittleBigPlanet is the Creative Moon a place you go to create entire game 
 sized levels. These levels can be painted with stickers you can add structures, explosives, and 
 even your own style of enemies. The AI program in LittleBigPlanet is crazy you can "Tweak" pullies, 
 winchs, springs, and the best of all enemies. You can create a variety of different enemies jumping 
 enemies, walking enemies, driving enemies, they can have eyes spikes, explosives and anything you 
 can imagine. The creative moon will give you at least 50 more hours of play. You can also upload 
 your levels to the internet and play other peoples levels.
  
  The visuals in LittleBigPlanet are great there are a lot of subtle touches that make the game even 
 better. The visual style is crisp each material has perfectly executed textures and colours and 
 the lightning, gas, and fire effects look very realistic. One of the more subtle touches are the 
 animations when your Squashed, Burnt, Poisened, or Electricuted are superb qand can be quite hilarious.
 
  
  In all LittleBigPlanet is a fabulous game and what it loses in story it doubles with it's create 
 a level system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nibustan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet, just hear the name and you'll know it's going to be a fun game. I have completed 
 the campaign and it was just plain awesome, though a littl' short. Multiplayer works all well and 
 it's fun to play with others, you can do everything you can do in singleplayer. Little Big Planet 
 has an awesome map editor, it makes you build whatever you think of. It can be a little difficult 
 sometimes but you'll learn much of it in the tutorials. It doesn't take much time to make a little 
 fun map, and then you can let others play it witch i think is perfect and fun. The worst things 
 in this game is if somebody made a map that is so ****ing hard. The forward and backwards jumping 
 can sometimes **** up and some of the coolest costumes you'll need to buy on Playstation Store. 
 But this can all be forgived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  the best way to put this is like this if you have a ps3 buy this game. or how about this buy this 
 game. no really stop reading this go to any store and buy this game. it is that good. you wil smile 
 and have happy thoughts. yes i had that same thought that game is not for me. maybe a little too 
 cute, or it's for someone a lot younger. please dont lie to your self try the game. just go to 
 the store alone no one has to know. after about one hour you'll be ready to come out and tell the 
 thruth that l. b. p might just be game of the year for the ps3. i think that it out does super mario 
 galaxy and that was game of the year not to long ago. open up your mind and let go and with this 
 game you're set free to do that. i would love to see more games that go in different directions. 
 if not all that we are going to have are the same old games. it breaks down like this car game, 
 sports game, fps, sim, action game, get the picture. so if we buy games like l. b. p companies wll 
 keep on making games like this. so dont buy l. b. p. for yourself nope buy it for all the gamers 
 who like different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet Review!!!!!!!
  
  Welcome to my Little Big Planet Review.
  
  Ive only just got the game a few hours ago and have been playing it up to know.
  
  my 1st impressions 
 is that it was a fun game to play with or without friends.
  but how long before i get bored?
  
  i havent created any of my own levels so cant quite talk 
 about online yet.
  
  For me its to easy and you really dont get any excitement unless you play with your friends.
 
  
  What saves this game i think alot aswell is the Trophies PS3 (nerd points) just got the game for 
 some easy trophies.
  
  Overall i think it was overated but still i really fun game to play.
  
  il give it more time 
 and probably with like it more.
  
  but right now i would definatley swoop it for another game. only after getting da trophies looooool.
 
  
  
  thanks for reading the review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arturocid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a jewel, stunning graphics, great characters and customization. Perfect game for all 
 ages and to be played with kids. Cooperative mode is the best ever in this kind of games. Since 
 Mario Bros. I have never found something that much fun. New generation consoles forgot about old 
 school gamers, the kind that love simplicity and have fun with it, is not necessary to have the 
 best graphics ever to enjoy a game, but in this case PS3 remember all of us, "old fashion gamers" 
 and give us a great game with the best graphics. Hope this review is helpful. xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  For all this time since the PS3 released I've dismissed it because there were no standout games 
 to me on the PS3 that I couldn't get on the 360, so I proceeded to ignore the PS3. Then I visit 
 a friend's house who has a PS3 and LBP and I played it and fell in love with this game. I don't 
 think I've laughed so hard in my life, from various times of us falling to our doom, making outrageous 
 costumes, etc... The game is a blast, especially when you play with others. So within the next 
 week I had purchased my own PS3 and LBP and love it, online is so much fun with all the user created 
 content.
  
  My only wish is that there was a more in-depth customization menu for placing stickers onto your 
 sackboy so you could really get the placements exactly right on the first try instead of repeated 
 attempts at the perfect placement. A color wheel or chart to change specific colors in a sticker 
 would be great too. Also a modifying mode would be awesome, where you could change the shape, width 
 and height of your sackboy to some degree... I want a cartman sackboy dangit! lol I made one that 
 the costume works but the sackboy being skinny just doesn't quite fit what I invisioned. I need 
 a fat lil' sackboy.
  
  But these ideas aside, it's definitely worth the purchase. Check it out.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbentonslaught
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Where should I begin, this game is fun that should be the entire review but there is a maximum 
 number of characters so I can't do that. But I will give you a review so lets cut to the chase. 
 The game all together has maybe 24 levels all very fun some frustrating and some long. The soundtrack 
 has all those songs you've never heard but still somehow end up on comercials like, "Left Bank 
 by Two" by the Noveltones. I really liked customizing my sack, person, thing with lots of choices 
 to choose from some funny some horrible some actually cool like the soviet union clothing from 
 the last few levels. But I'd have to say I liked creating your own level the most considering the 
 Internet won't work on my ps3. BUT REMEMLBER DON'T TRY TO MAKE A LEVEL WITHOUT UNLOCKING ANYTHING 
 IT WILL FAIL. So go ahead buy it, rent it, have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greensthooligan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Amazing sums this game up very nicely.
  I haven't spent days playing LitttleBig Planet just yet, but playing the story mode with my sister 
 and mates has been great, and this is the way the game should be played because there are so many 
 laughs and amazing features that can be shared. And don't worry all you experienced gamers, if 
 the friends you're playing with tend to fall behind, this matter little is LittleBig Planet.
  After you've finished the exciting story mode you might find, as I did, that you've only completed 
 about 50-60% of the game, this is because of the numerous stickers, decorations and items you have 
 to go back and collect. And the more of these items you have to greater a level you can look forward 
 to making when you feel up to it.
  So not only is the story line great, going back to beat the game 100% you find soo much more. Then 
 the online game play only offers more surprises, and then its up to all of us the continue the 
 LittleBig Planet legacy by building more amazing levels.
  Thanks Heap. 10/10 to LittleBig Planet!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_rayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect great graphics create a sackboy is great fun and creating your own 
 levels and playing over peoples is something your never get bored off.
  The game is a must get for PS3 its just diffrent but in an amazing way there are loads off tutorials 
 (that you will get board off) and mutiplayer is alot off fun but the camera might not be able to 
 keep up.
  You may be able to get through the intire story in a couple of days or less but after the first 
 three levels you get online play and your own moon to build on but as i said everything on create 
 a level needs a tutorial. But in its self this game is great buy.
  For its uniqe gameplay
  stunning graphics
  amazing freedom in the game
  the controls might need some getting yous too.
 
  watch the gamespot video review for more infomation but dont listen to the moving object thing.
 
  GOOOO! AND LET YOUR IMAGINATION BE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  LBP is like no other game out their. It's in a class of its own. I'll bet you've never even played 
 a game even similar to this one. The story is basically that all humans, when they dream, their 
 dreams go to a far off planet called little big planet. You pretty much have to save some..... don't 
 want to spoil it. The graphics really are great and when it comes to song choices for a video game, 
 they really nailed it. The game play is really, really good. You can play 4 play co-op witch a 
 blast. But the most awesome thing about the whole thing I think, is that you can customize your 
 character virtually any you want. If you don't like the costumes they give you, (witch is impossible 
 because some of them really look awesome) , you can just stamp yourself with a huge variety of different 
 paintings and colors. You can even make sacboy into Zebra. Theirs definetly a wide variety of customization 
 witch i have really come to like. You'll find yourself self spending 10-15min at one time before 
 a level just trying to figure out what would be a cool costume for the next level. Every level 
 has sort of a theme, some darker than others so it really gives the game a lot of variety. So if 
 you have a PS3 it's really a no brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet was first announced at E3 last year. It stole the show and cast out millions 
 of different reactions. One year later and that hasn't changed. The story of Little Big Planet 
 is compelling but no one will care about it. It revolves around mysteries occuring on the planet 
 where human imagination collects and the one who is up to solving these mysteries, Sackboy the 
 cute and cuddly mascot who can wear whatever clothes you want him/her to. You are given a lot of 
 control over him as the sixaxis controls his head or body and you can control his emotions with 
 the D-pad Unfortunately even though the levels have massive re-playability the story mode is quite 
 short (only 6 hours) However what everyone wants is the level-making and Little Big Planet doesn't 
 muck this up. It will take time, patience and error to make a really good level that everyone will 
 want to play so this can be time consuming which may frustrate some players. As you go through 
 the story you will need to collect all the materials you'll need to make a level. Thankfully you 
 won't be alone as the game supports up to four players online and off to help you out. A problem 
 with this is that the camera frequently struggles to keep up with everyone so this can make later 
 levels more hard. The gameplay in LBP runs on phsics, is very simple and anyone can pick it up. 
 X to jump, R1 to grab. The objective is very simple, get to the end of a level without losing all 
 of your lives. You will be doing a variety of things from solving light puzzles to riding on the 
 back of a glow dog to light your way through a level. Overall LBP is a terrifically ambitious game 
 that has the potential to go wherever users take it. Some major flaws keep it from that perfect 
 mark but if you have a PS3 or you, re a budding game designer then LBP is the real deal and one 
 of the best PS3 games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigofadown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet
  
  I don't own an xbox 360 so I rely on ps3 exclusives to be good, because then I can laugh at 360 
 exclusives.
  
  So I say ha! A resounding 'point and laugh' at 360, because it has not been blessed with the divine 
 power of Littlebigplanet.
  
  I don't enjoy reviewing games like this, because they're good. So don't expect any laughs. 
  
 
  (Except at 360 - UBERLOLZ!)
  
  Sorry, didn't mean to bang on.
  
  So LBP is a 3D platformer based in the world of..... ......
  ......
  ......
  ...... Littlebigplanet.
 
  
  Told you there were'nt any larfs.
  
  Anyway, you play as a sackperson, a small, beanbag like creature with a small body and an oversized 
 head to compensate for it.
  
  With solid online gameplay and enough unlockables to fill an area the size of a Mediterranean island 
 Littlebigplanet takes a while to get bored of.
  
  So far so good, but it gets better, an aspect which was never truly brought to platformers is the 
 ability to design your own levels, very fun. The online blows the level design so wide open it 
 makes you say "blimey..."
  
  If I had to criticise it, (which I do because you internet folk have a mental breakdown and adopt 
 the foetal position every time I dont describe a game using the word 'balls') then I would say 
 that the storyline had about as much appeal as a welly, there was no real reason to do what I did 
 in the game except for the promise that my world would be filled with love and cuddles and a creamy 
 custard centre but in the end I was fairly dissapointed. So good guy wins, bad guy wants friends, 
 good guys forget that bad guy locked them up in cages and attempted to kill you through the entire 
 game. EVERYBODY HAPPY. 
  
  
  
  One of the reasons for it being so succesful is that there are pretty much no games on the market 
 for platformers at the moment and this is what puts Littlebigplanet in a league of its own. That 
 and the fact that 360 didn't get it! (ba-dum-dum-tish)
  
  Dear 360, I would like to apologise for my hurtful and offensive comments, but chances are you 
 will probab- I've got to stop that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSorasx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most inventive, interactive, and attractive games that I have ever come 
 across. It's gameplay is just absolutely remarkable. The graphics are amazing, and the customization 
 is endless. Thumbs up to Media Molecule on this astounding game. This blows all other games right 
 out of the water. I have yet to find a video game that makes you want to play it over and over 
 and over again with no end of gameplay possibilities in sight. LBP brings fun and creativity together 
 and gives the player the opportunity to have innumerable hours of gameplay on a game that is like 
 no others. LBP is 100% ingenuous and unique. Media Molecule has outdone themselves. Bravo. Looking 
 forward to a surprise LittleBigPlanet 2. Keep up the good work ; -)
  
  
  
  
  
  Also, Sackboy/girl is by far the best character ever created. There is no end to the possible looks 
 for him/her. Just another home run by Media Molecule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danthegamer32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Forget Crash Bandicoot, Spyro the Dragon and Kratos, Sackboy is the new unofficial mascot of Sony 
 and nothing is going to shift him! There's good reason for this too, as Sackboy is one of the most 
 lovable characters to grace the PS3 since, well, ever. It's not about what he's programmed to do 
 that makes him so lovable and charming, it's the fact that you are in control of his behaviour. 
 You learn early on in the game that by pushing the different directional buttons you can change 
 his expression. The expressions available are happiness, sadness, angriness and nervousness, each 
 becoming stronger the more you press the corresponding direction. This freedom of expression leads 
 you to become attached to your fully customisable Sackboy in a way not usually found in similar 
 games.
  
  The second you load up the game, you know you're in for one heck of a treat. Simply put, the introduction 
 level is a true masterpiece, involving you jumping about a simple level while mug-shots of the 
 developers spring up in the scenery while happy music (that I'm sure you may recognise) plays in 
 the background. This level, and all of the tutorials, are narrated by Stephen Fry who fits perfectly 
 with the game's overall tone. His lines are sometimes childish, reminding you that this is indeed 
 a kids game, but the rest of it will make you forget that 7+ rating on the front of the case.
 
  
  The tutorials are not really intended for the basic principles of the game though, which is the 
 platformer staple of jumping, running and swinging. The tutorials are more focused on getting you 
 prepared for creating your own levels and items. At it's core, it's extremely simple to use with 
 most of the objects using similar set ups in how they work. For example string is applied to objects 
 in much the same way as elastic does. Things act in LittleBigPlanet the same way they would in 
 real life, so elastic stretches, rubber has good grip and foam is much lighter than metal. This 
 means that you will always have an idea of how things work. The tools used to make anything you 
 can dream of are very easy to pick up, so don't worry about that. In fact, these simple tools can 
 help you make some truly brilliant creations and complex and beautiful levels.
  
  What is all these tools without inspiration in how to use them though? Well, that's where the single-player 
 section comes into play. The story is minimal but fun and gives a good excuse to run through the 
 different themes available, get influence for your own creations and to collect things to put in 
 your levels. It is also here that you truly take in the charming graphics and presentation of the 
 whole game. It is one heck of a good looker, if a simple one. It's not going to beat MGS4 any time 
 soon in terms of graphics of course, but it looks good in its own simplistic, charming way. The 
 story mode is very short though as it will take a skilled player about 6 hours maximum to finish 
 first time through. There is plenty of replay value though as there are plenty of collectibles 
 to get that you will not have got first time through, mainly because some areas require more than 
 one player to get to the prizes. It's good fun and is a clever way to get you to play through the 
 levels again.
  
  Thanks to the online community, the fun doesn't stop there. In theory, it can last forever. So 
 long as people can think of ideas for levels, you can carry on playing levels to your heart's content. 
 Of course, not all of the levels are going to be incredible, chances are that a fair few of them 
 are going to be boring as hell. To avoid rubbish or 'rude' levels ("no naughties!" Stephen Fry 
 warns) there is a review system that you feedback through after playing a level. You are forced 
 to give a star rating (which will decide if a level is awesome and displayed near the top of the 
 list, or if it should be deleted or put at the bottom) and you are then free to tag and comment 
 on the levels. Already, after no more than a month of release, there are some truly inventive and 
 brilliant levels created by the LBP community. Some take on the styles of different games (like 
 Bioshock or Silent Hill for example) while others are built around some brilliant idea or creation. 
 
  
  The game's not flawless though. The first hurdle is that the gameplay is, ultimately, very simplistic 
 which kind of reveals it's intent as a kid's game. The second is that making a good level is extremely 
 time consuming because you will constantly test play your level to make sure everything is working 
 right, you will want to fully plan out how your level will play out etc. while it's not truly a 
 flaw, it is if you want to be a renowned LBP level creator. The last, and major flaw of the game 
 is that if you don't have a PSN account, this game is almost worthless. You won't be able to share 
 your creations with the rest of the world and you will not be able to download new costumes for 
 your Sackboy or, and most importantly, other people's creations. All you'll be left with is a short 
 story mode and a creation mode that you will only be able to share with friends and family. These 
 don't hinder the game too much though as the game is still not only one of the best games to come 
 out on the PS3, but also one of the best games of 2008 so far.
  
  TrueScore: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  What is LittleBigPlanet? It is where everything you dream about goes to another dimension and forms 
 a LittleBigPlanet. 
  
  So what is the actual game about? The platforming gameplay is quite simple, you look at the game 
 in a 2D view and next to the joysticks only really need two other buttons, the R1 to grab something 
 and X to jump. This seems quite limited but each level has three layers so that in effect you have 
 three levels stacked together. You'll for instance be able to change layer with your Sackboy to 
 collect certain objects or evade certain obstacles.
  
  In LBP you control a "Sackboy" or "Sackgirl". You can customize your Sackperson in many ways. You 
 can change the material, outfit, face, etc. to make it look exactly how you want it to. Another 
 fun thing about the Sackperson is that you can change its expression. By pressing different directions 
 with the D-Pad you can make it sad, happy, angry, or scared. Also by pressing L2, R2, or both, 
 you can swing your arms around and even slap another Sackperson. Some other small things that stood 
 out were the ability to rotate the head and body around with the Sixaxis motion control, and I 
 also noticed that while using a mic when playing with others online, your Sackpersons mouth will 
 move when the mic picks up a sound.
  
  While not the main focus of the game, LittleBigPlanet does include a story mode. You can go through 
 20 main levels, most of which are very well designed. Once you complete the story mode you'll still 
 have reason to replay the levels. You can go back to try and unlock all of the prize bubbles in 
 each level. 
  
  The story levels are fun and all, but the heart of this game is in the community levels. Everything 
 that you saw in the story mode can be created by users. Already there are tons of amazing community 
 levels up and we can only expect that more and more will be published. Words can't even be used 
 to describe some of the levels. You'll just have to experience them for yourself. 
  
  You also might be interested in trying to create your own level. Everything you need will be found 
 in the "Poppit Menu". In this menu that you call up with the help of Sackboy you'll find all gathered 
 and won materials and you can adjust these by cutting and pasting in them. But as you may have 
 guessed, creating good levels takes a lot of time, so if you want to equal the quality of the levels 
 from the story mode then you'll be occupied for several hours. Not only the intelligence of your 
 friends and enemies need to be set up but also the boobie traps and obstacles need to be pre-programmed 
 so they know how to react when a player influences them. This may seem quite complex but once you 
 get the hang of it you'll quickly start delivering quality that can match that of Media Molecule.
 
  
  Graphically LittleBigPlanet is beautiful from an artistic and technical standpoint. Everything 
 you come in counter with looks great and is very well detailed. The art style of this game is also 
 top notch. The soundtrack is also pretty good. There are lots of catchy tunes you'll be hearing 
 while playing LBP.
  
  You'll have fun playing alone, but the game is most enjoyable with friends. There's just nothing 
 like being able to explore levels with friends. While LittleBigPlanet is best with friends it has 
 some flaws with multiplayer. For starters the game is made harder when there are multiple players 
 because the camera can go a little crazy at times, and you may even be left off screen. The other 
 complaint I had was that the servers were down a lot, making it impossible to play with your friends 
 sometimes. Over the last few weeks the servers have been running a lot better though so don't let 
 that scare you from buying this game. 
  
  If you're one of the many gamers becoming tired of the typical shooter games, and you just want 
 something new, then LittleBigPlanet is exactly what you're looking for. Although it has a few flaws, 
 LBP is like nothing else you've played before. It is an amazing game that PS3 owners should not 
 miss out on.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  
  Score: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanUK78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  I didn't really believe all the hype, but I have to admit, the more I play LBP, the more I love 
 it!
  
  In my opinion, LBP is the first platform game truly worth playing on the PS3. Loving the fact that 
 you can have fun with your friends either locally, on on the internet (with camera and microphone 
 support!) . For once, this fun doesn't involve guns and horror, but beautiful, clever levels that 
 required players to work together to achieve a goal.
  
  LBP's music themes are also very pleasant, and after a few hours, the several tunes will stick 
 in your head so much so that I'm sure Sony could release an Album of the soundtracks...
  
  Sackboy is so cute you just want to watch him react to the environment and make him wear all the 
 gear you collect. My favourite expression is when sackboy (or girl) gets hurt by pricks in the 
 landscape.
  
  And if all this wasn't enough, there's the HUGE online community. So yes, the servers can be a 
 bit slow and quite frankly un-reliable, but I read on the News section of the game that MMStudios 
 are working on that.
  
  Thank you Sony for such a beautiful, addictive game that brings people together! Keep the good 
 titles coming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomama1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay is great. Its very fun and you can play online with friends what more can you ask 
 for. The story mode is awesome. The first few levels are easy but they get a harder as you progress 
 through the game. If you cant beat a level play with a friend or play with random people that are 
 online.
  
  Level Making
  The level creation is great but has a lot i mean a lot of tutorials but it is very fun to create 
 a level. There is many tools and you cant just go in the level creation and use any tool that you 
 you want. Its gay that you have to go through a tutorial just to use one tool. It really sucks, 
 but after you have done all your tutorials you are free to use any tool or gadget you want. There`s 
 many level making possibilities and there almost endless. 
  
  Add-Ons 
  There`s a few add-ons but not many. I have all of them. There good but i think this much time after 
 the release they should have more but in the future there will be more add-ons. They give yo some 
 free add-ons so that's good.
  
  Sack boy 
  He is the best thing ever. You can customize him in many ways. He is very cute in many ways and 
 his emotions are great. Media Molecule really did a great job on sack boy. 
  
  Online 
  The online isn't perfect but whose is. When i go online i sometimes experience a whole lot of lag. 
 Its so bad that i cant even return to my pod (sack boys home) . But that only happens sometimes. 
 It is really fun to play online with friends or just random people. If you cant beat a level you 
 can just invite friends in to help you or you can just join someones game. You can share your levels 
 online.
  
  Conclusion 
  This game just has you coming back for more. Great game and so much stuff to do. There`s a few 
 glitches here and there but overall its a great game. Rating 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  LBP will be played for a long time to come and remembered for it's adorable little sack people. 
 LBP is a perfect case of great idea pulled of well, extremely well. Sound and visuals are top-notch 
 and are charming beyond recognition. LBP has all the essentials of an awsome game and adds in charm 
 and adorableosity. No realy, these little sack people are sooo adorable they practicaly bleed happiness. 
 They let you customize your little sack person to your hearts content. The whole games campaign 
 was made using the same level editor you are given to make your levels, which gives you the freedom 
 to make alomost anything you can imagine. The campaign runs about 6-8 hours but is extremely re-playable, 
 and can be played online with 4 players seemlessly. And the levels that you create can be posted 
 online for others to play and review. But while the controls are great, they arn't amazing and 
 could be tighter. You will have almost endless fun with LBP, but it isn't mind-blowing. It is worth 
 purchaseing but isn't as fine tuned as is wanted. But thats ok because love and fun practicaly 
 flows from this title. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYrockinlegend
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is not like all the other games that overpopulate the PS3, or even X360, for that 
 matter. You could say it's a Wii game built for the PS3, and in a sense, it probably is, not that 
 that's a bad thing. In LittleBigPlanet, you play through a pre-selection of created levels by the 
 developers through a "story mode", picking up all the objects, stickers, decoratons, rewards, etc. 
 to later create your own complex, imaginative creations straight from your imagination! So, big 
 ups for the imagination used for this game, as thats what alot of people nowadays lack; a vivid 
 imagination. However, this game should help out with the lack of imagination put into games, and 
 with it, you can create vivid, immersive environments as well as objects and function them in any 
 way possible. 
  
  But the biggest amount of appeal comes from when you play OTHER peoples' creations online against 
 strangers or friends. The multiplayer is up to 4 players, and the mode is both competitive, yet 
 cooperative to an extent; you're all trying to complete the level without losing all your lives. 
 Yet, you're also trying to rack up the most points possible. However, this is where the main problem 
 of the game comes in- bad camera. A common problem for cooperative 3D platformers, this usually 
 makes it harder for the players to progress. But it's definitely the most enjoyable part of the 
 game! You'll all try to survive and grab the goodies first, and it can just be so funny to see 
 your fellow partners drop behind as they can die in multiple, silly ways. Another problem can be 
 lag, and this affects the servers, and the players' actions, quite abit. On the other hand, it's 
 tolerable, and doesn't make the game any less fun, though it does make it harder.
  
  Finally, no one can resist the irresistible atmosphere of this game. It's happy, bright, and cute, 
 as opposed to most games which are dark and serious. Especially the sackboy! You can customize 
 him in any which way! Make him look like what you want him to look like, and you can even customize 
 your own room's look.
  
  To add to the game are Trophies, Online Rankings and Leaderboards, and DLC from the PS Store. All 
 of these marvelous features add to the game, making it last quite a long time. Once you get sucked 
 in, it may be a few hours until you put it down, only to find yourself picking it up again when 
 you feel like experiencing it again. With all these achievements, this is one of the best PS3 games 
 to date, also most original! You DON'T want to miss out on this amazing masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeydudejp17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is one of the best games I have ever gotten the chance to play except for the masterpiece 
 called Bioshock. LBP has brought so much joy to millions of people, especially me. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone that likes fun video games. The game includes ingenious levels filled with 
 complex difficulty and mischief. Multi-player is quite fun, but the only upset for me is the usual 
 quality of the online play. It is quite slow, buggy, and a little pointless because it is impossible 
 to just walk around and do something in the level. It disappoints me greatly because that's what 
 I was greatly excited for. Hopefully the team at Media Molecule will come out with an update and 
 fix the internet connection quality soon. I really recommend this game and you should totally believe 
 the huge hype that this game is generating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anelasama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I wish you were able to choose more than one classification for this game, because i had the hardest 
 time choosing. Little Big Planet is definitely a feel-good game full of cute characters, imaginative 
 scenes, and catchy music. The 1P mode is very straightforward. I especially loved how sackboy is 
 simple --- no super powers, nothing to upgrade him, nothing to level him up, nothing. He is one 
 of the lowest maintenance characters I've encountered. Plus, he's super cute! How can you say no 
 to sackboy? I obtained his plush doll in the Elephant Temple last night and I am still squeeing 
 about it now.
  
  I have absolutely no words for the physics of this game other than I am in awe. Everything interacted 
 with each other like they should be and I love how you actually HAVE to apply the laws of physics 
 in order to get past all the levels. The only problem is that it's a bit TOO sensitive, so I kept 
 falling off all the cliffs, haha
  
  When you start interacting with people online, that's when the real fun starts. I'm sure you all 
 know about playing other people's levels and playing with other people on a certain level altogether. 
 I am more of a "play with your friends" kind of player, and I'm glad that the option is open to 
 us.
  
  
  Overall, awesome awesome game. I give it 5 stars.  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerissa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Watching the videos before LittleBigPlanet was released, I admit I was skeptical. I didn't quite 
 get the concept or even what the little sackboy/sackgirl was doing. So as months went by I decided 
 to add it to my games wishlist. To make a long story short I am happy I did. What really got me 
 interested was when I saw the "Sackboy" Financial Presentation by Sony at their Press Conference. 
 I thought that was the most unique idea ever made (LOL) . 
  
  LittleBigPlanet I think will be geared towards those players who are innovative and have a unique 
 personality themselves. Those who like to play games not only to have fun but to really understand 
 them. Maybe a future game designer, blogger, web designer, like mechanical things like robots, 
 music, and tinkering with things. Those type of people, of course this game can be played by all, 
 but those people I mentioned above will especially like playing LBP even more.
  
  I have yet to publish a level. But the story mode, customization, and platforming is incredible. 
 I love platformers, they are getting rare to find in this next-gen era so this feature was great 
 for me. I loved the whole presentation -- the cloth sack people, level design -- it seemed very 
 organic and immersive. All the user levels and customization makes it even more unique and a great 
 value money wise. Really this game can hardly be explained in a review without you going out and 
 just playing it for yourself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeXP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is going to disappoint a lot of people.
  Before I start, I'd like to point out that in my opinion the best part of this game is the creation 
 part, not the single player, not the online, but the creation.
  So before you've even read this review it's pretty easy to understand that if you don't like spending 
 huge amounts of time creating something, you will probably get bored of this game and not enjoy 
 it to the point of validating a 35 purchase.
  
  The single player is the game's weakest aspect and in an hour or two you will find yourself thinking 
 "is this a true story mode or am I just going around collecting stuff?". Unfortunately most people 
 would go for the latter, as would I.
  The story doesn't really feel like a story. Due to the game's design, there are no cutscenes, animations 
 etc. As everyone is well aware, everything you see in the story mode you can recreate yourself. 
 As interesting as this is, it does however cause the story mode to feel a bit off.
  However the true gem in this package is the game's creation.
  Once you have completed the story 
 mode and collected as many items as possible (and gained a few ideas on just what can be accomplished 
 with this game) it is time to jump in your pod and enter the My Moon.
  In My Moon you can create your own level, test them and publish them.
  
  As previously mentioned, 
 this will not be to everyone's taste.
  For those of us who like to think we have a little creative streak, then there aren't many situations 
 that compare to the feeling when you see your level come to life after countless hours of hard 
 work.
  I personally have been working for over 10hrs (accumulated) on my level, and it is only about 20% 
 complete. This should highlight the amount of time and dedication required in pulling off something 
 that others will play and enjoy.
  However I have enjoyed every moment of it. There are countless moments when I have an idea in my 
 head, but I cannot figure out how to translate it to the LBP world. Then there is great joy when 
 I finally figure something out and advance to the next part.
  
  For this alone I would say LBP is one of the best purchases this year. It is completely engrossing 
 and you will find yourself thinking about what to design next all the time! Just before you sleep 
 an idea might pop in your head and you'll quickly get up to scribble it down!
  
  If you fancy a break you can always delve into the online world and enjoy other people's creation 
 (be wary as there are many many half-hearted efforts clogging up the world!) or join a friend and 
 aim for the hiscore.
  
  I have given this game a 9.5 because I feel it great value for money and offers ALOT for a single 
 game.
  
  There are a few issues at the moment - the biggest one being the lag experienced online- but these 
 issues are not permanent so it shouldn't lower the game's score. I do hope they are fixed soon!
 
  I'd also like to see an option for moving the camera in the create mode whilst holding an object 
 - this is a huge cause of frustration!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekchic1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  March 2007, a small development company based in the United Kingdom stand up during the San Francisco 
 Game Developers Conference and announce that they have "The Next Best Thing". And truth be told... 
 they were telling the truth.
  
  Eighteen months later and Little Big Planet as it is finally to be known hits the shelves of stores 
 worldwide [albeit after a minor set-back involving the removal of an in-sensitive song] and it 
 is possible for fans to see what they have been waiting for. For those lucky enough to be included 
 within Beta Testing, a general grasp of the concept was already established and understood. Basically... 
 there is no story, or at the very least, a series of semi-linear events. But whereas in most instances 
 that would cause a problem, here it is merely overlooked. The point of this game is not to immerse 
 the participants in a lavish story, but to simply have fun, and in the end, create your very own 
 Little Big Planet!
  
  These worlds in which you are to explore, are inhabited and explored by a unique form of avatar. 
 Sackboy  if not already  is set to soon become an iconic figure in the world of videogames. These 
 sackboys are customisable through their skin, eyes, mouth, hair and clothing to the sense that 
 they can become almost anything. Stickers can even be applied to the little characters to give 
 them a completely unique feel to the player. As you progress through the game, you can collect 
 items to aid the customisation of your sackboy and truly make him [or her] your own. Through the 
 aid of downloadable content it is even possible for players to have existing PlayStation characters 
 appear within the Little Big Planet game. Current examples include Kratos from the God of War series, 
 Nariko from Heavenly Sword as well as upcoming details of Solid Snake and Sephiroth from Metal 
 Gear Solid and Final Fantasy respectively.
  
  The customisation of the sackboys [and indeed later the worlds] are done so through the "Popit" 
 menu  a system that pops out of the sackboy and allows you to alter his appearance and control 
 the world around you. The menu in itself is easy to navigate and fits in well with the overall 
 theme of the game. As you work your way through the earlier levels [and before you reach the first 
 level in fact] you are introduced to this system and educated in how to effectively use its capabilities. 
 The addition of Stephen Fry as a voice over for the narration and introductions was a nice touch 
 and for some unknown reason seems to fit perfectly. Having heard his voice in game, it seems impossible 
 to place any other voice actor in his stead.
  
  The gameplay is rather simplistic, taking players away from lavish three-dimensional worlds that 
 they have now become used to, and in many instances expect from games today, placing them in a 
 two-dimensional scrolling platform. Having said that, there is a sense of perception through three 
 tiers offering a mid-, fore- and background to each level. This can be the only snag in the games 
 playability as the transition between the three tiers can become slightly difficult to implement. 
 However, this is only a minor snag and does not greatly impede the games overall enjoyment. These 
 scrolling platforms tend to have an overall theme, with several levels within each world, all surrounding 
 a mini-story for the world's "creator". Initially, the King will offer you easy levels to help 
 you acquaint yourself with sackboy's controls and interactions with the worlds  jump, pull, push, 
 grab etc  before moving into some more complex "storylines" of the other creators.
  
  Controls are limited to what is essential [jump, pull and grab] with a simply knock on the head 
 enough to deter any enemies that should block your path. It is through this simplicity that a wider 
 audience can be accessed, as people of all ages could pick this game up and easily navigate their 
 way through the game. There are some additional quirky controls added to the game in the form of 
 control sackboy's facial expressional using the D-Pad, waving arms using a combination of the shoulder 
 buttons and analogue sticks as well as implementing the underused sixaxis controls to move the 
 head and hips of the lovable little characters. These controls may seem somewhat overkill and many 
 view them as unnecessary, but it has to be said that they add a great deal of enjoyment when playing 
 with friends and offering a pimp-slap to your companions.
  
  As you progress through the levels, the majority of obstacles involve merely jumping over objects, 
 pushing objects to reach higher places, grabbing birds to reach higher areas and in some instances 
 weights to reach lower areas. Then, there is the addition of races, where you have to launch and 
 then hold onto [for dear life] a specific object, be it a skateboard, car or rocket to work your 
 way down a course as quickly as possible. Although implemented within certain levels, these can 
 also be found within some of the mini-games that frequent the game's worlds.
  
  The only other snag to found when playing the game is the somewhat clumsy navigation system when 
 trying to select which level to play. Little Big Planet lives up to its name and sees sackboy sat 
 in his own "pod" from which he can access his very own sixaxis controller and enter the small planet 
 seen in the distance. Although small in size, the planet is large in content  thus the problem. 
 The new levels span out at all angles and when trying to work between them to reach your desired 
 goal, you may find yourself working round the houses until you reach your level. Something that 
 at this point should not have been so easily overlooked in the design of the game.
  
  The final part of the game to briefly touch down on, is the capability to download or even create 
 additional levels. Since the release of the Beta, community sites such as YouTube and MegaVideo 
 have been inundated with clips of Mario levels appearing in Little Big Planet form. There have 
 been God of War levels to celebrate the release of the Kratos sackboy as well as a Sackboy May 
 Cry  based on the Devil May Cry series. Through this ability to upload and download levels, the 
 game can in fact be never ending. It is possible for a specific user to create their own game within 
 the game and launch a new level each month. The possibilities are endless. Again, a snag lies in 
 the level creation, as the tools you require to build the levels have to be taught to you and the 
 tutorials can be somewhat mundane and unnecessary. There should be the option to turn them on or 
 off as required and leave the player to simply "play" through the level creation and create their 
 own world through trial and error. 
  
  Having said all that is here in this review, only the surface of the game's potential has been 
 scratched. Little Big Planet is a truly unique game  something that is hard to claim in the current 
 gaming climate. It is fun to play singularly or with friends and with the aid of DLC will have 
 re-play value for months, if not years to come. If you do not already own this game, then you simply 
 must add it to your collection. Many XBOX 360 users have stated that this game alone would be enough 
 to justify the PlayStation 3's price tag and with talks of a sequel already in the works, the game 
 is only set to become greater!
  
  Nic. x
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all, all sackboy can do is jump, run, grab, and make stickers.
  
  So, eventhough the levels are very well creatively, artfully, designed, all you can do is STILL...... run, 
 jump, grab..... and put stickers.
  
  High reviews are given on the point that you can make your own levels and share it online. But 
 there is problem, we are gamers.. not designers, as expected, the levels that are shared online 
 are crap, which is expected. Most of the shared levels online are the same levels you played during 
 the NES era. Some of them are even named, super mario planet, because the level designer, thought 
 that bringing back the memories of the good ol days is pretty fun. Unfortunately, people who enjoyed 
 those games before, don't enjoy them now, due to the fact that spending $$ to bring back the memories 
 is not worth it, might as well buy newer games that will bring new gameplay, graphics, sound effects.
 
  
  And no matter what complex levels you design, all sackboy can do is do the same stuff that he always 
 do... run, jump, grab... repetitve to the max.
  
  I bought all games this year, and so far.... Dead Space is the only game that I appreciated. Others? 
 Poo.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinhammey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me I thought this would be a bad game then I rented
  it and WOW sorry I cant describe it more but seriously WOW!
  This game is a guarantee a fun game 
 got some money go to the store and buy it very fun game. Anyone who does Not like this game is 
 a hobo on some
  toronto alley who wants to get a life! I thank you for reading this one final thing this game is 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 FUN THATS HOW FUN IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this because you are considering buying a PS3 with Little Big Planet for Christmas, 
 don't even bother to read any reviews (finish reading this paragraph though) . Just go out, buy 
 it and you will be satisfied and know that it was worth all that money. That's how good this game 
 is. There has never been a bigger reason to buy a console than this game. Sure, you could go out 
 and buy an Xbox with Gears of War 2 or instead of getting LBP you might choose Grand Theft Auto 
 IV, Metal Gear Solid 4 or Resistance 2 on the PS3. But, will any of those games leave you feeling 
 the satisfaction that you have actually been constructive with a video game? No. No other game 
 will leave you obsessively nurturing your creative side as Little Big Planet will.
  
  Everyone can have fun with LBP. Sackboy can run, jump and grab and along the way you improve your 
 scores by collecting score bubbles and prize bubbles. You also get points for destroying cutesy 
 looking enemies. Sackboys and girls can help each other win prizes for eachother that they wouldn't 
 be able to reach with one player, online and offline. The core gameplay is so simple yet fun that 
 you could teach it to the youngest of kids or the oldest of grannies and they could play for hours 
 on end . As for the gamers, there is the fun of the basic gameplay but there is also the opportunity 
 that no other game can give you: the ability to express yourself in the form of a 2D platform level. 
 Creating a level, however, is not as simple as you might first have thought. The level creator 
 is made as simple as possible but there are a lot of tools and, if you want to make a level you 
 want tens of thousands of people to play, you will need to use them. There are tutorials for you 
 to go through and they are very helpful but you will need to listen and make notes if you are serious. 
 Anything is possible and the sky is the limit and the level creator is genius. I won't even start 
 going through the customisable tools and goodies because this review would be as long as the Bible 
 (well, the best bits are creating a living creature, rockets and interactive switches, but that's 
 the pretty advanced stuff) , but the more you collect on story mode and the more tutorials you complete, 
 the more you will have to make your level with. Your portfolio of levels is accessible to you in 
 the 'My Moon' option on the pod menu.
  
  With each level you play you will have a choice to play it online or offline. Online mode allows 
 you to play with other Sackboys and Sackgirls around the world. The user created content online 
 can range from amazing, rubbish to stupid. Most of them are in the stupid column, where you are 
 just given loads of score bubbles or it is ridiculously messy and not thought out. However, there 
 are some online that will make you want to stay up all night and create the next massively popular 
 level. Top levels I have played include a pinball machine level, an escape from jail level, a Takeshi's 
 Castle level, a Sonic level and a Super Mario level. Luckily, a lot of the best levels have been 
 filed under 'Cool Levels' on the pod menu, so you can access them easily. Levels are not the only 
 thing customisable on Little Big Planet - you can also dress yourself and decorate your 'pod' with 
 the clothes, stickers and decorations you collect in story mode and on the Little Big Planet community 
 levels.
  
  Story mode is not the highlight of LBP as it is way too short. The levels are of the best quality 
 you can imagine with the level creator, but by the end of it you will still want more. Maybe double 
 what you have just completed would be satisfactory. Story mode starts off by teaching you the basics, 
 but the levels become bigger, harder and more imaginative along the way. You will want to collect 
 everything you can in Story mode as this is where you will get most of the clothes and raw materials 
 for your level creation. All the levels are atmospheric, and not necessarily the 'lalalalala I'm 
 so happy and the sun is smiling at me' atmosphere you were expecting of the game. But don't worry 
 - most of them are! Trophies are enabled in Little Big Planet, and I think you can collect just 
 as much in Story as you can through sharing online.
  
  The gameplay isn't revolutionary, but it is solid. The simplicity is probably what will get the 
 approval of players, not because it adds anything new. Although people call it a 2D platformer, 
 there are three layers you can shift between to get past obsticles, collect items and reach whatever 
 it is you need to reach. This shifting between layers does, however, create problems. There is 
 an automatic shift function that can be irritating and cause confusion which usually ultimately 
 ends up in you landing in a hazard if there is one anywhere near you.
  
  You may not expect it, but the visuals on LBP are great. There is a lot of detail on the materials 
 displayed around the planet - you can easily tell what you can grip on to and what you can't. Sackboy's 
 stitches are very clear, but his costumes can interfere with the surroundings. Overall, the best 
 graphics I have seen from a platformer (if you don't count Ratchet and Clank as a platformer) .
 
  
  The music on the game usually goes well with the level you are playing. Someone with common sense 
 obviously decided on the soundtrack - if it is a ninja level you will hear Japanese music, if it 
 is a haunted level you will hear spooky music and so on and so forth. The sound effects are okay, 
 some a bit too cartoony but most of it adds to the gameplay nicely. The most noticeable effects 
 are when your Sackboy gets electrocuted and when he lands on spikes and this can be hilarious for 
 the younger players.
  
  Apparently, this game is not good value for money and I will agree with that in the sense that 
 the Story mode is undeniably short but the online content will have people losing their jobs over 
 the amount of time they have spent on Little Big Planet. Overall, this game is one of my favourite 
 platform games of all time - it's up there with Crash Bandicoot 3 and Ratchet and Clank: Tools 
 of Destruction - and the sharing is what makes this game legendary. The reason I have not given 
 a perfect score is the gameplay is average and there is that one issue with the layer switching 
 (the camera was a little dodgy at times as well) , but this is not enough to overshadow the fact 
 that this is one of the best games ever made and will go down in history as a mighty gamble that 
 paid off.
  
  Add me on PSN my user name is JezKun. Check out my LBP levels (if I have any yet) and heart me! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most best PlayStation 3 games. The game really brings out the kid in you. 
 The character creation is awesome my guy has a ring master hat with a Mexican mustache and poncho 
 :P. The levels can sometimes be hard and sometimes be easy so it is really fun not to like the 
 difficulty of the game. They have online modes too of where you can go online and race people or 
 do co-op to get things that say 2 on the sign. You can also do creating which brings out your mind 
 into creating maps for you, your friends, and the world to enjoy. My most favorite thing is doing 
 the story mode on single-player or co-op. I sometimes build things. If you ever get the chance 
 to play this game, Play it XD. And if you ever have it my gametag is havok912 if you ever want 
 to play :P cya guys around Little Bit Planet!! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the funnest games you'll ever play. The character customization is deep with 
 all kinds of costumes objects and goodies to pick up. All my friends now want to get PS3 just for 
 this game, and one of them doesn't even really play games! That's how great this game is. My 4 
 year old son plays it, but most nights it's my wife and I that end up staying up till 1:00am trying 
 to beat a level. Which brings me to the storyline. The stor itself is nothing special and to tell 
 you the truth I stared skipping past most of the speech bubles that kept the story going, but story 
 mode is pretty deep. There's about 3 levels per chapters, 7-8 chapters, and a bunch of mini levels 
 in between.
  
  This game really shines in create mode. Im my opinion this is where all the fun is. You create 
 and customize you own level, post it online for others to play and rate it. There's a pretty steep 
 learning curve at creating a level, but the tuitorials fit in nicely and aren't a chore to watch 
 or listen to. I enjoy making randon object like a chair and strapping rockets to it just to watch 
 my sack-boy hold on for dear life. 
  
  The only small gripes I have (and they are minor) are that the storyline isn't interesting, the 
 online level loads are long, and you can't add custom music to you levels, u know.... like free 
 fallin by Tom Petty. Overall a great game and in my top 5 of all time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbieeeeee
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  So LittleBigPlanet (LBP) is basically a platformer. There is no other way to sugar-coat it. But 
 it is very innovative. In LBP you.... well...... there really isn't that much of a story, single 
 player wise. You take control of your character, who is called a, "sack", and with your character 
 you pretty much just travel around the world and platform your way through various levels, solving 
 puzzles and little tricks to make it through. During these levels you collect various bubbles which 
 contain different costumes, keys that open minigames, items, decorations, and stickers. These stickers 
 can be stuck onto other empty areas that are shaped like the stickers, in which trigger more bubbles 
 to show up. There are also bubbles that just help you gain points, and if you get enough consecutively 
 then you can get a multiplier bonus to increase the number of points you get. Ultimately, these 
 points will go to your online score to be compared with other people who have gotten high scores 
 on that level. 
  
  But single player is not where LBP shines. This game is great because of the online and multiplayer 
 ability. Throughout the entire game you are logged onto Playstation Online, and you can decide 
 to play with a level with another person online. And you can basically co-op the entire game with 
 the help of someone else online. In fact, the game encourages multiplayer because, in order to 
 get certain bubbles you need to work with another player, or two other players, or three. The real 
 jewel to LBP is after you acquire different items and such via these bubbles, you can go and build 
 your own level and put it online for other people to play. This all may kind of sound mediocre 
 but in reality this is very very fun. And plus, you can replay levels as much as you want because 
 after you play the whole game then, if you want to collect everything, you'll need stickers from 
 the last level to get hidden-trigger bubbles in the first level. 
  
  The graphics to LBP are beautiful and crisp but sometimes the characters get a little glitchy and 
 playing with other people online gets kind of laggishly horrible also. But, all-in-all the game 
 offers great graphics and a good soundtrack. While, the platforming and game in general is fun, 
 there are some points in which you will get extremely frustrated because, if you die a certain 
 amount of times then you have to start the whole level over again. And this, is annoying. 
  
  It seems as thought this game is being hyped because of the whole, "online level building fun 
 happiness cutie stuff." But it's really been done before and this isn't a big step for gaming. 
 But the game is fun and innovative. Is it as marvelous as everyone said? Well, if you don't have 
 two controllers or if you are not able to get online, then do not get this game. But, if you do 
 have internet and friends, then this is a must have. But, the single player alone is lack-luster 
 and will not satisfy your fun factor, as a gamer. Minus all the other things, this game is just 
 a regular platformer. Nothing TOO special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bh147
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game is unbelievable.... Okay well when I first got the game... well I was excited and yes 
 it was fun. So I found out that I would have to beat the game to be able to create GOOD levels. 
 And after a while the story got kinda boring. Although some levels are actually extremely fun. 
 But then once I watched the tutorials in makings leves (which gives you stuff) and then started 
 to make one...... WOW... so fun!!! I mean you can seriously make any thing you think of... It's 
 also like having other games in this game because you can well.... create them... I mean all I 
 can say is.. "Get this game..  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_milo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  LittleBIGPlanet is a very fun game in which anyone would have fun with! The gameplay is innovative 
 and amusing and the whole "use your imagination" concept fits perfectly with this game, multiplayer 
 or single player, you'll always get an incredible amount of pleasure from this amazing game!
  
  The gameplay is highly sophisticated and amazing. Baiscly the whole concept of the game is to 
 build to beat, you can play at highly pleasurizing levels on littleBIGplanet and get points and 
 unlock outfits, decorations and stickers to slap around the levels. OR you have a private moon where 
 you can contruct your very own levels to play with friends, online and in person!
  
  The graphics of littleBIGplanet are simply astounding in its highly dynamic gameplay package with 
 great audio to comw with it! The little sackpersons actually look like real dolls and in the levels 
 the obstacles and backgrounds, or better yet, EVERYTHING looks brilliant.
  
  The multiplayer is a blast that everyone no matter what age that person is, the littleBIGplanet 
 multiplayer allows players to play little mini games that require 2,3 or 4 people throughout each 
 level that require teamwork to unlock costumes and decorations etc... Multiplayer is littleBIGplanet 
 is something that a gamer shouldnt miss.
  
  littleBIGplanet is that great of a game that no PS3 owners should miss.
  
  This was my review 
 of littleBIGplanet, thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsnow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  - The way that everything is intertwined and flows and works together is perfect. The tagging system 
 needs to be fixed, but that's it.
  - Incredibly varied and imaginative levels.
  
  Graphics:
  
  - Pixar would be proud. The visuals are cute, clean, stylistic and simply beautiful, 
 while the art direction is absolutely top-notch.
  
  Sound:
  
  - The soundtrack is as perfect as it gets. On the editor side, there could be more specific samples, 
 but you won't be counting while playing the Story mode.
  - Excellent musical score and narration
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - The controls could be a tad tighter 
 and the plane-shifting stuff needs work, but the overall package design is simply phenomenal. The 
 editor is amazing given that it's on a console.
  - Immense customization and creativity potential
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  - There's a ton 
 to keep you coming back to the Story levels, but the user-created content will give LBP life for 
 a long, long, long time.
  - High replayability factor.
  
  ----------
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnb15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I think Little Big Planet is a great game! It's fun, very interactive and there are endless possibilities. 
 I have Garry's Mod 10 and I love it (add me my account name is Cnbecker9 and my nickname is  Cold 
 Fire  it used to be lotuselise87) . The game has a lot of things that you can do (more than LBP) . 
 
  I like Little Big Planet (my PSN ID is scorpio36) better because its just fun. You can create a 
 level and play it with your friends. You can make switches and things in a matter of hours; minutes, 
 and even seconds! You're a little Sackboy or Sackgirl going around and trying to solve these tricky 
 puzzle-type levels. The experience you will have in Little Big Planet is NOTHING compared to Garry's 
 Mod 10. Although I LOVE Garry's Mod 10. I still play it a lot but I truly love LBP. One night I 
 loved it so much that I didn't go to sleep for 1 minute! I'm 100% serious too. But, I did fall 
 asleep in the shower for about 15 minutes. I'm not lying I didn't go to sleep at all. That's how 
 much fun I was having!
  In Garry's Mod 10 there are many free things that can be downloaded. Things from a T-Rex NPC to 
 a PHX 3 pack (building items, explosive items, etc...) There's also a Dismemberment Mod and that's 
 tons of fun. If you smash somebody or shoot them, their guts will go everywhere. However, Garry's 
 Mod 10 isn't just all about killing. You can build things to your hearts desire. Garry's Mod 10 
 requires a lot more IQ to play than Little Big Planet if you want to make something complicated 
 that will impress your friends. You can create ALMOST the same things in Little Big Planet than 
 in Garry's Mod 10. But Garry's Mod 10 is more complex and requires a lot more thinking to succeed. 
 
  Little Big Planet gets so many laughs out of people. From doing the disco, to waving your arms 
 for a funny "hello" greeting, and to making facial emotions. I hope everyone tries both Garry's 
 Mod 10 and Little Big Planet. Little Big Planet has had a bigger discussion RATE than Garry's Mod 
 10 but Garry's Mod 10 has been talked about for a longer time. Happy building :D !
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  
  LBP was highly anticipated despite mostly being a 2D platformer, but delivered great gameplay in 
 different ways.
  
  At first the game might seem very easy, with very basic puzzles and platform jumping, but later things 
 speed up and it becomes more intense. There is sections you go speeding through the stage on a skateboard 
 or rocket or use a jet pack. Sometimes you need to cling to spinning wheels and let go at the right 
 time to be thrown high into the air to allow you to progress further and the timing can be very 
 delicate but not frustrating (for the most part) You can destroy most enemies by simply jumping 
 on their weak spot but some enemies are protected by spikes or electric fields and you need to 
 wait for the right opportunity, which is easy or difficult depending on the enemy. Those clowns have 
 their weak spot surrounded by spikes and some army vehicles have rotating orbs of electrical currents 
 and you have to be precise when you jump on them or it's instant death. And unlike in Super Mario 
 and Sonic, in LBP sometimes you must destroy an enemy as it blocks your passage so you can't simply 
 rely on avoiding them.
  
  The jumping obsticles also involve places where there is spikes, bottomless pits or deadly fumes 
 or lava/fire. And unlike in Super Mario and Sonic, getting hit by an enemy ONCE means instant death, although 
 the game is quite forgiving most of the time placing health restoration/checkpoints at many places 
 in levels. But still you could go through your lives very quickly towards the end.
  
  Like in Super Mario as you progress through some of the later, tougher levels, there will be spears 
 or pillars with electric currents that drop from the ceiling, or come out from underneath you or 
 in front of you, and simply making contact with them is instant death. So the delicate timing from 
 Super Mario is there, and so is the speed of Sonic as you can use skateboards, cars, rockets, mine 
 carts to race across the stage.
  
  Another feature that makes the game unique is you have countless ways you can customize the appearance 
 of your character. Whether it be sackboy's color, or dressing him in mens or womens clothing of different 
 fashions, and accessories like glasses, woman's hood, facial hair. You can even add stickers or attach 
 actual items to them such as giant fern tree leaves. You can color, or place stickers or items (such 
 as leaves or feathers) anywhere you want on each level, and on objects too. And as you travel through 
 levels you will find more stickers, accessories and items you can use to customize sackboy or the 
 environment. And there is MANY of them, and some are hidden or take alot of effort to get, which warrents 
 another playthrough after you complete the story.
  
  Another feature the gameplay has is you can create your own levels and share them with online people. And 
 the more stickers and items you collect during story mode, the more you can decorate your level 
 with.
  
  The graphics blend real world and cute, cartoony graphics well. You see photo realistic objects in 
 the levels such as bricks or the skateboard, combined with cute, handdrawn artstyle for houses and 
 characters and it looks great and colorful. The scale for objects compared to sackman is quite unique, bricks, fences 
 and skateboard look nearly as big or bigger than him. But at times the environment it suited to 
 his size. In the story the laws of physics are not supposed to exist so you end up with some weird 
 and crazy stuff but it's all good fun.
  
  The music is surprisingly great. You hear heavy rock music, the cutish style music, creepy music and 
 Asian style music for the Japanese style stage, and more intense music for military bases.
  
  I would also like to mention for the Japanese style stage, there is Japanese style buildings 
 with Ninja inside who try to sneak up from you behind shadowscreens. The boss battles aren't that 
 memorable, in fact the final boss is kinda easy, but the Oni (Japanese demon) was a bit frustrating.
 
  
  The only reason I didn't give the game a high score was the bunker stage was so frustrating as 
 you could die so easily and use up your lives quickly, then you would have to go all the way back 
 to the beginning and redo alot of hard work.
  
  But overall a great game, a breath of fresh air for side scrolling platforms and gaming in general, and 
 has set the formula for a great sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CODjon84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very very fun game.. I personally love the overall graphics and art direction of 
 the game, the graphics are beautiful and come very very close to pixar CGI quality. my one complaint 
 is it does take some time to learn how to build levels but once you finally get the hang of it, 
 its a blast!! A lot of people play online, so far the user generated levels are great and creative 
 and it will only get better over time
  
  The single player is somewhat short but each level contains so many unlockables and are so much 
 fun that you will want to keep going back and playing over and over again! Overall this game is 
 a great breath of fresh air from a shooter saturated market (although I admit i do love my shooters) 
 this game is still a must own for any PS3 owner and this game will also appeal to gamers of all 
 ages! go buy it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkkam182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  With all the story levels, online levels, and create-a-level this game will never ever get old. 
 the story mode has a variety of levels and tricks that make it addicting every time you play it. 
 the create-a-level is amazing. you can insert pictures taken from your pseye and decorate your 
 levels. you can virtually create anything in your levels with all the shapes and decorations given. 
 the story levels range from different areas and backgrounds. customization of the sackboy is great. 
 also with dlc you can get more outfits for the sackboy to spice up gameplay. playing online is 
 simple and fun but only when everyone has mics so they can talk gameplay. little big planet was 
 definitely worth the wait. in this fall's quarter little big planet, resistance 2, and call of 
 duty world at war are the games to get. little big planet may be the only action game that is amazing 
 even without guns. it is definitely a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I just sat down to write this review with the game on "pause"... the little creature keeps running 
 and running and running across the screen in such an annoying manner I had to remove the cd/dvd.
 
  
  Have you ever worked with a co-worker who maintained their personal files in the most inefficient 
 way possible? They have 17 file folders when 4 would do just as well? Well, LBP is the dream world 
 of Ms 17 file folders.
  
  Want to play somebody else's level? Well, most designers would create a simple scrollable page 
 with all the levels available... perhaps with columns that could be sorted by things such as popularity/type/date... not 
 LBP... in LBP world you need to swirl around six different planets trying to find a level... the 
 controls are garbage (I have been gaming since I was much much younger and almost tossed the controller 
 as the 18th time I went right and my little sack creature decided that I meant down (plummeting 
 to my doom of course)
  
  I wanted to like this game so much, but it's just not that interesting... take out it's cutesy exterior 
 and it's a mediocre platformer... clearly I don't get what everybody else loves... I can't trade 
 it in quickly enough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grahilah
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Amidst all the controversy and delays, I finally got a call on Friday that the game store would 
 have LittleBigPlanet available sometime Saturday afternoon. After a Saturday morning walk-through 
 of a potential new house (the first so far, very exciting) , I stopped by the shop right as it opened. 
 As we were walking up to the front door, a UPS truck pulled up, and I had a sneaking suspicion 
 that this delivery held LittleBigPlanet disks. I was not disappointed. We were the only ones in 
 the shop and got the first game out of the box.
  
  With the game, too, I was not disappointed. The game is just pure joy. Unless I'm failing miserably 
 at simple jumping puzzles, and that's my fault, isn't it? The difficulty there is just perfect, 
 making you feel like you accomplish something if you can "ace" a level and make it through without 
 losing a life. 
  
  The entire game looks like a patchwork quilt, something you can reach out and cuddle up with. It's 
 a competent platformer with novel level design and exciting action elements. The single-player 
 story is excellent and narrated by the hilarious Stephen Fry who provides excellent instruction 
 to the game's mechanical methods of world-building and avatar-dressing.
  
  The avatars themselves, the little Sackpersons, are adorable and instant marketing. They're appealing 
 to kids and adults, and the way they grin, scrunch up their faces, and explode into confetti are 
 perfect expression and hilarious to boot. You'll spend hours just trying on different outfits to 
 find the perfect suit to go galavanting through the worlds you'll play or build yourself.
  
  Speaking of world-building, the tools in this game could be the best -- and most fun! -- of 
 any creator tool I've used. The Company of Heroes builder is a great program, having spent a great 
 deal of time in it. And the Spore creators are simple and you can create adorable creations. But 
 they can hardly compare to the toolset of LittleBigPlanet. Although you can go in so many different 
 directions, the excellent tutorials provide jumping-off points and allow you to create mundane 
 and magnificent levels. I have great hope that the community is going to make memorable levels 
 that easily match what the game developers themselves have created. 
  
  I just finished my first actual level in LittleBigPlanet, and I'm pretty happy with it. It's pretty 
 much a platformer with some mechanical effects sprinkled in (I particularly like my ski lift) . 
 It's themed for the holiday season, hence the name, Holiday Planet. It's available on LittleBigPlanet 
 now!
  
  Those online components, however, are the one real flaw in the game. Things fall apart when trying 
 to find matches online, and strange lag when the game attempts to connect while you're doing simple 
 things like building in Create mode. Hopefully these online performance issues will be cleared 
 up soon.
  
  For the charm, solid gameplay, and expansive creativity of the developer's and the enablement of 
 your own, this is in the running for the best game of the year. In short, if you have a PS3, you 
 must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet, as you have seen in the 2 E3 Sony Press Conference, looks like a game that has 
 never been done before. Well, only half of it is true because the platforming do plays a little 
 too similar to the mario series.
  
  Don't get me wrong, although it is a platforming game and plays a little similar to Mario, it has 
 things which hasn't been done before, which is why i said it's only half innovative for me. Another 
 thing that seriously bugs me how much was taken away from LBP1 to make it's sequel LBP2, it appears 
 to me this might be the ultimate tools machine to make level of my own, but apparently some things 
 are missing which will only appear in LBP2.
  
  Graphics:
  Overall, it looks incredible, the background looks nice, your charactors and created items look 
 great as well. The physics of the game co-ordinates with the graphics great too. There's plenty 
 of options of clothes for your sackboy, each of them looks great and animates realistically according 
 to your movement.
  
  But here comes the bad in multiplayer, the camera angle is horrible. When you proceed faster than 
 ur friends, you friends would likely end up away from the screen and die away slowly. And for that 
 to happen you don't relli need to proceed very far. My hope is that they fix it in LBP2.
  
  Gameplay:
  Platforming is great here, you hold on to objects and jump around passing through 
 obstacles. The physics here is really good, it's very unsuspecting of a teddy bear game to have 
 realistic physics, what borns out is a game which wants you to make smart choices when designing 
 your levels.
  
  Althought plenty of tools, clothings for you to use. I felt somewhat limited in the game to what 
 u could create. One thing missing is the paint job, where is it? It's the fundamental for creation 
 of things. What MM gave you here are presets pictures, stuffs, stickers and costumes. Being under 
 development and having delayed, i was expecting more.
  
  The gameplay is very broad, from nuts, to bolts to screens to physics. Creating levels althought 
 not hard at all, unique levels only comes out from those who are really creative/talented. Most 
 of the things done is the single player component are excellent, which is why i've yet to be impressed 
 by user contents yets.
  
  When you think of the amount of advertisement put into this game, and the amount of hypes, promises, 
 you somewhat would expect more, like a paintjob which would create another millions of things. 
 Unfortunately for these types of games, there really shouldn't be a sequel, they could have make 
 LBP2 a DLC which i really doubt so since paintjob is missing and MM doesn't wants to waste a chance 
 at this money-making sequel. More could have been done but kept away, until then will LBP truely 
 shines.
  
  Audio:
  After taking out the raciest song lyrics, the game feels a little empty. Plenty of musics but no 
 songs (songs has singing) . There's a narrator talking all the while, which guides you into creating 
 things in LBP. Single player could have been better if they can add in dialogues. Not saying the 
 audio is bad but u find it a tad unpolished for the gameplay.
  
  Overall, i felt LBP could have been better, from introducing a paintjob to letting us add in dialogues 
 would make the game a lot more fun. I maybe be getting LBP2 if there's thing like what i mentioned 
 inside. Until then, i don't think i will be playing LBP again. Sure theres created contents and 
 seems like tons of replayability, fact is, i don't have the passion to play created levels not 
 as good as single player component. I would relli want to design a lvl of my own but the tools 
 are still limiting for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, it is. 
  People said it is, and it is. 
  
  Summary:
  Platformer, cute Disney type story. There's a billion things to collect. You finish a level, you 
 get new things. You finish a level without dying (called 'Ace'-ing a level) you get new things. 
 And if you collected everything in the level, MORE new things. Really fun to play dress-up... seriously. 
 It's just so creative that it's awesome.
  
  But that doesn't mean it doesn't have any flaws. 
  We'll start with cons: 
  - Dude, it's HARD. 
 You THINK this game is meant for kids, but seriously, it's hard. If you get pissed off at levels 
 cause you keep dying, you'll know what I mean. And this goes especially to those who are trying 
 to 'Ace' a level. 
  - Making a level, is WAY complicated. The tutorials hurt as much as trying to play Metal Gear Solid 
 for the first time. You get this thing called 'Information Overload'. 
  - Camera problems -- only for co-op. 
  
  Pros:
  - Graphics are amazing, the only reason this 
 is under appreciated is because it only shows things we've already seen in real life before. So 
 we don't really care about the detail on cardboard. 
  - Community online are VERY friendly. Not ALL though, so remember that. But you can get like, 4+ 
 PSN friends in the first week if you're into making PSN buddies. 
  - Community LEVELS, are the best part. Some are just a waste of your time, but the ones that they 
 REALLY spent time making, is worth like, half of what you paid for this game. 
  - Costumes are epic. 
  - Epic-ly creative. 
  
  In conclusion, LittleBigPlanet is awesome. 
 Or epic. 
  
  Add me, PSN: Deathpact 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Who thought that a 28 year old guy, playing with dolls, building play areas out of cardboard and 
 other materials would not only be perfectly fine, but fun as well?! Of course I am not sitting 
 in a closed room playing with Barbies, I am talking about Little Big Planet for the PS3.
  
  Created by Media Molecule, Little Big Planet is a big step forward in the side scrolling platformer. 
 LBP is Media Molecules first major release, and what a release it is!
  
  You are Sackboy, a small stuffed animal, if you will, that is on an adventure through a world that 
 appears to be completely self-created by using many household items. Everything from the ground 
 you walk on to the baddies, platforms hanging from little ropes, the NPC's, and even clouds and 
 other inanimate objects, this game has all the cuteness without being to coodie-filled.
  
  The environments that you adventure through are absolutely amazing. The level of detail that is 
 used will have you stopping to just check out the scenery. The kooky characters that you meet up 
 with just add to the entertainment.
  
  Multiplayer is not only offered, but necessary if you plan on completing any level at 100% (collecting 
 all collectables, getting high scores) . This is great and all, but I am not a fan of feeling like 
 I am being forced to play online to complete a game. The MP is fun to play, but there are some 
 camera issues that can cause you to die, which can be frustrating after a couple of times.
  
  The level creator is very deep. You can not only build entire levels with near endless possibilities, 
 but you can upload your levels so that other people can play them online as well. This problem 
 that I had with it was that every time I wanted to add a new part that I recently unlocked, I was 
 forced to sit through a tutorial on how to use this particular part. Once again, being forced to 
 do something mundane is not what I necessarily enjoy in gaming. I mean, figuring it all out on 
 my own is part of the fun.
  
  One thing that I enjoyed the best was the sound and music. The music ties into what region you 
 are playing in and it's all great! My favorite was the South American music. The sound is just 
 absolutely perfect!
  
  Unfortunately, not everything is perfect. I felt that the story mode was a bit short. You could 
 sit and play through it in about 5-6 hours without hunting all the items down. As I mentioned before, 
 the camera can become very annoying in MP.
  
  Other than these few minute problems, Little Big Planet is a great game for all ages, and should 
 be owned by everyone that owns a PS3. Of course, non-PS3 owners can own it too, but that would 
 not make it as fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pros:
  -Great graphics
  -Creative level designs
  -YOU CAN MAKE YOUR OWN LEVELS (but I 
 think everyone knows that)
  -So much depth/options in the level creator
  -Lots of things to collect in single player
  -Online is fun (share your game and play others)
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  Cons:
  
  -So many tutorials!!!
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  Do you have a great imagination? Then great! pour it all in to your level design! From there you 
 can test play and once satisfied, send it online so others can play it. 
  
  Want a some help first? No problem. Go the online LBP and play other people's creations either 
 on your own or with up to 4 other players!
  
  The possibilites of what kind of level you can make are ENDLESS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Young, new, creative deveolpers nailed it with their first game. i give you media molecule, hands 
 down!
  
  This game has been delayed too many times, can it still make us smile? Better question do i have 
 to write or find anything to say about this game which havent already been said!
  
  So, when i started this review i had tons to say. But now i think you have already made up your 
 mind, and u know that this game is epic, must buy for every ps3 owner!
  
  LBP is the last 10 years best game, atleast the most creative one! Yeah we have had bunch of games 
 with map editors but still its nothing compared to lbp. Theres so many things which makes u happy 
 to play this game.
  
  to new comers, we are dealing here a platform game, which means, create play and share. theres 
 story mode, online, and create your own level (aka my moon) . you can play both online and offline 
 with up to 4 players, on one screen (without split screen!!) . In story mode (which also can be 
 played online) you try to find, unlock every item saved directly to your personal menu, which is 
 called popit menu, and can be accessed by pressing square, yeah u will learne more about it at 
 the begginning of the game (in tutorial) , items are usefull for creating your own unique sackboy 
 or a sexy sackgirl! and ofcourse for creating your own level. some certain parts of the levels 
 (puzzles) can only be solved with 2 players coop or for more fun even 4 players, you will notice 
 them quickly because they are marked as 2x or 4x. : )
  
  after playing someones created level, you are asked to rate it. you can also report levels as offensive 
 and let the developers know it
  
  story mode, create your own level all are mind blowing. controls are very tight. graphics are as 
 cutting edge as it can be for platform game. everything moves as you would expect it to do. ingame 
 physics act like in reallife!
  
  
  i have a little problem with this game, The story mode levels are a little bit broken, atleast 
 the first ones. i got stuck in the middle , or between objects and ground, i was pushed somehow 
 underground., it was just silly, i could see how sackboy just layed there, and i couldnt do anything 
 exept to turn off my controller, and then back on, then my sackperson appeared on the nearest savepoint.
 
  
  but its a tiny fault as i said. and dosent really lower the score.
  
  huge problem with this game is its laggy online, forexample i play cod4, battlefield bad company 
 etc without lag, and they are not sonys exclusive games! now, this is huge problem to LBP, i think 
 online should be fixed! and then i definetly will raise the score. its a very important point for 
 this game! i waited weeks before i reviewed Little Big Planet, and still no patch, yeah there were 
 couple of ones, but nothing too spectacular. lets just hope that its very needed patch is still 
 coming.
  
  Nevertheless, Little Big planet as i said is a very spectacular game and it gives you one more 
 reason to own playstation 3. Just instant classic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jase2005
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet  A walk on the bad side
  
  Don't get me wrong, LittleBigPlanet is a great game. It exceeds where the dullness of platformer's 
 has stayed for many years. At the same time, it has some frustrating, and in my opinion, almost 
 game breaking issues. Please read this in it's entirety as it is not meant to be a rip on LittleBigPlanet 
 but an observation from someone who followed the saga of the games creation and happily purchased 
 this game the day of release.
  
  The first couple of areas in LittleBigPlanet aren't bad. They are training you for what's to come. 
 But as you get further into the game the controls become infuriating. The constant issue of jumping 
 up onto an object or platform that is beside and instead moving onto an object or platform behind 
 you is easy enough to ignore; except when the puzzles start including bombs or spikes that if you're 
 sackboy touches the wrong way (which no one really knows which way is wrong because you can stand 
 on or near them at times with no issues and others they blow or poke you) they kill and/or ruin 
 the puzzle, prompting a restart.
  
  If that isn't enough the crazy camera angles they decide to give for some areas actually make them 
 much harder than they need to be. I understand that you want to give people a challenge, or even 
 a cinematic angle, but why make something artificially harder for no real reason other than it 
 looks cool.
  
  Overall LittleBigPlanet is a blast and there is a lot of fun to be had as well lots of replayability 
 including that of co op with friends, whether local or online. I have not tried the online and 
 don't intend to. Far too many idiots out there looking to ruin someone's experience. Instead I 
 opt to play with my wife. This introduces a whole new level of frustration as the camera seems 
 to follow one person more than the other, and never consistently. Also, and this goes back to beginning 
 of my issues, the controls can cause more frustration when two people are on the screen trying 
 to cooperate on a puzzle. 
  
  Let's take for example the first of the desert levels with the bombs that need placed in the carts 
 and then moved under the bank. Taking our time and moving very deliberately (slowly) we had many 
 problems just moving ourselves into place to move the carts across the void, let alone get the 
 bombs into the carts without them blowing up. Now, I and my wife have played games for a long time 
 and tons of experience with co op gaming, but you know there is an issue when on one try you will 
 start to move a bomb down a hill and get not an inch across the screen, moving as slowly as the 
 game allows, and the bomb blows up. "No biggie, I have another life and the carts are still there 
 right." Wrong! You go back to move another, and this one gets to the cart, actually makes into 
 the second cart without blowing. You push the cart and receive it across the void and for no reason 
 whatsoever the bomb blows on its way across or as it is caught, destroying the cart, prompting 
 a start over of the level. 
  
  I'll be the first to admit that programmers can only do so much, but consistency is the one thing 
 they can do, even in a physics based game. Whether it be the bombs previously mentioned or a spinning 
 windmill requiring me to let go at the opportune time to cross a void, inconsistency can hurt a 
 game. Lucky for them (Media Molecule) they were wise to post multiple 'life holes', as I like to 
 call them, in the levels making this mostly tolerable. Usually two or three tries and you're ok. 
 But again, in co op, this can be a problem. You can time the release of the aforementioned windmill 
 and have one person cross and the other shoots straight up in the air. So you try again, and it 
 goes the other way or you both do the same thing and not fall down the void. 
  
  Bottom line is that this is a fun game and I would recommend it to most anyone, but a score higher 
 than an 8 it does not deserve. My initial reaction was as most a much higher score, but after some 
 time with the game and a chance to calm down from my initial excitement I have come back to reality 
 with my feet firmly planted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  littlebigplanet is an amazing accomplishment and a fresh dose of creativity and endless potential 
 in modern gaming. to call it revolutionary is not an overstatement. 
  
  no there's no fps levels but i'm sure RRR30000 is currently working on how to do that (he's the 
 PSN user who made the R Type level) . there's no Final Fantasy VII level but i'm sure someone with 
 enough time and creative juices will pull it off soon enough. so far i've seen user-created levels 
 based on Mirror's Edge, Tetris, Dance Dance Revolution, Guitar Hero, R Type, Shadow of the Colossus 
 and the list goes on. 
  
  LBP is a platforming game that is simple at heart but that has so much potential and depth and 
 upside that it's ridiculous. the story mode is relatively short but serves as an example of what's 
 possible for the game. the true treasure and beauty of LBP is what it allows users to create. that's 
 the real heart of this game, not it's 1player story mode. in the end this is a simple game at heart 
 that allows for you to make anything you can possibly dream of with a little time and creativity. 
 and to be able to come out with something completely fresh and new in this day and age is amazing. 
 
  
  the community features are too fun. nothing beats playing online and running around with other 
 little sackpersons and beat a level after making a new friend. and man... the game is better than 
 chocolate for most wives and girlfriends. if you want your girl to play games with you or appreciate 
 that PS3 more hand her a controller and let her take this game for a spin with you. she'll be hooked 
 in 15 minutes. guaranteed. show her how to express herself with her sackperson's facial expressions 
 and it's a wrap. she'll be asking you to order a real one for her in an hour. 
  
  i rated this game a 10 out of 10 because it's amazing, has endless potential and replayability, 
 is beautiful, ridiculously adorable and just plain fun. they swung for the fences and media molecule 
 hit a world series winning grand slam.
  
  hey... that gives me an idea... sackboy baseball... hmm... gotta get to work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TPM-Pharaoh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  There are a few problems with the camera at times during multiplayer and the search function online 
 needs a little work, but this game is solid, amazing, and easy and quick to fall in love with. 
 The story mode is a bit short, but you're going to want to go back through it to get all the prizes 
 that help you customize both Sackboy and your personal levels.
  The create mode of the game can be a little intimidating, but once you roll up your sleeves and 
 start working with it, it is time consuming, but simple enough to understand. And trust me, once 
 you put your level online and it gets its first heart... I haven't been so proud in a long time! 
 
  I haven't had this much fun with a side scrolling platformer since Super Mario Brothers or Sonic 
 the Hedgehog.
  If you own a PS3, buy Littlebigplanet as soon as possible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnycool-22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Well how can I start?
  With a sackboy? Or a Pod...
  ah , never mind!
  LITTLE BIG PLANET is the best game ever, because
  the graphics are beautiful , the gameplay is 
 simple and great , 
  the design is more beautiful , even the floor is detailed..!
  Everything you look in this game it can created...
  FROM YOU!!!
  
  GRAPHICS:10
  DESIGN:10
 
  GAMEPLAY:10
  MULTIPLAYER:10
  
  
 
  
 
  My opinion is that every ps3 gamer must have this game...
  And I just can't explain what type of game it is..!
   
 Startegy??
  Maybe it can be a new genre of game...
  However a game like this deserves to have 10 on a mark!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  So first of all, i Like the PS3, but this game is pure...... crap, sorry, but still this is MY OPPINION
 
  
  i bought the game for 70 Euros (80-90 dollars somewhere) what a rip-off, alright lets start the 
 review
  
  Graphics:
  I cant say it looks breathtaking ,i didnt say "wow" or anything, it looked plain and simple, nothing 
 interesting, just worlds made out of cardboard's.. so yea  _  graphix arent its best point, and nothing 
 looks visually impressive
  6.9/10
  
  Replay value:
  Most of you guys are gonna disagree with me, but i found the game with no replay, i dont find creating 
 and sharing levels online Any fun, find it boring actually, trophies are the only thing that is good... but 
 even trophies didnt help it, it felt simply horrible...
  6/10
  
  Story:
  meh, you just go around, collect stickers thats it, also short
  5/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Platforming 
 aint the best, puzzles are ok (especially getting stickers) but nothing interesting ever happens, theres 
 a grab move, left or right, jump, pop-it.. end
  5.9/10
  
  presentation:
  simply boring game that has no appeal, charm or any fun to me, i recommend it if you like sharing 
 levels, but its not for
  5.5/10
  
  OVERALL: 5.5
  
  i love platformers, but its borin'.....*sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musical_au
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet
  
  June last year I was introduced to a new character called Sackboy. A cute rag-doll with the ability 
 to jump, grab and pull its way through environments and interesting puzzles. I was hooked at first 
 sight and couldn't wait to play the game. 
  
  Fast-forward seventeen months, the game is finally ready to be played. Little Big Planet has three 
 components, PLAY, CREATE, SHARE. 
  
  PLAY
  
  You start off playing the Story mode, which introduces the game and your avatar Sackboy. The first 
 three levels are designed to get you accustomed to the rag-doll physics that drive the game and 
 give Little Big Planet a unique feel. Jumping can take a little while to get used to, especially 
 if you are familiar with Super Mario Bros. 
  
  The game play is your typical platformer which you can move around in 3D. This can get a little 
 confusing at first but by the time you have completed the game it comes second nature. 
  
  The games story is a little pointless, it lacks any depth but it demonstrates what you can do when 
 its time to create your masterpiece.
  
  
  CREATE
  
  The create component is what the creators Media Molecule and Sony have been pushing since they 
 announced the game. Basically you can create your own levels by using the tools that the creators 
 used to make the game. While playing through the story mode you unlock tools and stickers that 
 you can use to help make the level you like. Easier said then done, while it's not hard to make 
 things it can be a little tricky and time consuming to get it just the way you like it. It took 
 me two hours to tweak a rope to make it lift a star to another platform. I stuck with it, a little 
 patience and you start to get used to the tweaking it becomes much easier. 
  
  Just a few hours ago I finished my first level it's called Fire & Ice if you have the game or getting 
 it, please play it. 
  
  SHARE
  
  After creating your level you are encouraged to share it with the Little Big Planet community and 
 upload it to the server for all to play. The community can leave comments and rate your level.
 
  This is the aspect that appeals to me the most, playing other peoples levels is a lot of fun. 
 The game has the possibility to grow. People are creating some awesome levels, levels that are 
 not even platforming, someone designed a working calculator. 
  
  A lot of games are now focusing on multiplayer, now that online gaming is huge. Little Big Planets 
 online is a lot of fun. You can play all the levels in the game and create levels with friends 
 online and next to you at home. It allows four player co-op with some parts of the levels you need 
 more then one player to help you collect things you need for creating your levels.
  
  Online has not been very stable as the servers have been on and off in the last week. Media Molecule 
 have apologized and working to get it running smoothly.
  
  I haven't had many problems with getting online. I do get a warning saying my connection is not 
 fast but I have a feeling that's because Australian broadband is so slow (I won't go into to that) . 
 One of the problems I am having is that it tells me that someone has joined in the level but you 
 have to wait till you die or go past a checkpoint till you can play with them.
  
  There are some parts to the game that did not make it into the retail version. One of the features 
 allows you to put photos from your Playstation 3 harddrive and use them in your levels. Media Molecule 
 said they left it out because of copyright issues. The up side is that you can use the Playstation 
 camera to take photos and use them in your levels.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone that enjoys platforming and creating; don't be fooled by its cute 
 presents, it can be challenging.
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME!.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: parmsbball84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a very special game. It is very easy to pick up and play yet once u get use to the game-play 
 it gets harder. It is very enjoyable and lots of fun to play with friends. The story is not the 
 main point to be had here, but u will want to play every level until u have collected all items. 
 The point is to collect bubbles and stickers u can put on the levels to unlock more rewards. The 
 levels are unique and the beautifully made. The game can be finished in as little as 3 hours but 
 the replay and the ability to make your own levels and the vast attention to detail is a marvel 
 to experience. The game helps you along your way, u can eventually design your very own level for 
 others to play online. This game is a must play online and with friends. Get the game and enjoy 
 making your own levels playing with friends and making new ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  There are times in this game, where I was truly blown away. There were times I just didn't want 
 to play it. Most of the former were in the last two or three zones, whereas most of the latter 
 were in the remaining five or six zones. 
  
  My gripes: Do not give me a game where I, as a solo gamer, cannot get to 100% complete on a level. 
 I don't like needing to play with people. I want to play with people. I don't want to need to play 
 with people. It's too easy. It's too short. You can blow through this game in a matter of 3 hours. 
 Seriously. I know, I know.... multiplayer. I've yet to play it. I was hoping to be so immersed that 
 I wouldn't want to leave this littlebigplanet of their making before going out and seeing your 
 worlds. But I wasn't. So I'm waiting for some time til there are some great levels done out there. 
 I really wished there was going to be a load of creator zones to lose myself in, representing an 
 entire world of people's dreams but I got 7. Plus the Russian. The "great" soundtrack is a little 
 overhyped. At times it is great. At other times, it's barely noticeable. Also, why was this game 
 delayed under the specter of cultural complaints and then released being overtly racist towards 
 Mexicans? 
  
  That being said, I really loved what the game tried to be. I just didn't love the game.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I played the beta of this game, and I loved it. After getting the full game, I have really nothing 
 to complain about. LBP is just fantastic.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is all over the place. The main story has you platforming through some of 
 the most, funny, original levels Ive ever seen. The meat of this game is in the user created content 
 though. You can create a level with just about anything you want in it, and share it with the world. 
 The creator tools make it really easy to create stuff and make beautiful, original levels. 
  
  Audio/visual- Both excellent. The audio has some excellent sound effects coupled with an awesome 
 score. The visual style is very unique and works very well for the game.
  
  Value/Fun-There is almost limitless value in this game due to player created content. The story 
 will last you a good 7-10 hours, but the user created levels can be played FOREVER. This game is 
 extremely quirky and fun.
  
  Overall, if you want an excellent change of pace experience, get Little Big Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet is an unparallelled joy of escapism and purely boundless creation, that is arguably 
 the best PlayStation 3 game to be released thus far, and pushes boundaries for video game concepts. 
 LittleBigPlanet is a big, bracing, highly creative and bueatiful title, that really shows a deep 
 idea and makes the best use of it.
  
  LittleBigPlanet requires you to control an avatar (known as a Sackboy) , and either create your 
 own platforming levels, or solve puzzles within a stage. LittleBigPlanet completely takes the geometery 
 of platforming, and completely lends itself to the perception of the player, ultimately making 
 LittleBigPlanet both the most relaxing and freeing gaming experience yet.
  
  Visually, LittleBigPlanet is both highly creative, and incredibly good looking. LittleBigPlanet 
 has a strong artistic essence towards it, some of it almost being Burtonesque, but still standing 
 out as highly striking. LittleBigPlanet is a game that looks highly creative, but at the same time, 
 a game that adds to the high escapist value of LBP.
  
  LittleBigPlanet overall is a truly must have game. LittleBigPlanet is completely innovative, and 
 arguably the finest next gen game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: team-mazda3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  my first impression isthis game looks good , but its not suitable for my age, so when i was 
 in a store with my younger brother i thought why i dont check if they have it , they did , so we 
 bought it . then i played two stages in the game and i liked it , then after that i played it on 
 two players and it was even better , and i liked moving your head and arms and pulling objects 
 even other players : ) .
  
  and this is my opinion about it :
  
  graphics : superb 
  
  gameplay : superb
  
  audio : superb too , i liked the soundtracks they are really good 
 and in the right place .
  
  online : good , i liked it , but the servers are not that good right now . 
  
  the overall 
 : the game is really good , and there is just two down sides , the servers and the camera when 
 you play with more than one player , but even when the camera isn't that good , i recommand playing 
 it with at least two players , you can play it on your own but with others is alot better , and 
 after playing the game i can say its a must buy game , and you should get it .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pizzalover3000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  this game i have been waiting for a year to come out i love it it's very addicting and well worth 
 the wait the only bad is the online is kinda laggy good game all in all i really like all the costumes 
 that your sackboy can wear the levels are really nicely made with challenging puzzles and hours 
 of game-play though the controls are really difficult to master and can be so difficult at some 
 times you can't build the thing you want to build i really like the levels people are making through 
 online play it is really awsome people can be so creative i also like the prizes you can get if 
 you complete the level like a tank or a car i think thats so cool because instead of the game picking 
 your prizes its you who get to pick it, all in all like i said at the beginning this game is a 
 very good game with good graphics, good soundtrack good everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werruraz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin with this masterpeice of multimedia gold, not only do you get to run around as a 
 burlap sack but you can make your own levels!
  
  Playing the storyline that comes with this title and seeing what you can make is astounding, from 
 the simple run, jump, run, collect bubbles and win to the "Zomg it's gonna take me forever to ace 
 The Bunker" it truly boggles the mind, the only thing i'v managed to make is a wonky rocket, a 
 hovercraft that dosen't hover and a 1/3 finished tank thing, you really gotta put alot of time 
 and effort into making a level which a few people have done and pulled of some amazing levels!
 
  
  The only Problem i actualy have with this game, well "Problems" is the controls, more so in custom 
 levels, the main story line is nicley fixed up with decent pathfinding except for one or two areas 
 of certant levels, unnoticable, but the custom levels MY GOD you could jump over a flaming pit 
 and it would place you into the back plane instead of keeping you in the middle so you would fall 
 to your fiery death or you could jump over something and "slide" into a electrified wall or enemy, 
 these problems not being major and easliy avoidable can be extrmely annoying when trying to ace 
 a level or just playing with friends. my other problem is the online its so full of bugs its ridiculous 
 from not being able to create with friends to not being able to find a certain level because the 
 search function is broken, but i'm sure MM are working on a patch for this.
  
  Overall LBP is one of the best games i'v played in a long, long time, i acutaly preordered it as 
 soon as possible and have been waitng for this title for atleast 8 months, and it was definitly 
 worth the wait, heck i'v pritty much played it since launch none stop and loved every secound and 
 i'm only about half way through 100 percenting the story.
  
  To any one looking for a reason to get a PS3 this and a few other titles would be the reason, it's 
 a must have for any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevrosb74
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, okay, settle down. Time for the voice of reason. Now, far be it for me to find fault with 
 things for the sake of them, but, isn't this game (once you remove the cutesy graphics and Stephen 
 Frys voice) just another platform game? Sure you can build your own... if you can be bothered. Or 
 play someone elses (which is often a mistake as its been made by some drunk student after one too 
 many saki's and is riddled full of holes. One chap spent what must have taken a week to build one 
 only to forget that you could move the sackthing forward and backwards! What could have been an 
 interesting challenge soon become background art as you walked past the entire lot to the finish!!
 
  I suppose it's good enough for a hour before the missus drags you to the shops, but on the whole 
 it lacks any sort of longevity. Unless you like accessories, if you like accessories, boy you'll 
 love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoon_Of_Dark
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  over all i would have to say this i one of the best games every made the game is what is says a 
 game for the imagenation
  
  
  Graphics:
  graphics fit perfectly with the game type and its cartoonly feel and everything is bright and colorful 
 and easy to make out so theres not much to say about it
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  also fits well with the game type and the life system is good to but i will adment you will do 
 atlest one level over more then once but the part that makes the game as good as it is, is the 
 creation you and fully custmise your sackperson and even put stickers on you and when you make 
 a map you can build anything you can think of and put it in your map for other people to get and 
 use
  
  
  
  Controls: 
  what can i say there perfect for the game all the buttons fit with what you'd ecpect from them
 
  
  
  so i would say you should get the game its a great game thats hard to ecplane but its fully worth 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedray
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a highly fun addictive game and I do recomend it. I just have one little problem, the controls 
 are horrible. At first when I played through the controls were mediocre ,I didn't mind them too 
 much. Then I found out that the only way to unlock certain items was to beat each level without 
 dying once. Thats when the pain begins. If you attempt this feat you will find that you will die 
 very very often , especially when you're so close to the end. Some levels aren't that bad but others (japan) 
 are downright irritating. And 90 percent of your deaths will be control related. Your character 
 has a bad habit of not doing what you tell it to do at times and can be quite frustrating. But 
 the most annoying of all is the fact that your characters always seem to slide a few feet everytime 
 you jump from platform to platform. So now you have to time your jumps completely and totally perfect 
 just to not die. Not enough jump and you don't make it, too much and you will slide off the edge. 
 If it wasn't for these annoying controls i'd give the game a 9.5 or 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has a PS3 and does not have this game will not know what their missing. This is simply 
 an instant fun experience from the first time you play it and theres so much to do such as the 
 story mode which is hard yes but exciting and full of unlockables and stuff to find. Create mode 
 which is probably the main feature for this game which will have you working on for hours testing 
 your creations so that it can be uploaded online and played by other LBP players or you could simply 
 go on their levels and see what they have created and then rate it afterwards. Another cool thing 
 about LBP would have to be Stephen Fry introducing the game and guiding the player through all 
 the tutorials etc with his funny attitude etc.
  And of course the other thing which makes LBP great would have to be the Sackboys themselves with 
 the ability for the player to change face expressions and grab and slap other players in the face 
 its super fun.
  However there are a few little problems which I and many other people have noticed. 
  For starters 
 playing with 2 or more people on split screen can be annoying since the camera drags to the side 
 a lot and so its hard to see what u r doing half of the times. Not only that but create mode can 
 be annoying also when you build a huge hill for example and you may place something on it and if 
 u wished to delete the item afterwards it can usually pull the hill of the ground instead and so 
 anything which is on or connected to it will therefore get chucked of, and so u have to put it 
 all back again which wastes time. Plus if u use the same material for example too much sometimes 
 it says that the object your creating is getting too complicated which usually thats not the case 
 and u may need that certain material to finsih something your building.
  I have also noticed that some people also complain about the story length which too me is fine 
 since I haven't even finshed it yet because of its difficulty and I have been collecting as many 
 secret objects, materials etc from them which I can find as possible. But thats about it for the 
 bad points
  Overall this is a superb game and will help of the success of the PS3 there are a few bad points 
 yes but it won't lead to the games downfall in anyway and can be easily ignored and avoided if 
 careful
  Overall rating 10/10 since this was worth the hype 
  To me I would still preffer Metal Gear Solid 4 but I would recommend both to buy since their essential 
 games.
  with its brillaint gameplay, real life physics, gameplay and of course the fun you'll have every 
 second your playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson525
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  As an mmo enthusiast and a sole 3d platformer enthusiast, the sound of a 2d platformer dwindled 
 my desire for LBP. But seeing that no decent platformers were coming to the ps3 untill december, 
 i decided to try LBP. 
  
  
  Generally:
  The jumping and collecting alone will waste atleast a good 15-20 hrs of your time if you wish to 
 get everything in story mode. And even when you beat story mode, the fun does not seize. The online 
 mode ensures that you have an infinite amount of levels to choose from. 
  
  Levels:
  The music is extremely fun to listen to, they're catchy without becoming annoying and they're paced 
 very well with the mood of each levels (in story mode) . 
  In each levels there are triggers that you activate in order to progress, and depending on what 
 level you're at, the triggers can range from a horse ride to a flight in a rocket ship.
  
  Online:
  Online is incredibly fun. The people that you meet on levels can choose to follow you 
 to your crib, or in this case, pod, and there, you can chat, mess around and plan for the next 
 stage. It's basically like inviting your friends to your house, if you have cute beany bags as 
 pals. In addition, the online is about 87% lagless.
  
  Controls:
  Now this is the frustrating part. The floaty jump will bug you to the point where you will have 
 to grind your teeth and fight off the temptation to destroy your controller. However, i hear that 
 there will be a patch to correct this mistake, therefore, i allowed LBP to regain its points, or 
 else, it would have recieved an 8.5 or 9 instead of a 9.5. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Get this game! You will owe it to yourself to pick up a copy. Don't listen to anyone else, pick 
 up a copy as soon as you have the cash. This will be one of your most memorable games, I guarantee 
 it!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimtri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  In littlebigplanet people have imaginations and all those imaginations go to a planet and you go 
 off and do all these crazy missions. Let's start with the good things of littlebigplanet.
  LBG looks great. All the levels in the game have it's unique look. Every level you play looks different 
 than the level you played before. There are 8 chapters that have 3 level each but the last chapter 
 has 4. Usually in each level you find keys that unlock challenges. We are talking about 25 levels 
 and about 15-20 challenges. In each level you get bubbles that you give you points, prize bubbles 
 that give you stickers, skins for you character or costumes for your character. There are plenty 
 of costumes in the game that will make your character look really cool. 
  The sound is really great too. The game has a really great soundtrack and each piece of music mixes 
 well with each level. 
  The controls are easy to get used too. All you need is x to jump and R1 to grab things. If you 
 hold down L2 and R2 and move the analog sticks at the same time your character will move his/her 
 hands in the air. if you move your controller your character will move his/her body. If you press 
 the directional keys your character will make different faces. left= cautious right= tough up= 
 happy and down= sad. Doing this your character will be the cutest thing that you have ever seen.
 
  The creation mode is just amazing. You might think that creating a level is hard but after you 
 play the tutorial it is really easy. LBG gives a lot of objects that you can use to create your 
 level. You can publish your level and share it with the world.
  Everybody loves to get trophies and the lbg trophies are the easiest to get.
  Example: publish 
 a level, place one sticker
  I love this game
  Playing with others has never been so much fun but if you try to play something bad will happen. 
 Not that bad is that the game tends to lag a bit if you have people with you in the game, but if 
 you play online for a bit your PS3 will get used to it and you will be playing lag free. But it 
 is kinda annoying.
  Another problem with the game is that it has some minor graphic glitches.
  If you have a ps3 
 and don't own this game then you should buy it now because you wouldn't want to miss out on the 
 fun that littlebigplanet has to offer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedorowski
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing from the first level. you start off the first few levels just learning the 
 ropes but once you get far enough (20 minutes or so into the game) you start to realize the different 
 challenges in the game. and if the campaign ( if you can even call it that!?! ) you can make yur 
 own level or play some of the top levels in the world online (if you have a psn that is) . i must 
 say though making a good level takes time and patience. two things i dont have ..... o and i guess 
 some creativity as well. but all in all this game deserves a juicy 10 out of 10. all im hoping 
 is that its possible to make a Little Big Planet 2 game. there are many things that they can stil 
 improve on of course for this game. for example.... the servers.... they promised a release of stable 
 servers which i to this day am not seeing available to us. also id like to see some game modes.... 
 not just create a level or play a level, or the in game/level races, id like to see more than just 
 that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daft_Dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The Story:
  PROS:
  
  -Although not the best story line it still has its perks
  -Verry Easy to follow
  -A child of 7 can understand the concept of the story
  
  CONS:
  
 
  -Not verry in-depth
  -Could have had a bit more flavor
  ______________________
  Single Player:
  PROS:
  
  -Verry enjoyable and fun
  -Packed out with unlockables
  -Most 
 levels have a variety of diffrent challenges
  -The Front, Center and Back layers work verry well
  -Excellent music score
  
  CONS:
  
 
  -Not Verry Long
  -Sometimes easy to get stuck whilst looking for unlockables
  -Repetative on occasions
  _______________________
  Multiplayer:
  PROS:
  
  -Infinate level 
 of creativity
  -Easy to use HUD
  -Simple but powerfull editing tools
  -Verry fun to play with others
  
  CONS:
  
  -Can be verry laggy
  -And the camera dose 
 somtimes struggles
  
  ____________________
  Final Thought:
  
  Although Little Big Planet has its short singleplayer its still manges to deliver a viriety of 
 diffrent challenges and verry chatchy enviroments. Little Big Planet has its bugs that can be annoying 
 from time to time but looking past them its a very enjoyable game that i would recomend to anyone 
 looking for something new and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvsocks
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet, is weak (in comparison) . Anyone who has played Garry's Mod knows Little Big 
 Planet sucks (in comparison) . In LBP it is a side-scroller so although it is 3D it isn't. It is 
 pretty much a platformer where you can build levels. In Garry's Mod you can download a ton of mods 
 people have made (FOR FREE) which makes it very fun. LBP is fun but it would be for a person that 
 doesn't have a good computer but a PS3. LBP does have a lot of items and very nice looks and a 
 good physics engine, but you are limited by the fact it is a side-scroller. for instance in Garry's 
 Mod you can build a RollerCoast that you can ride... or send others to there doom. Which in LBP 
 a roller coaster would really just go up and down. So i give it a 7.5 i have played a lot of physic 
 games where you can create stuff (Boom Blox, Garry's mod, Armadillo Run, Line Rider, and Powder 
 Game aka Hell Sand) so this one is pretty good but not $60. Go here to see my Garry's Mod review 
 
  
  http://happystriketeam. com/forum/viewtopic. php? f=10&t=59 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing LBP I knew it was gona be a great time. The more I played I kind of 
 realized that the game is more of a tutorial of how to make your own levels. I only played the 
 first few levels but they were alot of fun. Lots of stickers and bubbles to collect, and if you 
 can find the Keys then you can unlock cool little mini-games. Like jumping over a Kings tie as 
 many times as you can, as it goes faster and faster till you fly off. The main thing about the 
 game other than the crazy levels is making your own level. Your gona have to sit threw lots of 
 tutorials to see how to do everything, but there pretty easy to follow and not to long. It will 
 take a long time tho till you can make a good level, you need to go threw lots of levels to unlock 
 stickers, which are pretty much just objects to put in your level. I think this is more of a kids 
 game, but I think most of your time will be creating crazy levels. All in all a good game that 
 is inovative but alittle childish, but I dont think thats a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manofcars
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  At first the it got annoying trying to figure out what to do in some levels but after some exploring, 
 you figure the game out quiet well. The creation mode is a bit confusing but the tutorials help 
 out with that. There are a lot of them and they take up a lot of time but they are worth it! This 
 game was worth every penny and is a great game for the whole family! So far the hardest level was 
 the Savanna but it was fun after awhile. The funnest level and the one I am currently working on 
 the City levels with Mag's the Mechanic. I love the use of 3-way switch to control the cars. This 
 is one of the best games so far next to GTA IV! Fun multiplayer and single player too! Definitly 
 worth buying! I also liked the level of creativity put into the characters themsevles. It's always 
 fun to dress up your like Sack-Boy or Sack-Girl just like you played dress-up when you were a kid! 
 This game really gets in touch with your inner imagination and brings out your creativity in ways 
 you never thought possible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game is quality.
  It turns games like rayman, sonic and mario into something completly new for platformers, IT IS 
 AMAZING. 
  When this game wasnt out i was waiting for it for about 1 year and my m8s would say i was sad for 
 liking it, even those with ps3s.
  I read just about all the reviews and bought the game the day it came out (UK) . My m8s played it 
 at mine, and they loved it that much that they bought it too. Most of the ps3 owners i know have 
 now got it.
  It is so different and unique that it doesnt need to be your type of game to like it. Im into shooters 
 yet this is now one of my best games. 
  The thing i like about the game is the fact that it is meant to be a game for creating lvls, and 
 i must admitt im not ver good at that bit ( okay im terrible) . BUT you dont have to create ONE lvl 
 at all to enjoy the game, i just play everyone elses.
  The main thing that i like about this game is that the time goes by so fast while playing it, which 
 is good if your bored. I have been tryin to create lvls (unsuccessfully apart from one, which is 
 okay) yet even for the ones that went terribly wrong, the time flew by, id be creating a lvl for 
 2 hours thinking only 10mins had gone by.
  Another good thing about the game is that if you play it with your friends, you have a right laugh. 
 What you do on your own, it will be 100x better with your friends, if youve got a headset that 
 is. Saying that it does sometimes get fustrating when you get killed because, say, someone takes 
 a rocket and leaves you behind to die. Which can be very annoying if its not your fault (you might 
 be trying to get that 'extra' object.
  But that doesnt wreck the enjoyment of playing the game because each level only lasts for about 
 3 mins so you can do the level again to get it.
  Story mode is very small but online makes the game never ending, with hundreds of levels being 
 published by people every day.
  
  Just because i said i cant make levels that doesnt mean its difficult to make them, its actually 
 extremely easy to. The tuturials are good and snapy so you wont be standing there in boredom while 
 the tuturial tells you what to do, because it is interactive and makes you do something to complete 
 it.
  My best tools are the string, pivots, fire/electric, grab switches and emitters (make things appear 
 and dissappear where you want them (great for making bosses or obstacles) and there are lots more. 
 
  
  The main problem with the game (which i hope is sorted out) is that the online often has major problems, 
 not letting you play online at all (that includes user created levels and playing with friends) 
 which of course definetly needs to be sorted out before it completely breaks, because if that happens 
 the game will be completely ruined, once story mode is complete, (which doesnt take long) . Of course 
 youll be able to make your own levels, but have noone to play them.
  
  GRAPHICS-8/10
  SOUND-9/10
  GAMEPLAY-10/10
  VALUE-10/10 (could last possibly forever)
  ONLINE-7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister_dan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  really quickly... this is, by far, the most fun i've had out of a game in a long while. initially, 
 i was unsure about buying LittleBigPlanet just because it looked purely like a children's game. 
 and as much is it really is a children's game... it seems to have grabbed the attention of the 
 more mature gamers as well just from it's uniqueness. i think the camera does let the score down 
 a little bit when you're playing with friends [hence the 9.5] but it sorts itself out when you 
 group up again. unfortunately, my wireless internet is playing up so i'm yet to go online and check 
 out the extra content, but i'm almost certain that it won't let me down. it's good fun by yourself 
 but even better played with some friends. LBP is stupidly enjoyable.
  
  if you're thinking this isn't the game for you, then i'd highly recommend renting it. if you're 
 sitting on the fence and are a bit fifty/50 about the whole thing... i say go for it. it won't 
 disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4EVGASM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  It's nice to see a turn from violent action games and intense racing of the PS3 to have something 
 as cute and fun as LittleBigPlanet, a very unique exclusive for a console game.
  
  ~Story~: Before LittleBigPlanet was released, I didn't think anything about the levels would be 
 linked at all, so I didn't expect any story. However I must say the story is a quite corny, especially 
 the end (well come on, it's LittleBigPlanet, who cares) .
  
  ~Music~: LittleBigPlanet has a lot of music which makes the levels a whole lot more fun and some 
 give you a happy feeling, which is one of the reasons of LittleBigPlanet's creation. I just wished 
 there were more options of music in the level editor.
  
  ~Gameplay~: The idea of a 3D side scroller can be annoying at times, but it gives so much more 
 expandable variety of what to do with the levels. The whole idea of the game is the same (although 
 every game is when you think about it) every scene provides a new obstacle and interesting levels 
 to play through. Even the little bonus levels are quite fun.
  
  ~Graphics~: Beautiful, rich, unique style graphics which are pleasing to look at. Everything in 
 the game is built to look like a giant machine operated diagram, which what makes the game very 
 unique. The different machines and materials look stunning when you take a close look, some looking 
 quite close to real. 
  
  ~Online~: Playing with friends can be a lot of fun, but also a bit confusing when you accidentally 
 start watching the wrong sack person, the camera is also quite irritating. When joining an online 
 game, there is a bit of lag at first, but eventually reaches back to normal speed.
  
  ~Other~: The whole idea of being able to create levels just like the makers gives creative people 
 the joy of "making there own game" for them and their friends to play. There is a lot of creative 
 options in the game, though a problem I've come across is colouring. It is very hard to get something 
 at a specific colour. For example, Want to make a purple monster? Tough luck, it has to be green. 
 I know they spent a lot of time on the create side of things, but a section, similar to Microsoft 
 Paint would have made a much better create mode, but, they did what they could, and did a great 
 job. Making your own sack person is a nice simple feature, how ever, there is no where near enough 
 choice when doing this. This may be because I haven't unlocked everything, but still, a creative 
 lovers' game should have more options to have your own unique sack person.
  
  ~Overall~: I love this game, it is a good way to spend my time a get something from it. But if 
 your a person who isn't very creative, or you don't think you'll spend about 35 hours making complex 
 levels, you should reconsider. If your not going to create your own levels, the game gets a big 
 chunk taken out. But you can still enjoy tons of levels made by other people. Another thing I'd 
 like to mention quickly if a few glitches in the create mode, such as when I erase some materials, 
 bombs that I placed earlier in the level explode for no reason, it becomes quite irritating, an 
 issue I hope they can fix in LittleBigPlanet 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  LittleBigPlanet (LBP) has been very long almost 2 or 3 years in the making. MediaMolecule (MM) has 
 done a great job matrializing this project and give to Phil Harrison to go on the project. It was 
 a success... LBP is so famous and alsmost going to be PS3 mascot for another year following and 
 may be forever like mario for Nintendo... Cut to the chase and let start the review...
  
  LBP is actually about a world created by our imagaination flow out of our brain when we were dreaming 
 or thinking. All thes idea had been collected and form LBP.. The game has divided into 3 planet 
 which is the moon, LBP and Your Planet. Lets start from the LBP, LBP is the planet where user will 
 enjoy the most, MM has done a amzing job in creating the world, it was beyond imagination, all 
 this stage are jsut the same as you are able to create in the moon, before that is advice to play 
 all the LBP stages and collect 100% because all the sticker, background, material and costume are 
 hidden all over the LBP stages. U have to look throught each and evry inch of the stages to avoid 
 any miss hidden item, some item are unlock if according to the sticker you paste on the item, each 
 stages hav hidden stickers to be found. After going 100% oaf the LBP stages is time to move to 
 the moon.....
  
  The moon is your creation world... here u are able to let your imagiantion flow.. but b4 that is 
 advice to go thorugh All the tutorial so you are able to understand each how the mechanic works 
 from spring, rod to materail. Each item has its own attribute and usage.. weven that u will able 
 to get a trophy for going through all the stages, not bad.... beside of the screen there is a thermometer, 
 the thermometer is to evaluate your world, how many items are still alow to put in to avoid overflow. 
 After creating your world you are able to upload and share with your fren and community. 
  
  The Online world will be under the LBP world which is Cool Level.. you will able to search 
 through From there you will able to see many stages all over the world and there is seem to be 
 not limit as you are able to change the world by pressing R1 or L1 to change the view. From there 
 you will able to see a number on the world, it means how many people are playing the world, other 
 than online world the MM Stages are also available to play online with your fren . Some online 
 world are amzing while some are plain s**** . By the look of it it looks like youtube.. you are 
 able to search user, comment , rate it, tag it. it really works like youtube.. 
  
  Thje third world will be your world, from there you will able to see your fren online, how many 
 people have hearted you or playing your stages. there is nothing much to say about this world...
 
  
  Lets go to the bad side... Short.. do not get me wrong, Short means the stages created by MM were 
 way to short than I expected.. It was fun but to short ,. it can be finish through 6 hours if just 
 blaze through. the fun of it it finding all the sticker but I cannot say it will extend the time 
 of playing. Other than that Jumping is another problem , MM has done good for us by doing Auto 
 Jump but sometime it doesn't function like what we want and most of the time I overshoot and DIE 
 .. It really makes me go ARGHHHHHHHHHHH.. the Creation tool are way to fun but the bad thing is 
 there must be a good physic brain to do.. U have to think the velocity how fast according to the 
 physic making doing a simple ladder mechanic will be hard... On the Online side , LAGGING will 
 be the problem, althogh they came up with the latest patch aof fixing the Online but it still seem 
 lag.. It really spoil the mood. 
  
  Total all LBP is a vwery good game if u love creating game.. But beware.. it has a limited replay 
 value . if you lazy to do a world and hope to play thorugh the main stages I warn you to look other 
 game b4 buying.. I am not trying to boycoot but just warn u all not to waste money if u lazy to 
 create a world. Most of the fun of LBP are came from the Creation. For me I love letting my imagination 
 flow.. so lets Play, Create and Share 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paleblack01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  When first hearing about this game, I thought it would be a winner just like that. Now that I have 
 it, I have been more addicted than I ever have before! The graphics are beautiful, game play is 
 fun, and the online is AMAZING! Not only is it fun to play with other people (making it better) , 
 the levels that they make are extremely fun. Creating your own levels takes time and practice, 
 but if made correctly and thoughtfully, a whole new part of the game will open up to you. The only 
 downsides are a long loading screen when you start the game, the story mode is kinda short, and 
 Warning: only get if you have good internet! It will LAG like a b****. That and the only way you 
 can play other peoples levels is by having online. Be sure to watch for the free costumes that 
 are given on the Playstation network. So, all and all, a great game start to finish (a long time) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Ok first, I got LittleBigPlanet, And started to play it. Instantly I knew I was falling in love... 
 =] Its controlls are a little stiff and annoying at times, But thats probably one of the very few 
 bad things about this game. The story mode is short, But to collect every item in every story level 
 and get 100% on each level, is the good & hard part. You get items which range from new Materials, 
 to stickers, To objects. They all can be used for various things, Like put them in your level etc. 
 The Level creation tools are fantastic! The more items you collect in the story mode, The more 
 tools you have got to work with. The online has various problems right now, But to play other peoples 
 levels, It isnt too much of a problem. The Online Co-Op is some what strange... It is easier to 
 have people on your PSN list, and play with them rather than just click Play Online and get a game, 
 Because it dosent always work. So to finish off this breif review, This game is a must buy, And 
 it has a great chance of winning Game Of The Year 2008.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Story - 7/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Multiplayer - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't understand what this game was about before buying it. The characters looked corny 
 and the game play seemed simple, not my usual genre. But I figured the wife would like it. I played 
 the two player co-op with her and got hooked. I didn't think collecting bubbles would be so fun. 
 So a couple weeks later I finish the game and have already made a couple game boards myself.
  
  Not only can you make anything you imagine but you can play other players game boards. So theoretically 
 the game will never end. So $60 for a never ending game is a pretty good bargain.
  
  This is one of those leave your brain at the door and just have fun games. The only game I can 
 compare this to is Super Mario Brothers. No matter what you like to play you will certainly enjoy 
 LBP. Don't miss out, this title will be the most popular of all the platforms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game has so many things to like about it it's almost not even funny. But there 
 is one or two bad things:
  
  
  Pro's:
  1. You can dress up in any style you like. Whatever fits your personality.
  2. There is an excuse 
 to replay the levels (because your going to want one) because there is always more objects or something 
 to be picked up.
  3. You can create your own levels and create them however you want and post them online for others 
 to enjoy.
  4. A lot of people think this is a really girly game just because of the front cover, after I beat 
 this game I started playing DEAD SPACE. basically i'm telling you this game is not girly at all.
 
  
  Con's:
  1. The story plot is not very long but it does take some time to figure some stuff out.
  
  
 
  Do not belive anybody if they say you will not like this game it is perfect for every type of gamer. 
 For proof the other games I have reveiwed are COD4 and Battlefeild Bad Co. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob_wallace
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is like no other game out there it is just so fun. When you play 4 player it just makes 
 it that much better and funnyer. The next one (Little Big Planet 2) should be as good or even better 
 but I dont really know how they can make it much better then it is right now. I also like how you 
 can make your own levels so if you got a good emagination then this game will work perfecly for 
 you. The online is also cool how you can play everyone elses levels. This game is good to ply with 
 all your friends and family and is a great party game. You will hav fun with the game at any age 
 old young it doesnt matter it will still be fun. The music in the game can be a little catchy to 
 but I will admit there are some that I dont like but I will admit there are some really good ones. 
 Well I got nothing else to say about this game except that it is amazing so im just trying to fill 
 in the review box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackey18
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  This is game is possibly one of the biggest games on the PS3, it contains 3 themes, Play, Create 
 and Share. The Play section is simple, you play through the developers levels and other peoples. 
 The Create part is where you create your own levels and play them and the share part is when you 
 publish your own levels , i think, it's slightly unclear. But the mix of these is perfect and will 
 bring endless fun, the tutorials are easy maybe slightly teadious at times but are very useful. 
 These are narrated by Stephen Fry yes you heard right Stephen Fry the british legend. Creating 
 your own levels can take time but the final product is always satisfying and publishing them and 
 whatching the number of plays and favourites contributed by other players is always fun. Alhough 
 i'm not sure how Little Big Planet chooses which levels to display you can play loads of other 
 peoples which can be really fun except for the junk some fools put up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJPasadena
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  So I'll keep this pretty snappy. Little Big Planet is a game like no other! Before I get started 
 on LBP the game, let me start off by saying the following: LBP is hands down (in my opinion anyway) 
 the first all-around "next-gen" game! Sure, there are plenty of games out there which show off 
 the power of our new consoles. Amazing graphics, sound effects, innovation, etc. But all of those 
 games cover just one or two of the qualities I just mentioned. Little Big Planet puts all of them 
 together in the same game. Just to finalize it as the 'Game of the Year', the production-levels 
 of this game are astounding. Simply amazing production value. That would explain the movie-like 
 introduction. The game is simple enough to explain... it's a  like 
 the old Super Mario Brothers, Mega Man and Sonic the Hedgehog games. "That's it!?" you ask. Yup! 
 That's it. You take the place of "sack boy" (an unofficial name I gather) which is a little creature 
 made out of burlap, who must travel the world helping different creatures out with their problems, 
 finding run away grooms, grabbing ugly dogs with a lantern tied to it's head so you can light your 
 way, finding and then pulling an ugly drunk humpty-dumpty looking dude to the end of the level, 
 etc etc. I know none of that made sense, but once you play you'll understand. Something that the 
 developers got right was the "feel" of the game. A quality which is disappearing from most games 
 nowadays (*little side-note... if you do your homework you'll come to the realization that the developers 
 who try to give their games a "feel" are the ones making the best games right now! Gears of War, 
 Bioshock, Dead Space, etc) . So what is LBP's "Feel"? The fact that you "feel" like you're playing 
 around with real life materials. Rocks look like rock, dirt looks like dirt, and wood looks like 
 wood, and-so-on-and-so-on. But the other feel of the game is the idea that you feel like you are 
 in total control... which you are btw. Look this game is great, it's a fun platformer which if you 
 think about, the fact that a group out there was able to make a simple left-right-scroll-platformer 
 on a PlayStation 3 this fun just proves that they are all masters of their craft. Wait a minute 
 though! I'm not done. There's something else to LBP... actually, I have only given you a description 
 of half of the game! Wait... didn't I just say that this was a left-to-right-scroller right? What 
 more could there be? Did I mention that it's multiplayer? Whoops I forgot, yeah it's a multiplayer 
 platformer. Buuuuuuuuut WAIT! Theeeeeeeeeres MORE! LOL. I'm saving the best for last. Besides the 
 fact that LBP is a multiplayer game, you can also get online with LBP! Not for multiplayer however, 
 no, for something much grander in scale. LBP allows you to design an entire level, from start-to-finish; 
 anything your brain thinks of you can build it and put it into the game! When I say anything you 
 want I mean it! If you want to build a contraption that moves, then by all means build it! But 
 wait... there's more! Hahahahahaha. Check this out, and this will be the end of my review (thank 
 you if you managed to read through to this point without going nuts thanks to my "writing") . Once 
 you build your level... you put it online and the rest of the world can not only play your masterpiece 
 but also rank it. Trust me when I say that this game is like nothing you've ever played before. 
 It's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  It was the little game with big ideas. A compact, cute PS3 platform game from a tiny indie studio 
 that wanted the world to muck in with its making, using level and object creation tools. But with 
 time (and not very much of it at that) , LittleBigPlanet became a very big game indeed.
  
  It took off, like one of its own rocket-propelled skateboards. It became the poster-child for a 
 new generation of gaming; commentators and Sony executives showered it in buzzwords, talking up 
 connected communities creating constellations of content, portraying LittleBigPlanet as Spore in 
 skate pants.
  
  With its homespun beauty, irrepressible charm, wild momentum and tactile physics, LittleBigPlanet 
 strongly recalls Nintendo's 1995 classic Yoshi's Island - and while it's nothing like as perfect 
 a platformer, it's enough of a compliment to say that it can stand up to the comparison at all. 
 The game's Story mode is a suite of some 20-odd levels made by Media Molecule that circumnavigate 
 LittleBigPlanet's imaginary world.
  
  The Tudor gardens of Britain; the African savannah; a haunted Tim Burton wedding in some spooky 
 alternative South America; and on through Mexican badlands, American cities, mystical interludes 
 in Japan and India, and a devious parody of a Siberian villain's lair. The conceit is that every 
 themed stop on the way is curated by a creator, a king or magician who sets the scene and the challenges, 
 the way players are later invited to themselves.
  
  It's all portrayed in the game's unforgettable visuals, a dreamlike diorama of cardboard and sponge 
 that blends the home-made aesthetic of Michel Gondry music videos with the heady surrealism and 
 humour of stop-motion children's TV from decades ago, shows like The Clangers or The Magic Roundabout. 
 The sticky-back-plastic stylisation clashes headlong with extreme realism; the rendering of light 
 sources and textured surfaces is scientifically exact, as total a realisation of high-definition 
 as you'll see anywhere in games this year. Characters, hazards and contraptions are conjured out 
 of household objects, trinkets, plain chunks of material, stickers, gears and pullies and motors 
 and joints.
  
  In keeping with the theme of conjuring fantasy from the realistic and mundane, the physics are 
 consistent but also exaggerated and slightly slowed, and the PS3's processing power taxed to the 
 point of slowdown in a couple of places by the sheer amount of bouncing, collapsing, pinwheeling 
 chaos, as well as the blistering speeds achieved in some vehicle sections. It's slapstick of the 
 highest order, and again, adding extra players just adds to the feedback-loop of fun.
  LittleBigPlanet is a great platform game. It's not a perfect one. It doesn't need to be, though, 
 because its creative tools turn it into something else entirely, a unique, hilarious, endless entertainment. 
 Even - and this is an absolutely crucial point - if you never use them.
  And the levels themselves, based on those generated by the game's beta test alone, are simply extraordinary. 
 You haven't seen anything like this in videogames before. Finely-tuned pieces of platform-game 
 design are understandably rare, and attempts to recreate others, like Super Mario Bros' first level, 
 don't even remotely work. But these are replaced by a wild creativity and anarchic humour that 
 no organised development studio could ever hope to create, and a sort of gleeful ignorance of the 
 need to have a point or be a challenge or submit to any kind of traditional concept of what a videogame 
 level should be.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkeypoo45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Little big planet is a very innovative 3D platformer. It lets you create almost about anything. 
 
  
  Story: there isnt much of a story for little big planet but just a bunch of levels with its own 
 mini-story. The levels are very well crafted and designed. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for little big planet is like a very simple easy platformer. Such as jump, grab, and 
 pull.
  Even though the controls are very simple its just plain fun. The controls for the level editor 
 can be a bit troublesome but its great all around.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for Little Big Planet are astounding. It is fantastic for a 3D platformer. 
 The physics are also amazing. There is a lot of detail on materials such as wood, cardboard, metal, 
 and even sponge. The detail in Little big planet is abundant.
  
  Lasting Appeal: Little Big Planet has so much to go back and play for more. It has a level editor/creator 
 that will keep you hooked for hours on end. Also you can play other levels that people have created 
 online in the LBP community. 
  
  Conclusion: Lbp is an amazing family fun game that will keep everyone playing for many hours. With 
 amazing 3D grpahics and very simple gamplay everyone can play lbp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burns112233
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Little Big Planet? Yes, it's a great game I'm sure many people can enjoy. 
 The idea of Little Big Planet is to offer you the opportunity to create your own levels. I love 
 the idea of being able to create my own game and Little Big Planet offers me the opportunity to 
 do so.
  
  Now whoever reads this if you are looking for a game with a deep storyline or lot's of action this 
 game is not for you. Yes, this game does have a storyline, but it is nothing of importance. The 
 main focus of Little Big Planet is for us the "gamers'" to be able to create our own levels in 
 which some player's can make a continuous storyline with his or her levels if he or she wants.
 
  
  The customization in this game is unbelievable. Players can create almost anything from cars, to 
 flame pits, clouds, trains, monster's, a giant skateboard, a plane, a haunted house, a huge castle, 
 and much, much, much more! You can also have your friend help you to create your level or levels. 
 Up to four players can play Little Big Planet the more the merrier of course.
  
  The one problem I have with this game in my opinion is that if you are looking to get started on 
 creating levels right away and want your levels to look fancy. Well you better take a seat until 
 you collect the hidden items throughout the storyline and yes hidden. Those items are used to make 
 the player's created level (s) look fancy. Well the good items of course are hard to get and some 
 even require two players! Now yes, a player can play the storyline on-line with another person 
 and can collect the item's, but sometimes finding someone to play the level that you need help 
 in is frustrating because some players don't want to help since they already completed it and will 
 rush through the level like there's no tomorrow. You are better off collecting the items with your 
 friend off-line. Although, if you are a person who does not care about making your levels look 
 fancy then I guess this does not pertain to you. 
  
  Now when not collecting the items playing on-line with players is fun. I even played some bad created 
 user levels and still had fun. Little Big Planet has some sort of charm can't say what. I'm sure 
 this is a game that everyone can enjoy, so if you're looking to get your spouse or family into 
 gaming then this should do it. I'd recommend this game to anyone, so what are you waiting for go 
 get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Since it was first announced at the 2007 Game Developer's Conference, LittleBigPlanet has become 
 Sony's poster boy for the company's next-gen offerings. Media Molecule's charming creation, Sackboy, 
 has also become Sony's first gaming mascot since the fabled days of Crash Bandicoot and Spyro The 
 Dragon. A lot of hope has been pinned on this title and thankfully it looks like the risks have 
 paid off in spades.
  
  Developer Media Molecule's motto for LBP is "Play, Create, Share" and the game itself is very clearly 
 divided into sections based on this philosophy. But before you even get this far you're treated 
 to one of the most imaginative introductions in game history. The opening credits sees you running 
 through a level as the names and photos of development staff pop up to form the obstacles and background, 
 while the legendary British comedian and intellectual, Stephen Fry, teaches you the basics of control 
 with a sublime voice over.
  
  From there you arrive in your "Pod" - a small cardboard room containing only a giant Dual Shock 
 controller. The space, like the rest of the game, is fully customisable with stickers and decorations 
 so you can cater the space to your own style. By pressing the action button near the controller 
 you can access the game's menu which is made up from 3 planets. The middle planet is LittleBigPlanet 
 itself, where you can progress through LBP's 50+ story levels. On the right is "My Moon" where 
 you create your own levels using items unlocked in the story. On the left is "Share" where you 
 can access your PSN friends list in game and play levels that other people have uploaded to the 
 LBP servers.
  
  The story mode seems to have been designed with inspiration in mind. All of the levels could be 
 built with the in-game tools available on My Moon and have been created to show players the types 
 of rich and detailed environments they could build themselves. From simple acts like riding physics-enabled 
 skateboards down a hill, the game gradually escalates in difficulty and complexity and eventually 
 reaches a conclusion offering beautiful level design, much of which seems to pay homage to the 
 first Sonic The Hedgehog game, including a boss which is very reminiscent of the "Final Zone" level 
 from Sonic Team's classic. You can also play these levels and every user-created level with 4 players, 
 locally or online.
  
  For all of this praise though, LBP is not perfect. The controls can occasionally become infuriating. 
 The jumping in particular is very floaty and the level layouts often demand a level of controlled 
 precision that is very difficult within the restraints of the controls. Add to that the strange 
 checkpoint system which gives you 5 attempts at each section and then makes you restart the whole 
 level and you have a recipe for some serious controller throwing. The other issue is that the game 
 is somewhere between 2D and 3D, meaning that, though it is a side-scroller, there are 3 plains 
 of movement which you can switch between. Most of time the game moves you between the plains when 
 it is necessary, but sometimes you will find yourself stuck behind some scenery with no option 
 but to restart the section. Online play also lags gratuitously, despite several upgrades to servers 
 since the game's launch and the camera struggles to frame the action once you have more than 2 
 players.
  
  Luckily, LittleBigPlanet's design flaws are often saved by some of the best presentation the industry 
 has ever seen. The subtle differences between materials will make you want to reach out and grab 
 them. Everything from felt to glass has been painstakingly created and also work just as you'd 
 expect in the robust physics engine. For instance, you can grab onto felt, but not metal, or slide 
 around on glass floors. The level of customisation of Sackboy is great as well. You'll collect 
 hundreds of costume pieces which can be mixed and matched to create a unique look and new costumes 
 can also be downloaded (often for a price, though many are free) from the PlayStation Store to 
 keep your wardrobe expanding.
  
  The core of LBP is the My Moon section where you can use any of the assets and tools you have collected 
 in Play to build your own objects and levels and make them as simple or as complicated as you like. 
 This mode very clearly takes its cues from Source Engine sandbox, Garry's Mod, but it has been 
 helped by the inclusion of very detailed tutorials (again voiced by Stephen Fry) , which do a great 
 job of reducing the barrier to entry. Once you've spent some time learning the various tools you 
 really are only limited by your own imagination. Or in my case, immaturity, as I spend most of 
 my time in Create mode covering my friends' carefully made masterpieces with ROFL stickers. Most 
 people though will revel in messing around with all the pulleys, switches, objects, emitters, decorations 
 and stickers. Personally though, I've had much more fun with the Share aspect of the game.
  
  In "Share," the third planet, you can search for, rate, heart and comment on levels created 
 by other inhabitants of the LBP Community. Many of the levels appearing so far are homages to other 
 classic franchises like Mario and even Mirror's Edge, or levels designed to help players unlock 
 the more difficult trophies. Sharing is what excites me most about LBP. Though I'm sure I will 
 mess around with Create, seeing what kind of crazy business the community will come up with next 
 is always going to be a great voyage into the unknown.
  
  Though LBP has its fair share of problems with lag and controls, it is redeemed by the ease of 
 use employed by the creation tools, the gorgeous presentation & sound and even Sackboy himself. 
 It's certainly a contender for game of the year and, with MGS4, is a definite reason to own a PS3. 
 If nothing else, it's a stark reminder of the days when Sony took risks and brought us memorable 
 classic franchises out of obscurity. Great credit must go to them for having the courage to do 
 so once more in an increasingly risky climate.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When i saw lbp i was so joyed to see a game that is not all blood gory and about space marines 
 fighting aliens. This is a much joyful user friendly experience that lets u create anything share 
 create rate design its all that and more find out wat i think. Okay first thing first u have single 
 player which works as basicly tuts and collecting stuff so u can use it in the level creator but 
 thats not it there is so much greatness in the levels that they created for the games themselves 
 which can get pretty crazy and funny and so this game has enough there just to be one of the best 
 just there which if u speed it can take only like 6 7 hours to complete but to get everything in 
 this joyful experience it would take close 2 20 hours which is very well designed andeven more 
 to do. The graphics in the game have a unique style and are very well designed and are meant to 
 be anything through yer imagination so it can basicly look like anything it has very good graphics 
 in the game. The sound is very joyful and well designed as u leap and platform through the game 
 leaping across every area with a smile on yer face is great not mention its pretty funny too. Other 
 than that the plat forming is great never had any problems with it runs through whathappens in 
 the levels which is great. Now the level creator is great which u can pci k stuff through basicly 
 what i would call a pocket which u can use to create anything bascly one yer done the lvels u can 
 publish them and share them from people to people or even import other peoles levels and play them. 
 In all littlebigplanet is probaly one of the best games of the year and a great exclusive for the 
 ps3 hope more games like lbp come out for the ps3 in all i highly recommend this game and everyone 
 should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltzila
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet aside from being one of the most innovative games to come is also just pure fun. 
 There really isn't much of a way to describe it other than that.
  Now before I go off and start sounding like a fan-boy, I will have you know that I looked, really 
 looked, to try to find some thing to hate about LBP. But I can find no fault, no crack, no speck 
 of dirt with which I can pick up with my tweezer and magnifying glass and shout "AH!" The only 
 thing that comes remotely close to it is a complaint that I keep hearing from a number of online 
 forums that the story mode is too short. But this is supposed to be a game about your CREATION 
 of levels, so why would the designers go to the trouble of making a lengthy story mode?
  Anyway LBP provides you with a ton of creation gadgets an materials to overwhelm you and keep you 
 occupied until the second coming of christ or what ever end of the world scenario you believe in. 
 Its almost like LBP is a horrible, yet wealthy, father trying to buy our love and thus comes home 
 one day driving a dump truck full of toys. 
  The materials range from things like cardboard, wood, metal, sponge, glass, ect. There are also 
 a number of pre-made items, stickers, and costumes for your sack person that can all be found in 
 the story mode. Aside from that there are four different areas you can visit the story mode, the 
 design planet; The cool levels, which are levels posted on the sharing network by other people. 
 And finally there is the news planet which updates you on all the relevant news to LBP, such as 
 what new levels have been made, your status, and some general post buy other people. 
  Now for those of you still reading this to you I say both bravo and shame on you. Bravo for not 
 being one of those twitchy freaks that feeds on hype and probably would jump of a building if you 
 showed them enough high definition adds for it. But shame on you for not going out an immediately 
 buying Little Big Planet. I challenge anyone to play this game and not have fun with it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Ok Ill try to skip what you've already read and seen, and focus on just what you dont see and probably 
 havent read that makes LBP so mind bogglingly remarkable.
  
  Just imagine if you could take all the complexities of programming, and especially programming 
 3D gameworlds with realistic physics, and put a graphical user interface on every function of a 
 line of code required to create those worlds by easily cut and paste bits of code together in the 
 form of modeled shapes, icons, and sliders within a virtual 3D space (including the graphical tools 
 to customize and shape all these models)
  
  Your pretty much opening the world or programming to people with simply the logic to understand 
 visually how things fit together, like expert LEGOS! Myspace essentially opened up the world of 
 web design to every normal person allowing anyone to easily learn and grasp formally very complex 
 and advanced HTML concepts simply by just cut and pasting from other peoples code and learning 
 through a shared community. LBP does this for gaming and game design. It teaches a whole new understanding 
 of (How stuff works) and part of the fun in playing is learning how someone else figured out how 
 to do that and the mechanics behind it. LBP teaches as you play it, it teaches you a whole new 
 world of game design in ways that many people never grasped or felt capable of doing before. Its 
 pretty hard to describe how the knowledge sinks in Enlightens players. You dont get this experience 
 from seeing just videos of the game and reading any of the reviews I've seen before.
  
  Also the entire design framwork is happening in a lifelike mostly 3D virtual space in real time. 
 And with a patch soon other players will be able to be realtime with you in your design space using 
 their own Sackboys building with you. Because your sackboys are like your Avatars for everything, 
 including playing the games people make, they are kinda your puppets to build the world through 
 also. Thus you are playing while your building and everything is reacting to you like it would 
 in the actual game, although you get some magic Omniscent (gamemaster) powers as a builder sackboys. 
 Like freezing time, rewinding time, and access to the Popit Menu System to change everything an 
 anything.
  
  So there you have it, LBP is a game construction set that stays a game even while your constructing 
 and teaches the world how to use their minds in gaming like they never have before. Children especially 
 who grasp LBP creation tools will be on their way to becomming expert game designers as they grow 
 up. Its the ultimate synergy of playing and learning. Teaching people through doing while having 
 fun. It will open your mind to so many possibilities, and its a virus that spreads to others and 
 will keep growing and expanding. Already on LittleBigWorkshop. com there is a bustling community 
 expanding on every idea and creating future wishlists to additional abilities and tools to be added, 
 or they figure out ways to do those additions within the tools already they couldnt figure out 
 how to do before. Concepts of Mechanics, Engineering, Physics, Art, Lighting, Weight/Mass, all 
 being learned and shared through LBP. 
  
  Well sorry for the length but I thought this game deserved more than a simple review that applies 
 to other standard games so hopefully you might better "get" what people are so ecstatic over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Ok I'm not going to lie ~ I was just a tad skeptical when this game was first announced. Especially 
 since the talk was to try and make Sackboy the "unofficial mascot for Sony". My first reaction 
 was like "Uh, what? Shouldn't that be Kratos?" LoL. Now my reaction has totally turned around for 
 the better on this game.
  
  Story ~ Basically you're the cutest little sack person ever, in your very large sack world out 
 to find adventure in each Creator Curator's made realm... And saving flaming cats or beating baddy 
 bosses on the side. Fun easy stuff! 
  
  Gameplay ~ In my opinon it's super simple stuff just to get through each platform. You run, jump, 
 swing, slide, press buttons and pull levers to get where you need to be. Avoiding obsticles such 
 as hidden spikes, flames, gas, and being squished into a little sack pankcake. It's a definate 
 cute, and self explanatory platform game that reawakens how we as kids would play them constantly. 
 Usually requiring us to hog the family room tv back in the day :P
  
  But not everything is perfect. Although the gameplay is easy and fun, sometimes it's a little difficult 
 to differentiate where to be. And what I mean by that is the fact that the world of LBP, albeit 
 a platform, is a 3d platform. Depth perceptions can be thrown off if not looking at it at a proper 
 angle. So when you take off into a good run and you think that fiery pit of spikes is on your sack 
 person's left, it's really right in front of you and bam you're dead. So yeah, sometimes it's really 
 hard to tell where you need to stand when trying to get across things. And sometimes the oddly 
 placed camera doesn't help with that at all either.
  
  Controls ~ Controls are pretty simple, as explained in the LBP tutorials as well lol. And they 
 handle pretty well too once you get them down. Sometimes I have jumping issues such as jumping 
 a little further then I want too but then that's probably human error on my part. Running, jumping, 
 clinging, and yes even smacking your buddy around is all simple and plenty fun. I especially like 
 smacking others lol.
  
  Visuals ~ Yes the visuals and details to LBP are astounding. Giant skateboards, teacups you can 
 hide in, aligators, monkeys! It's got it all. All put in a silly little art style that's for sure 
 going to put a smile on anyone's face ~ including your sack person!
  
  Customization ~ Loving every minute of it. Whether I dress my little sack girl as medusa, a female 
 version of Kratos, or randomize it to look like a backwards hillbilly, it's all in good fun. And 
 if you're creative enough you can put objects on your sackperson as well as the outfits you find. 
 No one will care if you run reckless in leves with an oversized star on a spring sticking out of 
 your head... or tummy.... And they won't question why you have on a bunny tail and a cardboard 
 box. Or how you managed to paint your little toy sackdoll you carry around bright pink. It's all 
 for one in making each one special! Don't forget to take screenshots of your oddball and publish 
 so others can giggle at your horrid sense of fashion.
  
  The Pod, where you go inbetween lvls, is customizable too. So that when other little sack people 
 drop by to say hello, they can be awed by giant flowers or plants, or the fact you got an enormous 
 ROFL sticker plastered to your ceiling lol.
  
  LvL Creation ~ After you collect all the necessary items on each lvl and gained 100%, what next? 
 You create your own level of DOOM! Use your creative thinking cap and get to crackin'! It's almost 
 limitless as to what you can do. At first I was pretty skeptical b/c at a first glance you'll notice 
 a thermometer bar on the left hand side of the screen that shows about how much is left you can 
 put into each created lvl. But surprisinly that takes longer then I thought to finish. But an endless 
 stair case! Make everyone feel like hampsters in a ball by making them run thru fire inside a tube 
 they have to push from the inside. Create monsters to chase them down. Make it as easy or as difficult 
 as you want. Publish it. Have friends Heart it. Play it! And I have to say, I've had to traverse 
 some almost IMPOSSIBLE stages. 
  
  Online play ~ This is where Sony and Media Molecule improved on an already fun to play game. Sure 
 it's fun to play alone and beat high scores, but why not bound through lvls with 2-4 people instead, 
 bungling up everything! It's pretty much required to have other players join you in story mode 
 eventually because you're gonna need their help (and I almost bet they need yours too) to complete 
 some of teh 2 player and 4 player sections stashed in each lvl. That is... if you want the 100% 
 completion hehe. Make new friends, heart them, play their lvls, help each other out. And importantly, 
 have fun! 
  
  One downfall of online play with other members is communication. I've found either having a usb 
 headset or keyboard, or even a blue tooth headset is pretty important. Or you'll be spending time 
 trying to use the ps3's typing system and making everyone impatient waiting on what you have to 
 say. The other downfall playing with others is sometimes you don't always agree with what others 
 want to do, you all try to go seperate directions... and that usually means someone dies needlessly. 
 Arguments can start this way, and we don't want that, so be careful!!
  
  At first the online play was pretty iffy. That's due to some server issues that have been since 
 then repaired. But I can still see some lagging issues. I've had my fair share of networking erros 
 when trying to visit other sack friends, either to play a lvl or just to pop in their pod. Sometimes 
 you'll jump in a story or community lvl too late so you watch them try to finish it up. That's 
 fine and all, but you'll lag hard til you actually get in the room and then the whole thing speeds 
 up really quick to catch up to what your friends are doing. It's a little disorienting.
  
  Also, in multiplayer mode the camera is a little absurd. It'll constantly want to go back and forth 
 between players. This causes problems if you're falling behind, because it'll want to focus on 
 who's in the lead leaving you stuck to try and feel around and not die anymore on your journey 
 to catch back up to the victors.
  
  All in all, I've enjoyed this game so much so far in the first week I've had it. There's nothing 
 like it so far, and I'm hoping for more interactive games like this in the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemonystuff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  nintendo has ocarina of time, microsoft has gears of war 2, and sony has this little gem. i preordered 
 this and didn't expect it to be this good. i have spent all my time playing this. i made my very 
 first level in 4 hours, and it was so worth it. plus it is also extremely simple to create anything 
 you want! but the only bad thing about it is that you can only use 1 switch with things like dissolve 
 material, elastic, and pistons etc. but like you're ganna do that anyway? and the fact that you 
 sign player 2,3, or 4 as one of the PS3 accounts so they don't have to do it again! i have made 
 loads of videos but haven't uploaded them to youtube yet, BECAUSE I'M TOO BUSY PLAYING LITTLEBIGPLANET!!! 
 and there's even great commentry by steven fry! and it's funny, too! you will just spend your whole 
 life playing this. if you have a PS3, get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Creativity.
  
  It's a word we don't use often enough in the gaming industry, and this isn't just in reference 
 to game developers. Gamers have also let their creative muscles go soft. We sit, we play, we talk 
 about whether the game was cool or not, and then we move on never really getting involved in the 
 game-creation process. 
  
  Then along comes Little Big Planet, and suddenly that mentality goes away. It would be very easy 
 to go on and on about all of the outstanding aspects of this game such as the superb graphics, 
 sound and music that are a perfect fit, or the fantastic presentation, but the star of the show 
 here is the ability to create your own levels and how easy it is to share them with the rest of 
 community. You can literally create anything the developers can come up with, and more, and put 
 it out there for others to play, and this is where the game's longevity comes from.
  
  All of this isn't to say that the campaign isn't great, as it is a unique and extremely fun ride 
 through seven differently-themed worlds. It's just that it doesn't take long to figure out that 
 it's a tool to teach you how the play the game, as well as a way to show off what the game engine 
 is capable of. And if the campaign were all there was to it, you'd be done with it in about six 
 hours. Thankfully, you get six hours of campaign, another few hours going back through said levels 
 to collect all of the hidden items that can be used in your own level creation, and then untold 
 hours creating your own levels and playing the levels of others. Value simply isn't a problem here.
 
  
  For all of its glory, there are a one or two minor problems that need to be addressed. The first 
 issue is the jump mechanic, which can prove to be intensely frustrating in spots. Your character, 
 Sackboy, doesn't "stick it" when he lands, and it's sloppier than it should be. Sometimes you find 
 yourself overshooting a jump simply because Sackboy keeps moving after his landing and slides right 
 off the edge as if it were coated with Vaseline. This is okay in the earlier levels as they're 
 more forgiving, but when you're trying to reach some hard to obtain object, or earn an extra prize 
 by running the entire level without dying, it's almost enough to make you wing your controller 
 at your television screen.
  
  It also suffers from the same issue that every other Platfomer suffers from: the multiplayer camera. 
 In single player there are no issues whatsoever, but when you have two to four players on screen 
 at the same time, things get very stretched and hard to see as it tries to accommodate everyone 
 at the same time. This is especially difficult during lengthy jump sequences where you have four 
 Sackboys bouncing around like ping-pong balls because no one can see where they're going. And while 
 it's funny to watch them bonk heads, bounce off the walls, and then get fried in an electrical 
 grid, it makes finishing the level nearly impossible without all but one player killing themselves 
 off and going solo until you reach the next checkpoint.
  
  But believe me, all of these issues are mostly nitpicking a game that no PS3 owner should be without. 
 Don't let the "kiddy" appearance put you off on this title, as the accessibility, fun, and high 
 value of this game will have just about everyone coming back time and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is so great there is only three flaws 1. No Solid snake (I think)
  2. Can't Customize the colour e. g red and black blue and light blue 3. it's price is wrong this 
 game is worth $100/100 The storymode kinda suck well their is not really one anyway. the control 
 is kinda annoying at the start but get used to it. the game online is not bad but don't take my 
 word on it. the objects makes the playstation3 cry with joy. (tips) if your sackboy skin isn't 
 your colour. use the colored stickers. so thats my review now I wish i didn't need 100 words
  
  Don't read this bit 
  
  This game is so great there is only three flaws 1. No Solid snake 
 (I think)
  2. Can't Customize the colour e. g red and black blue and light blue 3. it's price is wrong this 
 game is worth $100/100 The storymode kinda suck well their is not really one anyway. the control 
 is kinda annoying at the start but get used to it. the game online is not bad but don't take my 
 word on it. the objects makes the playstation3 cry with joy. (tips) if your sackboy skin isn't 
 your colour. use the colored stickers. so thats my review now I wish i didn't need 100 words
  You just wasted your time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Everything is perfect! The only problem is the camera angle can be annoying 
 and it can lag sometimes too. I don't really care though because the game up for it in fun! The 
 story mode, yes, short but not as short as they say it is. There are 100's of things to unlock 
 and if you feel the need to use your imagination, just go to your tools bag and start creating 
 your own amazing inventions! Nothing is little in this game, especially the fun. Therese co-op! 
 (and local co-op!, haven't seen that in a while!) This game may just be the best game ever released 
 in the year! BUY IT NOW! You will not regret the amazing purchase of LBP! Its SOOOO FUN! it's also 
 got alot of replay value because you can make levels and play other people's levels and go back 
 in story mode and get all the stuff you missed! BUY BUY BUy LOLOLOL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrayzeeGloo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Regardless if you think your going to be making any levels, this game is still worth the $60 price 
 tag. Between the amazing stock levels that come packaged with the game thanks to the guys at Media 
 Molecule, and the user created levels, this game has been keeping me preoccupied for a LONG time. 
 Towards the last few levels, though, the game does get very challenging. The amount of creation 
 tools are just amazing, and what you can create only makes them better. Quite a few of the player 
 created levels are very nice, as well. Where it does take time to make a very deep and immerse 
 level, it's all worth it in the end. I highly suggest this game to anyone with a PS3, but if you 
 don't have online or won't be getting any for your PS3 anytime soon, it might not be worth the 
 money until the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burstlimit514
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the future game of the year. Ill go ahead and say the story isnt very exciting. But that 
 dosent matter since its all about the playing the sharing and creating. 
  Gameplay: Its very good. You can dance by holding downn l2 or r2. You can move the controler to 
 move the head and hold down L3 and use the controller to move your hips. You can jump and grab 
 swing pull and also drive. You are able to kill enemys and jump from left to right. Plus other 
 stuff.
  
  Create: You HAVE to have an imagination to do this. Its best to finish the story first so you can 
 have more items. It is also a good idea to use the tutorials. The tutorials help you know the main 
 use of things. So you can make more advanced items. The music you can add is great and the things 
 you can create are limitless.
  
  Co-Op: Up 2 four players you can meet in someones pod and explore the stry and others levels. You 
 can have great competition and also build together. I dont why people complain about the camera 
 because ive played with 3 people and 2 but never had a problem.
  
  Buy this game now!!! You may get a little angry at the servers but their is no lag. This is worth 
 60 bucks. Maybe even 100! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  LBP has a very cute charm about it that will attract even some of the most rebellious of people. 
 This game without a doubt lived up to all expectation and then some.
  
  Story: believe it or not, there is a story to go along with this adorable game. You play as this 
 little creature called Sackboy or Sackgirl depending on your choice. You will be traveling into 
 the realm of each Creator Curators you meet and help them solve whatever problem they are encountering. 
 Of course there is a bigger problem here than just that, many people have gone missing in the realms 
 and it's up to your little sack character to find out what is happening to them and who is the 
 sneaky culprit behind it all.
  
  Controls: Even for a platformer, this game is pretty amazing. You control your sack player by moving 
 the left stick, left or right. You can even move up or down to the foreground or background adding 
 more dimension and creativity to the game. You can jump with the x button and grab onto objects 
 with the R1 button. For the heck of it, the developers also added in a few quirky gimmicks for 
 further amusement. You can move your head around by tilting the controller in any direction and 
 with the L3 button; you can move your body around using the sixaxis. Moving your arms around by 
 holding either or Both L2 and R2. You can also make your sack character portray an emotion depending 
 on the direction you push on the directional pad.
  
  Gameplay: The actual creators of this game decided to go along with the theme PLAY. CREATE. SHARE. 
 This motto plays a very heavy role on the game. It is essentially where this game truly shines.
 
  
  
  PLAY: a good place to start off is by playing through the storyline and unlocking all the cool 
 items you collect and unlock on your adventure through the realms. By building up on the items 
 and also understanding many of the mechanics of the game you will be able to move to the next step 
 the developers came up with.
  
  CREATE: Once you're sure you are ready, you can head over to My Moon on the main selection screen 
 and begin to create your very own level. Here is where the game really exceeds above many other 
 self creating games. Everything you saw in the story mode you can create in this mode aswell. There 
 is nothing you can't do that the creators of the game could do. You are supplied with a huge array 
 of tools and tutorials in case you are lost. Mind you that the whole creating of levels is very 
 time consuming but fun so expect to lose hours on end of your life creating wild and cool levels.
 
  
  SHARE: This last phase of the motto is something that makes this game truly a masterpiece. After 
 creating a level of your own, you can upload it to the internet for other LBP owners to enjoy. 
 Of course if you aren't so creative yourself you can just view the mass database of boards created 
 by other users. This user base content adds onto the already compelling game giving you an experience 
 you have not seen before.
  
  Graphics: what can I say; this is a beautiful game with an interesting art style. I loved looking 
 at the gorgeous levels come to life as I walk through them. I found no problems with this area 
 of the game; you'll find you simple sack character to be very detailed.
  
  Sound: I love this portion of the game. They give you are huge variety of music to listen to through 
 each level and it blends in pretty well with its environment. They also have nice sound effects 
 when it comes to interacting with objects. Not that much voice acting but whenever there is, it's 
 very clear and well done. Again, no problems with this area either.
  
  Value: The replay value in this game is very high. You have a huge level of customization in the 
 characters and levels you create alone. You will want to replay story levels to unlock anything 
 you may have missed. To top it all off, the huge user base that is available to you via internet 
 is massive.
  
  Overall: This game is truly fascinating. I don't believe it is just a kiddy game for casual players; 
 no it's something far more than that. If you are too stubborn to appreciate this game than shame 
 on you for calling yourself a gamer. It's a game that every gamer who owns a PS3 should try, casual 
 and hardcore alike. I recommend this game 100%. I was not disappointed with my purchase at all.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avak555
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game honestly I thought was going to be one of the bad games of 2008. But instead turned out 
 to be a great game, actually a super ridiculous awsome game thet makes you not want to stop playing. 
 Short story but worth going back finding new ways to do stuff that will make your mind amazed at 
 the beautiful simple graphic design. Defitnetly worth spending the extra $60.00 lying around. Let 
 me say I'm a shooter kind of guy and this is like, way gooooood!!!!.... Get It... 10/10 5/5 A+ 
 SUPER. Yes get it plenty of fun filled hours and amazing gameplay, Recomend to young children, 
 teenagers, and the man who would take on such an awsome game that comes once in a life  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLYEboi50
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet.... should i say any more. Yes, its a great game. The beginning takes you by suprise 
 with the first introduction level introducing the games designers and editors. And you literally 
 get to see them.
  The game's story mode levels are the most fun and some what difficult as you progress through the 
 game. Just making these levels look possible is mostly what the designers of the game spent so 
 long working on. Thats how difficult it is to make your own levels. I recommend beating the story 
 mode and going through all the tutorials to collect more items/stickers to use to make your own 
 levels.
  Don't think just because LBP is a small and cute looking game doesn't mean you won't be troubled 
 trying to beat certain levels. The increasing difficulty in the game can be really challenging 
 and the most original type of gaming around (Super Mario games-side scrollers) . Like a side scroller 
 it succeeds, and like a game that deserves a 10, LBP brings the side scrolling elements to a new 
 level. Every enviorment is in 3D, so most levels require you to think of how you might have to 
 complete them or find extra items.
  And lastly please buy this game. Don't turn it down because it looks un-manly or something like 
 that. It's a must buy. Its fun, creative, makes you feel smarter than you are, and really fun to 
 play with friends even if you only have one. Little Big Planet for me gets a 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ifrint120
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  if you have a ps3 and dont have this game there is something wrong with you. EVERY PS3 OWNER MUST 
 GET THIS GAME the crete system is ridicously stuffed full of difernt tools and things to use it 
 only feels repeditive if you dont know what you are doing. also if you dont have a strong urge to 
 smile while playing this game there is some thing wrong with you. though my one complant is that 
 loading times are a bit frustrating especialy when online. I was acctualy surprized because as you 
 progress through the game it gets much harder. you also have to invest a fair amount of time in 
 makeing a level that you intend on publishing. the mini games are fun but some of them arent al 
 ways good muliplayers. it also surprizes me at how difficult it can be to find all the items in 
 a level. little big planet is a GREAT investment for your money and will not soon be forgoten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hzs9pk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  There is no way to describe the glee I get every time I fire this game up. It is beautiful to behold. 
 There are so many "wow" moments that just make you smile.
  
  The graphics are really good, even for a next gen system. No slow-down, no hiccups, just superb 
 fluid motion. The sounds are funny and catchy. But add all those things up and just think of the 
 wonderful ideas in people's heads that have already created fantastic levels, and you'll see why 
 this title should be the game of the year.
  
  Customizable levels, sackboys, (and sack girls) make this a great family game AND a game for hardcore 
 gamers. When I read the reviews and saw the gameplay footage, I actually went out and bought a 
 PS3 for this game. It's that good. This will be a system seller for sure.
  
  Buy this game. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandarman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  With all the new games coming out everyone is trying to do something unique. The competition is 
 fierce, but MM has done something everyone else have failed to do. They have given the users the 
 power to create! Although, it would take a fair amount of time to create something as complex as 
 the ones they have created but never the less its a great feeling to know that I could be able 
 to create the same levels, with the same tools, that MM created. The power is immense, so is the 
 responsibility. A lot about creation, the playability of the game is extremely simple, just move 
 from left to right until you reach the finish line. Well, during that you will go through some 
 intense puzzles, races and collectibles. Its your job now to collect as much as you can for your 
 own better creative half, because whatever you collect is used for creation. The game itself is 
 amazing and I don't have enough to say about it! 
  If you really want an experience rather than just a game then buy it! It will speak for itself! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikmin08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Well like i said in the deck it is so astoundingly good that i had to buy it even though I don't 
 have a ps3!! But i had to play it so i've been playing it at my friends house. Man is it fun we 
 can both play which is one fun thing to it the second was that it had so much creativity in it 
 that it was something that wouldn't keep me away from it. The controls are nice and they fixed 
 that jumping problem. It is amazing how the player stages are made on this game. The things to 
 collect in this game are sometimes hard to find like stickers, objects for your own levels, and 
 clothes and accesories for your sackboy to wear. Speeking of customizing your sackboys it is actually 
 pretty fun beccause you can also use stickers on your guys if you aim it right. The game is a must 
 MUST buy. Well i guess thats all see at the planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fareru
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is possibly the best game to be released on the Playstation 3 to date. It is 
 a unique experience, a creative wonderland, and an incredibly fun way to get into gaming.
  The sheer amount of tools, objects, decorations, and materials presents the level creation aspect 
 of the game in an astounding way. The fact that there is no limit to the amount of creativity you 
 can put into these maps creates endless possibilities for levels and challenges that you can play. 
 Basically, the game is bottomless in its playability.
  The pre-made editor levels that create the story line of the game are fun, engaging, and wonderfully 
 crafted as well as themed. They may not be the most difficult levels to ever be created into the 
 platforming world but the fun factor as well as the aesthetically pleasing environments more than 
 make up for a lack of difficulty. 
  The greatest strength of the game is, obviously, the community based, online, level sharing available 
 through the Playstation Network. It is also, however, the game's only weakness. Considering that 
 if, for whatever reason, a player doesn't have online on their PS3 then they can only experience 
 the editor levels which, although they are fun, are sometimes not comparable to some of the well 
 done player levels.
  The game presents itself in an incredibly fun manner with a very finely crafted formula of creativity 
 and challenge. This game is, in fact, the reason that I purchased my PS3. 
  If you happen to be a fan of having fun for the sake of having fun, without the level grinding, 
 the ammo collecting, and the linear game play, then this game is for you. I highly recommend this 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokiolui77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  LITTLE BIG PLANET is simply amazing in every single way. With some of the cutest most memorable 
 avatars SACKBOY its customization is deep alone. The animation and character movements are outstanding 
 with expressions that say alot. The levels media molecule have made in the story are hands down 
 fun. Theres nothing bad to say about those levels. Although story mode is a little to short, but 
 of course theres so so so so so much prizes and stickers in the story it will take you a while 
 to collect everything.
  The level creator is amazing everything you see in the story mode levels you can make, wich is 
 simply amazing although it can take a while to create a great fun level. Its so endless that you 
 may never get bored of this game. Then theres online...
  Simply one of the funnest and most creative online games ever, because your not playing developer 
 levels your playing your own or someone elses creation. Its great to see what people have created 
 and that adds so much to the game with thousands of levels all total.
  If you don't have a PS3 there has never been a better time to get one LITTLE BIG PLANET is a must 
 have for all ages, its not to kiddish and its simply fun, immaganative, and endless go and get 
 LITTLE BIG PLANET!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilbigplanetman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Well yes. I finished the game and am working on the ``Play'' trophy. Some of these levels are easy, 
 and some of them are hard. This sometimes gets frustrating when try to ace the levels. But overall, 
 the game is a must buy. It does have some minor bugs, but then again, go out and get it! You can 
 unlock many costumes such as a Dinosaur (have it) Chinese Dragon (have it) , chicken (working on 
 it :p) and much more. Oh and there's also downloadable content coming this Thursday in the Playstation 
 Store update. This includes some free items, such as a spacesuit, and some items you have to pay 
 for. That includes a Sephiroth and Solid Snake costume. Media Molecule has something called a Little 
 Big Challenge where you have to do the best you can on what they tell you to do so. The winner 
 of the LBC made a spacesuit, and will be available for everyone to have for my favorite price, 
 FREE. Maybe (definitley) they might have another one and we'll get another costume for free.
  
  P. S. Only if items had special abilities.
  
  EX. Spacesuit- Moonjump
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun so much to do and so much to see. This game is just begged to be played 
 with friends and still it doesn't need to be you can have fun just sitting around making levels 
 and playing the the crazy levels the creators made. Everything about this game just makes you smile 
 with joy as you either jump, smile, frown, scorn, or even slap your friend around with a frying 
 pan as a sack person. The customization to say the least is just beyond anything you have anything 
 because that is what it is intended for. at first when creating levels it is little difficult to 
 get used to but after a short while let the creative juices start flowing and your having a ball 
 trying to figure out fun challenging crazy tricks for the sackboys/girls to do. Just a fantastic 
 game and it will revolutionize games to come.
  
  *Stay Blacklisted* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  It would seem sony made a good choice to make such a big deal out of this SCEA game, becuase media 
 molucules first gaming endevor is a sucsesfull one. Little big planet is awe inspiring, and perfect 
 in everyway save a couple of inconveinonces in level making and a bad story. but i dont think anyone 
 would care about that while there is so much to do in this amazing world. You start as a sack boy 
 with nothing, and as you progress, you can change your boring sack boy into one thats exciting 
 and cool, while finding more and more things to prefect your sackboy. The single player is great, 
 filled with collectable that will have collectors foaming at the mouth. Each level is uniue in 
 its own way and the difficulty increases at a perfect rate, starting off easy so you can learn, 
 and finishing off with tough but still fun challenges. 
  
  Making a level is confusing, but thanks to crap loads of tutorials and videos curtisy of steven 
 fry, the expeerience becomes a whole lot less confusing making expressing your imaginating as easy 
 as playing it. and while you probably wont be able to achieve the greatness of MM's levels, you 
 would be suprised what you can create while playing with the creation tools. 
  
  While playing with more than one is difficult, its a total blast and you will end of having halarios 
 moments and great laughs. Also all of the community levels gives you an infinite supply of levels 
 once you have beaten the single player.
  
  Incase you havnt got the message, Little big planet is a revolutionary game with so much to do 
 you wont even know where to start
  
  Thanks for reading
  Rpm
  psn: asherchuck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  So i have only played 10-20 hours of the game but i recently bought it so i hope to put in alot 
 more... To start let me point out that altogether i have "trained" 7 people how to play this game... 
 going to certain levels which really help... and the reactions start off with hey the character 
 customization is pretty cool and then graduates to a bit of boredom whilst they sorta learn to 
 play on the easy levels but then all of a sudden it just becomes a huge amount of fun with yelling 
 and screeming and laughing. Its amazing how it grows on you... a game so simple just wins people 
 hearts by being what it is. A fun loving game that revolves around you. 
  
  Its a good break from shooters and fast paced racers seeing as you can take your time to go through 
 the game with the only thing you need to worry about is your over all score and collecting all 
 the extras. With an average of 96/100 this game has to do well in anyones books, obviously alot 
 of people are sceptical over the "childishness" of the game but the fact is when you take it away 
 from the story mde it can be anything you like... pick your own levels be your own levels and look 
 like what ever you want to look like. 
  
  Customization itself takes up a good portion of play as you shift through all the options thst 
 have seemingly endless combinations.
  
  The game offers so much with a huuge amount of tutorials that await your interaction which makes 
 the create mode just that much easier. The menus are detailed and yet so simple... and although 
 it has a sort of long start up loading time whilst its "saving" the rest of the loading times are 
 pretty acceptable and online connection pretty much seem less. Connecting to others is easy through 
 quick play or go to the level that you want and choose to play with others around the world.
  
  A must buy for the PS3 and if you are that scpetical its a perfect rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sockers
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I've barely scratched the surface of all that LittleBigPlanet has to offer, but already I think 
 it's an amazing game that will be remembered for years to come. 
  
  LittleBigPlanet stars lovable, highly customizable Sackpeople, living in a world which is the result 
 of melded together human creativity. LittleBigPlanet is a great, artistic depiction of human creativity 
 at it's finest, in both design and concept. The game is a highly enjoyable and innovative platformer, 
 very similar to the Mario games but with enough personal flair to make it truly unique. There's 
 also a very large design portion of the game, and a lot of times you find yourself running through 
 levels trying to get all the stickers and decorations you can possibly find in order to design 
 your pod (home) , yourself, your own levels or just to spruce things up a bit. The game plays like 
 nothing else I've ever played before, with smooth controls (that are, admittedly, a bit hard to 
 master) . The game is visually appealing, being both colorful and ridiculously charming. This game 
 is a must-have for all gamers, old and new, casual and hardcore. There's something that will no 
 doubt appeal to everyone, and with the ability to create your own levels it no doubt will have 
 replay value for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This is an extremely creative game with very few flaws that don't completely take away from the 
 experience.
  
  When I first started reading about this game a few months back, I thought, 'here we go. Another 
 attempt at making a platformer'. After playing this game, I realized it was something much more.
 
  
  For those who haven't played it, it's almost like Mario Bros, mixed with Mario party elements (during 
 online play) , mixed with a new style of graphics in video games. I would have to say it is the 
 game that will revive the genre. It's been a while since one was made this well.
  
  Just a few flaws come to mind. LittleBig Planet awakens your imagination and allows you to create 
 as well as play other creations from other players. The only problem is it takes a while to create 
 a new stage that is even remotely interesting. Another drawback to playing this game is loadtimes, 
 the screen on multiplayer modes, and sometimes lagging when you first jump online. Again, none 
 of these flaws make you want to return the game but they are noticeable.
  
  I think anybody would enjoy this game and it is worth the money. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is such a unique game. Actually playing it reminds me of the older days of Mario 
 but with a little more depth in it.
  
  First off Sackboy rules!!!!! Hes such a unique character because his/her looks can change on the 
 spot an the fact that Sony has made Sackboy influenced video game characters is so cool.
  
  I wont be one of people making levels but ive seen and played a few stages an the creativity in 
 this game is huge. When it comes to making this game you are really only limited to your own creativity. 
 So far my fav made levels are the ghost busters themes and God of War.
  
  Sony really hit it out the ball park with this game it has potential to be a big phenomenon. Hopefully 
 it will because it is deserved. Everything about the game is great to the characters game play 
 and graphics.
  
  My only problem i have with the game is the jumping can be a little aggravating on certain levels 
 but besides that its a must buy i suggest it to anyone who wants something different and just pure 
 fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morfessa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Not only is Little Big Planet an enjoyable and challenging "platform-style" game, it features online 
 multiplayer gaming and all the tools you need to make your own custom game-levels.
  
  Little Big Planet is a fun and challenging romp in the field with a lot of cute and interesting 
 attributes. Although it can best be described as a "platformer", there are many things about this 
 game that set it apart from others in that category. Individual levels of the game can have races 
 and vehicles, puzzles and pifalls, music-makers and, yes, platforms upon which to jump. In fact, 
 one level can feature all of these!
  
  You can unlock artwork, gadgets and all sorts of doodads in the single-player and multiplayer modes, 
 then use the unlocked content to create your very own contributions to the Little Big Planet online 
 community. And the community is growing by the minute!
  
  This is easily an all-time favourite and will not leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 110million
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is one of the more unique games to come out in a long time, while individual 
 elements may not be new, they come together to make something special, beyond a simple platformer 
 or a basic level editor, it provides a complete package which brings together several unique aspects.
 
  
  Graphically the game stands out from the first time you play it, while zoomed in during your outfitting 
 of a sackboy or the level design itself, it all looks great. Though one has to consider it does 
 not contain the larger stages of some other games, so while it is visually appealing, its to be 
 expected considering its scope, not to say the stages don't get massive, but you have to consider 
 the difference. 
  
  The sound is unique and quite upbeat in most situations, the songs from the stages and the ones 
 provided to you for your own, can range from creepy slow tunes to upbeat ones, there's something 
 for every situation.
  
  The gameplay itself is one that is not without flaws, but they can easily be overlooked upon putting 
 some time into the game. The jumping is pressure sensitive, and at first, some jumps may seem frustrating 
 to get, you may push much too hard or light, but you get used to it as the game goes on, its hard 
 to get it 100% dead on though even then, but the game is quite merciless so a few mistakes won't 
 cost you much. 
  
  The level building itself is much more complex then one would expect from a console map editor/creator, 
 and having one in a platformer is exciting for all the potential that can come of it. There are 
 dozens of materials you can use, all which have some useful property or another, such as ones which 
 float, heavy ones, light ones, and it goes deeper then that as well. The amount of tools can see 
 overwhelming at first, but if someone wanted to make a complex stage, the tutorials provide good 
 aid.
  
  For those not feeling creative, the game does not require you to build stages, as there are a ton 
 of player made ones online, while most are fairly short, its possible to find ones that were played 
 and loved by a lot of people, making it easier to search through a sea of mostly short or simple 
 stages. The online has some issues, but they are getting less and less frequent.
  
  This is a game with great value, whether someone is willing to make a stage or not, countless hours 
 can be poured into the various story and player made stages, while playing on your own doesn't 
 bring the game to its full potential by far, get 3 friends over, and its the most fun you'll have 
 with a game in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game is just an instant classic. It's so innovative, it's the first of it's kind in so many 
 ways. I love how as you progress through the game you get more and more things to be able to be 
 more and more creative. It's so thrilling going through the story mode, and going through each 
 level several times, so that you can try to get more and more things for building your OWN levels. 
 Another great thing is that this is my first PS3 title with Trophy capabilities.
  
  Trophies are so much fun, I can't believe I've gone this long without them. I wish they would come 
 out with some patches to GTA, and Orange Box, and Civilization Revolution, so we can have trophies 
 in those games too.
  
  However, this review is about the big new little game called Little Big Planet, The game is just 
 fantastic, it's great, and it's fun, and aside for the occasional lag here and there, (which I blame 
 the servers, and which will probably be fixed) , it's flawless. That's why I gave the game 9.5 and 
 not a solid 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skye3000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I am glad this game wasn't delayed any longer than it was. The tutorials do a great job of teaching 
 you how to play the game. I like that there are 1000's of collectibles. The levels are creative 
 and all completely different. If you get bored with them though, the level builder and online community 
 of free levels is amazing. This will be a game that will be around for quite awhile. There is a 
 lot to discover and I found myself playing the same levels over and over to find all of the cool 
 unlockables. Designing your character at the beginning doesn't give you many options however, with 
 tons of unlockables you will quickly have many options.
  
  My only qualm with the game is the character control. I felt like sometimes I was fighting the 
 controller to get my character to go where I wanted. After playing for awhile you get used to it 
 and it causes you to anticipate your next move. The controls seem to be a bit sluggish when changing 
 directions.
  
  Overall I love this game. I will be playing it for a long long time. Hope to see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachmagik
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so im in college now, and i was just playing a developer level of little big planet. my roommate 
 walks in, "wow, that looks retarded." he starts playing it. now my whole entire hall is marveling 
 at how fabulous this game is. FVCK 9.0 gamespot, we all know who the love is for on this site, 
 and it isnt sony. anyone and everyone, people of all ages, get this game and play it with some 
 friends. the interaction, the physics, and the game never ends. as people from all over the world 
 are creating new games every single day, the fun will never tire. this is THE BEST PARTY game since 
 super smash brothers brawl or even halo 2 LAN parties. get this game, play it with some friends, 
 and you will be thanking yourself. there is no other game like this, nor anything remotely close 
 to the level of innovation. watch, ill get thumbs down from xbox fans trying to prove that 360 
 is a better system, i dont care. what i do know is that Little Big Planet is a must-have game. 
 You will not be regretting the decision of playing this once in a lifetime gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay when I first got this game I got this tngly feeling inside of me, and I loved it. When I sat 
 down on the coach peradise was with me. The story might have been way to short but who needs the 
 story when you have Kratos suit sackboy. And you can practically make your own levels Little Big 
 Planet is a great game and a must have for everyone who has a imagination I give a 9.5. Okay when 
 I first got this game I got this tngly feeling inside of me, and I loved it. When I sat down on 
 the coach peradise was with me. The story might have been way to short but who needs the story when 
 you have Kratos suit sackboy. And you can practically make your own levels Little Big Planet is 
 a great game and a must have for everyone who has a imagination I give a 9.5. Okay when I first 
 got this game I got this tngly feeling inside of me, and I loved it. When I sat down on the coach 
 peradise was with me. The story might have been way to short but who needs the story when you have 
 Kratos suit sackboy. And you can practically make your own levels Little Big Planet is a great game 
 and a must have for everyone who has a imagination I give a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdcjb100
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet was first introduced at E3 2007 and then we knew Sony really had a revolutionary 
 project. As the game takes you through a story that does not go to deep but truely makes you think. 
 The objective is to collect as many bubbles and items which you will use when you decide to create 
 your own level. There are other hidden items such as keys which provide the user with many games 
 that are not always origional but with a sackboy by your side it makes everything so much better. 
 The creativity is endless. On once you pass the first area you will be allowed to download others 
 maps which are extremly awesome. this sort of game does not even need a sequal because the developers 
 put a lot in the game already if anything they just should allow DLC on the Playstation Store
 
  LITTLEBIGPLANET= FUN
  Graphics 10
  Gameplay 10 
  Voice/sound 10
  Mulitiplayer 10
  Little Big Planet 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet (LBP) is one of the most creative games i have ever played. Level and Character 
 Designs are really spectacular.... 
  
  Campaign is really fun to play with, it helps u learn the basics about the game and what u can 
 create within the game. It doesn't mean that campaign is useless, u also get costumes, stickers, 
 and objects from it to make ur levels more fun to play with.
  
  Graphics are really amazing especially if u have the HDMI cable, Sack boy is the wackiest character 
 Sony has ever thought of. He's Cute entertaining and got really cute facial expressions, u can control 
 everything about him, including his arms and facial expression which is a really cool new idea 
 to video games.
  
  Sound/Music: Sound goes with the flow of the game, and the music which they chose really fits into 
 the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay is really easy and straight forward, especially creating ur own level, but creating a 
 level can take ALOT of time to make.
  
  Overall 9.5 is the perfect score for this game, it doesn't really deserve a 10! but its a REALLY 
 FUN GAME TO BUY, and is welcomed to the Playstation Library. YOU WILL have fun sharing and creating 
 levels online while playing with ur friends and their wacky costumes!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megantereon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  I did not think this would be my game. I got it for my kids. I have rarely laughed this much playing 
 with them. If you have kids get this game. It will be worth it the first hour you play. This is 
 now my favorite game after about a hour of play. We will see how lasting it is but from what I 
 see it is so open ended I am not concerned. We have yet to go on line with it for what I expect 
 another dimension of fun. I am impressed with the originality, HD graphics, and ease of use. One 
 of the best features is the engaging way they integrated the tutorial into the game. My 6 year 
 old picked this game up easily and could easily keep up with me in the 2 player mode. The freedom 
 to have fun is very original. I would chose this as game of the year because it is a breakthrough 
 type of game with no noticeable flaws I've seen so far. The controls work well and are perfect 
 for the sixaxis controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Unlike my other posts I don't think I'll break this one up into little pieces.
  
  The review for this game, would simply be; find someone you really like being around, get them 
 up to the basics on the game; and head online. You have ENDLESS fun; nonstop silly and cute mayhem; 
 this game is just too amazing.
  
  The ONLY issue I have; is the weird camera system, and how check points work. Lets say you're on 
 a ramp level, and the check point is on the ramp below you, and you're above it; the thing will 
 spawn your buddies again down there, and make the camera flip out and screw one of you over.
  
  The long list of online levels to choose from is already astounding, with different insane 
 themes; alot of Super Mario remakes, some Metal Gear level; and a very awesome Jedi Duel level!
 
  
  I haven't tinkered too much with the map building thing; but from what I've seen on other people's 
 levels, it's VERY indepth and gives you ALOT of options.
  
  This is a must have PS3 Exclusive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Once in awhile a new game comes about that is so different, fresh, and enjoyable that it completely 
 changes how you view videogames to the point where you feel the fun and fulfillment you once had 
 when you first started playing mario on the original Nintendo. Enter LittleBigPlanet. 
  
  If you have seen videos online and thought they were pretty neat then you're in for a big surprise 
 when you actually play. First off, the game does an incredible job of creating this personal connection 
 between you and your sackboy/sackgirl. There's a ridiculous amount of customization for your sackboy 
 which includes things like: skins, eyes, hair, hats, and mustaches. You can also control your sackboy's 
 emotions by controlling facial expressions as well as their arms. This may not sound so interesting 
 but if you are playing with a friend online or offline it enhances your overall experience quite 
 a bit, especially when playing over the internet.
  
  The next big part of this game that makes it so enjoyable is just the overall tone the game expresses. 
 By now you've probably figured out that this game is goofy, but between getting blown up by explosives 
 or eaten by silly crocodiles the game will make you laugh out loud sooner or later. I mean this 
 is what games are all about, having fun, and LBP delivers big time. I come home from work dieing 
 to play this because I know it's gonna relieve stress, which is what I can't say about most objective 
 based games we usually play.
  
  The level design is also extraordinary. There's different zones on the globe that you play and 
 while the setting is the same the levels are totally different from one another. Each one has something 
 new to offer so you won't be getting bored any time soon. What some of you may not know about the 
 levels is that some levels are just simple challenges. In one you might race the clock, and another 
 you jump up and down over a counter clockwise rotating tie and see how long you can last as the 
 tie speeds up.
  
  Speaking of level design, the level creator is so impressive that I'm at a loss for words. You 
 can make every level you have played in the level editor, but even better than that is that everything 
 is customizable. You can set skateboards on fire to turn them into deadly obstacles, you can create 
 a level made completely out of glass or sponge if you choose. There are a lot of tutorials you 
 will have to watch but it's worth it because there is so much to learn.
  
  I've sunk about 9 hours into the game, about half the in level editor and the other half in the 
 story mode so I definitely haven't even come close to unlocking or completing everything but I 
 already feel like I've accomplished so much with the game. 
  
  To sum things up, LittleBigPlanet is a must buy. I've been playing videogames for over 15 years 
 and I have to admit that the experience this game gives the player is truly unique, you haven't 
 played anything like this ever before. Sometimes the controls are a bit finicky but I've never 
 played a game that didn't have some tiny flaw.
  
  Lastly, I will also mention that the game's controls are very simple, so simple that my girlfriend, 
 someone who rarely plays any games, was able to pick up the controller and complete a few levels 
 with me right off the bat. I don't think I have seen her enjoy one of my PS3 games so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shenmue_Pro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Ever since LittleBigPlanet was shown at GDC people have been dying to play it. Well it's out and 
 it is an absolutely amazing game. The basic outline for the game is that it's a platformer where 
 you maneuver your Sack Boy avatar through numerous enviroments. This part of the game is extremely 
 fun, but not without its own flaws. The game appears to be 2D but there is in fact three different 
 planes on which to move your character through. This can sometimes lead to awkward platforming 
 bits that tend to be more frustrating than they should be. An example being where you are required 
 to switch planes mid air yet for some reason the game doesn't pick up on this, causing you to plummet 
 to your death. In the end this is a very minor annoyance, and it won't wipe that grin off your 
 face. Now the part of the game that truly has people talking about LittleBigPlanet is the level 
 creator. All the levels that come standard with the game we're made possible with the tools you 
 are given in the editor. After having spent a week crafting what I find to be a very fun level, 
 I think it's safe to say that this truly makes the game so innovative. All the items you come across 
 in story mode can be used to create unique levels of your own, but that is just barely touching 
 the surface of what can be made here. A quick browsing through youtube shows you that people aren't 
 just making platformer levels. They are dipping into other genres and making some truly awe inspiring 
 levels. This is a game that definitely deserves a purchase. Many people said the reason to buy 
 a PS3 was MGS 4. Now that has changed, and the reason to buy one is LittleBigPlanet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  LBP is an amazing game for many reasons. It has a very creative and enjoyable story mode that allows 
 online and offline multiplayer. It has a ton of customization options for sackboy. The graphics 
 and presentation are simply beautiful and gameplay is complemented with outstanding controls. But 
 where LBP shines is in the creation mode. The customization and creative options in creation mode 
 are just so extensive that you can literally make any object and any level. This mode is only as 
 limited as your amagination is. I am still just astounded at how many possibilities there are for 
 creation. You have over hundreds of types of meterial to work with, different types of bolts, strings, 
 rods, levers, buttons and sooooooooo much more. It's truely amazing. This mode will be good for 
 all eternity. YOU CAN MAKE ANYTHING. Also story mode is amazing because you can observe what the 
 devs used in their level to give you some ideas. But this game is amazing but I do have a few words 
 of warning for gamers who buy this. MAKING LEVELS IS VERY VERY DIFFICULT. This game appeals to 
 kid presentation wise but a kid cannot make anything worth playing. It took me at least 6 hours 
 to make a simple level. This is in no way a negative thing about this game I just want people to 
 know that it is hard and time consuming to make a level. Overall though LBP is one of the greatest 
 games of all time. People who only have an Xbox or Wii really need to get a PS3 and experience 
 this amazing cornicopia of creation, beauty, and just shear fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinz_17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  At first this game was introduced, I was not amazed at all. It seemed so simple...
  
  ... And now I can say the hype is REAL... this game is so addictive and What makes it the best game 
 on my opinion... This game is for everyone... even a 3 year old can play this one. There's no other 
 game like that in the market. THIS IS AWESOME... I can't help but admire the People behind this 
 game, simple concept, simple gameplay... endless possibilities!
  
  The graphics is so cool, not the likes of MGS4 or GTA4, but what the heck, who needs it. The sounds 
 is just average. Replay value- endless, And I believe that everyone will try to create the best 
 way can to share their Masterpiece levels. 
  
  This game is the real deal! for those who still don't have a PS3... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR! GO 
 GET ONE.
  
  SACKBOY RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kontouch
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING 
 AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING
  AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING
  
  
  
  
  LITTLE BIG PLANET IS 
 THE BEST GAME EVER
  
  ONLY PLAYSTATION 3
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bukkookkub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  LittleBIGPlanet to me is what the video game industry needs. It's one of the milestones we creative 
 people look for and now we have an accessible outlet. 
  
  I'm not going to do a traditional review here, but I will say that i've been having fun since the 
 beginning. The tutorials and level creator are astounding! With so many simple shapes and processes, 
 you'd think that it's been watered down, almost "kid-like" however this is not the case at all. 
 Only will taking a crack at creating a level, help you to appreciate the levels designed by Media 
 Molecule. This game is not meaning to blow open any doors in terms of platformer complexity, like, 
 Mario games etc... Just the sheer fact that every bell and whistle was set in place by your average 
 (and not so average) gamers *see the calculator*, make this game so special. We haven't even begun 
 to crack the surface in what lies ahead. Once the online gets settled down, there's going to be 
 some amazing content, older (from the beta) and new, and theres no doubt about that. 
  
  Graphically the game is stunning through every pop culture facet. The game runs smooth, and style 
 is never in short supply.
  
  The only hiccup's i have with the game are the 3 planes of field, and trying to control your sackperson 
 on the right one when you want. And the last, is the camera in create mode.. sometimes it zooms 
 way out when you don't want it too.. and fumbling around with getting it to be in the right spot 
 is sometimes daunting. 
  
  however....
  
  in conclusion, if you were to focus on the outstanding level of freedom, the creative content that 
 is provided for you, a game for anyone, and developers who are changing the way we interact with 
 games.. you can't really go wrong with contributing to history and feeling damn inventive at the 
 same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: programexpert
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Some might say the game looks "kiddie" or "childish". Those people do not look further than the 
 very cover. LittleBIGPlanet is a breath of fresh air to the very FPS/RTS/MMO-oriented gaming genre. 
 It's a kick back to the sources with an ingenious twist which makes the game all the more amazing.
 
  
  The story is deceptively simple, but it does the job. Most people will probably not be in for the 
 story in any case. The game is divided in multiple thematic worlds where your Sackboy must go through 
 different side-scrolling levels, collecting points, items and stickers on the way. There are a 
 few characters, but they are mainly there to move the game mechanics forward by explaining you 
 what to do.
  
  The gameplay is where this game lifts off. It can be summarized in a single concept: if you think 
 you can realistically do it, chances are you actually can. LBP relies heavily on physics and it 
 really gives it a unique flavor. If you step on a bouncy platform, for example, you likely will 
 be able to use its movement to propel you higher. If you fling something into the air, it might 
 smash you on the way down. However, playing the actual game is but the tip of the iceberg. It's 
 when you get into the level designing that the whole concept shines. You have an empty world and 
 are free to craft whatever you want in it. The tools are relatively simple yet powerful and flexible; 
 I was impressed to see some things that you usually expect in professional 3D graphics software. 
 There is also an interesting array of tools and tricks which can let you make anything from a simple 
 car to a rocket to a mechanical monkey. Simply put, I'm expecting a lot from the community.
  
  Which brings me to the next point: level sharing. Through LBP's "pod", you can access an online 
 area where you are free to try out other people's levels, rate them and comment them. This should 
 make the replay value of LBP almost infinite, especially considering Media Molecule is planning 
 on supporting the game post-launch. It's also interesting to note that some levels have multiplayer-only 
 parts. While not critical to the advancement of the player, they hide some special collectibles 
 which many will want, forcing to interact with others and getting online or finding friends to 
 play together. I like the idea of being four people from all around the world playing together, 
 but I have to say the local four-player coop is a BLESSING. The extremely hyped appeal of online 
 gaming has completely taken off the focus from the immense fun that getting a little group together 
 and having multiplayer fun without needing four consoles and four TVs. For this, hats off to Mm.
 
  
  This game wouldn't be complete without graphics, though, and for this LBP delivers more than you 
 might've initially expected. Considering the cutesy look of the game, cartoonish simplicity is 
 most often taken for granted and gives a bit lackluster visuals. LBP, on the other hand, manages 
 to give the game a definite cartoon look without sacrificing the details. From very rich textures 
 to awesome backgrounds, the graphics of the game really help it propel the gameplay forward. On 
 top of that, art design is just charming. It's almost impossible not to smile when looking at Sackboy's 
 exaggerated expressions, and the characters and enemies you encounter throughout the game are all 
 meticulously crafted from items you could design yourself, reinforcing the idea that the whole 
 game can be made using the included level editor.
  
  Lastly, there is sound. I can't say the music or sound are "epic" or "incredible", but they add 
 a very nice atmosphere to the game. Contrarily to most, they are genuinely happy tunes of broad 
 inspiration and diverse sources. It all comes together with a plethora of sound effects which the 
 developers littered throughout the levels to further detail the game's already rich audiovisual 
 department.
  
  All in all, LBP is a must-buy for anybody who owns a PS3. Doesn't matter if you are a casual gamer, 
 a hardcore shooter, a master platformer or an artiste; the game will please everybody. It's a fresh, 
 awesome, addictive, cute and most importantly fun game that everyone should at least try out once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rothinzil
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe the main attraction of this game, there are so many present. It's endearing 
 charm, great playability and possibly infinite replay value are just some of this games qualities 
 that make it an instant classic.
  
  If anyone is wondering if this game truly is worth a 10, let me assure you, it is. I haven't played 
 a game that's this much fun in possible a decade and it's exactly what the PlayStation 3, and it's 
 community, need as a binding factor, even more effective than the much anticipated Home.
  
  The graphics of the game are great, has amusing tunes backing the levels, it plays like a dream 
 and the possibilities of the game are nearly endless.
  
  LittleBigPlanet is, despite all it's great features, not perfect. In the multiplayer, the camera 
 can get hard to keep up with all players and people trying to race trough a level will have to 
 hold back to help out the other players, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but can get frustrating.
 
  
  In short, LittleBigPlanet is a fantastic game and should not be missed by anyone who enjoys videogames. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alxsmth0319
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I would rank it behind Gears of war 2, GTA IV, and MGS 4 but thats it. The colors sand the music 
 set this game off and make it enjoyable. The physics based gameplay is amazing and the number of 
 hours that you put into this game is endless. Sackboy's customization is pretty entertaining as 
 well as decorating your pod. The create your own level or (My Moon) , part of the game is a game 
 in itself. The create a level feature could be more in depth of what you can do but the features 
 allow you to create basically anything that you want. The online features where you can import 
 your created levels and download other peoples levels is a huge part of the game. The multiplayer 
 on this game is huge as well. some of the special items in each level have to be retrieved by playing 
 multiplayer. The online multiplayer is awesome. There is no lag and it is as if you were playing 
 with someone right next to you. In the End this is one of the funnest and most entertaining games 
 that i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  After waiting 2 LONG years since its first appearance on E3 2006, it is finally here! LittleBigPlanet 
 (A PS3 exclusive which pretty much gives people who don't own a PS3, a great reason!) Here is my 
 usual Good vs Bad review for this amazing title!!
  
  The Good:
  ~ This game has absolutely STUNNING graphics, both on and off of an HD set!
  
  ~ Though the 
 story is short, unlocking different items takes a pretty long time and brings a tougher challenge 
 to the game
  
  ~ Playing with friends is probably the funnest thing to do in the game, and not just online, but 
 offline as well!
  
  ~ The level creator is a HIGHLY anticipated feature in the game, as well as the most ADVANCED level 
 creator in ANY game to date
  
  ~ The controls are amazing as well, fitting perfectly with the game and leaving the player with 
 no troubles at all when it comes to getting use to them
  
  ~ Costumes for the Sackboys/girls come in MANY different variants/styles which gives ANYONE playing 
 it a chance to show/share their personality with others
  
  ~ The tutorials in the game are fun/easy to follow and the Voice Actor behind the tutorials is 
 pretty cool and funny at times
  
  ~ Unlike other games this doesn't seem to get old at all, the replay value is so high you can pretty 
 much play for hours and still have fun
  
  
  The Bad:
  ~ The only "bad" thing about the game are the servers at about 6pm EST time... Once everyone gets 
 out of school they ALL head straight for LBP, leaving even the people with platinum (Amazing/Best 
 out there) connections lagging.... Hopefully in a few days this clears up...
  
  
  Overall I'd highly recommend BUYING this game! Not rent, not borrow, BUY! It is well worth the 
 money and as you can see from above it has a very high replay value.... 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I cant describe LBP with words, ive try to tell everyone why it is the best game out there. I cant 
 describe my feelings, its like the first time i heard the beetles or the first time i played a 
 video game.
  
  Something so revolutionary i changed my mind, it game me that illusion that feeling. I cant tell 
 you how great LBP is i can only tell you to sell your old games, your XBOX or wii and buy this 
 master pice.... dont do it for me or for Sony or even MM do it for your future as a gamer. This 
 game has taken the industry a step foward
  
  Gamespot is wrong on some things the game is freaking great and it should have a 10, yes the camera 
 is clunky but the features and gameplay are more than great.
  
  To be honest LBP is so sweet and cool and super great great, please buy the game its wort 60 bucks 
 you wont regret buying a master pice.,......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HighStakes24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the cutest game on the market that you can play with your family and have a great time. 
 games nowadays are all about gore, well this game is not and its quite refreshing to have fun w/o 
 having to blow things up. Great change of paste. Its like mario but cuter and more fun and the 
 fact you can change what you allows tons of people out there to create the levels to keep this 
 game going for years to come. say bye bye to Mario and hello Sackboy and girls. ABSOLUTELY LOVE 
 IT. if you want to something refresh and original. here it is. Its tough to choose from so many 
 games this hollidays with resistance 2, call of duty 5, Little Big Plannet, BIOSHOCK. alot of AAA 
 titles, the only difference is, the 3 AAA titles have alot similiarities, while LBP is in a class 
 of its own, just like fallout, theres no better RPG this holliday then fallout, theres nothing 
 more original then LBP this holliday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I think the last time I was this excited for a platform game was when Mario Galaxy was released 
 for the Wii. Finally LittleBigplanet is here and it looks like it's going to change the way we 
 see platform games for this point on. The fact that you can create your own levels to this game 
 adds a lot of replay value.
  
  If you're playing this game for the storyline than think again you'll have more fun trying to figure 
 out the amazing levels than the story. The game is told by text so you'll be doing some reading 
 here and there in the levels. There are a lot of hidden unlockables within each level. Also there 
 are certain prizes that you can only get if you play with another person which are up to 4 players' 
 offline co-op and online. 
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've seen on the PS3 and it only gets better as more exclusive 
 titles come out for the system. The game play mechanicals are good but I have a gripe with the 
 controls. There are certain times that you'll get frustrated trying to make some high and low jumps. 
 I've heard there are talks of improving this little problem. So I'm not the only one that's had 
 this problem with the jumping. 
  
  On to the user generate content, the fact that you can play other players created levels and create 
 your own online it gives this game so much replay value. If you were one of the lucky beta tester 
 like myself you'll know exactly what you're getting out of littlebigplanet. This is a must own 
 game if you have a PS3. If you're looking to buy a PS3 for your kid with a great game this is the 
 perfect game to go with the PS3 for the holiday season. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelSoldier13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  It is an instant classic, very fun, but the story mode is just there to unlock stuff to create. 
 When creating it is very challanging but has its plentifull rewards. Then there is the online mode, 
 it takes a little bit to connect with someone but ince you there every thing runs smooth, sometimes 
 there is a bit of lag but that depends on your connection. You will make tons of freinds just playing 
 one level online and everyone loves to slap :D. Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! 
 Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! 
 Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! 
 Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy 
 it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamCodeman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  this is the best fun ive had since i played GTA IV, this is entertaining in a very old school 
 way, the grafic itself is a pleasure to look at, and the gameplay is good to, simple is sometimes 
 better, and with the creation tool you have at your side you can always add new editions to the 
 game.
  
  and if you (like me) have a girlfriend that complains that you are playing to much, simply ask 
 her to join you. with the multiplayer co-op game mode, you will have tons of fun.
  
  even when playing singleplayer mode, yuo will have alot of fun, the levels that are included are 
 fun, and various from eachother.
  
  I would say buy this game if youre looking for some old school fun multiplayer action :)
  
 
  A must have for any PS3 owner, with some self respect, this deserves to be on any shelf.
  
  
  GO BUY THIS GAME ! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasra_showan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  this game very very nice and spical. never repeat this game.
  The Media Molecule studio knew, that if the gamers wants to be int heaven , LBP is the perfect 
 gameplay.
  here's nothing quite like Little Big Planet. It's one of those experiences that make you proud 
 to be a gamer. You can really appreciate the effort Media Molecule has put into it; everything 
 from the level designs, the true-to-life physics, the challenging elements and the appeal of its 
 superb level-editor. Not to mention the cuteness of your Sackboy avatars.
  
  When you first start the game, you'll be treated to a tutorial that explains the basic functions 
 of Little Big Planet -- from the Sackboy controls to the mechanics of the level editor. You won't 
 be able to create astounding levels right away, mind you, because first you're going to have to 
 unlock a lot of the flotsam and jetsam that goes into building levels; stickers, background structures, 
 blocks, shapes, objects, environments -- virtually everything you see in the normal campaign can 
 be used to make your own stages. The narrator is deliciously as entertaining as the game itself 
 with a sly sense of humor.
  
  
  They run smoothly. In summary, it is an absolute, creative masterpiece. I could write pages upon 
 pages of review here, but it will only waste your time. Go buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Imagine a world, where you can create anything what you want. You want a living PSP, or a flying 
 Xbox? Than just create it! The Media Molecule studio knew, that if the gamers wants to be int heaven, 
 they have to create there own one. And they were right. LittleBIGPlanet is the most ambitious game 
 I've ever played with. The story mode is a little short, but who the hell cares, if you have thousands 
 of playable levels one the network, and if you can create your very own level! LittleBIGPlanet's 
 gameplay, music, and graphic is perfect. The gameplay never ends, the musics are great, and the 
 graphics looks like an animation movie. The only problem is the controlls. It's a little hard, 
 even in offline, but the sometimes lagging multiplayer can make it almost impossible to control. 
 But that's all. LBP is the perfect gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. 10/10
  
  Sounds: Perfect! 10/10
  
  Controls: Not so perfect. 7/10
  
  Gameplay: Totally perfect 10/10
 
  
  The Good: Your very own world!
  
  The Bad: But sometimes it's hard to control a world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cid_Istik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  I did not expect this game to be more than a novelty. In fact, with all the great titles being 
 released this month (Fallout 3, Far Cry 2, Bioshock, GT: WT) , I considered waiting until after the 
 holidays to pick it up. I'm so glad I didn't! No game has inspired my imagination, nor captured 
 my attention like Little Big Planet in many years. And no protagonist has made more of an impression 
 on me and my family than sackboy! LBG scores high in all the important places: the gameplay is 
 engaging. The controls are tight and responsive (and that's saying alot with me - I hate platform 
 jumping) . It is visually stunning. The music selection perfectly compliments the atmosphere (whimsical 
 and light-hearted) . I've experienced no problems with the servers in the short time that I've used 
 them. They run smoothly. In summary, it is an absolute, creative masterpiece. I could write pages 
 upon pages of review here, but it will only waste your time. Go buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Having anticipated the release of this game for quite some time, I knew I was in for something 
 special. And I was right. 
  
  There's nothing quite like Little Big Planet. It's one of those experiences that make you proud 
 to be a gamer. You can really appreciate the effort Media Molecule has put into it; everything 
 from the level designs, the true-to-life physics, the challenging elements and the appeal of its 
 superb level-editor. Not to mention the cuteness of your Sackboy avatars.
  
  When you first start the game, you'll be treated to a tutorial that explains the basic functions 
 of Little Big Planet -- from the Sackboy controls to the mechanics of the level editor. You won't 
 be able to create astounding levels right away, mind you, because first you're going to have to 
 unlock a lot of the flotsam and jetsam that goes into building levels; stickers, background structures, 
 blocks, shapes, objects, environments -- virtually everything you see in the normal campaign can 
 be used to make your own stages. The narrator is deliciously as entertaining as the game itself 
 with a sly sense of humor.
  
  Creating levels might take some getting used to, but once you mess with it a while, you'll get 
 the gist of it in no time flat. And it's certainly not your average editing tool, either. Your 
 Sackboy acts as your guide, and you play with the editor using the unique Popit menu. You can even 
 create levels with local friends and their Sackboys using local multiplayer, but you might run 
 the risk of some creative differences. And when it comes to building stages, there are endless 
 possibilities to be had. As I've learned with the RPG Maker series, different things can be created 
 if one taps into their ingenuity and the ability to think outside of the spectrum. I expect to 
 see and play through a lot of creatively realized levels derived only from the most brilliant and 
 imaginative of minds.
  
  The platform elements of Little Big Planet are as pure as they can be. The Sackboy character runs, 
 jumps, grabs on to stuff, pulls and pushes objects and leaps between planes. The analog stick controls 
 your movements, and they perform well. There is a lot of fun to be had when you swing across gaps, 
 cause some chain reactions, and make stuff fall and collapse. The platforming only seems simple 
 on the outset, but the gameplay stretches far deeper than it appears. You can even customize your 
 Sackboy by dressing him up in multitudes of different costumes that you find throughout the game, 
 and change its facial expressions at will using the directional pad. This adds a great deal of 
 personalization to your avatar especially when you take them online and play with others.
  
  And the online is what enhances the LBP experience. Created levels can be shared with others 
 through the LBP server so there is no end to the replay value. You can set up challenges, rewards 
 and unlockable items for other players that play them, too. Of course, even if you're not into 
 the level constructing thing, you can always hop online and find players to play with. Either way, 
 it's almost impossible to be bored. Needless to say, there's always a new and exciting experience 
 to be had every time you put in the LBP disc.
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed this game, and continue to enjoy it. It is a worthy addition to any PS3 
 library, and definately a must-have for this year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidfacekiller
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I Love this game very different from any games I've ever played. I'm still working on creating 
 my own levels and I'm finally getting the hang of it, very simple game, very fun. This is the only 
 game I can play with my girlfriend and she doesn't get bored. She adores Sackboy and I don't blame 
 her he is pretty damn cute. Ok, Let me Wrap this review up this game is a MUST buy for the PS3 
 you wont be let down trust me.
  And the main thing is you can never run out of levels to play in, if you do go play a level someone 
 else has created this game has the potential to be very big and I think it will be HUGE!!!
  
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!!
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!!
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!!
 
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!!
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!!
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!!
  LBP WILL BE HUGE Confirmed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Hey guess what? If you have been waiting for a reason to buy a PS3 this is without a shadow of 
 a doubt the reason why. LBP is a fun, deep and laugh out loud kind of game. This is what you need 
 to play and own in your collection if you have any respect for video games. The online which just 
 came on today is a portion of the game that will just keep you hooked simply because of how deep 
 it is, there are alot of user made levels and most are pretty good for amatures and some you just 
 have to watch out for. I just cant wait for a few weeks down the road when more and more fantastic 
 levels are made. This is a GREAT game and it should NOT be missed!
  
  GameWired Score: 10 out of 10
  
  
  
  
  
  repeat: Hey guess what? If you have been waiting 
 for a reason to buy a PS3 this is without a shadow of a doubt the reason why. LBP is a fun, deep 
 and laugh out loud kind of game. This is what you need to play and own in your collection if you 
 have any respect for video games. The online which just came on today is a portion of the game 
 that will just keep you hooked simply because of how deep it is, there are alot of user made levels 
 and most are pretty good for amatures and some you just have to watch out for. I just cant wait 
 for a few weeks down the road when more and more fantastic levels are made. This is a GREAT game 
 and it should NOT be missed!
  
  GameWired Score: 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigsexy_90
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing LBP for about 2 weeks now, and I have to say that it may be in my top favorite 
 games of all time. Everything is amazing and near perfection. Yes the story mode is a little short, 
 but with tons of collectibles and multiplayer support the story mode can last for hours. And after 
 that once you get past the learning curve, making levels is a blast. I have already made over a 
 dozen, including one great boss battle I did! and yeah, you can make boss battle levels. Pick it 
 up, if you dont have a PS3, buy one for this game! This is for sure sony's next gaming icon. This 
 game is all about imagination, all about creativity, and all about showing the world what you have 
 to offer, please if you love gaming, love art, love anything that is fun, addictive, and down right 
 amazing, LBP is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmr684
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that just makes you say, "Wow"! There is literally nothing else like 
 it, which immediately scores it points for individuality and originality. With both an addictive 
 single player campaign that not only has a rock solid, creative, and fluent story line/plot, a 
 seamlessly interactive multiplayer element, and revolutionary level editoragghhaham ahem, scratch 
 that... game development toolbox. 
  
  Unless you have been living under a rock or an xbox fanboy magazine, you already know more than 
 enough about this game. So I wont bore you with a detailed recap. 
  
  Where this game over exceeds... The story mode. I admittedly expected a creative, enjoyable, yet 
 pass and repetitive single player campaign where the only goal and reason for finishing the level 
 was to pick up all the goodies. While finding every sticker and item is more than an enjoyable 
 part of the game, it has seamlessly been integrated and amazingly hidden away under the stunningly 
 enjoyable and diverse levels that make up this mode. Every time I get excited about something on 
 the screen, that excitement gets interrupted by something else amazingly cool. On top of all this.
 
  
  Yes there are tutorials, lots and lots of tutorials. "at least for the create mode" One thing though 
 that I didn't see coming was how much I already knew by the time I went into the mode simply by 
 playing through the single player campaign. The creators have effectively using the powers of observation. 
 For instance, when you jump on a critter to destroy it, instead of it popping with an explosion 
 and simply vanishing, they dismantle, falling apart in a way that deceptively engrains how they 
 were constructed in the back of your mind. You will find yourself performing an action in the game 
 and under your breath muttering "aahhh. wow, so thats how they do it. thats neat" 
  
  As for the game creator, very little to gripe about. There were only 2 things I could think of 
 that seem as missed opportunities, one of which I understand its absence being a possible liability. 
 In the create mode, It would have been nice to be able to control the camera while you have your 
 toolbox open. Second and understandably absent is the ability to supply your own sounds to the 
 game. While this would have been a fun and creative outlet for the game, I understand how some 
 might "ahem" abuse this ability. 
  
  With all that said, the only thing really keeping this from a perfect ten is the understandable 
 network issues. I expect for there to be some kinks to work out during a game launch of this magnitude. 
 Not even extensive beta testing can spotlight every possible technical issue that might be present. 
 So lag in overloaded servers is expected, but I did notice a complete drop in loading time and 
 speed across the board even in single player when the servers switched on for the first time. 
 
  I was fortunate enough to receive a copy of the game on the 25th so I had a few days to play before 
 the servers went up. The game automatically signs on to the network while the game is loading and 
 once those servers switched on, the game had developed unexpected stutters and at times full on 
 locking up my PS3. Im pretty sure this is due to the game constantly updating and transferring 
 information realtime while you play, but with congested servers this can cause some issues. Im 
 sure these kinks will be ironed out within the first week or so but for the time being Im docking 
 0.5 points until it is resolved. 
  
  Well thats about it. All in all this is simply one of the legendary few that neither hype nor overly 
 high expectations can ruin. Not only is this simply a must have for anyone with a PS3, but now 
 Media Molecule and Sony have legitimately given everyone who doesn't already own one, a reason 
 to run out and buy a PS3. 
  
  Cheers,
  Jon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for like two weeks and i must admit that i have been mislead by the game hype, 
 i thought this game was for long term but after three days of playing and enjoying the game i felt 
 that i was repeating every level even in Creation mode it take you long time to create you game 
 and when you finish and play your level you feel that you just wasted your time in something you 
 knew in the first place.
  
  the game play is good but the graphics are not that amazing however there are many thing you can 
 do in little big planet, such as costomizing your character building your own level and shearing 
 it with other friends and people on online.
  
  I can say that there is no action in this game or story its empty and shallow , the only thing 
 you will enjoy is the first two days of bulding something then playing it, after that you will 
 not play the game anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufflezoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Little Big Planet is obviously the most hyped game for the PS3 this 2008 season is it worthe the 
 hype or a creation mess?
  
  Story 9/10
  Im gonna make this short but there really is no story in the story mode except preety much rescuing 
 people but you go around to diffrent people across the world and rescue people (groom, sackgirl) 
 for example its not pure gold but still good and there's stephen fry !
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  The graphics in lbp are great, the physics engine is great and that helps lbp 
 to be an enjoyable experience
  but occasionally the game might have framme rate issues especially on two player modes and also 
 there are slowdowns but set these promblems aside and the graphical side is sweet
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  Gameplay wise lbp is very good ,the controls work great the game gets challenging 
 and satisfying and theres also a ton of trophies! The creation ode is also amazing and anythings 
 possible but sometimes whatever you build on the air will plumit down on the ground. But the creator 
 mode is amazing and revolutionary. Onlne wise the game is filled with lag and may make you think 
 your ps3 is broken but still online can be preety fun.
  
  Overall 9.5
  Media Molecule in the end have made a fun amazing revolutionary game which none PS3 should resist. The 
 creator mode is awesome but techinal glitches keep this game from perfect status. Media Molecule, 
 my hats are off to you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpruett
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I really questioned whether it could live up to it's loft goals. Amazing game. This will do what 
 Mario did for Nintendo.
  
  Just an amazing game all around. It's one of those games that you could end up playing for 8 hours 
 straight and not even realize it. It's addicting, fun and ground-breaking. 
  
  It's just made immensely well. From tutorials on just about anything you have a question about 
 to in-depth explanations on all of it's controls. 
  
  If you have any form of creative bone in your body, you will absolutely love the character modification, 
 the level creation.
  
  
  This game is best shared with multiple players (Whether on your own TV at home, or with others 
 online) but has enough oomph to be a very fun game (Single player) . The online severs for this 
 game just came up today (I got it on Saturday and they weren't up at that point) . Let me just say 
 that there is UNLIMITED potential with this. I've already played probably 60 user created maps, 
 all with different themes and styles and puzzles.
  
  
  
  
  Great game. Definite must buy if you own a PS3. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
