-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost Planet: Extreme Condition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/lostplanet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense action from start to finish.
 Piloting VS mechs is great fun.
 Large, varied environments.
 Strong multiplayer community.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphically inferior to other versions.
 No worthwhile added content to make up for delay.
 Slow controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 671 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PlayStation 3 version of Lost Planet is good, but it's inferior to the Xbox 360 and PC versions 
 that came before it. 

  Capcom's shooter Lost Planet comes to the PlayStation 3 more than a year after its Xbox 360 debut, 
 and it has a few extra goodies up its sleeve, such as more multiplayer maps and characters to tempt 
 those who have never gone hunting for giant bugs in the snow before. Unfortunately, none of the 
 added extras enhance Lost Planet's gameplay, and the PS3 version's visuals are actually inferior 
 to those of its 360 and PC counterparts.  

           Lost Planet for the PS3 doesn't look quite as sharp as previously released versions.  
     

  The 360 version of Lost Planet was fun, but it had a few frustrating quirks that made gameplay 
 a real chore at certain points. The PS3 version is identical in gameplay style and content -- nothing 
 new has been added to the single-player experience, which means it shares its 360 compadre's good 
 and bad points. Lost Planet puts you in the shoes of Wayne, an enigmatic snow pirate battling giant 
 bugs known as akrid on a frozen planet called E. D. N. III. The plot follows Wayne as he tries to 
 make sense of his father's death, destroy one huge, murderous insect after another, deal with marauding 
 snow pirates, tackle the evil NEVEC corporation's plans to terraform the planet, and more. We'd 
 give you more detail, but storytelling isn't this game's strong suit. The story mostly makes no 
 sense at all, and the hammy voice acting does nothing to dispel its sci-fi B-movie feel.  

  All an eager gamer really needs to know is that you get to tackle plenty of bugs  Starship Troopers 
 -style in Lost Planet, plus you get to pilot a wide variety of mechs. The game's third-person action 
 sees Wayne running around a variety of snow-covered environments. You use the control sticks for 
 movement and aiming, and L2 and R2 to fire grenades and weapons, respectively. As well as the action-game 
 standards of jumping and crouching, Wayne has a Bionic Commando-like grappling hook that he can 
 throw to hoist himself onto high areas. When you're in a mech (called vital suits -- or VS -- in the 
 game) , the controls work in much the same way, although most VS units have some sort of dash and 
 double-jump moves.  

  Every enemy killed and most objects destroyed in Lost Planet will net you thermal energy -- glowing 
 gobs of orange goo that act as Wayne's health (actually, Wayne has a separate life bar that refills 
 as long as you have stores of thermal energy) . Wayne's stocks of thermal energy will steadily decrease 
 at all times, a gameplay mechanic that gives Lost Planet an all-action feel and forces you to continue 
 to move forward and rain fiery death on your enemies to stay alive.  

  It's mostly nonstop shooting in Lost Planet, with no puzzles and very little platforming to get 
 in the way. It's great fun to take on the various forms of akrid, and piloting VS units with all 
 their various shapes, sizes, and abilities never gets boring. Boss fights are especially epic, 
 and though each conforms to a set attack pattern that can be easily learnt, they're enjoyable. 
 It's a pity, then, that the game's solid platform of destruction and mayhem is undermined by sluggish 
 controls. Wayne himself moves rather slowly, and the situation is even worse with most VS units. 
 The game's targeting reticle is similarly plodding, positioning you at a distinct disadvantage 
 against faster enemies like VS-equipped humans. The game does have a quick-turn feature, although 
 this tends to disorient you more than help you. And for some strange reason, Wayne cannot shoot 
 straight up -- his aiming angle seems to stop at about 65 degrees or so, which means airborne enemies 
 (and there are plenty of them) become quite difficult to target.  

  The game is also a little overwhelming to look at in certain spots, with effects thrown in by the 
 bucketful to the detriment of clarity. This can be especially annoying during boss fights, with 
 smoke effects, snow, explosions, laser fire, debris, and much more cluttering the screen. Sure, 
 it looks impressive in most cases, but we'd rather be able to see what our character is up against 
 onscreen rather than being taken down by another attack simply because we couldn't see it coming. 

  All of these gameplay faults were present in Lost Planet on the 360, and it's extremely disheartening 
 that none of these issues were addressed in the intervening months before the game's PS3 release. 
 What's of even more concern is that despite the added time, the PS3 version seems to be graphically 
 inferior to the Xbox 360 version. The game's textures seem a lot less crisp compared to the 360 
 version, and we found more obvious instances of jaggies and artifacting in the PS3 version (and 
 more frequent occurrences) . Frame rate seemed to hold steady for most of the game, with some noticeable 
 slowdown during especially crowded firefights. And in what seems to be the norm for recent Capcom 
 PS3 games (such as Devil May Cry 4) , you are forced to go through an installation process at Lost 
 Planet's initial setup -- our install took roughly 12 minutes. This didn't seem to matter too much 
 to the end experience, however, as load-time comparisons we ran with the 360 version showed that 
 the PS3 was coming out on top by two to three seconds per load at most.  

           The large variety of akrid you'll face is one of the highlights in the game.      

 
  What the game does bring to the PS3 table is the complete Lost Planet experience so far. It ships 
 with all of the added content released for both the 360 and PC versions. This means 16 multiplayer 
 maps are available from the get-go, including the ones released on Xbox Live: Radar Field, Island 
 902, Hive Complex, Trial Point, Ice Drop, Ruins, and Lost Technology. New characters are also available 
 for play in the single-player campaign and in multiplayer: in-game hottie Luka, snow pirate Joe, 
 Dead Rising's Frank West (in his underwear, no less) , and MegaMan. When it comes to multiplayer, 
 the game features four gameplay modes with support for up to 16 players. Lost Planet presents a 
 smooth and lag-free online experience -- we had no hassles at all in several gameplay sessions with 
 hosts from around the world (mainly from Japan) , and there seemed to be plenty of available games 
 and players ready for action.  

  But more multiplayer maps and a few quirky character additions aren't enough sweeteners to have 
 made the yearlong wait between console releases worthwhile for PS3 owners. Sure, the core gameplay -- fun 
 as it is -- is still intact, but the PS3 community was probably right to expect some exclusive content, 
 gameplay tweaks, or a snazzier look as their reward for patience. As it is, Lost Planet for the 
 PS3 is a decent shooter with plenty of fun moments, but it's not a shining example of how to do 
 a console-to-console port.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game is great. That's the short. This is probably my favorite third-person shooter to date. 
 I really do like this game. But it has a feel to it..... It's hard to describe. It makes the game.... different! 
 I got a little tired of all the shooters, shoot this guy, he die! This has giant onslaughts of 
 massive blood thirsty acrid, against one person! Another is the fact that I believe this is one 
 of the first shooters that makes you feel like you're the one shooting! I dunno... the only problem 
 with this game is the fact that some of the bosses in the game are extremely difficult, they take 
 a few tries! Otherwise, though, the difficulty is just right, not to hard, not to easy. This game 
 is great...... I recommend this if you are wanting a different sort of shooter. The VR's (Mechs) 
 are a great addition. They are not overdone, and do not focused on them to much to make the regular 
 game play bad. Overall this is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is one of those games that that receives good or fair reviews, but you think it just 
 doesn't deserve it. Lost Planet was an Xbox 360 game that was ported to the PS3. You can tell that 
 there are rough edges. The controls are not very good and are not the best for a third person shooter. 
 What bothers me the most is that R2 is to shoot. I understand that this is because it was ported 
 from the Xbox 360, but still it's pretty annoying. If R1 could be shoot, this game could have been 
 a bit better. There are vehicles, which are cool and fun to blow up stuff with, but again don't 
 control very well. Now for the game play itself. It's kind of slow because the stages are big and 
 you do a lot of running from place to place. The combat isn't sub-par compared to other shooters. 
 I just don't find it that fun. A good thing is the boss battles. The bosses are huge and the battles 
 are epic. You usually fight a giant snow worm or something like that and they are fun to fight, 
 although they can get repetitive because they are mostly the same. Other than that there arn't 
 many good enemies. What I think is the worst part about Lost Planet is that you always have a time 
 limit. You have a thermal energy bar that basically acts as a timer because it goes down and if 
 it runs out you die. When you kill enemies you can get more thermal energy, but it's still annoying 
 to have to a time limit on every level of the game. The games graphics are pretty good for the 
 most part. You see building, caves, hangers and they look cool for the most part. There are also 
 times that you are in an open area and you see a lot and not much else. The on line I thought wasn't 
 very good. It's hard to stay alive for very long because when you see the enemies you will usually 
 be able to kill one or two then be double teamed then kill. There's not much to say about Lost 
 planet so I'm going to end it here. Overall it is a mediocre third person shooter that doesn't 
 do much to do anything better than what we have already and doesn't live to what a PS3 shooter 
 could be. For these reasons, I probably wouldn't recommend Lost Planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megaman1254
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  the vital sutes depending on there clasifacation added a chalenge to the game but the best vital 
 sute was the one that transformes in to a gient fighting flying robot. all levels were easy and 
 the bosses where a chalange the only boss that game me trouble was the one with the tenticals that 
 you have to destroy in order to harm it's eye. but besides that it was really easy
  thing i did not like
  
  t-energy-it went down quickly at the beging of the levels and u have 
 at least 2-4 min. to make it somewhere with a drone so u can get more thermal energy
  
  amunition-i can under stand the limit but serusly u run out of amuniton too quickly
  
  and 
 the ending what a waste i expected that ending before the final mission was complete.
  
  the prototype arms where somewhat of a twist but still expeted there deaths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenap_turan
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  Take the monsters from Devil May Cry 4. Gameplay from Gears of War. Add some snowy post-war environment. 
 Hire some characters from various animes. There you go. Sounds cool right? But it's not! Most definitely 
 not.
  Visuals of the game are fine, ok. But after playing Jericho, Metal Gear Solid 4 or -for God's sake- 
 even Little Big Planet; would you believe that this is a PS3 game? Check out the screenshot's of 
 Little Big Planet, THAT game looks more "realistic".
  Sounds are the best part of the game. But believe me if these sounds were coming from a game that 
 was made in 1998, you wouldn't be surprised. They are simple, monotone and sound as if they were 
 taken from a synthesizer. Again; unrealistic and empty.
  Gameplay (what gameplay?) is -for lack of a better term- unplayable. It's nearly impossible to 
 dodge some of their attacks. The attacks that are possible to dodge however, doesn't even need 
 to be dodged. All you have to do is to run to a random direction. You don't feel the bullets hitting 
 your enemies, or their's hitting you. You just amass hundreds of T-Energy and run around like you've 
 used an immortality code. It's either so easy that you actually don't even have to do anything 
 or so hard that you need absolute luck to defeat an enemy.
  Can't actually say anything about the scenario because it doesn't exist at all. There is a "story" 
 that explains the reason of your presence on that planet, and introduces people with eccentric 
 relationships but this so called scenario is just the typical non-sense, you wouldn't feel it's 
 absence if it weren't there.
  It says "HAVOK" at the beginning meaning that a very very effective physics engine is available 
 within the game. Yeah right... It's 2009, we're playing games with physics so advanced that they 
 resemble real world physics properly. But in Lost Planet, Enemies react with scripted motions, 
 not with a physics engine. Our character also does that. Actually, everything does that. But let's 
 not forget grenades. They bounce off soft snow very realistically. They perform the same bouncing 
 motion off the concrete walls. Now that's the physics!
  Everything in the game is so empty, dull and boring. It's impossible to handle the actions properly. 
 Everything feels just... wrong. Lost Planet cannot be made into a better game, it can't be corrected. 
 I'm so speechless against this garbage. It should be destroyed and forgotten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLuckyKidd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  soon enough the game becomes all about the Suits that all handle the same, like a poor mans Mechwarrior, 
 the akrid die in a very fascinating way at first but then you can only blow bugs to chunks a couple 
 of times before it get boring.
  
  With the controls it feels a bit stiff with out some adjustments in settings but after the settings 
 it's still abit stiff the lack of guns on foot is laugh able and being able to carry and shoot 
 the guns ment for the suits just feels unrealistic if it's ment to be mounted it is ment to be 
 mounted and for some reason they have given you a crouch button that isn't of any use out of online 
 play even then it's of little use.
  
  The boss battles again feel uninspired again, typical find the weak spot and attack attack attack. 
 Boss battles need to get some more flare now, with the sort of games that are being pumped out 
 now a days they should be able to program a engaging boss battle that keeps you hunting for a way 
 to kill it.
  
  To me the story feels like it's held together with wood and nails i've owned this for the 360 and 
 there hasn't been enough changes for the ps3 to keep it fresh.
  
  So in conclusion it isn't fresh enough for players of the xbox 360 version not quite new enough 
 for new players.
  
  Thank you for reading 
  
  -LuckyKidd AkA KiddNinja 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok, wanted BIAHH but they were out. Got this as a backup because I heard the story was above average. 
 Started, played a full 8 hours and finished it. True the story was above average but the ending 
 was pitiful. Review time.
  
  Graphics: (6/10) Capcom made this painfully obvious that they didn't optimize for the PS3. There 
 were no shadows on the models, the lines were blurred in an attempt to show realism. The models, 
 while clean, didn't interact with their environment like they should have. The enemies, while interesting 
 to look at, had a fine line between something that looked a lot like a weak point and a weak point. 
 Frame-rate was hitchy and the particle effects were the largest cause of it. Everything that exploded 
 (and there was a lot) created a huge cloud of dust, rocket and laser contrails left a gout of something 
 that looked like smog on a bad day in Los Angeles. 
  
  Gameplay (7/10) The controls were clean but that really didnt matter. You had to be in an exactly 
 certain place to do anything at all. If you wanted to rip a gun from a mech (talk about that later) 
 you had to be in exactly the right point in space. The grapple had no distinguishable range marker 
 and was inconsistent with what it grabbed. There was no XMB so you couldn't check in-game mail 
 without quitting. Ok, the mech combat and the variety of mechs were cool. One in particular made 
 me think of any gundam game in production today. That was fun, the amount of high powered weapons 
 laying around was copious both mech and human. Energy was never in short supply and the bosses 
 ranged from ridiculously easy to down-right crushing.
  
  Everything else (7/10) It just wasn't what I was looking for. If capcom had concentrated on porting 
 the game to any kind of standard it would not have been nearly as bad. DO NOT BUY! Rent if you 
 must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesner87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Lost planet is a so/so sci-fi games takes place in the future. When the man kind is struggling against 
 a hostile anlien bug-like species known as "Akrid". The species are some what like the bugs from 
 star ship trooper so you`ill know what i mean. I will break down the scores into the following classes 
 for ease :
  
  Storyline : The story is nice, a bit different from others but the way they present it is not at 
 all appealing. Infact it could have been made ALOT better but its sort of left empty ! 
  
  Graphics : The graphics of the game are probably the only thing which would give you a reason to 
 play it ! They are NOT so cool like Crysis/MGS4/Gears of wars type. But just good enough for you 
 to enjoy the game. Although once again i say that they could have improved by far. But i think they 
 did well in this place.
  
  Sound : Nothing special. I only liked the roars of the big aliens. Thats all about i can think off. So 
 nothing unique other than that has been added to the game.
  
  Value : Well not much of a value game. Since it only offers a 10 hour small gameplay story. The some 
 what value of this game however, can be justified by the online.
  
  Gameplay : While the graphics were nice, with the solid story line you would immediately think that 
 this is a must buy ! But i say that this game has alot of lacking things in it. The gameplay itself 
 repeats alot, the fights seem EMPTY without any real adrenaline pump.. etc.. etc... So i would recommend 
 a rentout before buy.
  
  Conclusion : While this game may look very appealing to you from videos and other stuff. Believe 
 me when i say this that it really isnt ! I would recommend a must rent before buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall
  
  This game is an other given too much hype for it's boots, this game was so hot when you play the 
 first few levels. 
  
  But soon enough the game becomes all about the Suits that all handle the same, like a poor mans 
 Mechwarrior, the akrid die in a very fascinating way at first but then you can only blow bugs to 
 chunks a couple of times before it get boring.
  
  With the controls it feels a bit stiff with out some adjustments in settings but after the settings 
 it's still abit stiff the lack of guns on foot is laugh able and being able to carry and shoot 
 the guns ment for the suits just feels unrealistic if it's ment to be mounted it is ment to be 
 mounted and for some reason they have given you a crouch button that isn't of any use out of online 
 play even then it's of little use.
  
  The boss battles again feel uninspired again, typical find the weak spot and attack attack attack. 
 Boss battles need to get some more flare now, with the sort of games that are being pumped out 
 now a days they should be able to program a engaging boss battle that keeps you hunting for a way 
 to kill it.
  
  To me the story feels like it's held together with wood and nails i've owned this for the 360 and 
 there hasn't been enough changes for the ps3 to keep it fresh.
  
  So in conclusion it isn't fresh enough for players of the xbox 360 version not quite new enough 
 for new players.
  
  Thank you for reading 
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunInHand13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a great one. Story mode is very compelling, though very confusing and lame. The experience 
 of fighting those boss battles and even the basic aliens is great. Mechs rule, and im glad they 
 are included in multiplayer along with the turrets and awesome weapons. Although the matches take 
 forever to play ten minutes, and you have to join a new lobby to play another match. But once you 
 play its like your in Heaven... but with guns. I definitely think that 7.0 is a horrible rating 
 for this game. Hurry up and learn how to rate games Gamespot. If you think about it, Cod4 sucks 
 compared to this! All that you basically can do is shoot! I mean COME ON! Do better than that Infinity 
 Ward. At least Lost Planet can make a decent map. My favorite things to do in this game are grapple 
 on to the ceiling and turn flashlight on to scare people before you kill them. This game definitely 
 deserves an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midevilatheart
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a good game for anyone who considers themselves a gamer. It's a sci-fi, third person 
 shooter set on an alien planet with military-type missions. While trying to complete missions, 
 the player has the ability to pick up several really cool weapons. The person also can choose to 
 enter one of several different "robots" to increase their abilities and game play. While completing 
 the missions, the player has the opportunity to encounter some rather strange "aliens" and try 
 to figure out a way to destroy them. This annihilation of the alien race proves to be rather difficult 
 at best, in most instances. It really is truethe larger they are the harder it is to make them 
 fall. The on line community is not that great for this game. However, there is always the possibility 
 that it will get better. All in all, the game rates a 7on my 10 point scale. Not only is it a good 
 game for anyone, it's also pretty affordable. (I picked one up for around $30!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  I was pretty disappointed upon purchasing this game, and was kinda glad I got it when the price 
 went down. I had gotten some good reviews from friends when I mentioned getting this one gloomy 
 Saturday afternoon. So I sat down, turned off the lights, propped my feet in their same spot on 
 the coffee table and was set to be awed. Blah.
  
  My first reaction was the voice acting. A little lame. Wonder who forgot their lines, lol. Then 
 came the controls which is where I really have the issue. The control set up itself was fine, but 
 the handling seemed so slow and sluggish. Pretty much liked it belonged to a stealth shooter. Turning 
 around took forever! I mean it wasn't like the little orange heated aliens were gonna come rushing 
 at me at full speed themselves but I still expected to be able to turn and aim quicker then a 70 
 year old man.
  
  But once you get over the fact this kid seems to suffer from major arthritis, the game itself was 
 also way to easy, even on the difficult challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet looks like a cool game where you fight giant aliens and have huge boss fights with 
 a good multiplayer mode. Am I wrong? I haven't actually played the multiplayer, so I can't say 
 anything about it. I'm sure it probably would've boosted my score to a 7/10 or 7.5/10, but since 
 I haven't experienced it before, I can't add it to boost my score up. Judging by the single player 
 campaign, Lost Planet both plays and feels like a missed opportunity. The release date for the 
 PS3 version is a year after the 360 version, and it doesn't offer anything new to the already fair 
 game.
  
  The game takes place in the future when man expands to different planets. However, hostile alien 
 forces are the beings that inhabit the planet, and it's your job to get rid of them. The story 
 can be a bit confusing at times, which doesn't help the plot. There are other hostile human soldiers 
 on the planet, but them being there kind of gets confusing. The voice acting is generally quite 
 good, but that doesn't fully cover up some of the goofy dialogue put into the game.
  
  There are some good parts about this game, like the graphics and sound. The aliens, environments 
 and objects all look good. Like I said before, the sound is also very good, since you hear all 
 of the aliens screeching and your character plodding through the thick snow. What this game lacks 
 in is its gameplay. Pretty much you go through snow-covered environments killing off aliens throughout 
 the entire game. There are bosses and other hostile humans, but the core gameplay is just against 
 aliens. The control layout can get a little getting used to, but that's not the game's biggest 
 problem. The two major problems that I had with this game is your health system and the game's 
 repetitive and sometimes frustrating combat. Your health system is pretty much a number like 2000 
 on the side of your screen, and it goes down every second since the air is so cold. If the number 
 reaches 0, you die. This is understandable, but it doesn't really make fighting enemies any more 
 enjoyable. Some of the enemies are frustratingly difficult, plus the game's checkpoint system isn't 
 that well done. And the game itself just feels too repetitive, with you just blowing up aliens 
 with your guns.
  Story: 5.9/10 -- way too hard to follow
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10 -- this game has good graphics, which is the best aspect of the game, but not as 
 good as other versions
  
  Sound: 8/10 -- the voice acting along with the in-game sound are both great
  
  Gameplay: 5/10 -- it's 
 good if you like blowing up aliens for hours and hours and hours, but it gets way too frustrating 
 and repetitive, along with the poor health system and lack of checkpoints
  
  Enjoyment: 6/10 -- fun for around an hour but just has too many problems dragging it down from being 
 a fun game to play.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like action games or like to just blow the crap out of a bunch of big aliens, 
 rent the game. For anyone else, consider renting or just skip this title altogether. The achievements 
 aren't that easy, either. Is Lost Planet a bad game? Not necessarily. Is it a great game? Far from 
 it. I saw potential in this game, but it's just not a whole lot of fun for very long.
  
  Final Score: 5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivaz66
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Mechs is a franquisia that many Japanese industries of video games treat of traeer of return as (like) 
 gunam but few ones have been those who have managed destacrase, as my favorite zone of the enders.
 
  
  What it stops this game of being the good one is simply the strange way of the camara you initiate 
 with a type of inverse camera which is not common in a game in third person like that that you 
 have to change it into the menu of selct which is confused enough is one of several mistakes of 
 the game is the slightly interesting history and his bad control.
  
  One of the good things of is that has excellent graphs and interesting bosses if you want to kill 
 alot of insect i recommend it to you
  
  the online its quite fun so if you have money buy it but if you dont and you are waiting for something 
 else rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4life247
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet is fun game. Shooting up alien Akrid as they are called to a mass of ice that breaks 
 apart with a single bullet is a delight to watch and a delight to play. But when it comes down 
 to the table, their isnt enough meat on the bones of this sci-fi shooter to satisfy a hungry gamer 
 like myself. Graphically, it is impressive. Explosions are pretty sweet and the ice looks real 
 and really, really cold. Game play wise it also fun. You get some cool guns, but nothing you have 
 never seen before. The one seemingly "original thing" is the grappling hook thingy but that isn't 
 very original in the first place. Your character moves infuriatingly slow and when facing big mech 
 thingys it gets frikin hard sometimes since ur the slowest thing on the screen. Apart from these 
 negatives, it is a solid shooter that delights for the short hours you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a futuristic third person shooter that takes place on the icy wasteland of EDN III. 
 Humans have left Earth and other planets, due to overwhelming pollution and poor conditions, and 
 have found their way to EDN III. They thought it would do, until a new foe showed its face. The 
 Akrid. A gigantic and vicious species of bug like creatures. The fledgling cities were destroyed 
 by the merciless Akrid, and the survivors of these colonies were evacuated. The military group 
 known as NEVEC, and groups of snow pirates and mercenaries were all that stayed behind, using advanced 
 weaponry to try to eradicate the Akrid. Their attempts were futile, and many were killed. 
  
  You play as Wayne, a young man equiped with a top of the line device known as a Harmonizer, 
 which allows you to convert Thermal Energy gathered from defeated enemies and destructed environemtnts 
 like explosive barrels, into health. Your father has been killed by a gigantic Akrid, and you barely 
 escape death yourself. When the game starts, you come-to in a bed after being rescued by a small 
 band of snow pirates. Their leader, Yuri Solotov, the tech whiz Rick, and his sister Luka. You 
 have no memories, save those of the name of the Akrid that killed your father, and the last sight 
 of your father crawling to you from his mech suit, blood spattered before he dies in front of you. 
 
  
  Much of the game you spend doing missions for the band of snow pirates who rescued you. They have 
 the goal of erradicating the Akrid, and you decide to help them out, in hopes of eventually reaching 
 the Akrid that killed your father. The beasts you face, both small and large, often give you a 
 run for your money. They all have a weak point though which gives a bit of tactics and strategy 
 on how you go about taking out your foes without taking any substantial damage. There are quite 
 a few weapons at your disposal, such as machine guns, shotguns, laser and plasma rifles, and rocket 
 launchers. All of which feel pretty good to fire, and are effective and powerful in killing your 
 foes. You can also pick up the much larger, unwieldy weapons that are meant to be equipped to the 
 VS's (more on that next) that give you a substantial boost in fire fights, but are dropped when 
 you switch weapons. 
  
  Wayne also has the ability to pilot large mechs known as VS's, or Vital Suits which protect him 
 from damage, and are outfitted with powerful weapons. The weapons can be customized to fit any 
 situation, most of which will take down the medium sized Akrid in just a few shots. VS's also give 
 you the ability to hover, jump large distances, and boost your way up the short platforming-esque 
 portions of the game. All in all, combat is fun and interesting in Lost Planet, thankfully. Its 
 the meat of the game. 
  
  The boss fights of Lost Planet are where the game really shines. Each one of them is challenging, 
 and requires a new strategy to defeat. Before you can even think about destroying them, you must 
 first target their weak point, which can usually be identified by glowing sacs of thermal energy 
 or weakness in joints, then let the bullets fly. They often take around 20 minutes to defeat on 
 harder difiiculties, and especially when your fighting on foot. In a VS, the boss fights are a 
 little quicker, but still require skill and tactics, or youll quickly find yourself on foot, and 
 vulnerable yet again. 
  
  In the technical department, Lost Planet is strong, but certainly not great. The graphics arent 
 amazing. They're not bad, but when compared to other PS3 titles such as Uncharted, they dont hold 
 up. The framerate is mostly good until you get into some big boss battles with smoke, explosions, 
 laser beams flying in every direction, and boss Akrids rolling, smashing, and shooting fire, rubble 
 or other akrid at you, at which point it will drop drastically, but not enough to make it unplayable. 
 No complaints in the sound department. The score is good, and weapon effects are good enough. 
 
  
  Overall, Lost Planet: Extreme Condition delivers an enjoyable experience. The story is kind of 
 weak in certain places, the frame rate leaves a little to be desired, and the game is just terrbily 
 short. It will leave you wanting more. But, at a $40 dollar price tag, you really cant go wrong 
 in picking it up. Im finding my second play through nearly as enjoyable as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Robot bores
  Daft story aside, you just want to shoot things and clump around in giant robots - and there's 
 plenty of that in Lost Planet. The game's main currency is T-ENG, or thermal energy, a substance 
 required for humans to survive on E. D. N. III. You're constantly running out of the stuff and have 
 to keep it topped up by defeating Akrid, who are very protective of it. This gives each level a 
 sense of urgency, because if you run out of T-ENG your health starts to deplete rapidly - but it 
 also can prove incredibly annoying. Some people like the idea and consider it one of the game's 
 most novel features, but i'm not keen. It's too much like hard work.
  Lost Planet's never really more than just a button-bashing shooter, and you never really feel like 
 you're being that imaginative - just following a defined path, killing everything you see without 
 deviation. The game could have benefited from some more puzzle and exploration elements - especially 
 given the size of the levels.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 1
Date: May 29, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I didn't even play more than 20 minutes. I rented it from my local video store and promptly exchanged 
 it. The game looks absolutely horrible. To say it is graphically inferrior to the 360 is a huge 
 understatement! The game plays from a 3rd person perspective and so you see your own player character 
 all the time. Unfortunately, the character modelling is horrendous. You can actually see the individual 
 pixels at the edges... which are rough and blocky. BLOCKY! I couldn't believe it. I don't mind 
 too much if a game doesn't look stellar. I loved Dynasty Warriors on the PS2 and absolutely love 
 GRAW2 on the PS3 eventhough it could have looked better at places, because the games are just great 
 to play. But Lost Planet for the PS3 just looks way too bad to give it any kind of chance. It actually 
 hurts to watch it. And that's not to say it's the PS3's fault. GT Prologue and Uncharted both look 
 incredible on the console, and it's not my TV because i was running it off a 32" Samsung at 720p. 
 It's just that Capcom did a very sloppy job porting the game to PS3. It's not worth playing. If 
 you're gonna buy a next-gen console im sure you're like me and you wanna play a next-gen game, 
 not some second rate -- make that something like 10th rate -- rush job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pincrup
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a great game from Capcom that is on PS3 now, almost a year after 
 it was released on XBOX 360. It is about a group of people struggling to survive in the arctice 
 wastelands. 
  For survival, it is integral that they collect heat blobs that are left by the Akrid, aliens that 
 infest this planet. The humans have VS's, or Vital Suits, that help them to survive in this desert 
 waste, and they are also vital, ironically, in killing the akrid hordes that attack the human's 
 positions regularly. You are the action member of the team, and always seem to be the one that 
 gets sent out into the field to "collect information". i. e. kill anything that comes you way, collect 
 it's heat, then report back on it. The funny thing about our hero however is that he has a strange 
 item in his arm, which is something that requires this heat source stuff to keep him alive.
  I will not talk about the stroy any more for fear of ruining it for people. However, the online 
 in this game is truly fantastic. It is so addictive it's silly and i cannot get myself off it to 
 be honest. It is fast paced, and i think the key of it is the massive range of weapons. As well 
 as all of the usual line up, assault rifles, shotguns, sniper rifles, there are a variety of futuristic 
 weaponry, such as a sniper file called the pulse rifle that fires electricity. All though the rounds 
 are slower to get to the target this particular weapon damages vehicles quite effectively. 
  There are also a number of guns that are massive, and can be found in the ground during online 
 games. 
  There is a massive shotgun for example that is a one hit kill on foot soldiers and deals heavy 
 damage to vehicles too. 
  There is the Laser rifle, one of my favourite weapons on the game, that fires a massive laser towards 
 you enemies. 
  My all time favourite weapon in the game however is the big missile launcher. You have to dig into 
 the ground for it, and i don't know why, but whenever this monster of a weapon is in my hands, 
 i just seem to be unstoppable. I can absolutely salughter people with it at alomst any range, which 
 is great. You have to time it carefully, and realise that the rockets take a little while to reach 
 their target, so getting that perfectly timed hit on a VS, taking it down to secure your victory 
 is all the more satisfying. 
  The online modes are quite expansive, all the usual numbers, but it fells good here, and with up 
 to 16 players online this game can be very hectic at times while playing online with it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerspot23
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The extreme conditions mentioned in the title are no joke. Lost Planet takes place on a planet 
 that is so cold, freezing to death would happen quite rapidly if it weren't for a strange orange 
 ooze that the local residents known as the Akrid produce and store. This thermal energy can be 
 harvested and used to keep the main character from succumbing to the elements. Unfortunately, the 
 Akrid are a collective of giant bug-like aliens who haven't bought into the human ideas of colonizing 
 and terra forming the planet. Rather than looking for a more suitable planet to colonize, humanity 
 took the next logical step; build giant mechs called vital suits and make bigger guns to fight 
 back.
  
  Lost Planet's campaign mode places you in the role of Wayne, a man whose last memory is of his 
 father being killed by a large and dangerous Akrid named Green Eye before being knocked into a 
 coma. This memory lays down the groundwork for his motivation to rid the planet of the nasty critters 
 one hive at a time which is how you spend the early portions of the game. Other characters and 
 human enemies are quickly introduced to round out the action and confuse the story, but it is the 
 gameplay that makes this title fulfilling, so let's ignore the story issues for a while.
  
  The action in Lost Planet takes place either on foot or from within one of the aforementioned vital 
 suits. The gameplay gimmick that helps to keep Lost Planet fresh is the thermal energy bar. In 
 this frozen planet, you're required to kill or be killedor freeze to death. Each enemy you take 
 down or piece of machinery you destroy leaves behind a small puddle of thermal energy that helps 
 to restore your constantly draining supply. Rather than employing a standard life bar, Lost Planet 
 opted to tie your life completely to the thermal energy. If you take a hit from an enemy, your 
 thermal energy will drain into your life bar. The energy doesn't drain fast enough to ever become 
 a serious issue in most stages, but it does provide a nice nudge to the player to keep them moving 
 along towards the next big fight. In this way, the thermal energy mechanic is an excellent addition 
 to an action game - if you don't keep moving and fighting and spend all of your time doing uneventful 
 exploring, you'll find yourself in big trouble.
  
  The weapons and vital suits also do a great job of keeping the action steady and rocking. The guns 
 have a nice variety to them, but it's the grenades and vital suits that ensure that you have the 
 firepower needed to take down anything and everything (which you can thanks to the largely destructible 
 bits of cover) . The vital suits range from simple walkers and transforming snowmobiles to chainsaw 
 equipped death machines and spider-esque drilling mechs. And the guns these vital suits come with 
 are no joke. You can equip up to two interchangeable weapons per machine, or you can rip them off 
 and tote them around on foot. These huge guns do massive damage for very satisfactory results. 
 It's a good thing too, because Lost Planet does a nice job of ramping up the intensity as the game 
 progresses, from being faced with a few car sized bugs at the beginning stages to all out war.
 
  
  One of the great parts about Lost Planet is the flexibility of the game. There is a noticeable 
 amount of depth to the combat, allowing you to tackle the same situation in a variety of ways with 
 new results each time. Much of this depth isn't readily apparent and it's only after you play through 
 the game that you gain the skills and foresight to start exploring your options for how to progress 
 through a level. Each of the different types of grenade and guns can be used in their own way with 
 different results each time. For instance, one of the first enemies you encounter resembles a pillbug 
 with a glowing tail. You can simply aim for the tail with your machine gun to target its weak point. 
 Or you can wait for it to start rolling towards you and then toss a fragment grenade in its path 
 to cause it to splay out on its back in a vulnerable position. Or you can hit them head-on with 
 the anchor as they roll towards you to stop them in their tracks. Or you can anchor onto them while 
 they are walking along and blast them with a few rounds at point blank range. You see where we're 
 going here. Towards the end of the game, much of this flexibility is lost in the all out chaos 
 that consumes you as you're attacked simultaneously by tens of powerful enemies, but that progression 
 of difficulty just makes the game more enjoyable as you move through it. 
  
  from ign. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition is a great game from Capcom that is on PS3 now, almost a year after 
 it was released on XBOX 360. It is about a group of people struggling to survive in the arctice 
 wastelands. 
  For survival, it is integral that they collect heat blobs that are left by the Akrid, aliens that 
 infest this planet. The humans have VS's, or Vital Suits, that help them to survive in this desert 
 waste, and they are also vital, ironically, in killing the akrid hordes that attack the human's 
 positions regularly. You are the action member of the team, and always seem to be the one that 
 gets sent out into the field to "collect information". i. e. kill anything that comes you way, collect 
 it's heat, then report back on it. The funny thing about our hero however is that he has a strange 
 item in his arm, which is something that requires this heat source stuff to keep him alive.
  I will not talk about the stroy any more for fear of ruining it for people. However, the online 
 in this game is truly fantastic. It is so addictive it's silly and i cannot get myself off it to 
 be honest. It is fast paced, and i think the key of it is the massive range of weapons. As well 
 as all of the usual line up, assault rifles, shotguns, sniper rifles, there are a variety of futuristic 
 weaponry, such as a sniper file called the pulse rifle that fires electricity. All though the rounds 
 are slower to get to the target this particular weapon damages vehicles quite effectively. 
  There are also a number of guns that are massive, and can be found in the ground during online 
 games. 
  There is a massive shotgun for example that is a one hit kill on foot soldiers and deals heavy 
 damage to vehicles too. 
  There is the Laser rifle, one of my favourite weapons on the game, that fires a massive laser towards 
 you enemies. 
  My all time favourite weapon in the game however is the big missile launcher. You have to dig into 
 the ground for it, and i don't know why, but whenever this monster of a weapon is in my hands, 
 i just seem to be unstoppable. I can absolutely salughter people with it at alomst any range, which 
 is great. You have to time it carefully, and realise that the rockets take a little while to reach 
 their target, so getting that perfectly timed hit on a VS, taking it down to secure your victory 
 is all the more satisfying. 
  The online modes are quite expansive, all the usual numbers, but it fells good here, and with up 
 to 16 players online this game can be very hectic at times while playing online with it. 
  Overall a very good game, and for 25 you cannot really go wrong now, can you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I first tried this game out at my cousin's house, that was on the 360. first off the story isn't 
 worth mentioning, it really doesn't matter if you get spoilers. don't expect metal gear solid, 
 this game is all about the action. it starts off a little slow paced, and takes some time to get 
 used to, but it gets addictive. the vital suits is a nice feature, for those who haven't played 
 this before, vital suits are mechs which adds a nice addition to the game. The weapons aren't anything 
 new, like resistance fall of man, but they're decent enough. The grappling hook is a nice way to 
 get around, although I wish it went further. the graphics are good, I didn't find anything different 
 about them, xbox fans might have complained if it was better anyway. I like a nice Sci-Fi shooter 
 that's not over hyped like halo. Overall this game is a nice addition to any shooter fan's collection. 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  The initial reason I bought Lost Planet was simply because of its budget price. I'd heard a few 
 good things so I figured, for 22 it's worth a shot. What I got for that money was a pretty enjoyable 
 game with some of the most badass boss fights to my memory.
  
  So the story, basically, humans are trying to tereform a planet so that everyone can live there, 
 and are constantly fighting off the planets inhabitants, the Akrid. Your character, Wayne, joins 
 a group trying to help rid the world of these Akrid, with the help of some big guns and 'VR's', 
 big robots with more big guns.
  
  The game is extremely arcade, both in feel and level setup. You'll start a mission with your 'thermal 
 energy' counting down and get more by killing enemies. When your thermal energy is gone, your life 
 will deplete, and then you'll die! You'll also be constantly spraying bullets, but there's tons 
 of ammo so you'll never really run out, and this really adds to the arcade feel. Then, at the end 
 of each stage, you'll fight a boss. This is Lost Planets strong point, as these bosses will have 
 you sweating and cursing by the end, and when the 'Mission Complete' text appears across your screen, 
 there's a real feeling of achievement. 
  
  There is an online mode, which a lot of people seem to enjoy, but for me it just seemed much too 
 slow, wandering around bland landscapes looking for someone to shoot. 
  
  So Lost Planet is definitely good, like a modern day arcade epic, but lacks any real replay value, 
 though trying to get through just the first level on the extreme difficulty setting is a game all 
 in itself. If you've got some spare cash, this is a good bit of gaming experience, but a little 
 too much repetition and a lack of that extra little something prevents this from being a must buy.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace770
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be incredibly fun, the missions will keep you thinking and there pretty long 
 too which is always a bonus in these kind of games. The graphics were very well done and i have 
 this game for the PS3, which kinda takes away from the game but it was good none the less. The 
 difficulty in this game just right and it was really good with the range of difficulty's it had 
 in the game as well. The story line is very good but it could be confusing if your not paying attention 
 at the time or if you just don't watch the cut scene's. I would suggest that you rent the game 
 first just in case you don't like, and if you do, then get out there and buy it! it is worth it 
 trust me it is a fun game to mess around in, you get to kill bugs like star-ship trooper's! The 
 robots that you can get in are just plain fun to shot people in and they have a wide variety of 
 weapons that you can put on them, plus you know its fun when you can control a robot right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet: Extreme Condition for the PS3
  
  Gameplay 9/10 x3
  Graphics 9/10 x2
  Sound 8/10 x2
  Storyline 6/10 x2
  Extra's and Replay Value 10/10 x1
  
  Lost Planet is a 
 port of the 360 version, and took forever to get here on the ps3 even though they added nothing 
 really new to the game. In this game you play as Wayne a guy who was frozen solid on a icy planet 
 the humans are trying to take over in a way. You play as Wayne in third person shooter mode which 
 is always cool and have a balanced amount of weapons to use from machine runs, rocket launchers 
 and the basics overall. Most of the guns are preety basic, with a few adding energy elements to 
 them, but overall theres only around a handful of weapons to use so its not the best, but its not 
 weak. The story lasts 11 missions ranging from 30min-1hour in length per mission so the game is 
 really short, but adds bonuses in coins to collect, but sadly there only using to unlock Lukia 
 in multiplayer and are a pain to find them all for every level. However Lukia looks amazing, so 
 in a way its probly worth it if you got the patience to look sexy. The story is way to short and 
 in the same sense offers a short storyline, which seems to fasted and in conclusion heres your 
 story kill the bad guys and the bugs the end! The games extra's add to a 10 depending on how you 
 use your time in multiplayer as its alot of fun battling anyone in the world. Theres only a few 
 mode choices like elimation and team elimation seems to be majorly popular, I do have one complaint 
 I cannot turn of the mic option if I don't want to hear people, even worse when there from another 
 country and I understand none of it. Overall Solid game thats worth the purchase since I got it 
 for $40 which is $20 cheaper them the average ps3 game. So if you like third person shooters and 
 play online I recommand getting this game. 
  
  Overall 84/100 for 8.5 on Gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  If you consider yourself a fan of blowing stuff up then lost planet is no different. It may not 
 do anything new but its a very worthy package. Lost Planet is set on the icy planet called EDN 
 3. Its very cold there and you'll need all the Thermal energy you can get to survive. You can do 
 this in many ways, Firstly you can shoot bugs called Akrid dead or you can activate Thermal posts 
 which also serve as boosters for your radar. Akrid arn't the only enemy you'll encounter. You see 
 that snow pirates and NEVEC are out to get you too. You play as Wayne Holden who wants to avenge 
 the death of his father. As soon as the game starts you hop in a super cool VS and start unleashing 
 hell on all who dare cross your path. The Akrid boss battles are the best bit of the game. For 
 example you have to shoot at the boss, s legs weak points then he will fall down allowing you to 
 shoot at his vulnerable head. In my point of view the graphics are better than 360. Multiplayer 
 is very fun too. As you level up you get more skins for your character and although you cant do 
 offline its still a blast to play. Overall Lost Planet is a solid action game that will appeal 
 to anyone who's loved explosions and pretty enviroments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Lost Planet Extreme Condition is like probably the best game of its kind, its a knock off of Halo 
 sort of I guess. This game takes you to the future warfare and uses machanical devices and all 
 these gizmos. The compain mode is very good, extrememly convincing, and the only bad thing is that 
 the game is to short just like Call Of Duty 4, but it still sums up to the value of the game. Anyways, 
 let's start with the single player, it's a nice start to the game. One of the things I always say 
 is start and finish the compain mode before you go online and play, because it trains you for future 
 battles agianst others, online. Anyways, for me, this is just a great overall third person shooter, 
 and for me I really only like first person shooters. I have player socom and others like that, 
 but I would have to say this game is probably the best third person shooter on the market. I am 
 glad to see this game, and I hope they make a second one, because I will buy it, thanks capcom, 
 and other creaters of the game, theres a few bugs, but overall the game is fun and solid. 8.5/10 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying this. I Hate Lost Planet. I won't let that make my review overly 
 biased, but it does come into play. I can't believe Capcom made such a tragically bad game.
  
  To start with, I thought what I assume a lot of ps3 owners thought "if this game is ported 
 from 360 to ps3 it must be good" Boy was I wrong.
  
  There's really nothing about Lost planet that makes it stand out. It plays somewhat like star wars 
 battlefront, but without the awesome battles. The graphics aren't the greatest, but I don't usually 
 critisize games for that. Now let's get to the gameplay itself. With an incredibly boring, and 
 (thankfully) short Campaign, you could rent this game and beat it in about 5 hours. Why you would 
 want to own it is beyond me.
  
  It's little things in the game that really annoy, similar to the exploding enemies in Jericho, 
 Lost planet is filled with obnoxious enemies (such as a giant worm) that make your character trip 
 every ten seconds (no I'm not exaggerating) and while yes, a giant worm would make a regular person 
 trip if it came out of the ground, why go for realism in that sense, when we're playing a game 
 with a giant worm in it in the first place. The weapons are lame... similar to Contra, but Contra 
 was good. You play using a handful of weapons, one or two of which are actually useful. Walk through 
 a level, killing the same enemies over, and over again, until you fight a usually bland boss, and 
 watch a choppy, uninspired cutscene.
  
  Lost planet is the first game I've ever returned/traded. It's just THAT bad. Why it was ported 
 I'll never understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espoac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet is a simple game. You're a dude with a chip on his shoulder and a big gun and you've 
 come to kills some bugs... lot's of bugs. That may seem like an oversimplification and in fact it 
 may be. The game does have a plot which attempts to give you motive to go on your giant bug-killing 
 quest, but good luck trying to get me to recant any intricate details about the characters or setting 
 of Lost Planet. The dialogue in the game's cutscenes is so cheesy (not in an endeering way) and 
 jumbled that it no matter how badly the Japanese-English translation was handled there's no doubt 
 this game's dialogue sounded bad in Japanese. By the time you're two hours into the game you'll 
 stop caring about the story.
  Luckily the gameplay fares much better than the story, but in my opinion not better enough. Aiming 
 is done extremely well and it's hard to imagine drawing a bead on the Akrid's immensley obvious 
 weak spots being any easier. The grappling hook is also a nice edition but most of the environments 
 fail to make great use of it and its range is so short you won't be finding yourself zipping across 
 any great distances. This is a shame since the environments are so large. Lost Planet's greatest 
 problems come from character movement. Although the controls are responsive, your onscreen character 
 takes so long to react to them reacting to the melee attacks of the Akrid can be ridiculously difficult. 
 You'll find you're self being knocked down more than you than you'll find yourself standing, battling 
 an enemy. This is complicated by the excessive particle effects which often cloud your view. This 
 flaw quickly zaps the fun out of most of the more epic battles . While the particle effects impede 
 gameplay they are probably the best looking part of rather average graphics. Textures and lighting 
 are sub-par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frizbee_Spazz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  ok so I statred off playing story mode got mad at the controls right away then just sat back and 
 watched my husband play. I hade no intention of even playing the game at all. story mode very bland 
 and not to exciting. so one day were like lets check out online battles. So i sat back and watched 
 my husband play online for about a week started getting mad cause hes was always on playing. so 
 i jumed in and now you cant pull me away. the levels are easy to navagate, I wish there was a few 
 more weapons/gernades to play with, but i do really enjoy the ones that they do have. all the modes 
 for online battles are enjoyable, but the server can be crappy at times and youll have some failed 
 connections, bluetooth capable so you can talk with teammates, very fun and cool to play with people 
 all over the world. I suggest if you dont like playing online battles with other people this games 
 not for you. So if ya get the game be prepaired to be addicted. and check for me SpazMaticFrizbee 
 im rating the game an 8 for online and not story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game although it did have a couple flaws, but nothing so bad that it affected gamplay. 
 Most mech games dont do very well due to lack of variety or overcomplicated gameplay. This game 
 varies it up with about 8 different mechs and also the shooter aspect which is about half of the 
 game. Many different weapons for both mechs and human, also the ability to use the mech weapons 
 as a human player is pretty cool. The heat collection part of the game only came into play a couple 
 times in the game, there is always more than enough heat to collect. The story is very good, although 
 its nothing epic like God of War or Resistance. Cutscenes are done very well, but the facial expressions 
 and mouth movement would ahve used a little work. This was kinda a run and gun game with very little 
 strategy involved. The mechs and human players move WAY too slow, but so does the enemy so it works 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryutekken
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  this is a game set in some kind of future on a desolate planet, woo hoo can someone say clique? 
 your a guy named wayne who lost his memory (for reasons i cant say) but ruins that whole concept 
 by letting you play the event just before you went into a coma and got amnesia (oh smart there 
 capcom) . so incidently you already know more about this wayne guy than he knows, well atleast a 
 little more than he knows, not much though. so you group with a random trio that finds, and revives, 
 you. from then on you go into commando mode and go "army of one" on your enemies (as is always 
 with a not so thought out game) . the whole one man army thing is a very old clique but what can 
 you do. so you set off to kill akrid (giant native insectoid monsters) which harness some kind 
 of slimey, lava-looking, thermal energy that basically SUPPORTS ALL OF LIFE on this icy planet. 
 to kill these beasts (who i remind you are the NATIVE RESIDENCE OF THIS PLANET) you are armed with 
 a very very VERY strict choice of weapons: a machine gun, shotgun, rocket laucher, laser gun (that 
 shoots spheres of energy) , and a laser sniper ... along with an assortment of grenades. you also 
 will, at times, have at your disposal a VS which is basically a very simplistic MECH of games like 
 Armored Core and so on. there are also a few variations of VS's to choose from and of course you 
 only get the stronger ones as you progress in the game. so while playing the game you are set as 
 the one man army that must basically kill monsters to absorb their energy, kill other humans (its 
 okay they are evil) , blow up VS's, or shoot up tanks, drum barrels, or random scrap heaps to keep 
 a steady supply of T-ENG (thermal energy) . the thermal energy acts as some what of a STAMINA of 
 sorts to your body (think literally, you can only last so long in negative degree weather without 
 heat) . without the thermal energy you will slowly die, but with it you will self-heal wounds from 
 battle. the T-ENG also is consumed IN LARGE AMMOUNTS to use different lasers and VS's (both of 
 which when you have none they will stop working entirely) . the game also supplies you with a grappling 
 hook for their take on a Tenchu game or from Batman, sadly, though helpful, the potential for this 
 tool is less than it could be (it will make you jump akwardly and make you zipline down ledges 
 when completely useless since you dont take damage from jumping off 300 foot cliffs) . also scattered 
 hidden over every level, are coins that should be shot that if you take on the insane task (shoot 
 every single one in a row from each level of a shared difficulty) you unlock Luka as your online 
 character (which unless your a girl or a weird perv ... is pretty lack-luster for what you must 
 achieve to get it) . a big joke though is the weapons, besides the extreme lack of variety, on foot 
 a standard set up of machinegun and rocket launcher will be a combo you CAN easily use for the 
 entire game, while though it is better to use the newer models of VS's as you get access to them, 
 a standard gattling gun and rocket launcher attachment is all you need to beat the game. one other 
 thing that i have heard pointed out is the lengthly "stand up animation". the problem is when you 
 are shot by a high impact (say rocket, grenade, high power laser, explosion) you make a movie-esque 
 action of being blown away and then roll a few times on the ground, then slowly get back to your 
 feet (which takes about 3 seconds) and though it sounds like not much, when you have a few VS's 
 or a big Akrid staring you down those 5 seconds of flying and standing up is all you need for them 
 to get a second shot on you to kill your tiny remaining smidge of heath (which very slowly recharges 
 from your T-ENG) . oh and did i forget to mention when your health drops down to zero (no matter 
 how much T-ENG you have) you still die. so both of those together makes for MANY MANY frustrating 
 scenarios, which WILL drive you insane over having your character idiotically stand dumbfounded 
 right after being shot at, with the frequency of grenade lobbing online and basically any high 
 impact weapon. one other major flaw is online; no matter how populated a match is there will always 
 be a very long calm before the storm. you can easily walk around for atleast a minute (or more 
 if your that unlucky) without seeing an enemy (or sometimes even a teammate) , though for some reason 
 you can hear explosions and grappling hooks from people who are across the map, as if they were 
 2 feet behind you. also with the idiotic ps3 match making system of playing online, though thankfully 
 Lost Planet added in a mini list of 16 servers of the hundreds your ps3 picked from, there seem 
 to be an abundance of japanese players, which makes for lots of laggy situations that i havent 
 seen since games ide play online with my ps2. 
  i forgot though to mention the graphics, as are most games the cinematics are AMAZING while in 
 game graphics are the norm of what youd expect from any next gen game. oddly though with the frequent 
 switches from snow white to dark caves i was sometimes confused as to see where things were as 
 if i were to shut off the lights and then back on and off repeatedly (but without having your eyes 
 adjust at all) . im not sure if this was intended as a kind of realistic look, as if you were really 
 in the situation of snow storms and dark caves, but it does add to the annoyance when being shot 
 from the shadows or banks of snow in a blizzard.
  
  through flaws and all this game is quite good.
  suprisingly days after release i saw it for 39.99 
 instead of the normal 59.99 that next-gen games sell for.
  i didnt really understand this but maybe capcom was cutting short for some reason.
  this game 
 might not be the best out there but its worth to any people who like shooters (and for 39.99 is 
 worth it at only 75% the price of other next gen games)
  decent graphics, clique game play, new look on the clique game play, good mix of on foot and mech 
 fighting, a decent plot (that i didnt wana ruin too badly) , and a few annoyances.
  this game earns a solid 8
  
  thanks for reading
  
  PS - did anyone play the game Monster 
 Hunter for the PS2 ... it was a game not many liked but i LOVED. if anyone has played it ... the 
 body animations from Lost Planet were almost 90% taken from that game, especially the very distinctive 
 "throwing", "rolling", and the slow "falling and getting up" animation. just a little sad they 
 took animations from such an older game for a NEXT GEN GAME ... ESPECIALLY WHEN THEY SAID YEARS 
 BACK THAT THEY WOULD MAKE A SEQUEL TO IT ... and never did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo and the only thing that sucks about the game is the load times and Network Stability. I 
 liked the play control and the graphics. So why are you people complaining about this game?.. Are 
 you afraid that you just got your ass kicked by us real players lol. Give me a Break! LMAO!."Here 
 a helpful answer for you. "Practice Makes Prefect Sense! ".. I'll tell you one thing There is to 
 many 1st person shooters on the PS3! And I'm getting sick in tired of games that are unoriginal 
 and are just copycats from the Xbox360!.. I think its now time for a change! I mean why can't they 
 make games that you can choose the way you want your camera view from 1st to 3rd person Duh!. Then 
 I wouldn't be complaining now. But Sony Computer Entertainment Of America is Horrible when it comes 
 down to what the Consumer base fan wants. 3rd person shooters Sony! Gee really how hard is it to 
 unscrew a light bulb?. But I'm kinda wondering is this the the future of games? All going to 1st 
 person shooter style now boring !! And Unoriginal SCEA!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Around one year ago Lost Planet arrived on Xbox 360 and PC to some extent, well recieved. Shame 
 I can't say the same about the PS3 version of Lost Planet. 
  
  The storyline is insane. It is the most gravitationally flip-sided roller coaster of crazy storylines 
 ever written, so much so it makes the entire TV programme of Lost seem as easy to read as Goldilocks 
 and the three bears. It fails to engage you in the plot and somehow, in some cases freezes you 
 out as if it doesn't want to let you know what the bloody hell is going on.
  
  This isn't helped by you're average Japanese-English translations of hammy dialogue which grows 
 so cheesy it begins to kick up an odour. I also felt no attatchment to any of the characters and 
 am not likely to remember who the hell the are.
  
  At a glance it looks very nice, but doesn't surpass the likes of Call of Duty 4, Uncharted or even 
 Resistance. It is a year old, and already it is starting to look it's age. Kind of. If this came 
 out a year ago on PS3, I'd perhaps consider being impressed.
  
  That's another thing that really aggrovates me, it's a year old game and there's hardly anything 
 to show for it. Many critics slammed the game for having a short single player campaign and scatter 
 brain story, I'm just stunned this hasn't been addressed over the period of 12 months. There should 
 have been bonus content there or something.
  
  I didn't like the multiplayer online either. As solid as it is and as skillfully tactical it can 
 become, I feel it just doesn't stand as strongly as Call of Duty and Resistance, and doesn't have 
 the same intense rush as those games either. The online is good, and a definite high point of the 
 overall game, but feels a shortcoming compared to the heavyweights.
  
  Another thing I like about Lost Planet are the mechs, better than Armoured Core 4 and reminsant 
 of Zone of the Enders, just a lot slower, but to compensate, have kick ass weapons. The shooting 
 is pretty soild too, and there is always plenty on screen to obliterate.
  
  I'm not saying Lost Planet is a terrible game, it just seems very lowkey compared to mega-uber 
 blockbusters COD4 and Resistance and that in the time it took to release, why it Capcom didn't 
 stuff it full of extras and bonus content to justify a 12 month wait. However, definately worth 
 a play for any trigger-happy player at the slimmer price of 25, you can't really go wrong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perfect
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  For my first review of a game I have to say that this game is addictive in multiplayer yet seems 
 a little easy for the main campaign. At first I really wasn't interested in this game but after 
 downloading the demo on the playstation store, I found myself thoroughly enjoying it and ultimately 
 picking it up. Most people are harping about the graphics and the installation process. Well, I 
 agree to the graphics but not installation 
  this is a next gen system but remember playstation two had less than great graphics in the beginning 
 ( Try playing red faction or any of the other beginning titles for that system now see if you don't 
 frown) . My point is give these games time and the larger than life quality graphics will come. 
 To be honest, but also because I don't own a xbox 360 to compare them to frame for frame, I thought 
 the graphics were tight. But it still wouldn't matter i'm not going to feed into the graphics monster 
 comparison. 
  I will say that for all this technology talk this and that there is an installation process that 
 imo shouldn't exist. Is the process necessary if it only shave a few seconds off the loading time, 
 or can I stomach it like I use to when I could get two controllers with a system and just buy the 
 game as is without a patch this or 99 cent that for additional content. I don't mind a mini game 
 during a load screen. Yet strangely enough we've forgotten our thumb burn and even the nauseating 
 sickness that came from golden eye. 
  Lost planet is a throwback to those games and though it isn't perfect and I did die a lot during 
 multiplayer, I had fun and no amount of system comparison or disorienting smoke can change that. 
 Rent it, buy it, but at least try it.
  Mistamanperfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I cant add anything that other reviews have written so I won't, But i will take a momment to exspress 
 my dis taste at the greed and apparent hatred towards the PS3 of late.. 
  
  I would be the first to admit I want games for my wonderful black box, but not at the exspense 
 of quality and great game play. My feelings are if you didnt develop for the PS3 in the first place 
 then just leave it alone instead of making a half assed ports for it.
  I am not saying that all ports are bad but EA and now capcom have just taking a few great games 
 and rushed them to get money instead of making the games compete or better yet give great game 
 exspierences to the gamer. seeing that these new generation games cost us 10-20 dollars more a 
 piece i exspect to get my money's worth. Not just to get a game rushed to get it on the market 
 for a newer system.
  
  I just cant blame the developers, I also can be angry at sony for allowing this crap to be ported 
 to a system thye know can out preform any other console on the market if the material is developed 
 for it. So Sony lets quit with the half -assed stuff and mandate great materail or leace it for 
 the other consoles instead of ruining the rep of the PS3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is a BAD port, plain and simple. I played the original when it came out and figured I'd have 
 another go at it on my PS3, . . . I returned it less than 24 hours later. Shame on them for even 
 putting this out. I have been hearing on a few other sites like GP, how the 360 is falling behind 
 in the port department, and I have to say for ever great port from the 360, there are 3 that stink. 
 I am very lucky to have all 3 consoles, so if you must play this game and don't have a 360, . . 
 . sorry, no can do, don't waste your money. Why do they even have to bother porting old games anyway? 
 The game on the PS3 looks good enough at times, . . detailed and very atmospheric. I mean I liked 
 the game enough on the 360 to go out and buy it again for the PS3, so I guess that tells you something. 
 THe controls take a few minutes to get use to, but for the most part are very intuitive. I have 
 a DS3 controller , and I do believe that the rumble on the DS3 is superior to the rumble on the 
 360, . . much more separation between the two sides, and it really immerses you more than the big 
 blob of rumble on the 360. It's just really fine tuned. I would advise anyone that doesn't have 
 a DS3 to get one before playing THIS game, or any other game for that matter that supports it. 
 If you don't know anything about this game, you spend a great deal of time outside, . . in the 
 snow, and unlike some other games that I remember being in the snow, the shading and detail of 
 the snow and ice look great.. . . so great, that I think you should rent it. . . . NOT buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSasuke08
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game with no idea i what to do but found it fast paced and easy to get used 
 to i found the story itself rather interesting although short.
  The graphics are very good from the snow in the sky to the clothes on waynes back.
  upon completion 
 of the game I found that it is very reliant on the Vital Suits (VS) against the bosses which makes 
 it easy to finish the story.
  
  I would advise buying this game just to play it online it's tons of fun the points and awards system 
 is cool, you can pick your character from one of the snow pirates and as you level up by fighting 
 people you get more charcters and patterns for them and it is also a great place to meet many new 
 and interesting people from all over the world.
  
  This is my first review so let me know what you think and if you own the game add me and lets fights 
 sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN9800
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Lost Planet came out on 360 roughly a year ago now capcom have decided to port over its arctic 
 shooter to the PS3 with some decent results. The best way to describe lost planet is conundrum 
 it takes quite a while to wrap your head around the controls, which is this games first fatal flaw. 
 The controls are so awkward take for example zooming in and out is handled with the D-pad instead 
 of clicking the R3 this will frustrate many shooter fans like myself but you eventually get use 
 to it. Aiming is also some what weird its really hard to describe it in words but play something 
 like gears of war or ghost recon and then jump into Lost Planet you'll understand. The difficulty 
 of the game is also in question, in traditional capcom fashion each boss has a pattern that you 
 must learn but what makes this game so frustrating is getting shot and stumbling, it seems Wayne 
 the main protagonist of LP has legs made of noodles because he stumbles for everything an enemy 
 slams his feet he stumbles, you get shot you get stunned and slow down for a couple of seconds 
 which makes firefights some what a pain. Like traditional shooters you have a rebounding health 
 meter but here you need Thermal Energy. Thermal Energy is very much mana in this game you need 
 it to get your health back, want to pilot mechs you need TE, but fortunately there is plenty of 
 TE to go around because everytime you kill an enemy they drop TE. Lost Planet length may vary on 
 your skill I clocked in around 4 hours and 53 minutes, after you've beaten the game there really 
 isn't and reason to go back. You'll probably get more play time out of the lost planet's multiplayer 
 which is surprisingly good you get your standard modes team deathmatch and deathmatch but no capture 
 the flag instead you get Post grap which is very much territory from battlefield. Overall Lost 
 Planet is a decent game the good news is that its going at a budget price of 40 dollars but its 
 still hard to recommend I suggest rent it first and if you get into the Muiltiplayer then go for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy Lost Planet so much, the fact i can hold mass ammo cartridges as well as use a mech suit 
 against waves of enemies excites me, it really gives you a nice challenge, and its not to tough 
 either, the boss fights prove a bit to tough somethmes though, but hey the game can be beat, and 
 also i find the mix between Aliens and Humans to be interesting, you gotta swap tactics for each 
 kinda, and its never an easy fight for the Akrid, creating tense situations which if close range 
 are usually fatal, while open combat is easy, which is the exact opposite for the Humans. The plot 
 for the storyline is enticing, and it held me on through out the story, its not complexed but you 
 can understand it thats for sure. The online is frantic, fast paced, and alot of fun, you cant 
 do just one game on it, and including the Havoks engine to the game makes the online and offline 
 quite interesting, since cover can be blown as well as boulders falling down on you. All a all 
 i find this game satisfying and a solid game added to the PS3 from the 360, and im glad i get to 
 play it.
  
  Thanks Capcom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake0084
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  I am already at least half way through the game and already it has become one of my favorite games. 
 its story line isn't to complex and the gameplay is very fun. Even if your not a big fan of the 
 campaign mode the online gameplay is very fun. You can have up to 16 players with different types 
 of battle modes. this game is not a very easy one though. it can get very challenging at times, 
 such as lots of enemies attacking you at once. It may be hard but no where near impossible to beat, 
 you just gotta be careful and make good decisions. the snow and glaciers give you that feeling 
 your in a very cold spot lol. Also missions in this game can take up to nearly an hour to complete 
 but it autosaves for you through parts of the mission. if you get right near the end of a mission 
 but have to leave.. dont worry lol you'll be right there or very close to there when you go to play 
 again. if your looking for a challenging game or a good online game then i suggest you give lost 
 planet a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Well, from what i gathered so far by searching the gamespot forums, etc etc, not alot of people 
 find this game that good, however, i just think they're afraid that the previously 360 exclusive 
 has gone multiplatform. But fanboyism aside, no offence to anyone, i think this game was great. 
 
  Many people have been complaining about the controls, i dont know what they were talking about, 
 they were pretty tight for me, i mean, before i configured the crossheirs to move faster i thought 
 it was a bit sluggish, now im blasting my way through giant bugs and thousands of pirates. I mean, 
 sure maybe those who had the 360 version would find this control scheme awkward, but for those 
 who dont, they could easily grow onto it and becomg pros.
  The sound was EXCELLENT, nice surround sound. i could tell where the aliens were just by listening. 
 Also, the rumbling sound of avalanches coming, the distant exlposions and snarls/growls of unknown 
 beasties are definitly a treat for the ears.
  Graphically, Lost Plant is impressive, The snow effects made me feel like i was looking at a frozen 
 wasteland. Motion blur effects are added to increase the eye candy. Oh and did i mention how the 
 explosions are so good looking that you may actually chuck a grenade at you're own fet to take 
 a look?
  The design for each character, monster and level are spot on. The detailed level designs bring 
 the game to life ,along with witty characters with great animation. Suprisingly, even the minor 
 monsters are detailed and you can easily tell them apart from eachother. It makes each one unique. 
 
  However, there are some minor flaws which prevent this game from reaching its FULL potential, the 
 linear glameplay isn't so great, kinda like heading from point A to B. Several Physics flaws like 
 rocks dissappearing as they run down a hill or being able to walk trhough a thick metal dorr that 
 you just busted down. But these problems don't make the game bad and you will soon forget about 
 them as you go along.
  I don't really know what else to say about this game, but it's a definite Reccomendation, it will 
 keep you busy for days on end with its stellar Online and replayable single player. Hopefully, 
 you (the reader) are not one of those who will quickly judge a game by how it feels, looks or sounds 
 before getting to know it better. So whatcha waiting for? go get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slartyman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I haven't finished the game -and probably won't now- but you should be aware of the following design 
 decisions before you buy or rent this dog. 
  
  After the initial cut-scene, you are face to face with a six-story lizard thingie, and armed with 
 a weapon that does ABSOLUTELY NO DAMAGE to your enemy. This is a shooter, so you might leap to 
 the assumption that....... you're supposed to shoot and defeat this enemy. Neither assumption is 
 correct; you're actually supposed to run away until you're LED to baby mechs called VS machines. 
 You climb in, jump off a ledge, shoot a few rounds into the lizard (where? You're not told) . But 
 eventually the thing slugs you, in runs your Dad in another suit, so he can be killed. Then even 
 though the lizard is apparently undamaged, you next appear outside the building, struggling through 
 the snow, only to collapse. 
  
  The stupidity goes on. The only way to make your maps work is to find and pump up these map device 
 towers. No batteries? Someone went to the trouble of putting these things out there BUT THEY DIDN'T 
 LEAVE THEM ON?
  
  After slogging around (the schmuck runs like he's knee-deep in mud all the time) easily killing 
 the never-ending stream of flying beasties (can you say Atari 2600?) , you end up trapped in an 
 underground cave with the first boss. The room has a pretty good supply of weaponry...... except 
 that only one weapon in the cave can actually kill the boss -- the rocket launcher. There are two 
 VS suits in there as well, and eventually you might be able to bring it down with both of them. 
 But the rocket launcher is the right tool for the job. Imagine my surprise when I found out (by 
 trial-and-die) that THE ROCKET LAUNCHER DOESN'T RELOAD AUTOMATICALLY!! The fire button has to be 
 pressed again, after you fire, to reload the damn thing. Hmmm. Technology to take us to other star 
 systems..... and no auto re-load on our rocket launchers. Hmmm. Mechs equipped with machine cannons 
 that AREN'T heavy enough to kill the bad guys we find.... and we don't put BIGGER GUNS on the mechs??!! 
 Hmmm.
  
  The stupid design decisions continue. After you kill the boss (By shooting it's ass off -- no lie!) 
 the NOW-DEAD BOSS ROLLS AROUND THE ROOM ONCE OR TWICE AND CAN KILL YOU!!!! There's no reason to 
 support design houses that make ridiculous choices like this. These decisions appear to have been 
 made solely to "hard" the game up. The graphics are OK, but not cutting edge. The dialog sounds 
 like directly-translated Japanese -- 'We must work together', 'Squad B, report in', that kind of 
 thing. Rent it if you're feeling masochistic, but for crying out loud DON'T BUY IT!!! It's not 
 even worth the reduced price point of $40 (which, looking back, should have been a clue!) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
