-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost: Via Domus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/lost/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Environments and lighting are impressive.
 Story fits into the overall first two seasons very well.
 Flashbacks fit well with the character and the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Character models don't look quite right.
 Overpriced for a short game with no replay value.
 Lip-synching is off.
 Animations look stiff and bland.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 314 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This short adventure game nails the feel of both the show and the island on which it's set, but 
 struggles with some of the characters. 

  According to the television show  Lost , in 2004, Oceanic Airlines flight 815 crashed somewhere 
 in the Pacific Ocean. Whether you think the survivors are stranded on an island or bottled up in 
 a different location, Ubisoft has added one more survivor to the mix in its latest adventure game. 
 Lost: Via Domus tells a good story, but it's far too short to justify the game's price of admission. 

  In Lost: Via Domus, you take control of an amnesiac photojournalist who was also aboard the fateful 
 transpacific flight. During the game you must slowly regain your identity through completing quests, 
 talking with the other survivors, and correctly identifying clues during flashbacks. Early on you 
 find out you had a camera on the plane with you. Evidently one of your photographs made another 
 survivor mad enough to want to destroy the photograph and kill you. The events in the story unfold 
 in a great parallel to the TV series. Most of the game's storyline occurs during the first two 
 seasons of the show, but characters appearing in season three of the show are also included in 
 encounters and exposition. The core characters are all there: Jack, Locke, Kate, Sawyer, Charlie, 
 Claire, Sun, Jin, Hurley, and Sayid. Tom, Ben, and Juliet -- of the Others -- appear as well to ensure 
 that the hostile, we-were-here-before-you storyline is kept alive and well.  

           Fans of the show will recognize plenty of characters and locations.      

  The environments 
 are hands down the best-looking part of the game, particularly on the PlayStation 3. The as-seen-on- 
 Lost  locations and the few new environments are beautifully and accurately rendered. The lighting, 
 feel, and sounds of the environment are all spot-on. Frequently, we found ourselves walking out 
 to precipices just to take in the sights or zooming in with our camera to see how detailed the 
 hatch's bookshelves were. The crash site looks true to the show's pilot episode, even if the chaotic 
 initial few minutes don't play out exactly as they do in the TV series. The areas look great, and 
 their diversity keeps you from feeling like you're spending too much time in one place.  

  The biggest problem is that there is not enough gameplay to fill more than seven hours, even if 
 you go out of your way to find all of the Easter eggs, take in all of the sights, and unlock all 
 of the achievements available on the Xbox 360. The bartering, exploring, hot-wiring, and occasional 
 pistol-firing sequences are all a clear part of the  Lost  milieu. You'll spend so much time in 
 the fuse-plugging minigames, though, that you'll feel like an electrician by the end of your adventure. 
 That's because the same minigame is played when you need to access everything from old hatches 
 on the island to the crashed jetliner's fuselage.  

  One standout portion of the gameplay is the way photography is used in the playable flashback sequences. 
 At the outset of each trip down memory lane, you get a glimpse of a torn-up photograph. From that 
 flash, you have to use your camera to take a picture to match the broken image as the sequence 
 of events plays out. The same sequence will loop repeatedly for you as you try to zoom, focus, 
 and position the framing to match what the image was. Upon successfully capturing the required 
 image, you are then treated to a cutscene with a portion of the main character's backstory. The 
 whole premise makes flashbacks interesting, immersive, and enjoyable. The fact that flashbacks 
 fit so well within the main character's photojournalist vocation also makes the functionality feel 
 natural and engaging.  

  Interacting with the cast should be enjoyable, but that isn't always the case. Your character's 
 dialogue isn't always voiced, but when it is, his comments are often natural and believable. At 
 other times, however, his remarks get repetitious. The voice acting in Lost: Via Domus is generally 
 decent, but the lip-synching leaves a lot to be desired. Aside from the occasionally great delivery 
 by Hurley or the infrequent encounters with the Others, most of the exchanges look and feel flat. 
 Even the nicknames delivered by Sawyer crash and burn most of the time. The characters are instantly 
 recognizable but generally fail to do their real-life counterparts justice. Also, the 360 version 
 has some instances of inconsistent shading on the characters' faces.  

           You'll get the same Lost: Via Domus experience regardless of which platform you choose 
 to play on.      

  All three versions of Lost: Via Domus look and perform in a similar manner. The PlayStation 3 version 
 looks a little cleaner and brighter than the others, but it can be played only after a seven-minute, 
 onetime install. The PC version allows for seamless mouse-and-keyboard controls. The Xbox 360 version 
 looks a little darker than the others. Still, you'll get the same story and a pretty similar experience 
 on every platform.  

  For the most diehard of  Lost  followers, the time spent with the game will be enjoyable. Unfortunately, 
 it is over way too fast. Via Domus is full of little hang-ups, and it requires some knowledge of 
 the show that could potentially isolate outside players and keep them from becoming immersed in 
 the gameworld. Ultimately, this game can be recommended for purchase only to the most diehard of 
  Lost  fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Now I myself am a huge fan of the show, and that probably contributes a good 3 points to the score. 
 So if I wasn't a fan of the series, this game would only be worth a rental.
  there are numerous problems to the game itself, but almost all of them are occasional lip syncing 
 issues or some frame rate collapses, these problems always fixed themselves after about 3 seconds, 
 so they didn't really bother me.
  then there's the gun play, this is I'm sad to say, a tacked on feature. the shooting is slow paced 
 and there's small amounts of realism to it. you can shoot someone in the hand twice or the head 
 twice, it's always a two hit kill, no matter what. though, unlike most shooters, this game does 
 succeed in making you feel like an actual person. Lets face it, in real life, games don't play 
 liike james bond games or halo, you get shot and your down for the count. In real life, you can't 
 take the full clip of a gun and survive, you don't recharge your health 5 seconds after you've 
 been shot, and you don't pick up magically placed health canisters, you suffer.
  now to give some games some credit, what fun is a game that you just sit there watching your characeter 
 lay dying on the ground, but at least wait a while before you recharge your health. That's what 
 Lost does.
  Okay, I'm done being negative, lets look at the positives.
  If you like games that have puzzles that truly immerse you and make you think, not like Fracture 
 (new game produced by Lucasarts) where you stand next to a wall say I'll raise the terrain and 
 be done with it. No, this game makes you think and also forces you to be patient.
  Now Lost fans out there, your going to know what I'm talking about, if your not a Lost fan read 
 this, but you might only understand that you have to be patient not how well mixed together this 
 story is. Artz god rest his soul, you remember him? Yeah well you've basically got to do what he 
 did, without killing yourself. If you start to run while carrying the "stuff" (I say this so as 
 to not spoil the plot) you will die.
  So you have to walk through the forest, being chased by the "monster" ( once again Lost fans *wink 
 wink) and if you run you die.
  The story though short, is very in depth and thought through, and really that's what it comes down 
 to, this game was to short.
  So, great buy for Lost fans, and I'd still recommend a rental from anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnytrace
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying that this game is very underrated and a must buy for lost fans. The game 
 focuses around Elliot Maslow. A photographer with amnesia. The game all around is a must buy for 
 Lost fans, but not a must buy by itself. However, it does not lack entertainment. 
  
  The Good: Captures the element of the tv show. Good, unique control. Cool gameplay. Not too easy 
 and not too hard.
  
  The Bad: Not long enough, you will probably complete in at most 2 days. A small bit to easy to 
 die. Bad Graphics for the PS3. No time to roam around free, all objectives. 
  
  Overall, I say definetly at least rent this game because of the similarity to the show. It isn't 
 as bad as you think, and it deserves to have at least 1 playthrough. I would give Lost: Via Domus 
 a **** of ***** rating. At least check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  You know there is a problem with a game when it's completely linear, devoid of any complex combat 
 or enemies, riddled with simple elementry puzzles, and short.
  
  You really know there is a problem when you've played a fan-made CounterStrike Source mod of the 
 Lost island that allows you to do more in the Swan Station than what you do in the entire game 
 of Lost Via Domus. In the mod version of Lost, not only can you play music from the record player, 
 take an AK 47 from the armory, you can also watch all the stuff in the Swan get sucked towards 
 the electromagnetic thingy when you don't enter the numbers and see a blue sky event. In the official 
 Lost game, made by an actual company with an actual budget, the Swan is a static set piece with 
 nothing to do but a puzzle that appears over and over again throughout the short and quest-for-easy-money 
 game. If you don't enter the numbers, instead the screen blacks out. No cool display of physics 
 as stuff goes flying across the room, nothing.
  
  Moving onto gameplay. Via Domus is very simple. You pretty much run around going from point A to 
 point B. There are a couple of rare points in the game where you can shoot people, but it's rare.
 
  
  I don't think this game deserves anymore time. I'll finish by saying that the only point of the 
 game is to get your fix of Lost set piece ejaculate.
  
  I don't recommend touching this game unless you get it for free somehow. Even then, it's probably 
 better not to waste your time and just watch the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Reviewed
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  To begin with this game actually has a very good opening. Where the plane crashes onto the island. 
 For the first few minutes I thought: "Perhaps this game might actually be good." I now slap myself 
 for even thinking that! Let's be honest nobody really had high hopes for this game. Those who bought 
 it we're guessing were fans of the TV series and curious about the game. How would we know this 
 you ask? Well we did it for he exact same reason
  
  THE STORY
  
  You play a journalist who is suffering from amnesia and has never been seen in the TV series (First 
 mistake) Throughout the game you try to uncover his past. The game spans out through the first 
 3 seasons but merely comments on the major events of the TV series. In the game you come across 
 such characters as Jack, Locke, Kate, Sawyer, Hurley, Savid, Ben and Juliet.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  -The story is quite intriguing as you would expect from LOST. This is really the only thing 
 that will see you through to the end of the game.
  
  -The graphics are also pretty decent despite the odd tree. The character models look reasonably 
 realistic due to this and many area's seen in the TV show will also be immediately recognisable. 
 
  
  THE BAD
  
  -First things first the game is far too short. It took us around 4 to 5 hours to complete and since 
 it offers no replay ability this will be all the game time you get out of it.
  
  -You may think LOST would make good use of the island. Allowing you to explore at your leisure 
 but alas there are 'invisible walls' keeping you on a set track step to far away (a meter should 
 to it) and you will be unable to move except in the one direction which takes you back to the set 
 track
  
  -Another thing to mention here is the content of the game. This game consists off buying items 
 from characters and finding out information. To do this it will involve a selection of mini-games 
 such as escaping the smoke monster or connecting a fuse box using your knowledge of maths. There 
 are only around three mini games so they are constantly repeated throughout the entire game with 
 very little variation. On top of them being repetitive they are also just plain dull! You get to 
 use maths yey! (that was sarcasm) and hide in trees until the monsters not looking. You even get 
 to follow a dog!
  
  -The characters despite looking realistic sound terrible. Desmond and Juliet are the only characters 
 to actually be voiced by the people they are played by. The characters range from Jack who is borderline 
 acceptable to Sawyer , Locke and Hurley who sound unrecognisable in every way!
  
  -Finally this game never lets you play through any key LOST events. Your character seems to just 
 miss them. You only ever here of them in passing when communicating with other characters.
  
  
  
  THE BEST
  
  + A compelling story
  + Decent visuals
  +Experiencing the smoke 
 monster for the first time
  
  THE WORST
  
  - Dull, repetitive game play
  - No key LOST events are playable
  - Voice acting is terrible!
  THE REVIEW
  
  GRAPHICS- 
 8.0 - Probably the best thing about this game
  
  GAMEPLAY- 3.0 - Experiencing it for the first time is a little off putting but for the 10th it's 
 unbearable
  
  LIFESPAN - 2.0 - No unlockables or game play change. Basically there is no reason what so ever 
 to replay this!
  
  
  OVERALL - 3.0 - The story may see you through to the end but after that it will just gather dust.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 25 Minutes
  
  Score: 2 out of 10
  
  Now I'll admit when Lost first 
 made it's tv debut back in 2004 I originally wanted to see it but because of jobs and other things 
 going on I was never able to see it and after missing 2 plus seasons I figured I wouldn't watch 
 it, why watch something you never saw the start of right? Well G4 announced they were going to 
 get lost this September so I will have my chance to see the show I wanted to before. Even more 
 I heard they released a game named Lost: Via Domus so I thought "Great I'll play a game about the 
 show and than I'll watch the show and see all the great stuff I missed." I got the PS3 edition 
 of the game and after having a mind blowing 2 minute install time the game started and it seemed 
 great from what I saw, than the greatness ended and what was left made me feel so used it isn't 
 even remotely funny. The only nice thing about this game was the visuals of the island which is 
 perfect. But everything else seems to be sub par but than again I guess that's what I get when 
 I buy a budget title, yes I paid the full $29.99 for this bomb. I won't get into the story I don't 
 want to spoil it but it revolved around a member of the flight as he struggles to regain his memory. 
 So I played this game and about 5 hours after I started it was over! that's right this game was 
 over, I've played a lot of budge titles but they normally last longer than 5 hours. I was thinking 
 "Boy the show must suck if the game only lasted 5 hours." So I was doing some research prior to 
 posting this review and come to find out the person you play wasn't even on the tv show, that's 
 right they plopped someone down in this game and that's it. Now I feel riped off they not only 
 made a short game but now I found out that the person I played as wasn't even on the TV show! With 
 that out of the way now onto the rest of the review, as I stated before the only thing impressive 
 was the way they made the island look, it looked awesome the rest sucked the people moved in a 
 robotic fashion, the audio was off their lips were moving but nothing was coming out and the way 
 you played the game just felt antique. it wasn't enjoyable. The storyline was pretty good for what 
 it was I guess. and to me the controls just seemed to have a rushed feeling. So over all this game 
 gets a 2 out of 10 because it let me down before I played it, while I played it and after I got 
 done with it. If your a Die hard Lost fan you'll like this but to every other gamer I suggest you 
 just let this one stay lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leflur
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  There isnt a single person alive (except for its writers) who fully understand the Lost series. 
 If you want a game that relives that confusing experience or if your just a big Lost fan then this 
 is the game for you.
  You take the role of a reporter who was among the survivors of that fateful Oceanic Flight 815. 
 Sufforing from amnesia he desparately fights to recover his past (in that true Lost fashion via 
 flashbacks) before its too late, as he faces threat from the black smoke, the Others and even his 
 fellow survivors.
  This game mainly focuses around the first and second series of Lost eventhough your character does 
 not exist in the T. V. show.
  There are'nt alot of games that get jungle levels just right, only two come to mind Uncharted and 
 Lost. Lost has some of the most stunning graphics I've seen latly. Even the characters look like 
 their real life counterparts. Unfortuneatly the voices are not done by the real actors which can 
 be very annoying sometimes.
  The number one thing I found that really brought this games score down is how increadably short 
 this game is. There is only about three hours of good gameplay. But, because of the numerous puzzels 
 and that unforgiving black smoke monster you maybe playing it for alot longer.
  This game is strictly for us Lost fans, so if you don't like Lost or know nothing about it perhaps 
 give it a miss. If you do like Lost you will thoroughly enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilHomie995
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was so disappointing to me. I thought it would be better. The Story is too shallow and 
 the controls are a bit tricky.
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * *
  Graphics: 7
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * *
  Sounds: 5
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * *
  Game Play: 1
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * *
  Replay Value: Very Low
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * *
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * *
  It would be a good game if you like the show but not a good game if you dislike the show. I just 
 rented it to see what its about but it was really boring. Ok rental if you like the show. Terribly 
 bad rental if you don't like the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Here you play as a previously unseen survivor of the crash of Oceanic 815 on the game of the TV 
 show Lost. The events of the game take place during the first two seasons but you may recognise 
 the odd face and location from season 3.
  
  Your character is struck with a bout of amnesia and can't remember anything before the crash, so 
 for the majority of the game you need to help him piece together his past.
  
  There are lots of familiar faces on the beach: Jack, Kate, Locke, Sayid, Sawyer, Charlie, Hurley, 
 Claire, Michael, Sun and Jin all have roles but the first four are the most involved. For the most 
 part the likenesses are spot on (except for poor Hurley whose face is even bigger and rounder than 
 ever) , but some of the voices are poor imitations with shoddy lip-syncing too. Mysteriously there 
 are no appearances from any of the passengers that died on the island, make of that what you will.
 
  
  As was always going to be the problem with this game the gameplay is all over the place. To be 
 fair this is a TV show that doesn't really lend itself to any particular style of play.
  Most of the game involves talking to everyone in an area exhausting all lines of conversation until 
 you are allowed to leave. 
  
  Early levels involve timing your runs through the jungle to avoid the black smoke monster or finding 
 your way through dark caves with a very short supply of fire stick torches or a lighter. The cave 
 levels are the most frustrating parts of the game often resulting in trial and error to get through.
 
  
  Like the TV show the game features lots of flashbacks to your life before the crash. Using a camera 
 you focus on a specific area of the flashback and take a picture. Adjusting the framing and the 
 focus is imperative to being allowed to advance further. Some of these areas will let you walk 
 around and find some items of information that flesh things out a bit more.
  
  You will visit the shows locations such as the station under the hatch where you need to fix fuse 
 boards and type in the infamous 4, 8, 15, 16, 23, 42 sequence to avoid the end of the world. There 
 is also an as yet unseen on TV hatch that'll intrigue fans. 
  
  The fuse puzzles involve attaching various fuses that alter the voltage and have different directions 
 for the current. Combining them and changing their position to get a set voltage flowing to each 
 area will unlock doors to the next spot. They start off easy but the last few are very tricky. 
 
  
  By collecting items such as coconuts, candy bars, food cans or books you can trade with the other 
 survivors to get torches, a gun or ammo. Prepare to be immensely frustrated when you keep losing 
 all your gear after being kidnapped or locked up. On the other hand you don't really need half 
 the stuff they're selling; you can finish the game by firing no more than three bullets.
  
  The game is divided into episodes and each one begins with a "Previously on Lost" which helps the 
 story remain cohesive. Unlike the show it's all based on the one character, you. 
  
  The music is spot-on from the title menu, right up until the end of the game. Graphically the game 
 has its highs and lows. The jungle is reasonable but built in set corridors and the Dharma stations 
 are dull but very accurate to how you remember them from the show. The beach looks gorgeous if 
 you stand at the water's edge, the sea itself looks real and you can find your way around it from 
 memory of the TV version. 
  
  Unfortunately, with the gameplay being as basic as it is, Lost: Via Domus never really feels like 
 a video game. It's more like an above average interactive DVD. 
  
  Audiences have been slightly dwindling for the show in recent years, no doubt frustrated by the 
 shows refusal to give anything away and sadly the loyal fans aren't going to get any answers out 
 of this game. Overall you never get the impression that anything that happens in this game is going 
 to have any baring on the shows storyline.
  
  The 7 'episodes' can be completed in well under five hours with the only replay appeal is for a 
 few pieces of artwork you may have missed. 
  
  The low score for this game reflects on its length and lack of any real gameplay despite some high 
 production values and getting the feel of the show right. I'd recommend it as a rental for fans 
 of the show but it doesn't justify a full purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Having been a huge fan of the hit TV show LOST since the day it began, being able to play a video 
 game based on the only thing I watch on TV is a great deal for me. Wanting to interact with the 
 environments, the characters and come across all the little things that the fans will pick up and 
 hear myself say "Oh my god! It's Kate's toy plane!" or find myself in a room going "Jack stood 
 here once... awesome"
  
  Via Domus seems to deliver that feel. Fans of the series will not be disappointed by this as they 
 can instantly recognize and feel the "LOST" feeling that wurrounds the whole game. Maybe be a bit 
 miffed that they can't play as one of the main characters they've come to love but that lets them 
 see the island and its mystery in a completely new perspective.
  
  The voice acting leaves something to be desired tho, as at least half of the regular actors of 
 the show dont lend their voices to the game, and at times it is cringeworthingly noticeable. Especially 
 when Charlie's accent is off and Sawyers nicknames seem to make you think "... you're a fraud... where's 
 Josh Holloway" However, there is the presence of the others; Juliet, Tom, Mikhail and the always 
 loveable villain, Ben.
  
  All the other elements are there though to enjoy, the hatch, the black smoke, the Black Rock; all 
 the details into these things have been accounted for knowing how important they are to the fans. 
 The sonic fence, the pushing of the button, the numbers, all will make you tingle knowing its been 
 included. The attention to detail of each of these things also is great, especially in the hatch, 
 from Minkowski's blood to the Turn of the Screw sitting on the book shelf.
  
  Unfortunately as you're enjoying all this, it seems to be over before you know it. Hopefully at 
 the end of all the show's run, another full length game will make up for this lack of length. And 
 hopefully with more variety of puzzles rather than an electrician's job of fixing fuses.
  
  Not a bad game all in all, lacking in a few departments, but not enough really to throw off fans 
 of the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandorock
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  As you can imagine, most people who play this game are fans of the show, which is my case as well. 
 Although this game is fun to play for TV show fans, it is waaay too short.
  
  Throughout the game, you control the course of a character unknown to the show, Elliot. He has 
 lost his memory in the crash, and he is focusing on remembering his past and where he needs to 
 go next. The game is pretty adventuresome. However, when it's over, it's over.
  
  I sold this game on Ebay after beating it, and whoever won the auction got a very good deal on 
 it! Anyway, this game is good while it lasts, but it ends all too soon, and it's pretty easy to 
 remember what you have to do throughout the game, so playing it through again would probably take 
 about three hours for most gamers.
  
  I have a lot of good things to say about this game, but its lack of length really is a bummer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Lost: Via Domus is a pretty good game despite it is a game based on a TV-series. I really had low 
 expectations on this game, it isn't often you see a good game based on a TV-Series or movie.
  
  The graphics is very good, especially on the character.
  The bushes and forest can be some 
 what cloudy and a little to crispy sometimes, but it is not that bad.
  
  The only bad thing in this video game is the voice acting, which is terrible at some times.
  
 
  Original Lost character designs and animations are good.
  
  There are some puzzles you must solve throughout the game, which can be really tricky. So expect 
 using your brain while playing.
  
  The story throughout the game fits perfectly into the Lost universe, and is interesting. It was 
 a really bad ending thou, but it was a game worth playing, so play the game and see for your self 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaq1979
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Why do we keep hoping games based on movies or TV-series will one day be any good. Because it just 
 never happens. Lost: Via Domus is the latest example. 
  
  I think the TV-series is one of the best around  if not th best. And surely it could inspire 
 a truly great game, but Via Domus isn't it. Sure, it's nice enough being able to explore the mysterious 
 island and meet the (well-drawn) characters we all know, but there's very little exploring to do 
 and Jack, Kate, Locke and co. don't have a lot to say or do.
  
  The game-play is too simple and too repetitive. Follow this path, talk to that character, go in 
 a dark cave, put the damn fuses in the electricity panel - again. That's it. 
  You have to collect some items and you can trade them, but there's only two items worthy of trading 
 them for.
  
  As expected, there are flash-backs, which are most fun, because you learn more about your (new) 
 character's background. But after a while you notice the background story isn't that great either. 
 And the final twist: I don't even know if it is genius or just plain stupid.
  
  So, although it is fun to be in the nicely recreated environments of three seasons Lost, there's 
 isn't much fun to be had and the game is awfully short.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  This is a very emmersive adventure game. I never heard of Lost TV show. I was not a fan. I just 
 picked up this game because it looked like fun. This is the best adventure game I have ever played. 
 Its very high detailed. Great graphics and sound. I am a old school gamer. Who loved such games 
 as gabriel knight, tex murphy, broken sword. And this game is equal to them. This is a very detailed 
 adventure game. With great voice acting, puzzles, challenges. Indepth story. A must buy for adventure 
 game fans. 
  
  You can have conversations with all the characters. Find out secrets, help characters. Its very 
 dramatic story. I love the open ended gameplay, of different choices. Using items and tools. The 
 beach, and water, and forest. Everything is just photo realistic. The characters look life like. 
 
  
  The story is very indepth. With twists and turns. You dont know who to trust, who is your friend 
 or not. I would say alot of replay. And easily over 100 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid LOST follower. I have the posters, Seasons 1-3 and enjoy the podcasts, so I was excited 
 to learn that this game would be coming to the PS3. LOST the game is good fan-service, a decent 
 story set in the LOST universe that helps explain some of the time-loop theory that is out there, 
 however it is painfully short and not worth a purchase.
  
  The gameplay is made up of exploration and the taking of photos for flashbacks. There is a VERY 
 small amount of gunplay, and a cool section or two of running through the forest from the fog, 
 but overall you'll be walking around grabbing papaya's and the like while engaging various members 
 of the island to find out who you are. 
  
  Graphically the game looks decent. The framerate is unstable, and the character models are decent 
 at best, but the real winner is the jungle enviorments that are teeming with life and beautiful 
 to behold.
  
  The sound is a mixed bag, while the voices are lame sound-alikes, the music is awesome and straight 
 from the show.
  
  Overall, LOST is a great rental for Fans of the show. No matter how die hard you are, you should 
 NOT purchase this game as it's extremely short and lacking in extras. If your not a fan of the 
 show, this game will be utterly lame to you so don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonard24
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is nothing more than a quick buck game just like most games based on films or TV programs. 
 A pathetic story line that would fit into the original TV series just as well as Hurley in a size 
 10 bathing suite! Everything from glitches with graphics and lip syncing to the boring, mundane 
 and uninspiring puzzles. The time taken to complete the entire game was just under 4 hrs and with 
 the same amount as action as a nun's bedroom it seemed more like a week. Another irritant is why 
 they have impersonators to voice over the main characters from the show when the game is endorsed 
 by ABC, they sound alitte bit alike but this is for no other reason than to cut costs. After completing 
 the game there is no re playable value at all and the ending... well, if you though the plot on 
 the TV was confusing this is bordering on ludicrous! It makes absolute no sense what so ever and 
 with no chance of an explanation you just don't care either!
  Please don't waste your hard earned money, if you have to play it just rent it. 30 for a game 
 that is too short, no online mode and with no reason to replay or the option of harder settings, 
 is just none sense.
  5/10 - 4 words to sum it all up - Complete waste of time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrubs_06
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I Have played nearly every game out to date. Par Most Final Fantasy Games. An Avid Gamer and an 
 Extreme Lost Fan. I even go out of my way to download and pay for the latest episodes of season 
 4 a week before Australia gets them.. i cant wait that long!
  
  On to the game. Excellent Side Story, that brings even more questions and actually gives a few 
 answers to some of the island mystery. Although not answers that will be missed if you cant play 
 the game. 
  
  The Game has been set up rather well for a tv show turned video game. I mean seriously! What could 
 have been done with this? Most people would say it could have been left alone. But if left alone 
 then peple would be asking for a game. So here it is... short and simple... awesome side story, 
 awesome setting, ok voice acting (Not all cast are present) Excellent loo to characters (Except 
 Hurley he looks like jabba the hut) Excellent ending.
  
  The down side? Terribe exploration in the forest, awefull, slow chase scenes by the black smoke. 
 Just something that could have been done better was the exploration in the caves and forest scenes. 
 Other than that i enjoyed every other aspect and any lost fan that says they get nothing from this 
 cheaper than most games experience is lying.
  
  Every fan should at least try and finish this ... just to add to the mystery and excitement that 
 is lost! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  obviously, any review of this game will be affected by the reviewer's opinion of the source material... so 
 i should explain that i like the show in general... season one was good, season two was muddled 
 and fairly directionless, season three got back on track, and so far season four has been excellent. 
 so when i say that this is one of the worst games i've played in a long time, keep in mind that 
 i like the fictional world in which it's (supposedly) taking place... and that i'm a fan of adventure 
 games in general.
  
  i feel like the game designers must have never played an adventure game before. there was no sense 
 of exploring a coherent game world, only small extremely artificial spaces. interaction with both 
 objects and characters was so shallow that it only served to constantly remind me that i was playing 
 a game. for a show with such a consuming story and atmosphere it's unforgivable that the game is 
 almost completely lacking in immersion.
  
  the gamespot review mentions that the game doesn't quite get the main characters right... forgetting 
 to mention that only a few of the characters are voiced by the actors from the show!!! when i realized 
 in the first ten minutes of the game that characters like locke and kate are voiced by people pretending 
 to be the actors from the tv show i started to realize just how far the apple had fallen from the 
 tree. if ubisoft was unable to secure the actual actors for the game they should have given up 
 right then and there.
  
  the gamespot review also suggests that taking pictures in the past to 'unlock' your character's 
 back story is one of the best parts of the game. in my opinion it's a boring, repetitive, pointless 
 activity. nevermind that the invented game character is completely uninteresting, and the story 
 is forced to rewrite past events from the show to fit him in. i almost immediately didn't care 
 what his secrets might be.
  
  all in all, this game is ill-conceived and poorly executed. stay far, far away. even if you like 
 the show... maybe especially if you like the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkhix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is neither the best nor worst game I have played to date. During my play-through I found that 
 the story does follow along with the overall plot of the parental show. Most of the events of the 
 game can be tied into several of the TV episodes as sort of a background event that lead to something 
 seen on the show. However that's not to say that every event in the game ties directly to any of 
 the seasons. Quite frequently I found myself asking "what the hell does this have to do with ANYTHING!" 
 
  
  The best part of playing Via Domus is probably the perspective it gives you of the layout of certain 
 areas of the Island. From the Hatch to the Black Rock all the way down to the makeshift huts the 
 Survivors live in; It also gives a unique view of the "Smoke monster" throughout the game. These 
 features alone are sure to draw in their own collection of Die hard series fanatics. 
  
  And finally here is my short, quick and to the point list of crappy crap in this game.
  
  Quirky/Retarded 
 use of a camera to remember the characters forgotten past.
  Retarded tree houses with "snipers" in them 
  Overused puzzles (IE fuse panels and "IQ tests")
 
  Repeating dialog that serves as nothing more than a space filler
  Simplistic trade system that could have been used for so much more...
  
  All is all, not a 
 good game. But used in the context of an information resource and as a helpful guide to the layout 
 of the Island. . . I guess it's acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Alright so Lost : via domus is a fun game for the fan of the show and that is for sure! If you 
 are not a fan of the show the story line and charecters, and references to certain things will 
 be absolutely confusing and is not for you. Voice acting is done by only half the cast, but the 
 voice actors who try to mimic some charecters voices were impressive in my opinion. It could have 
 been much worse. For the price of the game you may want to wait a few months so that it goes down 
 to half price, unless you are hard core and cant wait like me. Graphics are really nice, jungles, 
 plane wreckage, hidden areas like the hatch all have a great feel and look to them, the designers 
 did a nice job with it. the game is slightly linear though, its easy to get lost in the jungle, 
 but its also easy to start over again and find your way around real quick so its a catch 22. One 
 of things thats really cool is the "previously on lost" part where it tells you what you have done 
 so far in the game after you have turned it off and then returned to play it a few hours later. 
 It is just like the show where it shows you what happened the previous week. I think it was an 
 excellent idea by ubisoft to add that in and the music is also really good , sound is well organized 
 in the game for the right scences and everything. Unfortunately the game is short and will take 
 you less then 10 hours to finish, but you can play it over for fun of course a couple times to 
 know the story better. I rate this 8 out of 10 for the hard core fan, and a must buy... but if you 
 are not a fan, then try a rental first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardj692000
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I preordered this game because a) its was cheap online and b) because i'm a fan of lost. 
  
  Anyway, the game starts when the series starts and follows the 1st and 2nd seasons events in 
 the form of episodes, unfortunatley these episodes don't number into double figures, so u find 
 yourself skipping alot of the key moments. So after you crash you have to do missions which are 
 vital to the story line, then rinse and repeat. As far as i have found i haven't found any sub-plots, 
 sub-missions, or any thing else that could flesh out game. 
  
  In a nutshell there are many many things they could have done with this, the enviroments are nice 
 looking, but extremely spartan in terms of NPCs to talk to or even see, there are no more than 
 5 characters i think that inhabit each area, each of which are key figures in the show anyway and 
 always seem to swap with the other half of the cast (i've haven't seen sawyer and charlie in the 
 same area) . As a result the game feels two dimensional and hollow like Shanons head.
  
  Because of the short comings you long to go boar hunting with locke, tick off jack, or flirt with 
 kate, go fishing with Jin, play ping pong with hurley, build yr own beach shelter, play golf, the 
 list goes on and on.
  
  Now onto the really bad; animations are rubbish, the lip sync is off, its way way too short, there 
 aren't any extras that are interesting, locke just doesn't sound right at all, it feels rushed, 
 its repetitive (even though its short) , for some reason the "others" shoot at u from prepared positions 
 from the very start which isn't consistent with the series, theres not enough action, its too easy, 
 where are the other survivors. umm there are more but you'll find out.
  
  The good; good story, in keeping with the lost franchise, character and voice acting is true to 
 the show, the enviroments are very detailed and just like the series, there are some things revealed 
 about the island thats not in the show (yet) .
  
  To sum up i would only rent this game, luckly though i got it cheap so i'm not feeling totally 
 down about having it, but for 40 i wouldn't even think of buying it. Another thing, just to show 
 how quick the game is; It arrived on friday, played it for 1 hour, went away for the weekend, came 
 back sunday night, played for 3 hours, then monday finished the game before midday.
  
  For this reason i'm giving it a 4, it ok but not for 40 or 30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocky_S91
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  lost via domus or the way to home its not a bad game but its disapointing we expect more from ubisoft 
 you play as a jouranalist his name is eliot maslow he suffer from amnesia and he lost his memory 
 when the plane crashed and he want to get his memory back by his photo in his camera the story 
 line is not bad but we want to play as jack or sayid its will be more fun the graphics is not good 
 and the game is very short its take less than 10 hour to complet the game and its very easy there 
 is mini games like runing from that blak smoke or that fuse boxes and that computer quistions if 
 you play lost you will fell that you watch one of the tv episode more than you play a video game 
 i love the game but they could make it better and they show at the end they may will be another 
 series i hope it will be more fun and they dont disapont us so if you are fan with the tv series 
 buy the game or rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I was very, very skeptical about Lost: Via Domus. I would either turn out to be a masterpiece or 
 a complete dud. I was leaning towards the latter. However, Ubisoft has actually made a rather decent 
 game, and one that I thoroughly enjoyed from beginning to end, even though that end came only hours 
 from when I begun.
  
  The plot is very Lost-esque, and one which is entirely amazing and engrossing. The story is one 
 of Via Domus' best points. It follows the events of an as of yet unknown survivor of Oceanic 815 
 plane crash. The seemingly deserted island has many, many hidden secrets, and you must unravel 
 both those secrets and you're own. For you have suffered from a bit of amnesia, and you can't remember 
 your name or what you did prior to the crash. You receive a compass with "Via Domus" (Latin for 
 'the way home') Via Domus explores flashbacks of your character to help solve the mystery.
  
  You'll immediately spot the similarities between the amazing Uncharted: Drake's Fortune and 
 this. The jungle setting, some of the missions and the overall feel and mood to Via Domus closely 
 resembles those of Uncharted, even though the actual Lost TV series came before it. Graphically, 
 Via Domus is a success. The tropical island's environments such as the beach, jungle and the hatch 
 all come alive with familiarity and mystery. Certain set pieces will be instantly recognisable 
 to any Lost fan. 
  
  However, shadows and animation aren't quite up to standard, particularly animation. Cutscenes feel 
 stiff and shunted and the characters hardly move at all. The only real emotions seen are from the 
 face. Voice-acting is so-so, and it's a shame they couldn't use the actual Lost actors for the 
 dialogue. Character models are also just off the mark. Some characters (Locke and Hurley) are well 
 portrayed, but Claire, Sawyer and Ben are a lot different than they are from the show. However, 
 overall presentation is very well done, and should be congratulated.
  
  The gameplay is surprisingly interesting, but the novelty wears thin because it becomes so repetitive. 
 You'll be sent out on numerous fetch quests through the jungle, and in these sections you'll have 
 to follow markers while avoiding either the Others or the dreaded Black Smoke. Tension in these 
 hide-and-seek sections is remarkable. Never before have I been so frozen with fear. Other gameplay 
 elements include the puzzles. Well, puzzle. There's only one type of puzzle (apart from the far 
 and few IQ tests) and in this puzzle you just connect electric motherboards to activate machinery. 
 While these really get the brain working, some of them are very difficult and frustrating.
  
  One of the best aspects of Via Domus are the flashback sequences. You'll recieve a quick view 
 of a torn and jumbled photo, and then you'll have to explore the flashback area and take the correct 
 photo. Focus and framing are key here, and the best part is is that the flashback goes over and 
 over again, so there's no time limit. These sequences have to be played to be understood, and they're 
 really quite enjoyable. 
  
  Another great aspect of Via Domus is the sound and music. Although the dialogue is not up to scratch, 
 the overall sound of the jungle, hatch and the beach are pitch-perfect. The lurking noises of the 
 Black Smoke will give you nightmares, and the beeps from the hatch computer give you a real sense 
 of interactivity. At one stage you must actually type in the numbers into the computer to put the 
 timer back to 108 minutes. It's very engrossing. The music is very, very, very well done by Michael 
 Giacchino. Every thrilling moment is heightened by screechy violins, or the beating of the drums, 
 or the lone trumpet. Just marvellous. 
  
  However, it all comes at a price. The length of this game is extraordinarily short, only six hours 
 worth. Even though Heavenly Sword had a short length, there was a lot of replay value, but once 
 you've finished the main quest in Via Domus, you're basically done. This fact in combination with 
 the repetitive puzzles and missions doesn't warrant a purchase at all. It really worth a rent. 
 If Via Domus was five hours longer, I'd probably give it an 8-9. However, that's just not the case.
 
  
  Altogether, Lost: Via Domus is very enjoyable. Looking and interacting with actual moments of the 
 TV series is so enthralling, and many other sections of the game have a great feel and mood to 
 them. The flashbacks are innovative, hiding from the Black Smoke leaves you breathless and talking 
 with various Lost characters is, admittedly, exciting. However, the poor animation, short length 
 and rather repetitive nature of Via Domus let it down to such a level to which you should only 
 rent it. Certainly not in the same league as Uncharted, but Via Domus is an admirable substitute. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTG0222
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a lot out of this one. I am, however, very disappointed.
  
  The graphics are not that sharp.
  The commands are horrible. The camera is always on the way.
 
  Sound is not bad. I wished the game included the main title "song" of LOST. Instead, they replaced 
 it with something similar.
  Voice acting is poor. Once again, I wished that all the main character's voices would be in the 
 game. Only "Claire, Ben, Sun & Desmond.
  And the worst thing in this game is the face that you CAN'T skip any game movies. If you're stuck 
 restarting a level many time, you'll know the characters dialogs by heart...
  If you're a fan of the show, it's still worth playing and finishing it. Maybe, will you discover 
 somethings about the show...
  Ideally, we'd have "LOST Via Domus" plot and "Uncharted Drakes Fortune" graphics and game play. 
 Now that would of rocked!
  
  6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddyTheGunners
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I was getting excited to play Lost the video game but was extremely dissapointed when i got it. 
 I suppose the visuals weren't too bad but not nearly as good as Uncharted which has similar environment. 
 But the rest was very poor, the story is so short and also so slow which no real depth or excitement 
 within it which was a huge let down. Also when wanting to speak to well known characters they only 
 really give u a few words in reply which gets extremely boring, all the electrical fusing boards 
 also get so boring which seems to take up the majority of the game. Overall the game was a pretty 
 huge let down and the only highight i can recall was when charlie started to sing part of his song.... lol, 
 it really is pretty poor.
  
  I must say though if your a hardcore Lost TV fan like i am and you think you must get it because 
 of that.... don't, it doesn't give the series the credit it should 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Overall Lost: Via Domus is a good game. It is based on the hit T. V. series Lost. In the game you 
 play as a survivor of Oceanic Flight 815 trying to make your way off the island. When crashed, 
 your character suffers amnesia and forgets his entire life. You work through a series of flashbacks 
 in the game to uncover your personal life. You later find out you are Elliot Maslow, a famous photographer 
 who has been spying on a chemical terrorist. You then eventually find your way off the island.
 
  
  The good things about the game are you explore a great looking environment that replicates the 
 T. V. show. The jungle, beach and characters all look spectacular. The game is also a bit challenging, 
 which I enjoyed. You go through various technical puzzles that work your mind. The flashbacks and 
 pictures you take are also really cool.
  
  Now, the bad things about the game are as follows. The game is really short and it only took me 
 about 6 hours to beat, yet it still costs the usual $60 for a PS3 game. Even though some of the 
 puzzles are fun, a lot of them can be very time consuming. And last but not least, things I hate 
 most about video games recently is that it has a "Cliffhanger Ending." There's been about 4 or 
 5 games I've played in the last 4 months that have had this style of ending and I absolutely hate 
 it.
  
  Overall I would recommend renting Lost: Via Domus for a fun day or two. Oh, by the way, Via Domus 
 means "The Way Home." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesmanMuncher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  When you usually play a game based off your favourite TV series or film, you're left cringing at 
 the sheer idiocy of the developers as they single handedly manage to destroy it just 10 minutes 
 into the game with shoddy controls, shoddy graphics and shoddy gameplay leaving you trying to play 
 the other side of the disk to discover where the great game you were promised had gone to.
  
  Luckily, Ubisoft have managed to break this mould and have put together a very nice game which 
 will entertain both fans and (to a lesser extent however) those who've never watched the show before.
 
  
  The story behind the game is that your character is a survivor of Flight 815 that was never seen 
 in the series and has unfortunately developed amnesia and forgotten who he is. So, as you would 
 expect, your job is to help him regain his memory. The way in which this is achieved is actually 
 rather clever. It takes the flashbacks from LOST itself and, seeing as your character was a photographer 
 before the crash, you are presented with fragments of a photograph at the start of each flashback. 
 Your goal is to take the photograph depicted in the fragments in order to help unlock the memory 
 associated to the photo and figure out what is going on.
  
  Between these sections, your travels take you through several of the important locations from the 
 TV series as you explore your surroundings looking for clues to your identity. The visuals are 
 rather stunning and each location has been lovingly recreated and inserted into the game for your 
 exploring pleasure. 
  
  Character wise, many of the firm favourites such as Jack, Kate, Sawyer, Lock and Hurley are there, 
 yet some of the more important ones from the First Season (most noticeably Boone and Shannon) are 
 missing. They all look very similar to their real-life counterparts despite the fact that there 
 are only a few of the actual cast present providing voices. However, the real niggle here is that 
 there only seem to be a handful of the survivors present on the beach rather than the 48 that started 
 off in the series and even then, out of the ones that are there you can never seem to find all 
 of them. This is a little bit of a let down but doesn't really affect the game to a huge degree.
 
  
  The major disappointment with this game is not in its visuals, its characters or its actual game-play 
 (all of which are very well done) but in its length. The game can be completed in about 6 or seven 
 hours and unfortunately there is very little in replay value except to unlock a few bits of concept 
 art. So rather than being too much of a bad game like so many TV/film spin offs, LOST is rather 
 not enough of a great game and if it was just that little bit longer it could rival for one for 
 one of the best games on PS3.
  
  As it is, LOST is a great game. It may be a bit vertically challenged but setting that aside, it 
 really is good game to get to fill up a few hours you have spare. However, I would recommend against 
 paying the full 50 for it and try and get hold of a cheaper copy elsewhere. You will be rewarded 
 with a very fun and enjoyable experience for your trouble. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
