-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/maddennfl09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cris Collinsworth's commentary is superb.
 Backtrack feature breaks down exactly why a play failed and rewinding lets you try again.
 Formation audibles allow you to change plays without tipping your hand.
 Vastly improved visuals.
 Tight controls and varied player animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quirks and glitches hamper otherwise solid gameplay.
 Superstar and Franchise modes have received almost no attention.
 Madden IQ feature isn't as helpful as it claims to be.
 Tom Hammond and John Madden's voice work is poor.
 Online leagues are a huge letdown.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 996 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 12, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A few key gameplay additions and enhancements make this year's Madden great despite some unseemly 
 flaws. 

  When John Madden Football was released in 1988, no one had any idea that it was the beginning of 
 one of the best-selling series of all time. But after 20 years, tens of millions of copies sold, 
 countless tournaments, and even a TV show, Madden is a global phenomenon. When you purchase a Madden 
 game, you know you're going to be the beneficiary of 20 years of experience. Fine-tuned gameplay, 
 top-notch player animation, extraordinarily detailed playbooks, and competitive multiplayer are 
 all series staples. This year's Madden is just what you'd expect: It doesn't take a whole lot of 
 chances with the formula that has proven so successful in the past. Improvements such as the additions 
 of Cris Collinsworth as a commentator and a backtrack feature that points out and helps correct 
 your mistakes make for a great football experience. However, there are quite a few issues that 
 keep Madden 09 from reaching its full potential, such as disappointing online leagues and mostly 
 unchanged Franchise and Superstar modes.  

           Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope.      

  Madden 09 has a number of features 
 designed to address the steep learning curve associated with the series. This years game is clearly 
 one of the most user-friendly versions in recent years, but unfortunately, beginners will still 
 probably have a tough time learning the ropes, in spite of these new features. If you throw an 
 interception or take a bad sack, Cris Collinsworth will break down the play for you and explain 
 not only what you did wrong, but what you should have done instead. Collinsworth's analysis during 
 these backtrack segments is startlingly accurate and useful -- it's just a shame these moments occur 
 at random. It would have been nice to call them up at any time. Another useful yet controversial 
 addition is the ability to rewind plays and try them again. This is a great way to help you learn 
 from your mistakes and it's nice to have a do-over if you get cheesed by the CPU, but it takes 
 self-control not to rewind anytime you make a bad play. Rewinding a buddy's touchdown is also a 
 surefire way to prematurely end your friendship.  

  When you first boot the game, a virtual Madden that looks just like R2-D2's projection of Princess 
 Leia in  Star Wars  appears onscreen to administer a Madden IQ test. This test takes place in a 
 VR simulator and consists of running, passing, tackling, and pass-coverage drills. The game will 
 adjust its difficulty based on the results of this test. This process is a good idea in theory, 
 but it doesn't work. The offensive drills are so easy that it's possible for first-timers to score 
 well enough that the test results indicate they should play a mixture of all-pro and all-Madden 
 difficulties. The defensive drills are a little more accurate, but this only serves to highlight 
 how difficult it is to play defense in the game. Your IQ will fluctuate based on your performance 
 during games, but it takes so long to balance out your IQ that you're better off manually setting 
 the difficulty to rookie and using the simplified playbooks if you're a beginner. The simple playbooks 
 combined with Collinsworth's backtrack analysis are a step in the right direction when it comes 
 to making Madden more accessible to casual players, but more work needs to be done before these 
 newcomers truly feel welcome. A manual or in-game documentation that explains  all  of the game's 
 features would be great, as would some sort of in-game glossary. How many people who don't watch 
 football every week know what a "cover 2" is anyway?  

  There are a number of gameplay enhancements that make Madden 09 play better than 08. The ability 
 to bluff plays from the line of scrimmage lets you view your play and then display fake routes 
 to mislead your opponent. You can also quickly call audibles without changing your formation and 
 inadvertently tipping off the other player. Another excellent addition is that you can now tell 
 individual receivers to run smart routes on third down. This will ensure that they don't stop their 
 routes short of the first-down marker. It would be nice if receivers were smart enough to adjust 
 on their own, but at least the smart-route option is available. On the defensive side of the ball, 
 you can spotlight a receiver. This puts an extra player on a receiver to ensure double coverage 
 on the play. By no means does it render that receiver a nonfactor, but it's now a great way of 
 slowing down an opponent who passes to the same guy over and over again. The only problem with 
 the number of pre-snap adjustments is that it's near impossible to perform many of them when you're 
 on defense due to the short amount of time between when you come out of the play-calling screen 
 and when the ball is snapped. Sure, there are Madden savants out there who can call an audible, 
 shift the line, highlight a receiver, tell the left outside linebacker to spy on the QB, and fake 
 a blitz in five seconds, but most people can't.  

  Just as there are plenty of good things to talk about with regard to 09's gameplay, there are some 
 problems worth mentioning. Slants and crossing routes are exceedingly difficult to defend against. 
 The linebackers who could snag almost any ball out of thin air last year were annoying, but so 
 is watching a lousy QB and below-average tight end pick you apart like they're Peyton Manning and 
 Dallas Clark. It's not all fun and games for QBs and receivers though. Quarterbacks will frequently 
 overthrow passes in the flat so that they lead receivers right out of bounds or receivers will 
 get stuck in an animation and, head to the sidelines, lose yards, or run right into a tackler. 
 This is a huge problem in Superstar mode when running screen plays. The more you play the more 
 you'll notice the sometimes questionable AI. CPU-controlled teams might not opt for an onsides 
 kick when they're down by a few points with no time-outs and less than two minutes on the clock. 
 Officiating is also hit or miss. Referees typically ignore holding and are often inaccurate when 
 spotting the ball, and booth reviews are a total crapshoot -- you never know what the ruling is going 
 to be. Other nagging issues include sometimes horrific tackling, occasionally inept blocking, unstoppable 
 quarterback sneaks, and play-action's utter lack of effectiveness against the CPU.  

           Yep, you made a mistake. Now let Cris Collinsworth tell you what you did wrong.      

 
  Series fans have been clamoring for online leagues for years, and this is the first year the mode 
 has been included. Well, sort of. Yes, you and up to 31 other players can form a league and play 
 against one other whenever you like, regardless of how many games other participants have played. 
 In that sense there  are  online leagues; it's just that they aren't any good. You can't fill out 
 the league with CPU-controlled teams, so if you've got only three friends to play with, you're 
 left with a four-person league. There is a draft, but it's an autodraft that selects players based 
 on your predraft rankings. Again, having just a handful of players hampers the experience because 
 everyone in the league will get awesome players. There aren't a whole lot of weaknesses a defense 
 can focus on when the opposition's fifth-best receiver is Pro-Bowler Anquan Boldin. The default 
 settings don't even allow for player statistics to be tracked (stat-tracking is curiously tied 
 to the unexplained "unique rosters" setting) . When you consider how full-featured Electronic Arts' 
 own NCAA Football 09's online dynasty is (although it has its own problems) , it's puzzling that 
 Madden's online leagues are so lacking. At least online gameplay generally performs well. We had 
 some frustrating problems with the kick meter not recognizing our input, but for the most part, 
 the action was extremely smooth and lag was never an issue.     

  Longtime fans of the series will recognize the "all new" Madden Challenge feature. These challenges, 
 which have appeared in some form or another in some earlier Madden games, let you try your hand 
 at reliving some of the more dramatic moments of the 2007 NFL season. This is a good way of quickly 
 placing yourself in a variety of different high-pressure situations, but the sometimes punishingly 
 difficult/cheap AI, combined with the repetitive nature of many of the challenges, ensure that 
 the fun is short-lived.. One final new mode lets you use your console to track fantasy football 
 teams created (for free) on the EA Sports Web site. At the time of this review the NFL season hadn't 
 yet started, so we were unable to see the stat-tracking mode in action. It's not going to make 
 up for the game's lousy online leagues, but its inclusion will likely please those looking to manage 
 their Madden and fantasy football addictions at the same time.  

           There are a staggering amount of pre-snap adjustments you can make this year.      

 
  The rest of the game modes are holdovers from last year. Franchise mode is solid. The simulated 
 statistics seem to be fairly accurate, and it's certainly fun to take the reins of a franchise, 
 but the mode has received only cursory attention since last year, and you can still sign overpriced 
 free agents and package them into deals for draft picks and star players. That's more than can 
 be said for Superstar mode, which is virtually indistinguishable from its 08 incarnation. If you've 
 never tried to take a created player or rookie from his first training camp to the Hall of Fame, 
 there's some fun to be had here, but if you've previously put up with the lame training events, 
 obnoxious agents, and inane e-mails from your in-game mom, there's nothing here that warrants another 
 look.  

  Madden 09 is easily the best-looking Madden to date. The presentation now features more dynamic 
 camera angles, and player emotion is a bigger part of the game than ever thanks to new touchdown 
 celebrations. By running to a highlighted area of the end zone and pressing a button after a score 
 you can dunk the ball over the goalpost, climb up the wall to bask in the admiration of the fans, 
 and more. The dunks often don't work and they look kind of terrible, but the rest of the celebrations 
 are cool -- especially when you steal another player's move. You can do Chad Johnson's River Dance 
 or Steve McNair's hands-to-the-helmet pose, or you can taunt Denver fans with the Mile High salute. 
 Other player animations are top-notch, and if you play enough you'll notice some great little touches, 
 such as kickers tackling just as awkwardly as they do in real life. You'll see some odd transitions 
 and quirky moves upon close inspection of replays (which can be uploaded and shared online) , but 
 you'd be hard pressed to notice most of these instances during gameplay.  

  Stadiums aren't blurry anymore, and they feature more detail than ever -- they look great. Snow and 
 rain effects have been cranked up to where it feels as if you're playing in a blizzard or monsoon. 
 By the end of a game in the rain, players' uniforms will be absolutely filthy. You'd have been 
 grounded for a week if you had come home that dirty when you were a kid. The only knock against 
 the weather is that field conditions don't seem to degrade as the game progresses. It's odd to 
 have players caked in mud when the grass looks like the fairways at Augusta. You may notice some 
 stuttering before and after plays, but when the ball's in play, the frame rate is as fast and smooth 
 as you could hope for.  

  Cris Collinsworth is easily the highlight of Madden 09's audio. His commentary is timely, accurate, 
 and insightful, and it sounds perfectly natural. Imagine having one of the best commentators in 
 the league standing next to you talking about your grudge match against your little brother like 
 it's a real-life showdown in the playoffs -- that's how good Cris is here. On the other side of the 
 coin is play-by-play announcer Tom Hammond's performance. It's bad enough that he'll remind you 
 that the game is "brought to you by EA Sports" several times per game, but his choppy, vague, and 
 monotone play calling will almost make you miss the radio-style announcer from previous years. 
 Almost. John Madden might be one of the greatest announcers of all time, but you'd never know it 
 by listening to the game that bears his name. His vaunted "return" to the franchise is limited 
 to brief pregame introductions as well as one or two sentences at halftime and the end of the game. 
 He barely even talks during "ask Madden" plays; occasionally he'll explain why he's suggesting 
 a play, but a vast majority of the time he doesn't say a thing.  

           Simply put: Football has never looked so good.      

  The Madden series has been so 
 good for so long that the bar for each yearly release is extremely high. And it's because standards 
 are so high that, while it's still great, Madden 09 could have been better. For every addition, 
 like the backtrack feature, Collinsworth, or improved visuals, there's a problem that rears its 
 ugly head, like the unchanged Superstar mode, poor pass coverage in the middle of the field, or 
 underwhelming online leagues. Newcomers will still face a steep learning curve, but if you're a 
 football fan or series veteran, you can't go wrong with Madden 09.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (105 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gmans33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  I have played many of the madden games and have been a fan for a long time. I enjoyed this game 
 when I first picked it up. The graphics are great, and the gameplay is fun. The more I played it 
 though, the more frustrating the game can get. The tackling in this game is HORRIBLE. the computer 
 can magically truck through your D lineman and LB's, and seemingly not even slow down. This is 
 by far my largest complaint of this game. I just think something is wrong when Brain Westbrook 
 blows through 2 D lineman and 1 LB, and never lose any steam. If they would just fix this annoying 
 problem in '10, I would give the game a 10 out of 10. Even with this annoyance I can admit I still 
 am addicted to the game, as I have been to the previous Madden games I've played. I would recommend 
 this game to football fans, but I would try to get a used copy. I don't feel its worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beriman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 was one of those games I enjoyed a lot, and if U are a football fan i think U will like 
 it to! I loved the idea of the users Madden IQ because the CPU was just as good as U at that point! but 
 it still has room for improvements! the graphics was great, it was more realistic! (the 08 one had 
 too cartoon-ish graphics) the game play was O. K. once U learned how to time a tackle our a stiff 
 arm ect. the franchise mode is great! (I actually went as far as 2022 with the Patriots, I drafted 
 a rookie SS and played until he retired. I managed to pump his overall up to 91 in his 8ht season, i 
 grabbed 6 MVP awards with him and recorded 427 sacks and 1568 tackles!) What I noticed that after 
 a while when U tried to rehab an injured player the game always freezes and I had to restart the 
 whole game and wait until he naturally recovered! One more thing I noticed that when my WR turns 
 and stops and I throw the ball the CPU's CB almost always jumps in front of my WR and knocks down 
 the ball our worse and when I am on defence my CB waits un-till the CPU; s WR catches the ball than 
 tackles (it looks that the CPU's AI is still head and shoulders above the Users on defence) The thing 
 that I did not like that your teams overall could only go downwards! but I had a lot of fun with 
 Madden 09! It is a great football simulator! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotownBear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  Well, to start of, this game is undoubtedly the best in the next generation series of Madden games. 
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty difficult on All-Pro, but there are great preplay options. You can strategically 
 disguise your plays, audible, hot route the recievers, user-block, just about anything you would 
 do on the real field. When playing the defense, though, you get intercepted by certain linebackers 
 that would never do that in real life, like the Giants linebackers, who all have overalls in the 
 low 70's except Antonio Pierce. This even happens with the Redskins and Jaguars linebackers. This 
 is annoying and takes the fun out of throwing shorter passes. Certain cornerbacks like Nnamdi Asomugha 
 and Charles Woodson intercept and deflect every pass within 10 yards of them. That is a nag to 
 play with too. There are way more interceptions in the game too, because passing on offense is 
 impossible. I like the disappearance of The Infamous Rocket Catch, but now we need some improved 
 catching abilites. I'd like to see recievers that jump up and go after the ball do that in real 
 life. If you're like me and can run the ball, user catch on defense and offense, hit stick and 
 force fumbles at the same time, and can completely alter a defense in 5 seconds these nags dont 
 hurt as much. To everyone else, this hurts the gameplay. 
  
  For the game modes, nothing has changed. I would personally like to see the return of the newspaper 
 from Madden 05. Superstar remains unchanged from Madden 06 on the PS2, that's how bad it is. For 
 some players on Madden, it is too easy to trade for them, and for others, it is way too hard. I've 
 only snagged Peyton Manning twice out of at least 100 tries. You have to at least give up your 
 starting quarterback, your first round pick, and another high-value player just to still get rejected. 
 The player progression is unreal. Every year, each reciever in free agency the next year has hands 
 and speed. The rookie corners aquired in the first and second round of the draft all get speed 
 and shutdown in one single year. I wish that there were more player customization options. There 
 should be a Team Color 2 option, because most teams have 2 colors. The jerseys for black teams 
 are not even black, they are a grayish color, so if you get the raiders and put black sleeves on 
 a player, it will look like there are uneven colors. The falcons have this same nuisance, and there 
 team color is only black. The Falcons are a red team, and it dissapointed me. Also, I might have 
 a team with ten players 95 overall and higher, but they still lose to the Lions during simulation. 
 I always lose to the Pats and the Colts, too. I am tired of Matt Cassel and Peyton Manning making 
 the Pro Bowl every year, and next year Tom Brady and Peyton Manning being in the Pro Bowl. It's 
 really annoying. The addition of Madden Moments is much appreciated, thought the fact that there 
 are no demos for other games like the old gen is disappointing. 
  
  Online play is still going great, with tournaments online and less cheating. The online leagues 
 are disappointing too, they are a complete disaster. There needs to be an online franchise option 
 too so you can play with other players and show off your blockbuster trades at the same time. 
 
  
  This game is good, but if you're not very good in this game, then you should try something else 
 this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tetratrance_CK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Although this game is by no means the best game out there. For some reason or the other I play 
 this game more than any other game in my collection, and I consider my collection pretty solid. 
 First things first I need to get the bad out of the way, there are some minor AI issues as CPU 
 players sometimes step out of bounds before the first down marker on a 3rd or 4th down. The scouting 
 section of the game seems not linked to the draft as in the information gathered by your scouting 
 agency does not carry over during the draft. But in all fairness these are very minor issues that 
 take away from the perfection of the game.
  Game play is solid, you can customize your team as much as you want from the coach to the medical 
 staff tacking care of your team. full control over the rosters. You get attached to your team, 
 and you will want to play season after season either to get to the top or stay on the top. Passing 
 and rushing is crisp, and gameplay is overall a grand joy. I admit I am not a football freak, but 
 this game makes me one. Which makes this game my one and only current guilty pleasure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etchy-A-Sketchy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, Yes, the game is underappreciated. But, being an NFL enthusiast, I obviously would 
 appreciate this game more than other non-NFL focused people. 
  The control system takes a very nice format, really only leaving you to handle reaction times and 
 decisions. The "My Skill" setting is fun, having an opponent that (ultimately) is better than you 
 in every regard, and trying to knock them off their perch. Unlike the FIFA series, the Menu isnt 
 horribly black and boring, Yes, it does have the same square menu list features, but the background 
 is spectacular, giving you not only a view to die for, it gives you detailed status of your NFL 
 Career to date.
  On field graphics are realistic, the crowd makes some noise, everyone gets in on the action.
 
  Okay, Yes, the game has a steep learning curve, but once understood, it becomes a lot more exciting 
 and enjoyable.
  The commentators have very nice organisation, saying what they need to say when, but i do occasionally 
 get tired of hearing the "Peyton Manning, perennial probowler" thing.
  Ultimately though, this game really is Perfect. It doesn't come any better than this. (Well, maybe. 
 We'll Have to see Madden 2010...)
  
  Etchy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kmoney88
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Garbage...
  if you buy this game... take the little booklet, rip it up into hundreds of pieces, and use it 
 as tinder for a fire.... take the the disc, put on a table, find a drink, and place it on top of 
 the disc... cause all it's good for it use as a coaster...
  
  I love football... but this game is doing everything it can to destroy it
  
  OK SERIOUSLY NOW, 
 DON'T GET THIS GAME!!!!
  here's why...
  it's buggy as hell...
  the start button doesn't work... IT DOESN'T WORK! I'll be in the middle of a game and I'll need 
 to piss... sometimes, probably 15% of the time I'll be able to pause to game and go take care of 
 business... 85% of the time I just have to jam and jam the start button until I realize it's not 
 gonna work, take the delay of game penalty and go piss... this is the only game on my PS3 I've 
 ever had problems with the start button
  sometimes I'll be playing a game, and everything just goes to hell...
  the screen goes white, 
 random blotches of multicolor shapes flash on the screen like it's a **** laser show or something
 
  game play isn't much better... there is a delay when you switch players on the field, before and 
 after the snap
  Franchise mode is trash... scouting players is a waste of time... all the information you'll ever 
 be able to learn about any given player is already given to about 95% of them... it's slow and 
 tedious to scout them anyway...
  
  This is total crap... don't waste your time even with a rental...
  If you see this game, break 
 it, or burn it.... do anything but play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:20 am PT
Review:  If pretty grass is what your looking for, then good news! This is the game for you! Honestly outside 
 of visuals nothing in this game has been improved. Theres no game play sliders remaining, all you 
 have is a pointless Madden Test that doesn't really determine anything. A. I. is still the worst 
 in ANY video game across ANY genre, it still cheats to win with super human like displays of pass 
 defense and blocking. Madden still contains unbelievable glitches and the most super generic blocking, 
 pass rushing, catching, passing, and running styles that have ever been seen in a football game. 
 Pretty much all your paying for is a roster update along with slightly better visuals. Madden hasn't 
 improved Franchise or Superstar mode in years and 09 is no different. Online is still not what 
 it could or should be, creating a player is very poorly done (one again) with the same old faces, 
 you can't pick your eyes, your nose, you hair, eye black, or nasal strips, all you get to pick 
 is a skin color along with a set of 15 or so pre determined faces (most of which look like they'd 
 be punters) . I mean for the life of me I don't understand how a game steadily gets worse every 
 year. Madden has yet to make a quality 'next gen' game. In closing curse the NFL and curse EA for 
 destroying Football video games. Honestly I suggest just doing yourself a favor and going out to 
 buy Madden 05 or NFL 2k5 and find a way to update the rosters because those games were light years 
 ahead of 09 when it comes to game play. All I have to say is shame on you EA and money corrupts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is Madden 09.... so what the hell is all this crap about?!! I played Madden 07 I believe 
 on the Ps2... after a long time from staying away from the title, man i had a pretty good time with 
 that game. It was actually fun. So i loved it.
  Since then I was waiting patiently for the Ps3 Madden big debut, since Madden 08 looked more like 
 a crossover rather than a real Ps3 game. So i waited and i was excited... i saw the reviews... specially 
 the one from the user reviews and some were good, while others were more like dissapointment. I 
 made myself look the other way and went on with the gamespot review of 8.0... HUGE mistake.
  
  This game is awful! from presentation, from gameplay, from graphics, from every point of view, 
 this game Sucks!
  
  The opening were you rank yourself to know what's your level of difficulty... it stinks! glowing 
 red dudes vs blue glowing dudes... crap! Madden itself seems so robotic and stale, it makes me sick. 
 I played a classic game, me the bears against the packers... what atmosphere is what where and how?? 
 what the freakin heck is this about?? the stadium with firecrackers all over the place is your 
 idea of game classic atmosphere??!! and the game itself, it feels like you have to force the movement, 
 like you must make drag the players... and they look kinda blocky to me. This game sunk! The sounds 
 were just ok, nothing extraordinaire about it. I didn't even play the rest of the features... this 
 game is just an example of disrespect. Madden is the only football game out there with the official 
 game licence... DO YOUR JOB. Give us a quality game... not something of below sub-par expectations.
 
  
  I was lucky, a friend of mine lend me this game. I tossed it an hour later. I must say i was deeply 
 dissapointed, angry, dissatisfied and felt ripped off by EA on this one. What a waste of my time 
 this was.
  
  So to the die hard Madden fan, please admit it, this game sunk down as one of the worst on the 
 madden series and if you haven't buy it, DON'T. If you have never played or have missed the most 
 recent Madden versions and want to try this one out, DON'T!! this game is one of the worst PS3 
 games i have played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungmeister
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my experience as of 12/28/2008. So to be fair, if additional patches or fixes correct some 
 of my complaints than this score would improve.
  
  
  My major complaints with the game:
  1. Game freezes constantly in Franchise mode (I have yet 
 to move past week 4)
  2. Because the game is constantly freezing/crashing it's often corrupts my save-games. I have had 
 one franchise corrupted to the point that I cannot load it.
  3. Patch support from EA sucks horribly. I can't find anywhere (within reason) what revisions or 
 if I have an option to install a patch or not. I am supposed to be ensured by the 'automatic' nature 
 of this from a dev team that doesn't know what the purpose of QA is or whom should perform it. 
 To be sure, I have uninstalled the thing completely and tried re-installing.. It indicates that 
 a patch or 'latest version' was downloaded and applied but the results are useless for what problems 
 I am seeing. 
  4. Numerous graphical errors. I constantly see problems with stadium resulting in bizarre polygons 
 extending across the field. More often than not there is some sort of error with the face-masks 
 which results in everyone having a thin spike coming out of their helmet.
  5. Support help is thin and its difficult to determine if I have the latest code base. Developer/QA 
 support seems non-existent so I assume that they have put out their requisite patch and are now 
 more concerned about next year's release.
  6. Some of the animation (running for example) looks poorly implemented as players sort of "float".
 
  
  
  If you're a tech support tool for EA, yes.. I give it time to 'load' or 'unfreeze'. I thought that 
 a weekend was sufficient to convince me it was never going to happen. At one point, I allowed to 
 sit frozen for an entire week to see if it would un-bog. Nothing. Yes, all the latest PS3 patches 
 have been applied and still no resolutions.
  
  I have seen some similar problems with NHL 08 - but thankfully that game doesn't freeze so at least 
 my progress isn't constantly being corrupted or erased.
  
  To at least be honest, I will say that when the game works it is fun, very fun. The passing and 
 running games are enjoyable to execute, although D can sometimes be oblique if you want to play 
 a corner or a safety. The commentary is actually pretty good (surprisingly) and doesn't annoy as 
 quickly as it used to a few years ago. The Madden IQ is a pretty cool idea that nicely adjusts 
 the skill level based on your play. This has been done a few times in PC games years ago but I 
 like that the details of your score are provided and that exercises are provided to help improve 
 weak parts of your game.
  
  
  Regrettably, you have to consider the game as a whole and major pieces of its functionality are 
 broken. I have played the XBox version at BestBuy and didn't notice the same graphical glitches 
 so I have to think this is an "EA engine on PS3" problem - at least from my direct experiences.
 
  
  For an anniversary edition of the game, I have to say that I am completely disappointed and if 
 software could be returned I would light this thing on fire and throw it at them. I hope others 
 are having better experiences as the game does have some really enjoyable moments in-between the 
 major disappointments.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I was giddy in my anticipation of renting this game, as I will never buy Madden until I have tested 
 it and given it my "realistic" stamp of approval. But I thought, "This time might be different, 
 they maybe actually got it right finally and made the game like the real thing!" Not only do they 
 not, the game is so broken and cheesy that I can't play it for more than a game or two without 
 having to eject and restrain myself from breaking a disc that does not belong to me in two!
  We will start first with Madden IQ. This could have been a very, very cool new feature but it is 
 nothing more than the computer's way of translating how much bull-crap they are going to shovel 
 onto you trying to translate difficulty. This is no different than any other Madden game. Players 
 do things that they would never do in real life, there are still gadgets/tricks that you can use 
 to be nearly unstoppable on offense as well.
  Long bombs are easy if the D is not in either cover 3 or cover 4 (and even then if the QB gets 
 more than 10 seconds with the ball he can break those coverages down as well) . And if you are in 
 those coverages you can throw short for easy completions as well. 
  Once you get above all pro difficulty the computer has no qualms about knowing what play you picked 
 and defending it perfectly, every time! The best way to call plays against the CPU is to drop everyone 
 into coverage, even if the play is a run and to call the opposite of what you want on offense then 
 audible out of it (the CPU caught on to this and once changed from man to zone D, even though all 
 I did was a same formation audible) . Oh and the CPU when it wants to score will run a play where 
 they won't get tackled, once I had it where the RB broke 8 tackles to run 65 yards for a score! 
 And 3 of them were linemen/linebackers that this RB... LT.. cough... tossed like children. That is 
 not in the game EA! 
  Even though the CPU throws all this bull-crap on you, you can still beat it once you know when 
 to run/pass and what play to call at what time. My last season in franchise mode I went 15-1 and 
 won the SB, and over the four seasons that I played I won the SB 3 times with the St. Louis Rams!!! 
 And I used the default rosters, no bull-crap cheap trades! With sliders all the way up on the highest 
 difficulty! This is pathetic EA! 
  I can go on about how it is almost impossible to get a sack against the CPU on All-Madden or how 
 your o-line never blocks blitzes and on and on and on..... but that is pointless. NFL 2K5 is still 
 better technically than this crap, and that is sad EA. Improve the physics of this game and hire 
 a person who knows about how real football works and then I might actually buy the game and not 
 just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soranobody
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I have madden 09. I have a ps3. The two of them combined is a very good combination. Lets take 
 a look at the new features celbrations and way better graphics. This is a fun game in its core 
 but it like any other sprots game gets boring after you win the champion ship. I would buy it (I 
 mean i have i have it ) But just dont play it every day. The new my skill level doesn't work as 
 it should. It's a cool feature but it doesnt work out the way its planned. This is the best one 
 madden ive played though i have a wii and a ps3 and madden 08 for the wii is good but madden 09 
 is the best one i have ever played and its only getting a 8.5 lets do a little better ea. The gamplay 
 is solid like all football games. Lets look at the soundtrack which have been good in all maddens. 
 There is a lot of good stuff. Somethings that are just debuting on madden though. The new footprint 
 system which i have no clue what this does well.......... i dont know what it does so im just gonna 
 say its a plus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Boy45
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Once again madden has failed to improve defense to the point where like in the NFL its all about 
 scoring but its just plain ridiculous in the game. The computer players on defense never do what 
 there supposed to do and dominate D-line still dont get the sacks there counterparts do. The CB's 
 reaction time breaking on the ball is slow. Still to easy to throw the lond ball. O-line blocking 
 is non exsistent and what happened to total control passing i liked using accuarte QB's to pin 
 point my throws but that doent happen either. Honestly my biggest complaint is the defense! All 
 around shabby. Where are the double moves, like a double spin to get out of two defenders way I 
 did it in 08 with Kevin Jones for the lions several times. Is there any progression though out 
 the season besides the corny training scenarios. Make it better is what i thought the idea was 
 but its just graphigly better and thats about it. y cant i use my created team online? Theres more 
 alot more but y waste my time EA Doesnt care people will still buy madden, untill SOMEONE ELSE 
 GETS LICISENING AGREEMENT W/NFL. Thats what EA is afraid of because what else is there? Live 09 
 HA! NBA2K9 is it? NFS? Ha! MNC: LA what else Okay im rambling but seriosly come on MAN make it better! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaneshane26
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I used to love Madden but they have simply lost this one. What happened to the great mini games 
 like situation. Also what is with computers deciding on games when the players should in multiplayer. 
 Also it seems they do not have out of bounds in football anymore. I run out and the clock keeps 
 rolling on so i lose the game. Also with catches and even challenging it does not work. Also since 
 they dont have situation i have played madden moments. I cant say enough how they need to have 
 a dang restart on there especially for the 5 - 10 min ones cause im not waiting for it to end so 
 i wait and comeback wasting 5 min. Also the virtual stuff is cool but pointless they should of 
 spent more time on the hits. I probably will by next years tho because i hope they get it together 
 but i will have to live with this crappy one for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattire357
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I got this game with high expectations. I was thinking, awesome, football.
  
  It would be fairly simple to make a good football game. The problem with this one, is that it just 
 was not finished.
  
  It is frustrating to see players behave in ways that are not realistic. It happens once, and you're 
 like, argh. It happens all the time in this game. I feel like the makers were inebriated when they 
 compiled it.
  
  
  
  I finally shut the game off, after throwing 10+ successful hail mary's, with each drive (4 total) 
 ending in an interception, either near the goalline, or within the touchdown zone.
  
  That just never happens in football. Hail mary's never work that well (they do for me on the game) , 
 nor do cornerbacks do interceptions that well!!
  
  Then there are just weird behaviors. Like knocking the pass down when you are within grasp of the 
 QB. Isn't that more likely to be a fumble, if you are that close? Why settle for knocking the pass 
 down?
  
  I just missed a field goal at 10yards. Yesterday, I made one at 50 yards. what/??
  
  It is 
 SO buggy!
  
  Some things in life are just lies. To call this a football game, is a lie. Its a algorithm with 
 polygons. You can't get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  The first game I played, a receiver for the opposing team caught the ball out of bounds. Not running 
 out of bounds. He was standing out of bounds. I reviewed the replay, called timeout. Challenged. 
 I lost the challenge. Play stands as called. You can apparently catch the ball while standing out 
 of bounds. This is the epitome of Madden football.
  
  Of course, it took me two hours to play a game. I scoured every menu looking for "roster update." 
 I couldn't find it, because it doesn't exist. I had to consult the internet to find that, in order 
 to get the roster update through the game, you must start an online matchup, from whence you will 
 be allowed to download the roster. 
  
  If you're new to the franchise (unlikely, but possible) , you'll be lost on the field. Hit X during 
 the pre-snap. The camera snaps back high above the players. What's this you say? Have no idea? 
 Don't worry, it'll tell you somewhere, right? Oh, in the menu here, it says "defensive playmaker." 
 Ok. What's that? Um, I dunno. It doesn't say anywhere. Sorry noobs, you get left out of the loop.
 
  
  Customizable music like many other sports games? No.
  
  Button mapping like the majority of all games made? No.
  
  Multiple camera angle options like 
 most sports games, and former Madden games? No.
  
  Customizable game screen to remove annoying screen clutter? No.
  
  Cris Collinsworth, hands 
 down the most grating voice in football today? Yes! In full, non-stop blathering mode!
  
  Annoying, useless "widjets," that are new but won't be in next year's game because it's stupid? 
 Yes! The "Madden IQ": it's a pointless, inaccurate guage of your adeptness at the game. My 10 year 
 old daughter can rack up All-Pro status having never played, and go out and get creamed 63-0 during 
 an actual game.
  
  Save and quit during game option? No!
  
  Another embarassing choice for the Madden cover? Yes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crix3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Seeing that the folks over at EA and Tiburon rake in the millions every year for a game that already 
 is half way done when they start a new year, you'd think they would at least be able to make sure 
 the next installment is better than the last and has new features. But every year you take a look 
 at it, it still has many flaws. Probably the main problem I had while playing it is that your pass 
 defense seems to really suck no matter what difficulty you're playing, who's on your team, or how 
 good you are. And many problems accompany this. Also the game is not very impressing even compared 
 to older titles. I still prefer to play Madden 06, and I think 06 is better than 09. And if you 
 take a look at the features and game modes, they are virtually the same. The only major new feature 
 is the madden IQ. While it is a good idea it's not perfect and again the flawed pass defense hinders 
 your score. For a game that is marked at $60, it definitely does not meet the standard. Now it's 
 not totally horrible. It still is Madden and still presents a good football experience. But stick 
 with your old one, because if you want an update then in 2-3 years you'll find this at gamestop 
 for $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  I was actually a fan of the 2K football series when it was out it full force. In my eyes it was 
 a much better game than madden that year. But ever since EA has bought the rights to the NFL, making 
 only one choice to buy.
  
  I wanted to see the changes in this years game and to see how it compares to previous years installments. Needless 
 to say I was dissapointed in Madden 09. Some of the flaws reside in the superstar mode. I actually 
 played all 4 years in ncaa 09 to import my player into madden. Boy what a mistake that was. You cant 
 even see where you were drafted, was I first, second, tenth? I held over 30 records in NCAA 09 and 
 assume I was first, but who knows. Another thing that is messed up are the jersey selections. There 
 are no other colors you can use but white. It gets really, really, old to play in the same jersey 
 color every game. It made me sick to death on the ncaa game also, white jerseys all 4 seasons. I dont 
 see how this is realistic in any way, considering you may not be able to pick the jerseys in real 
 life, but they do play in dark colors too. That is very annoying, espically since you can change it 
 in every other mode but superstar.
  
  But there are good points to this years madden. The graphics are better, mostly due to the field, which 
 actually looks real. And if you are a Madden fan all of the core gameplay elements are still here, so 
 you wont be dissapointed. And the commentary by chris collinsworth is great. He is lightyears ahead 
 of Madden or Michaels.
  
  Madden 09 is a decent game that will appeal to fans of the series. But the flaws in superstar mode 
 are really annoying and take the excitement of the game. Rent this first and buy it if you want 
 when it gets cheaper than $60. If you want some good madden play go buy Madden 05.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul2005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This year EA showed off there skills. The madden series has fallen before and if this one is bad 
 then there is no way the will receive that much money. this would be a bad sign but it wasnt. Multiplayer 
 is fun with just the same as last years and plays. But made up for that is the extreme fun. its 
 not different from last years that much but in gameplay ya it is a difference this game is highly 
 fun and desereves the respect and EA is scared what about if they cant do it next year we will 
 have to see.
  
  Gameplay:9.5
  Graphics:9.2
  No glitches no bugs:75%
  Get it?: 82% yes.
  different then last one:50%
  Good game for u to get if u got last years:65%
 
  Total rating is a 8.5.
   
 WISLEY AND LOOK AT MY PERCENTAGES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  In madden 09 it is better than all the other maddens because they have new players you can use 
 now like daren mcfadden. In madden 09 they make you rewind now whenever you want. you can rewind 
 if you do a mistake on offense or defense or losing a close game versus computer. In the nfl superstar 
 its not really good because when they make you do the fourty yard dash they make run so slow but 
 they still make you fast in the game and they make you a good player so easily and sometimes you 
 dont do good in the football workouts. The best running backs in the game is ladainian tomlinson, 
 reggie bush, deangilo williams, adrian peterson. the best wide recievers in the game is randy moss, 
 santana moss, steve smith, chad johnson, terrel owens, plaxico buress, larry fitzgerald, anquon 
 boldin and the best quarter backs are tom brady, peyton manning, vince young, and eli manning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer10705
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the worst roster of any Madden game in history with teams that are close to 
 making the playoffs being written off in the game in the 70s as far as team rating goes. Meanwhile 
 a team like the Dallas Cowboys is in the 90s. As we all know the NFL has some serious talent and 
 there is no way that you can rate a team in the 70s this season, much less the Jets no matter how 
 much they have sucked in the past.
  
  This makes the online play in this game extremely unbalanced. I was horrified to see Tony Romo 
 of the Dallas Cowboys completely annihilating Brett Favre in this game, with Favre getting a QB 
 rating of 33 in the game because the Offensive line and wide receivers on the Jets were given low 
 ratings. Even NFL TE veteran Bubba Franks is rated extremely lowly. Really, wtf?
  
  The difference between the teams this year is minuscule and there should not be a single team in 
 this game rated under 90. Meanwhile the improvements to the graphics etc are pretty minuscule compared 
 to Madden 08 and Madden 07.
  
  I would consider this one of the worst Madden games released. It seems they have spent more time 
 on the lame soundtrack with annoying singles from hiphop artists and metalcore bands. Skip this 
 and hope they release a better version next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports Madden games have always had a passionate following. Almost every year Madden tops the 
 sales charts and takes over the nation during football season. The transition from SD to HD has 
 been a slow, but steady process. Finally... the 2009 iteration of Madden lives up to its hype and 
 EA Sports has delivered the best Madden game since 2005. 
  
  Madden is a love-hate type of game. The past couple of years have been serious hate years as I 
 was a huge fan of NFL 2K5 and Madden simply didn't cut it. There have been years I absolutely love 
 the game (94, 2000, 2005) and there have been years that I absolutely hate the game (2006, 2007) . 
 I would argue that this is the best version of Madden in HD because the frame rate, animations, 
 and overall speed of the game have finally been balanced. 
  
  I found that the past versions of Madden have played "slow" compared to their Standard Def brethren. 
 Maybe this has something to do with the game running at 60 FPS... maybe the guys at Tiburon have 
 begun to figure out how to program the game properly for the PS3... either way, this game "feels 
 right". 
  
  Gone are the constant fumbles or instant interceptions found in past versions of the game. Yes, 
 players will maddeningly run out of bounds on simple screen passes sometimes, but the overall feel 
 of a football simulation is present. 
  
  The graphics, from the player models to the stadiums, in Madden 2009 are excellent all-round. The 
 grass in particular, looks incredibly realistic. Gang tackles are present and highlight stick moves 
 look really cool. 
  
  I mainly play Franchise mode and play online with friends once and a while. There are a bevy of 
 different modes and features, the most noteworthy of which is Superstar Mode. Simply put, Madden 
 has something for everyone to do. Online leagues are a cool feature, but they're not really online 
 leagues. They're more like online tournaments. I would like to see this high potential feature 
 further fleshed out in future releases. I will probably skip Madden for a couple of years until 
 true online leagues are present. Overall though, there's a lot to do. 
  
  I like how the game adapts to your play style in this year's game. It makes the game more challenging. 
 Do yourself a favor by skipping the initial IQ test because it's a joke. Start playing the game 
 and it will adjust itself to you. 
  
  I mentioned before that the game looks great. Sound effects are pretty good and the soundtrack 
 is decent. I don't pay much attention to the commentary, but there's nothing there that really 
 bothers me. 
  
  My one pet peeve against this game is how difficult it is to defend the pass on higher difficulty 
 settings. Seriously... it is really freaking hard to stop the computer on third down in this game. 
 I'm no expert at Madden, but I don't suck either. It really annoys me how difficult it is to stop 
 the computer on 3rd and 5... which brings me to my next point: instant replay. 
  
  I don't like to "cheat" when I play, but sometimes the computer gets so brutally efficient that 
 I use the instant replay feature to take a 2nd crack at stopping the computer on 3rd down. By pressing 
 the square button after a play, you have the option of replaying the play. This is a feature that 
 can be turned on or off so it shouldn't affect normal game play. I think it's a good feature to 
 have when the computer feels like spamming you to death.
  
  EA Sports is touting a new feature that automatically updates players' stats during the season 
 in their NBA Live and FIFA games. I would like to see this implemented in Madden (for free of course) . 
 Right now, I have to go and download roster updates by playing an online game and then quitting 
 out. The first time I updated, it took me a while to figure it out. I would like to see this feature 
 more easily accessible to the casual player. 
  
  Enough harping about the finer points of the game though... Madden is the same game that you have 
 come to either love or hate over the past 20 years. Madden 2009, even with its flaws, is a solid 
 football simulator. Is it the best game ever? No. But is it a horrible game that should be scored 
 any lower than a 7? Absolutely not. 
  
  Madden is good video game; this year's version has improvements that allow it to have some moments 
 that make it a very good video game. There's no doubt this game is way better than the garbage 
 we've seen in the past few years. The most important thing about this game is that it is fun to 
 play with friends. There are no flaws (well... once you download the patch to fix a freezing problem. 
 I have yet to encounter any problems) that break the game. 
  
  All in all... a rock solid 8 that is worth any NFL fan's time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccputgat2m
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  First the good:
  It looks great, tons of options, lag-free online, constant updates, etc. The presentation has been 
 ramped up and the stadiums are now life-like.
  
  The bad:
  The CAMERA is too clumky for me. In the ps2 version, there were 10 cameras, now we have 1. I need 
 the madden classic camera or I cant see all my players on the screen.
  
  The GAMEPLAY. It just doesnt feel like madden. The players are slower. The playcalling screen is 
 too clunky. It just seems off.
  
  The CONTROLS. way too many pre-snap adjustments and they are difficult to get off. In the ps2, 
 it was much simplier to call hot routes, audibles etc., motion etc. 
  
  Online, There is no FAIR PLAY. This feature made the on-line experience mych more realistic.
 
  
  
  In closing, Madden 2003, 2004, and 2005 were so much fun, and now they just keep adding features 
 that dont add to the experience. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklovesbaseba
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  ok where to get started.... i bought this on the first day cuase i thought there was gonna be some 
 new things....
  no all this game has is bull$hit...
  the running is ugly and the replays i save i struggle to watch cuase its like watching a turtle 
 slide on grass...
  the graphic r ok but the crowd is SOOOOOO bad its like a good painting on a piece of crap...
 
  look at mlb the show the crowd is amazing u can edit almost everything in franchise u can add 
 seats u can set concession sales but in madden u can add a huge lcd screen to ur stadium which 
 doesnt apear to even change...
  the players r amazingly overated/underated...
  i mean look at randy moss online u can lob it up to him and half the plays it results in a 50+ 
 yard gain...
  the offensive line is mentally chalenged...
  the game freezes all the time...
  the playbooks r terribly bland i mean no sqwib kick no running 
 back passes i mean do they watch the nfl...
  one of the worst things is that they added collinsworth arguebly the worst commentator behind bryant 
 gumble...
  the challenge option is pointless i mean ive seen antonio gates do the special catch thing a good 
 5 yeards out of bound so i chalenge this and of course they dont overule it and i end up losing 
 onlinedo to it... by the way im 60-28 online so i dont suck...
  i could go on but go buy a new game and trade this in u can get 32 dollars back for this game right 
 now so ud get a good potion back...
  and just buy nfl 2k5 and download some user created rosters...
  just go to youtube and watch 
 the nfl 2k5 1 handed catches they make madden look like a joke and that game is almost 5 years 
 old!!!!
  just dont buy madden ever again!!!
  ever!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamfear
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I am so disappointed in Madden this year that i haven't played it in weeks and it is now up for 
 sale. 
  
  AI
  Every year EA brags about how they improved the AI when in fact it is worse then it was on PS2. 
 You still can't run the ball effectively on the harder difficulty and if you play Rookie or Pro 
 there is no competition. What fun is it to have you RB carry the ball 22 times for 28 yards against 
 the computer. Sure you can win on the harder difficulties if you throw the whole game. The challenge 
 play is completely broken. I saw guys catch the ball 5 yards out of bounce and would loose the 
 challenge. Collision detection issues arise as i dive right through the QB. The AI adapts to you 
 is a complete joke and just proves the fact that the AI hasn't changed in years. You'll have the 
 computer Passing and Running climb up to All Madden and you'll be barely at Pro with the running 
 game and All Pro to All Madden with the passing. 
  
  Franchise
  Franchise mode ends up being so unrealistic for your user controlled teams in just about every 
 stat category. The trade menus are so cumbersome with extra unneeded steps added. In fact all the 
 menus are like this! Glitches and Freeze ups ruin it more. At one point in the game I punted to 
 the computer and it turns around and punts the ball right back to me on first down. 
  
  Control
  There is no option to configure your controller settings so us Madden Veterans are now 
 forced to use R2 instead of X for speed. This is inexcusable!
  
  Presentation
  Chris Collinsworth sometimes has some fantastic insight but it gets repetitive fast. There is often 
 speech over speech if you use Madden tips in the play calling screen where the play by play is 
 still talking and Madden gives you his opinion on the play calling screen at the same time. 
  
  Graphics
  Pretty HD can't save the fact that player animation is laughable and a complete 
 Joke. 
  
  Online Play
  Playing online is pretty good but plan to have your opponent quit on you if you are winning. I 
 played 5 games one night and 3 quit on me because they were losing. 
  
  EA is just milking the license for all it's worth with yearly roster updates and a few fancy changes 
 to the presentation. If you have to have it wait for it to go clearance. Definitely not worth $59.99
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakbeats
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Which game is more like real life Madden09 or Nfl2k5. Everybody knows the answer to that and these 
 games r suppose to simulation of the real thing i thought. Madden has no real form of gang tackles, cant 
 tackle players sometimes until animations r done, bugs glitches, line blockin is far from reality, shall 
 i keep goin. Almost same exact game since 03, they technically dont even use real 3d models they 
 use a different version of sprite models, they take no pride in there games.2k was making the best 
 game y else after 5-6 yrs ea would the run to the exclusive license the year right after 2k was 
 gettin huge. n e true gamer would no that. they know people r going to buy it regardless so why should 
 they care how we feel or how the games lack reality. if i want to play arcade style i will play 
 weak @$$ tour which im pretty sure its weak and i have not heard or seen a review nor played it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I am not new to Madden, but I don't watch football all that much. It's because of this that I have 
 a lot of trouble developing sound strategy and generally get my A$$ kicked when playing. BUT, this 
 year it's different. 
  
  Next-Gen Madden on PS3 was ridiculously bad with Madden 07 and 08. I felt the frame rate and animations 
 were so bad overall, that it made you feel you were playing football on a prettied up 16 bit system. 
 This year, the animations are fluid, the tackles are incredible with MANY different animations, 
 and the gameplay... Well, the players are just unbelieably responsive and you always feel in control.
 
  
  I think Gamespot was expecting a bit too much from this title. The Madden IQ is not perfect, but 
 after a few games, it really does adjust well to you. Also, for someone like me who doesn't understand 
 the strategy of Football all that well, the backtrack feature is great for learning how to better 
 approach things. 
  
  On previous installments, I would never know how to set up hot routes and audibles. This year, 
 I'm playing like a pro, and thanks to the great commentating and backtrack features, I'm breaking 
 down the defenses like a champ!! I even beat my veteran Madden player friend the other night!! 
 :)
  
  I have the Collector's Edition, and I'll say that it's a waste of your money. Stick with the $59.99 
 game, there's nothing you'll really use in the Collector's Edition. 
  
  The Madden Test doesn't do a good job of setting up your Madden IQ. It's much easier than a real 
 game. Thus, leaving you with a few losses in the preseason. But, it will eventually adjust. The 
 bluff plays (for 2 player competition) is back and works great.
  
  Whether you're a football wiz, or a noob. Whether you have tons of Maddens under your belt, or 
 this is your first. Whether you like football, or not... This is a GREAT game that will bring you 
 hours of fun!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack652
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a great game and when I say that I mean it. I like the online set up and how 
 you can set up your own league and then play many others friends just like in the other games but 
 still its just an all around better game.
  Another thing that I like is the way that the computer adapts to the different plays that you call 
 and then it remembers that not just for that game but on your whole profile so the computer actually 
 learns your play scheme. And that just makes the whole game better. Because in other games I could 
 play on the All Madden level and obliterate all of the other teams and now it is much harder for 
 me to do that, but they didnt make it so hard that you are sick of the game within the first few 
 hours that you play it.
  There have been just a few additions that make this game all it can be and with the greatness that 
 is in this I am just counting down the days until Madden 2010 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Before Madden 09, I said "It will be just like last year, which was just like the year before, 
 which was just like the year before". But this year's game combined great graphics, great frame-rate, 
 great gameplay, great new features, and few glitches. This is one game not to be missed. If you 
 are very skeptical about this game or just don't believe me, at least give it a rental. The game 
 is just plain fun. Madden Moments are one of the best parts. You get to relive the best moments 
 of last year. Like the Giants game-winning super bowl drive, or Favre's 80 yard overtime TD pass 
 to Jennings. There are also moments to re-write history, such as playing as the Eagles and beating 
 the Patriots. It is very immercive and fun. i would give it a 9.2, but i can't. Of course, the 
 game has flaws. I have yet to see a game with no flaws, but this game is worthwile. It is easily 
 the best madden there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoi17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  From the "Golden" days of EA to its social downfall, most of the people who hate EA (In all its 
 Multi-Billion dollar-glory) can't help but put their emotions to the side when the new Madden comes 
 out. Despite all the things that's been said about EA... Despite all the things I said about EA, 
 Madden remains one of the best-selling titles and arguably the best sports' title of the year, 
 year after year. While this edition of Madden is the best of Next-Gen, it still has it's flaws 
 (as you may know) . But the new gameplay options, as pointless as some of them are (Rewind?) do serve 
 a purpose to some of the inexperinced players. The gameplay has also been refined with even more 
 pre-snap options and realistic tackle animations. EA may be considered "slackers" for not getting 
 up-to-par with the next-gen systems, but after this edition im starting to see progress.
  
  Gameplay
  When you first take the field in Madden 09, not only will you be able to see the difference 
 from last year's game graphically, you'll also findout that the running is more realistic than 
 any other football game (Not much to choose from) and is also very similar to 2K's style. The players 
 don't fumble as much, break more tackles, and you actually have to find a hole WITHOUT using turbo 
 which is very realistic if you know football. A lot of pre-snap options on offence and defense 
 have been added and if used right can help you become a bigger force in Madden 09. Wr spotlight 
 is a great addition, you can also audible your CB to defend certain routes like the dreaded Hook. 
 On offense, you can shift the line and make them more aggressive for the run or to pick up the 
 blitz, and if you played last year, you should know about run, play flip, and Wr route audibles. 
 The "BackTrack" (a feature that enables you to see what you did wrong on a play) is a good feature 
 for inexperienced players, but doesn't serve veterans much purpose. The "Rewind" feature was a 
 good idea, maybe a lil' overrated, but still a good idea. I don't use it at all, I know I would 
 feel guilty after the win, but it would be a ok tool for players new to Madden or football period.
 
  
  A. I.
  Not as cheap as it was last year, with all the fumbles on offense. Oh, Im sorry people. I'm an 
 All-Madden player, so if your're looking for a all-difficulties breakdown on my review, your're 
 gonna have to look somewhere else. The Wr's play smart and make some big plays, the blocking is 
 intellegent, Rivalries are crazy hard (AFC Play-offs-hard) . The only complaint I have is with some 
 of the cheap plays the computer make on All-Madden ( The people who played know what im talking 
 about) . If you throw anywhere near a player in a different jersey, automatic pick and maybe even 
 6. Players on computer's offense, especially the RB's, break tackles like crazy (Ahman Green flipped 
 Haynesworth like a pancake) . But, it's not Madden 2005-cheap, which is VERY good lol. Now, you 
 can tell the difference between Rivalries on Madden. It's so big of a difference, it took me 4 
 days to beat the Jags, even though I had Calvin Johnson, Maurice Drew-Jones, Devin Hester, Marcus 
 Trufant, AND P. Willie. Mainly because of VERY cheap fumbles and cheap player-controlled D (wrong 
 pursuit angles, bad coverage) and some magnificent plays they made on offense (M. Lewis 71 yard TDYeah 
 hilarious) . I wish it was a way EA could make the A. I. challenging without dumbing-down our players 
 ability.
  
  On-Line
  Despite some of the issues I have with the game, I still have a blast with it. Especially on-line (PS3 
 no Glitch for me!) , which is the meat of the replay value. Ea is putting use to it's contract with 
 ESPN with real life stats, and streaming video. Some of the new modes include on-line leagues 
 and a Fantasy Football option for the people that's better at predicting than playing. On-line 
 leagues isn't as big as I thought it would be, but at least EA is making a effort to connect players 
 on a new way on-line
  
  Overall
  If you love Football, Madden is a no-brainer, unless you want to wait for another edition of ALL-Pro 
 football. It's not perfect, but Ea is making strides to get Madden off of it's C+ or B game back 
 up to it's a game, until then, I recommend (for football lovers) you pick up this Madden and enjoy 
 it until next year. Until then, be easy people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HomeyLuv81
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying, I do not own this video game. I have, however, played it with 
 a friend, and I am not impressed by it one bit. 
  
  Another NFL season arrives... Another crappy Madden game arrives upon retailer's shelves.. I knew 
 that there was a reason why I stopped purchasing EA games about a year ago (shortly after ProStreet 
 came out) . Forget that fact that I've been so disenchanted with the Madden corp... oops, I mean 
 franchise.. since the 06 version of the game. Or that it seems like (as has been previously stated) 
 the only thing that gets updated, is 1) the rosters; 2) the coaches; 3) and the stadiums. Oh, and 
 every year is the introduction of some new gimmick, designed to help you (the consumer) enjoy Madden 
 even better than before. It seems to me that the heads at EA do not understand what it is to have 
 an actual football sim that works correctly, versus one that masquerades as a representation of 
 american football. **NEWS FLASH to EA** I, the football simulator consumer, do not want a new gimmick 
 each and every year which is supposed to improve my game playing experience. I WANT GREAT GAMEPLAY!!! 
 I want blockers that don't pretend to be bull fighters, or quarterbacks who never improve, and 
 as someone on this site put players who "run like they have a tree shoved up their asses." Is that 
 so hard?
  
  Seriously, if the NFL resorted to this  tactic, 
 during every season, I'd officially renounce my citizenship and become a soccer fan. And the aspect 
 that I can't get through my head the most, is that no matter what tactics EA can come up with, 
 how are there are other developers who can (and have in the case of All Pro 2k8) put out great 
 games, regardless of having the NFL license? 
  In any case, since November of last year, I am proud to say that I have not bought any EA product 
 (not one, single title) , and every time that I think I'm about to break down and do it, I pop in 
 my copy of Madden 07, and instantly renew my hatred for the company and those who are "robotic" 
 enough to purchase a copy year after year, regardless of how similar or crappy that the new iteration 
 is compared to the previous year's copy. I'm being truthfully honest when I tell you that I'm so 
 looking forward to Midway's upcoming Blitz 2 title. Congratulations, EA you will continue to not 
 get any of my hard earned dollars, but I understand that you don't care, since the masses continue 
 to buy your inferior product. (Oh well, I guess I'll go back to playing APF 2k8..) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  OK so I'm not an NFL fan by any stretch of the imagination (it is hard to be from Australia) but 
 I find this game to be really enjoyable. For those not familiar with the game it's simple you try 
 and get the ball 10 yards forward in 5 tries, and failing that try to score a field goal or failing 
 that try and put the opposition team in bad position.
  Now the game is a lot more complex than that. I've struggled through countless iterations of the 
 game but I have found none as accessible in terms of tactics. I've gone from some one who doesn't 
 know which coverage to call to some one who can audible to cover a run play or pass play and likewise 
 on offense.
  This game would benefit with an improvement in tutorials on play calling and better explanations 
 on what the coverage and line audibles do.
  Despite this there is plenty of fun to be had with the various game modes, like franchise (you 
 can even relocate you team) and superstar although this is similar to last years mode.
  The game looks good and the game play can be really challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WCOFF3219
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is better, but there are small things missing. I do not understand what happened to the 
 pregame entrances and in the pro bowl why do they wear helmets that just say AFC and NFC. At the 
 Pro bowl they wear the helmet of the team they play for. I think it just looks more realistic. 
 Sometimes the players run backward after catching a pass. Would really like them to put more time 
 into a pregame show, half time show, and post game show like 2K sports had in thier game. Hate 
 that there are no other football games for this to compete against to force EA to make a better 
 product. Cris Colinswoth is a great addition to this game, but the other announcer is not that 
 great. Looks like it runs smoother on XBox 360. Bought the Madden Collector's Eddition and it was 
 not worth it NFL Head Coach is really boring and the 93 Madden shows you how far the game has come. 
 I still think Techmo Super Bowl rocks and hate that EA crushed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Even though I never tried the Online mode in Madden NFL 09 due to my internet issues, it is still 
 by far the best game in the series. The graphics are mostly great, but the people on the side lines 
 and when your up close to the fans, they look like crap. However, that's still not a big problem. 
 Controls are very good. Just like every Madden game, it takes a while to get use to the audibles. 
 It probably takes about 5 full games to get use to the audibles (or at least it did for me) . The 
 audibles are nice and easy to use. Voice acting and the sounds in the game are very good. The announces 
 sound really like actual announces when your watching a football game. The game play is very fun 
 especially the Franchise mode. I tried the superstar mode but I'm not really a big fan over it. 
 There's nothing wrong with it, it's just that I'm not really interested in it. The Madden moments 
 in the game are very fun and challenging to try and accomplish. I highly recommend you getting 
 this game if you are a fan of playing football on your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_Atak
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite Maddens to date. I love how easy the controls are, especially the passing. Madden 
 09's graphics and sound is pretty sweet. Nice touch on the climate changes. The commentary was 
 also fun to listen to, not dull and repetitive like I am usually use to. Overall game play was 
 solid no waiting for what seems like hours sometimes to load. Just a nice easy flowing football 
 simulator. I would have probably given this game a solid 10 if it was not for John Madden himself. 
 Not trying to be a hater but I just can not stand the dude. He got old to me a long time ago. Maybe 
 its his voice or maybe just his goofy appearance. Just don't get me wrong.. this game is very addictive. 
 I have played it every chance I got since I rented it. I also plan on buying the game. Hope someone 
 agrees with me on this one. Let me hear what you guys think of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesd777
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why but my son has a 360 and I have a PS3, and the damn game runs smoother on the 
 xbox360. What's up with this. I'm tired of all these game manufacturers screwing us PS3 owners 
 and making the game primarily for the 360. 360's red circle of death happens too often, even with 
 a replacement. My 60gig PS3 runs perfect and have yet to have an issue with it. I was really looking 
 forward to this game, but decided to rent it according to all these mixed reviews of the game. 
 The game has glitches too! My opponent was 3rd and 10, and caught the ball for a 1st down, but 
 he was well out of bounds. I challenge the play, said the call stands and stated it was out of 
 bounds, but managed to give the cpu the fist down. What the hell? Then the gameplay is faster but 
 the video/replay's are still notchy as heck, affecting the overall performance of the game. It's 
 actually irritating to play it on a 360 console, then to play it on my PS3. In my opinion, PS3 
 version needs to be identical to the 360 and until it is, I'm not buying this POS EA junk. They're 
 screwing us over. And i wont even get into how crap the Madden version of 08 was on the PC. EA 
 Thumbs down on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrxonion
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  No improvements from the previous Maddens. Running the ball is no longer about reading blocks, 
 slant is unstoppable, the AI is just totally messed up in this game. overall, very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintJimmy21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played Madden on the Ps3 before, then you will be amazed at the graphics, then 
 stumped at the controls and all the features. It took me about 15 hours of playing time to finally 
 memorize all the features and controls. If you've played Madden '08 on the Ps3, then this is basicaly 
 a roster update. The re-wind feature is for noobs just starting out, but then this is a football 
 sim and so its highly un-realistic. No Al Michaels voice work (YES!!) and hardly any of Maddens 
 voice (YES!!) though the little amount of Maddens voice work in the game is highly annoying. Chris 
 Collonsworth's voice is great but Tom Hammonds is terrible. No side-line updates and specific team 
 commentators AND no real life live roster updates hold this one back. If you are a huge Madden 
 fan then this is a buy, if your not shure, then dont waste the $60, rent it first. 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The production values of Madden 09 are simply outstanding. My daughter walked in while I was playing 
 and commented on how it looked like a real game (I was thinking the same thought myself) .
  
  The last version of Madden I owned was Madden 99 for the original PlayStation. The last version 
 before that was John Madden Football for the Sega Genesis twenty years ago.
  
  This past decade's progress is astonishing.
  
  The gameplay and control of Madden 09 deserves 
 a perfect 10. The audio, particular Collinsworth, really immerses you into the game. 
  
  Madden 09 is challenging, and there are things I'd wished were better. For one, "My Madden" mode 
 claims to adjust to your playing ability and ensure a competitive game. The problem is that it 
 creates competition that is just better than your ability and you'll end up a loser. Switching 
 to Rookie mode allowed me to crush any team by 50-0. Hidden deep in the menus, there's a Custom 
 setting that lets you tune the difficulty to match your ability, and this feature is a lifesaver. 
 With it, I can tune the CPU to play well enough to give me a game, but not such that I am constantly 
 frustrated.
  In addition to that, the rewind feature (cheat) is a useful tool when raising the difficulty and 
 training yourself. Not only does it allow reverting a costly mistake, but also it gives you the 
 chance to play it correctly. It compliments the back track analysis which gives great lessons on 
 the game's mechanics.
  
  Other obvious improvements would have been an ability for Madden to update the rosters to match 
 what's going on in the NFL. Also, why not let the franchise mode download the scores and statistics 
 from the real NFL games, integrating the games you play into the true NFL season?
  
  I suppose there's always room for improvement; that has been one of the reasons that the Madden 
 video game franchise has lasted so long and continued to deliver a superior experience.
  
  Great game: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBladed
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is a great football game no doubt there. Like all the ones b4 has good multiplayer and franchise 
 options. To bad the roster is messed up and not up to date. Yes you can download the up todate 
 roster. That requires effort tho. However the my skill system is good. I like the fact the game 
 adapts to how well you play the game. So no matter how great or crappy you are it will still be 
 a blast. Fantasy draft is one of my favorite options. Strongly reccomend this game to any football 
 fan. All and all the only problems I have with the madden games are the rookies I mean they are 
 bad coming in at overall low 80s to low 50s thats sad you need a top 5 pick to get a overall 80 
 rookie btw and its risky. I would get NCAA Football 09 with madden 09 because the rookies are much 
 better if you play college 1st and then import. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corespoon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  for the first time in years madden beats NCAA football. however NCAA football is a carbon copy 
 of last years and all they added was the online dynasty. as for madden. it does look better. it 
 is a step up from years past. so this will more then likely be the same game for the next few years. 
 they need to bring back a few things in past maddens in the dynasty modes. if we are going to be 
 playing the same game over and over at least let us adjust the ticket prices! 
  
  hopefully when EA's rights to the NFL getting over (i know it's in a few years.) hopefully the 
 NFL will see why should we disgrace our selves by putting our name on this crap. so not in tell 
 EA has compaction this game will suck. we see what happened when other makers where making the 
 same game. (2k sports) no one wanted to buy the EA crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yathoom
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  I love it, as the Maddden 08. But I must say that I thought that the 08 as far as player graphics 
 in the game was smoother, Not the motion but the players them selves they have this white outline 
 if you know what i mean!!! like in Assasin's Creed when u highlight a person to lock on!!? I didn't 
 use to see that on the players on Madden 08, But i was playing it on the Xbox, so i wouldn't know 
 if that was also true on the PS3 Game version. Overall the agme is amazing and i have always thought 
 so, feels like the real game and i'm yet to experience more stuff in it.
  every football fan should get it, for those who are not so much of a football fan you might like 
 and learn football from the Madden game. Give it a try, pick your hometown team and feel the love 
 of the game.
  The narrator are amazing, so have people around you to have fun playing it. I think everyone will 
 have a blast.
  I love the new bluff play plan that shows on the screen, they have finally came up with something 
 I thought should be there years ago!!! and after 20 years, Here it is! 
  I like the IQ test, but i must tell you that it is not that accurate. someone can get very lucky 
 sometimes but the overall picture is nice. I like the Idea that the CPU player plays your level 
 but then after every game your IQ changes, I'm yet to experience and notice if there is any difference 
 in the CPU levels as I play more games. I will let you know when I find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betterdays_IC
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't review games but Madden 09 has been one of the biggest dissapointments since I've 
 been gaming. I feel with all the years of quality Madden football games I've played since the Super 
 NES that this new Madden series has almost completely changed from what it used to be. First, the 
 buttons. The default buttons that have accompanied almost all Madden games are now changed. There 
 are alot more options now before the snap that football game aficionados will like (if EA fixes 
 them) . But with all the complexities and what seems to be a super-fast playclock you start telling 
 yourself, "I JUST WANT TO PLAY SOME FOOTBALL". RANT: It's amazing to me that with the new gaming 
 systems we have nowadays that games like this make it extremely challenging for players to get 
 the experience they want out of the game when outdated ones accomplish it perfectly.
  Second, the bugs. I know, I know. As we've entered into this new generation of gaming the "PATCH" 
 has bound and gagged our beloved games (ransomed them too, with certain developers) . I for one 
 wish they would take an extra 6-12 mnths to polish these games. But who am I kidding? The customers 
 don't matter anymore. The money does. Anywho, the bugs are various ones: Occasional freezes, Online 
 play, Challenge the Play. These are just the ones that I find extremely annoying. I can't challenge 
 that a catch was out of bounds with 4:02 left in the 4th even when instant replay clearly shows 
 that the player was out? WTF!
  Finally (to keep it short) , False advertising. On the back cover it says "Beyond Broadcast Presentation". 
 The truth is there really isn't any presentation. There is dialogue between the announcers. My 
 favorite is "EA Sports, if it's in the game, it's in the game" lol, BS. Sometimes a replay will 
 come up automatically. There is a cool feature called Backtrack that analyzes what you did wrong 
 with a play but it's broken or something because I've only seen it twice since I've been playing. 
 No halftime show, the only thing you have is stats and the top 5 plays of the first half to scroll 
 thru yourself and watch. But no real presentation. 
  Oh well. You had a good run while it lasted Madden. I will never understand how EA could screw 
 up something so easy to keep manufacturing. I guess I'll be waiting for awhile for an ESPN game 
 from now on. No more Madden for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This is your typical Madden NFL game. Just slap on a different athlete and the new year, update 
 graphics and ohh, wait , update rosters and you got yourself the new Madden game. $60.00 a year 
 people shell out for the same game every year with little to nothing new. If people love to waste 
 their money so much send me 60$ and I'll be glad to slap a new sticker on Madden 2001 and hand 
 it to you. The gameplay, while fun, is extremely repeative, lack of extra modes, and minimal upgrade 
 to the franchise make this game not worth it, rent it or etter yet dont bother with it. Every year 
 they seem to take something good away from it and add something "special" and yes I did just add 
 the qoutes to the word special for its special reasons. Everytime I play on my console with my 
 friends at my home, they can see the play. What happened to the four plays on the screen where 
 your X, O, T and S buttons. Granted I know everything is geared for online play but what happened 
 to the days where a guy and his friends could kick back at the house with some beers and have some 
 Madden fun. Thanks EA, you've taken my youth, my spirit and unfortuantely $60.00 out of my pocket 
 every year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creekmo
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I won't bother talking about the things that are right about this game. The things it does well, 
 any good football game SHOULD do well, so let's get right to the issues that prompted me to write 
 this review.
  
  There are several areas of this game that are flat-out broken, and this will absolutely kill your 
 experience. First of all, the kicking game. When you pull back on the stick and then press forward 
 to start your kick, if you are not DEAD on in the forward position, you will get very little power. 
 I attempted a 47 yard field goal in a dome, and my kick was, at worst, perhaps 5 degrees off top 
 dead center, and the kick fell short. That is ridiculous. There needs to be a little more margin 
 of error there.
  
  Next, when you are calling your plays in the huddle, you damn well better know which hash mark 
 you are going to be spotted on, because if you call any play where a receiver does a move towards 
 the sidelines, or if you are gonna dump it off the the halfback coming out of the backfield, those 
 players seem to have no ability to be aware of sidelines and run their routes accordingly. they 
 will simply run right out of bounds and make the pass incomplete, or even worse, if it is your 
 halfback, he will frequently just run right out of bounds after making the catch for a 4 yard loss. 
 This has been a problem in Madden for the better part of a decade now, and it is simply unacceptable 
 that this has not been fixed.
  
  On defense, you can just about completely forget about calling defensive audibles, because you 
 will not have time. Once a play is called, and the players are all moving toward the line of scrimmage, 
 you are unable to call any defensive audibles until pretty much everyone is set. The game simply 
 won't let you do it. And even once you are allowed to start the process of calling an audible, 
 even if you know exactly what you are calling and are mashing buttons as fast as you can, the offense 
 tends to snap the ball on very quick counts on almost every play, therefore the end result of just 
 about every defensive audible call is that you get caught with your defense in transition. You 
 are better off going with whatever crappy defense you had called and praying for a decent result, 
 or perhaps just waste a time out. You can only imagine how frustrating this is when your opponent 
 is running their no-huddle offense, which brings me to my next point....
  
  Going no-huddle when you are down and trying to score quickly is an absolute waste of your time. 
 It is actually faster to let the game take you to your playbook and call a play, especially if 
 you know your playbook well enough to go right to whatever play you want. yes, you can mash the 
 button to skip the playbook and run no-huddle at the end of any given play, but remember how I 
 mentioned on defense, how the game won't let you call audibles until pretty much both sides are 
 set at the line of scrimmage? Same thing in your no-huddle offense. By the time you get your guys 
 to the line, wait for the game to "allow" you to call an audible, have your offense change positions 
 accordingly (if your audible was a different formation than the play you just ran) you have actually 
 burned more time than just going to your playbook. Again, this is inexcusable. The only way going 
 no-huddle saves time is if you are going to run the exact same play you just ran, which isn't so 
 bad against the computer, but against a human opponent who knows what is going on, running the 
 same play consecutive times could be disastrous, especially since you are almost always passing 
 out of no-huddle.
  
  On a more minor note, the game also subjects you to a score of windows that pop up at the beginning 
 of plays to tell you some stupid stat about the game that you could care less about, but the window 
 takes up half the screen. Factor that in with your "audible" window on either the left or right 
 side of the screen (depending on whether you are on offense or defense) that takes up almost that 
 entire side of the screen, and you will find yourself very aggravated at how difficult it can be 
 to get a good look at what is going on in the formations at the beginning of plays. And this is 
 on a widescreen LCD display, so I can only imagine how bad it must be on a regular tv.
  
  I will never buy another Madden game again, and I am quickly becoming disenchanted with EA, who 
 seem to be quite content to push the same turd with just a little different cologne sprinkled on 
 it out to market every year, and they will continue to do this until us lemmings stop lining up 
 to buy this and other sports games they produce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Like many people, I have started to get frustrated with Madden as the years go by and hardly any 
 changes occur. This year though sounded like there was promise. The 20th anniversary, better graphics 
 and a bunch of new additions. The only problem is that all the improvements are outdone by the 
 horrible aspects of the game. They are as follows:
  
  1. Worst commentary ever.
  Chris Collinsworth does a fairly good job of bringing some actual insight to the game and breaks 
 down plays every now and then. The problem is his partner, Tom Hammond. I don't know if I have 
 ever been so annoyed by an in-game announcer... and yes that includes the loudspeaker guy.
  
  2. Same old Madden
  Many people plan their lives around the release of Madden every year, 
 which is fine, but I think the game has gotten to a point where EA no longer feels that they need 
 to do new and innovative things. Every year there are a few new features but the same problems 
 that were there in past years are still there on the most recent version. 
  
  3. Madden IQ? Gimme a break.
  The concept is interesting-play a series of tests to determine 
 your skill level. The problem is that you may excel in one area of offense and only be mediocre 
 in another, causing the rush defense, for example, to be at ALL MADDEN level, while the pass defense 
 is ROOKIE. This causes the game to feel unnatural and unfair at times. I'll stick with the original 
 settings.
  
  There are some good things though. The graphics are noticeably better and there are some great 
 animations. The stadiums look good and the game modes work like they have in the past, but for 
 being as hyped as it was, Madden 09 just doesn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow I'm impressed! I've never really been a big Madden fan, I liked the NCAA football game much 
 better. That was until Madden 09, The graphics are incredible, the game play is great, the challenge 
 is sweet all and all it's a great improvement on a good game! Well Done EA! I bought the Collectors 
 addition for all the extra stuff and mainly for NFL head coach game. It's well worth the extra 
 cash. It's also nice to play the 93 version it's been a long time and it's funny to see how far 
 the game has come. It's also funny to see all the covers of the last 20 years, it's funny because 
 all I can think of is the amount of money ive spent on every Madden game since 93. No more complete 
 blowouts which can make the game boring after a few games. Now I want to play all the games in 
 the franchise cause they actually come down to the wire and you have to work for your yards. I 
 am very happy with Madden 09 and recommend anyone Madden fan or football fan at that to purchase 
 or at least rent the game so they know why everyone else is playing it so much. This version makes 
 all that money worth every penny this time they got it right. Wow I'm Impressed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boblink2400
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  its the best so far, u need to make the superbowl better, bring back the news headlines and be 
 able to rebuild stadium. They need to bring back bruno and they need to recognize the superbowl 
 winners and players that won trophies. They need more better exciting commentary people, I like 
 playing online because it is very challenging and i love the way ea tracks you on the game and 
 get rewards. but the main thing i am concerned with is making the superbowl more awesome and down 
 to more detail. I especially loved the way bruno used to talk about the players and their achievements 
 because he was very funny. I love the way you can get your draft for ncaa, and i wish you could 
 get trophies like all the other games because i would have all of them. I break all kinds of different 
 records with recieving rushing and passing and sacks, thats what they shoulds recognize more in 
 the game. But other than that the game is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_profeshenal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  To play this game well you have to learn 5 or 6 different things about offense and defense. Knowing 
 what play to use on what down against what the other team is going to be running, how to audible, 
 what to audible, which player you yourself should control, etc..
  
  I got hammered by the comp in the run game. So after I lose and my Madden I. Q. goes down I'm asked 
 if I want to use the Game Simulator to get better. Of course I do so I choose yes and I get into 
 the Simulator where I cannot tackle the guy. He moves around me, brushes me off, runs out of my 
 hands all the while I'm pressing the "magic" buttons above his head. But I get no feed back. So 
 I don't know if I'm pushing early or late or if it's the wrong thing to do all together. Eventually 
 I shut it.
  
  I looked through the game and there are around five skill levels to choose from and another annoying 
 part about the game is how it actually talks down to you depending on the skill level you choose. 
 They range from you get no say in the play you choose to the point where you choose any play you 
 want at any time. Now when the game chooses the play for you it doesn't tell you why you should 
 choose this play so you don't end up becoming a smarter player you end up simulating the game and 
 feeling like an idiot. Even when you ask Madden you don't get anything useful. But you do get old 
 sound bites from like two years ago. I guess they couldn't get him back in the sound booth.
  
  the game is visually stunning and the online can be fun. But overall the game is just frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolose
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start off by saying COME ON EA WTF why are you ripping us off every year, you said you 
 have added this and you have added that and you say its NEW!!!! Bull@#$t its the same old s#$t 
 from other maddens with a few extra graphic tweaks, thats all plan and simple... matter of fact 
 you have takein things away from madden in the newer games such like you cant do crap in franchise 
 mode with ticket prices or concessions, or hell dont let me get started with superstar mode geez 
 you have basicly rapped that mode... and now you have taken away qb vision... EA you say that your 
 dumping you money into a better game of madden Well, were is it , realy were in the F@#k is the 
 money going cause it sure aint going it Madden ... EA is downgradeing ever year on madden and its 
 only getting worse... like someone said on the back of you box it say the #1 Selling Pro Football 
 game out there ... Aah thats cause NO ONE ELSE CAN MAKE ANOTHER FOOTBALL GAME CAUSE YOU HAVE MONOPOLIZED 
 THE FREAKIN NFL NAME... I dont know about anybody else but I, m done with Madden I have bought ever 
 game since the first hopeing that they would get there thumbs out there butt and put some work 
 into it but I have giving up.. they have seen the last dollar out of me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin49712
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Im not even going to review this game im going to say one thing. I cant believe people bought this 
 game and most of I cant believe I bought this game. Once again EA raped us all who bought it and 
 left us in a dark ally to die and also took are money in the process.
  Also on the back of the game case it says the most retarted thing it says #1 selling football franchise 
 and thats because your the only ones who can make pro football games because of the license. Then 
 they put features in the game and call them new when they had been in previous madden games. EA 
 is full of crap do not buy this game or you are another idiot who bought this horrible game and 
 I repeat horrible game.
  
  DO NOT 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doneskey57
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  First, let me say I've played Madden since Madden 04, and have played Franchise, Superstar, Play 
 Now, and Online. I've played hundreds of hours every year since then. Madden 09 is the most frustrating 
 Madden yet, with glitches and quirks and weird elements that add nothing to past versions.
  
  I do like some things about the game, so let me get those down:
  
  1) Collinsworth is great.
 
  
  2) Rain and snow games -- realistic and pretty fun
  
  3) new tackling and catching animations, some really good
  
  4) I like rewind -- it compensates 
 for the game doing weird stuff, like saying your receiver was out of bounds on that long touchdown 
 when he wasn't.
  
  But here are some things wrong with the game:
  
  1) It's glitchy. It freezes in Franchise mode. Read other reviews and you'll see the same complaint. 
 This should NEVER happen and the fact it does says something is wrong at EA.
  
  2) It's glitchy some more! It freezes on training drills. In Franchise mode you have to train players 
 week by week and that's the only way they really improve their overall rating. And if you can't 
 get them to improve, because the drills freeze often, you are toast. I play as the Broncos and 
 unless you do the training drills Cutler never improves, no matter how many touchdowns he throws 
 or that his QB rating is over 150. This problem could lead to destroyed controllers because that's 
 how mad you'll be. You can still do training drills, but you'll have to sim them -- over, and over, 
 and over -- to get the training points. Sad, too, because I'm really good at the drills but in sim 
 mode you often have to set the level lower, to say All-Pro (which yields fewer training points) 
 in order not to re-sim 20 times for it to work. You'll still sim 10 times, though, to get a few 
 sad training points for one guy. Hey, EA, we don't want to sim for an hour to get to the next game. 
 We actually want to play games!
  
  3) The new features aren't so great, or are weird. Case in point: Madden IQ. The holographic starting 
 screen rates your abilities but causes more problems than it is worth. The offensive drills are 
 easy, so I scored up in All-Madden. This meant the game automatically sets the AI defense on All-Madden. 
 But WAIT. I play as the Broncos and in fact their offensive line stinks and their HB's have poor 
 awareness and I couldn't run at all and got sacked a LOT. So, what good does it do to be a hologram 
 to do a drill when you don't play as a hologram during games? Did anyone at EA think this through?
 
  
  Same point. The holographic defensive drills are too hard. Even experienced players may have a 
 low Madden IQ there, meaning the game will set the AI offensive team as REALLY bad -- you'll get 
 three or four picks a game and lots of sacks, which might seem great except that if you change 
 the settings to say, All-Pro, you'll once again be toast.
  
  4) some animations look bad, such as when a guy breaks into the open and runs all out toward the 
 endzone. Totally unrealistic looking.
  
  5) The backtrack feature is a waste because if you screw up and throw an interception you already 
 know what you did wrong. We don't need backtrack to show us. Further, the coverage changes after 
 rewind, so don't try throwing to the receiver Collinsworth said was open, because he won't be after 
 the rewind.
  
  6) Still a really bad animation after the Super Bowl win. It was better two versions ago -- at least 
 we got to see bad confetti and fireworks. Even the really bad Gatorade bath was better than what 
 you see now.
  
  7) Poor offseason stuff in Franchise mode. For example, you can upgrade your stadium, but can't 
 find its rating to see how bad off it is.
  
  I don't understand what EA thinks we want. Each new year they throw in useless or poorly thought-through 
 features, but they jack up the basic game. EA, we want a game that works! Forget holographs and 
 make a game that doesn't freeze! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZMaNiAc04
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure its good for the majority of people, but for me wasn't all there. Was really looking forward 
 to the online leagues and that was pretty much a complete disappointment. Every once in a while 
 I like to get away from online and start up superstar mode and i was hoping for a few new things.... Wow.... Exactly 
 the same, little heart breaking there. If I didn't love football I'd probably have given this a 
 lower rating, but I love it so you got a seven madden 09. Hopefully next year will be an improvement. 
 Also don't want to go to low on the game rating because the graphics are pretty much stunning. 
 Probably the best improvement they have in the game. You can really see the impact weather has 
 on the game and makes it a bit more challenging.
  
  Recommend to all football fans who play online, if your more of a franchise superstar mode kinda 
 person, just play 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcladley
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  For me, Madden 09 functions as kind of like a sketch of the great Madden games on the previous 
 generation consoles. If you squint, you see something very familiar: a classic Madden pre-snap 
 camera angle, memorable formations, and a recognizable control scheme. The familiarity evokes a 
 type of nostalgia- not just for the previous generation iterations of the game, but for the great 
 efforts of the past 20 years. You begin to expect that classic Madden experience. When the ball 
 is snapped and the controls are utilized, however, you realize that this is not the Madden you 
 remember. Precision control-the staple of the Madden franchise- is nowhere to be found. Previous 
 Maddens (particularly on the PS2/XBox) had such precise control schemes that the movements felt 
 like a natural extension of the body. An apt analogy would be the experience of driving. Once you 
 get acclimated to the way a car responds, the movements associated with driving become second-nature. 
 Years after Madden 05, I can still recall the air-tight relationship between the press of the button 
 on the control pad and the character movement on-screen. In 09, that is far from the case. Player 
 movement is vague and animations are imprecise, making movements like cut- backs and speed bursts 
 feel unnatural. When playing Madden 09, the nostalgia dies out and is replaced with frustrationand 
 perhaps for those long time Madden players, resignation. 
  
  Still, the graphical gloss, production value, and audio quality convey the broadcast NFL experience 
 so convincingly that the game's flaws can almost be overlooked... almost. 
  
  A few other points are still worth noting:
  
  1. The backtrack feature is impressive and presents 
 accurate analysis most of the time. This is in stark contrast to the awful play-by-play (which, 
 admittedly, has never been a Madden strength) . Still, as good as Collinsworth is during these cut-scenes, 
 why not use John Madden to break down the plays? His legendary use of the telestrator would work 
 so well in the backtrack, and lend the game a distinctive Madden flair. 
  
  2. Of all of the animations issues, the most egregious are the unnatural QB throws and the rigid 
 running animations of players during long chases (particularly evident during replays) . When a 
 QB releases the ball, there is no rotation on the pass and there seems to be a disconnect between 
 his release point and the ball's trajectory. How is this possible in the current console generation? 
 The running animation is so comical that it detracts from the generally dramatic replays. 
  
  3. As mentioned by many players, the running game is unrealistically difficult, whereas the 
 passing game is unrealistically easy. The lack of an effective running game severely detracts from 
 the feel of a real NFL game, and while a "simulation" should not allow for the user to break off 
 60 yard runs multiple times per game, the game should have balanced the air and ground games better. 
 A simple Sim/Arcade mode distinction would have served the interests of those who demand spot on 
 accuracy and those who want to experience in the video game world what is nearly impossible to 
 accomplish in the real world. 
  
  4. While I have not personally experienced the freezing issue, it does not surprise me that some 
 copies were released with such a flaw. I think today's game buyers need to come to terms with the 
 fact the game industry, now as dominant an entertainment entity as Hollywood, is focused more on 
 profit than quality. No longer needing to establish themselves in the mainstream, large development 
 houses like EA can handle a game like a summer blockbuster- hype the product, influence the press 
 to generate great reviews, and hope for strong initial sales before people get a chance to evaluate 
 the quality of the offering. We might call this the GTA IV syndrome... or we might just call this 
 the reality of gaming in 2008. 
  
  5. Madden 09 makes you appreciate the truly strong efforts in the Sports genre. MLB 08 comes to 
 mind- an example of what happens when a developer makes an honest effort to create a game that 
 accurately represents its chosen sport, takes advantage of current console technology effectively, 
 minimizes bugs, and manages to create an experience that offers both depth and fun.
  
  Madden 09 is not a bad game, but it is a game that leverages its stellar legacy to present itself 
 as something that it is not, and as such is a disappointment. But Madden 09 highlights, through 
 its flaws and disappoints, the strength of its license. NFL fans have a strong desire to immerse 
 themselves in the experience of the NFL and the video game medium is perfectly suited to this desire. 
 For years, Madden has given fans the ability to enjoy the thrill of Sundays any day of the week, 
 and EA will continue to offer this opportunity. And Football fans/gamers will continue to pay for 
 it, regardless of its quality. Indeed, Madden 09 is as close as you can get to NFL football on 
 a video game console, but it is very away from what fans warmly think of as "Madden."
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffc1350
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  How many years will it take for EA and Madden to make a decent football game again. I also dont 
 under stand you Madden apologists. Do you like the name of the game or FOOTBALL. This is a terrible 
 excuse for a football game. Point #1 A rewind button????????????
  WTF!!!!!!!!!
  Point #2 Why does the grass/turf look like my front door mat. 
  
  #3 Why do the fans look like 
 sparkling garbage and why do they cheer when the away team kicks field goals or extra points. 
 
  
  Finally #4 Why does every game ea and Madden put out continue to violate us and we just take it. 
 I have played every madden game over the past 4 years and every year I sell it back to the store 
 within a week. 
  
  These games are worse than terrible and us fools and morons continue to buy them. I for one am 
 done, done with the lies of improved graphics, done with the ghetto hype of Madden nation and done 
 with playing 2nd rate games and wasting hundreds of dollars over the years.....
  
  Like a fat kid in dodgeball, I am out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin789
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  this madden is different than any of the other ones on next gen consoles. There are so many glitches 
 it would take me forever to list them. Very disappointed in ea. When on defense the ball goes right 
 though the the man covering and the pass is completed or the receivers hands go through the defender 
 and he catches it. EA what the hell happened!!! Madden game were great on the last gen consoles 
 but ever since its gone next gen it just get worse and worse. i am definitely not buying next years 
 ill try it at a friends house first or rent it. There is not field deg ration it looks the same 
 no matter what. you think in a game like madden were there is not that much on the screen at a 
 time they would be able to handle that. the only reason this gets a 5 imo is because of the graphics 
 and if you look past all the glitches when play with 4 people in the same room it can be fun. It 
 also fun to cut up the game and ea when playing with a whole bunch of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sambo54
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  well I am not real happy with the lockup that is occurring during gameplay in franchise mode.
 
  it stops in playcall screen but you cant do anything.
  You can hear the announcers calling play by play but you cant get anything to work. I had to manually 
 shut the system off and restart. EA you need to look into this or Iam done with madden. Iam going 
 to send an email to EA. but I really doubt that I will get any satisfaction. anyone else have this 
 problem? if so we need to bombard EA to fix this problem or give us our money back. also the training 
 is not really easy to figure out. all in all the gameplay is pretty good but animation is weird 
 looking. the guys run like robots with that exxagerated knee lift. I have a 1080p 42" samsung and 
 it looks great until the play starts, then somehow animation looks off . all in all it is fun to 
 play and I would keep it if the bug is figured out.
  anyone with any ideas please let us hear it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayrob11
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  So much hype, so much expectation, so little delivered. Madden 09 show stopping flaw comes wrapped 
 in a bug that caused my PS3 to crash not once, not twice, but five times before I had enough and 
 took my collectors edition copy back to the retail store. The bug not only makes the game unplayable, 
 but my PS3 would not respond to anything but a hard reset (not very healthy for the system) .
  
  Where the bug exhibits itself:
  I started the first game in franchise mode, and during the 
 second quarter, the game freezes on the play calling screen. From the audio clues, the game is 
 continuing to run in the background but I could not select a play. I could not pause the game to 
 exit. I could not access the PS3 desktop. Even the eject or power down button on the console would 
 not respond. The only option here was to remove AC outlet power from the console and restart the 
 system. Did I mention this happened 5 times before I called it quits? I like to give EA benefit 
 of the doubt.
  
  Is this an isolated case? Definitely not. I've been pouring over various forums on-line where from 
 what I can tell this is happening to hundreds of people who have posted and maybe thousands more 
 who have not. Still sceptical? Just type in "Madden 09 freeze" and you'll get a taste of what I've 
 experienced.
  
  I've been a Madden NFL fan since 1990 but rushing a game to market with a bug of show stopping 
 severity and high probability of occurrence is just plain irresponsible. Since taking the game 
 back a week ago, I've tried to log on to EA Sports web-site to see if they have released a hardware 
 or software fix. No such luck.
  
  Bottom Line: Caveot Emptor (latin) - Buyer Beware!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianone24
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  EA is not listening to us. We say we want better gameplay.... they give us better looking grass, 
 we say we want more realism.... they give us flashing lights where the fans are. 
  
  EA you really suck... every year you disapoint. We had a great game in the 2K series. not only 
 that but they were charging us sooooo much less for the game. so what do you do EA... you go out 
 and buy the NFL tag. No one else can make an NFL game. SO we, as buyers and players, think "hey.... 
 EA is going to come out and make a kickass game" WRONG!!!!!!! all you've shown is that you bought 
 out the NFL license so that there would be only one football game to buy.... we dont have a choice. 
 well here's my choice. i will not buy another one of your games until another company can make 
 one to compare.
  
  The graphics in this game are great.... dont get me wrong here. but thats about all that is good 
 in this game
  
  Players move unrealistic. it sometimes leaves me wondering if any of the creators have even watched 
 one game of football in their lifes. The way they run looks like someone shoved a giant tree up 
 their ass. there is no break away speed at all. when my safety makes an interception and gets caught 
 by an offensive lineman in a speed contest... that just shows how real this is. the AI is as smart 
 as the creators (retarded) . Defenders will watch the ball be caught by the reciever and will not 
 react until they catch it when they could have easily intercepted it. offensive line constantly 
 allows defenders to run by untouched. the full back constantly runs into the backfield without 
 touching one person on running plays. LOOK CLOSELY.... THE FOOTBALL DOES NOT SPIN!!!! when the 
 quaterback throws the ball it does not spin. it always makes on rotation wherever its going. go 
 ahead.... throw a hail merry pass and watch the ball. 
  
  Still no referees on the field! no chain gang! coaches disappear during actual gameplay than reappear 
 only when the camera is focused on the sidelines. and speaking of sidelines.... they're full of 
 zombie players that just stand there.... no emotion. nothing has been done to franchise. still 
 no alternate jourseys to choose from. players get dirty but field stays perfect..... last year 
 it was the opposite... field got torn up but players stayed clean. only one camera angle.... zoomed 
 in on quaterback... cant see if the CB's are blitzing.
  
  I mean the list goes on and on. WE WANT A REALISTIC FOOTBALL GAME. NOT AN UPDATE OF LAST YEARS 
 GAME. You say theres not enough time to put all the things we want into the game? well if you cant 
 handle it than give up the license!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! let someone who can handle it make a decent 
 game for our hard earned money.... but dont worry EA.... until that day comes... you wont see another 
 penny of mine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdr08
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  i never thought i would say this but somehow, some way madden has more issues than last year. They 
 would've been better off releasing the same game with updated rosters. rewind is cool... in prince 
 of persia! here are just a few reasons why u can have an extra $60 in ur wallet.
  
  i constantly have plays where one of my defensive backs will be standing by the sideline not doing 
 anything.
  
  ohhh ohhh interception oh no he dropped it... for the 6th time...
  
  on kick returns the blocking is amazing. for the 3 guys that block. the other 7 go running up the 
 feild mindlessly towards the oppenents inzone.
  
  did i say on kick returns count on that in running plays too. u just don't konw when to count on 
 it consider its about once in every 3 plays.
  
  look at circle wide open down the feild!! i think i'll pass it to him. o no nvm... i'll just step 
 into the sack and cover the ball instead of throwing it. that might sound a little like i'm just 
 trying to find somthing to make fun of. but i watch football most quarterbacks will step in throw 
 it and take the hit.
  
  this is argueable but if u ask me the eagles are the cheapest team in the game. where did they 
 finish in the nfc east last year? o right last.
  
  Yea Justin Farrior the mlb with the sack. o no Donavan mcnabb truck sticked him to the ground. 
 now mcnabb goes long to brian westbrook. "it looks like this might be intercepted" says the always 
 obvious chris collinsworth. what chris forgot to say was that the ball went cleanly through troy 
 palamalu torso for 67 yard touchdown reception. i watched the replay about 60 times.
  
  playing online is the most frustrating thing. if the person ur playing leaves then u click continue 
 vs. cpu and the game is supposedly counted. so u win easily because its the cpu then u quit only 
 to find that for some ridicuously reason 1 of three things happen
  1) you get a win everything is great. what a kick start to ur day
  2) even know u click continue 
 vs. cpu and count the game when u exit the game it never happened. u don't get the stats for ur 
 career or level. and u don't get a win on ur record. thats frustrating.
  3) can u imagin whats more frustrating? i can. this has only happend to me once but my oppenent 
 quit and i continued the game and i won. i get back to the menu and start a new game only to find 
 that i have a loss on my record. anybody want to explain that?
  
  all in all just wait for nfl 2k12 or if u must have a football fix get ncaa but this game is just 
 not worth it. I pesonally cannon stand this game but i still play it because ea is complete crap 
 and has the nfl license an i need to play an nfl football game. psnid: jdr08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboi85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Typical things to say, graphics are nice, playability is good, and player movement is less jerky... 
 on to other things...
  
  In Madden 09 there is the Madden Test which you can play to determine how good you are in several 
 aspects of the game (Rushing Offense, Pass Offense, Rushing Defense, and Pass Defense) . This is 
 one of the major upgrades to the game, and I think it is great! The game actually seemingly does 
 adjust to you, as after each game you play your Madden skills changes based on your performances. 
 
  
  While all this is nice, the game did not improve much in other areas such as the Superstar and 
 Franchise modes. Practically there were no upgrades to the Franchise modes. For the Superstar mode, 
 the developers did include the NFL combine mode which is always nice. But again this is nothing 
 major and new.
  
  Overall, the game is enjoyable to play. But then again, which Maddens are not? I don't think it 
 will have you playing for hours on end, but still a good one to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikkkenbutt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  ok, first and foremost.... THIS IS THE BEST MADDEN EVER!! The gameplay is unbelievable. the passing 
 is so smooth and i can see the entire field. i can read the coverage and make my throws exactly 
 how i want them thanks to the new pass tuning..... THANK YOU EA FOR THAT!!! wonderful AI. My ground 
 game has always been top notch esp since i play with my CHARGERS!!! at first i couldn't get the 
 effin hand-off at first w/o getting tackled and now.... i just go 200 rushing yards in a rivalry 
 game and now i haven't had a game were i had less than 100 yards rushing. (btw, i play on my skill 
 which is harder than allmadden) . that's the other thing i love. the IQ shows me what i need to 
 work on and it allows to have a challenge every single game - challenging, but not impossible. 
 the graphics are just breathtaking and i still can't believe how smooth and realistic these animations 
 are. also, this is the first madden that i found extremely fun to play over and over again. b4 
 i just found it highly addictive yet boring because once i learned the cpu's tendency's i just 
 exploited them. =] the presentation is phenomenal, from chris to madden to the fans to the pregame 
 to the injury report ingame to everything. i don't care that franchise looks the same, or superstar 
 hasn't changed ( i don't really play that anyways) i just love the gameplay and presentation. the 
 reason 2k5 fans like 2k5 and not madden is because madden is realistic and they just want to do 
 whatever the hell they want to and because they spent more time on little gimicks in the presentation 
 than the gameplay. i don't care what ea has done in the past.... MADDEN 09 MAKES UP FOR IT AND THEN 
 SOME!!!!! I LUUUUUVVVVV IT AND I'M SO GLAD I GOT THE LIMITED EDITION!!!!!!!!! THIS IS THE BEST GAME 
 EVER!!! (biased =] ) but seriously... a must for any football head.
  
  GO CHARGERS!!!!!!!!!!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Well, it's the best footbal game that I have played to date. It is pretty much the same as last 
 year, but the awesome additions and improvements make it a lot better.
  
  The online play is rock solid, but had some lag on kickoffs. The online leagues are a great plus, 
 and the fantasy football stuff is great too. The addition of Madden IQ is pretty cool since it 
 determines you skill on offline play, although some of the drills can be pretty hard. All in all 
 Madden 09 has the best gameplay of any football game to date.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game looks great. The faces and body types look almost exactly like te real players. The fans 
 look better than they do when watching footbal in SD. Stadium models and the cars driving around 
 outside of them look real. The only problem that this game experiences is that some lines can be 
 a bit jagged in zoom-ins and zoom-outs.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  Really this game's only downfall. Control has a high learning curve. Some times the slightest move 
 could cause a penalyt in pre-snap, through you off on pass defense, and a few more annoying things. 
 Once you master it, you will have pretty much mastered the game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  It sounds amazing. Everything from the ball being kicked and the grunts of the men on the field, 
 to the voices of the QBs calling audibles and the commentary, eventhough Chris Collinsworth makes 
 me want to rip my ears off. The only thing that bugs me is that sometimes when there is a lot of 
 sound at once you experience a little static blur.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  If you like footbal, you need to get this game. It is a great improvement from last year's edition. 
 It is the best Madden to date and it does not disappoint!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  After a long wait Madden 2009 is finally here and it is great and I will tell you why. The first 
 thing I like about this game is that EA finally decided to put online leagues in the game which 
 is a lot of fun to play with friends or with other people. Another thing that I really like about 
 this game is the new Madden moments which is similar to Madden situations in the older versions 
 except now they are harder. Another great thing about this game is that you can make your own difficulty 
 which makes the games more challenging and realistic so you wont be beating the computer 100-0 
 anymore and it also makes the players stats more realistic during a franchise or season. The only 
 thing I don't like about this game is that they have not changed the superstar very much but you 
 can continue your superstar from Madden 2008 in this game which I think is a cool addition. The 
 bottom line is that Madden 2009 is a great game and a must buy for fans but the increased difficulty 
 will be hard for beginner players but you can use the new backtrack feature which shows you what 
 you did wrong and what to do next time or you can use the rewind feature which rewinds the whole 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButterzV
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  This was actually the first madden game I ever got at midnight the day it came out. I am really 
 upset with the game because it is a real let down and I just find myself angry at the gameplay. 
 Here's why:
  
  1. You throw way too many picks as QB. Granted if you throw into double coverage you should be picked 
 off but I mean I get picked off on average 2 times a game with average QBs.
  
  2. Controls are quite complex. It's great they have a ton of control and stuff you can play with 
 and call audibles with and such but when you hit R1 before you hike you then have to hit circle 
 to get out of that menu, then hike the ball.
  
  3. You fumble too much on QB sneaks. I like running QB sneaks and literally 25% of the time, they 
 fumble the ball. 1/4 QB sneaks up the middle they drop the ball.
  
  4. Pass defense is ridiculously hard! I really don't know how to defend passes. The opposing QB 
 always goes like 15/19 on me. You can't stop the pass.
  
  5. The game is just not entertaining. When playing multiplayer it was not really intense like NBA 
 Live is. Me and my friends would spend time playing both games and having tournaments with them 
 and NBA Live is a lot more intersting and intense. This Madden game is just like nothing is going 
 on.
  
  Now I didn't just play 5 games and not like the game. I've played through 2 franchise seasons, 
 played several pickup games, and played 5+ hours with my friend. I also don't suck at Madden. I 
 played about 8 years through in franchise mode in Madden 08, won 3/4 superbowls, and made playoffs 
 every year.
  
  This game is nothing but a disappointment. The graphics are amazing, but I'd rather have crappy 
 graphics and great gameplay than the other way around. Overall: 5.5-6.0 / 10. Buy with caution. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna do this 1 different. Let's bulletpoint this 1 . . . . 
  
  The 'Yeah yup'!
  *Graphics are hot!! Worth 5 points alone.
  *Cris Collinsworth's voice is refreshing. Glad tat 
 there's finally some commentary.
  *Madden IQ is a GREAT idea!! Adds value to the game. 
  *The gameplay's much faster than last year's version.
  *It allows you to focus on your weakness 
 in the game, & practice to tighten that weakness up.
  *The BackTrack function (albeit sparse in appearance) is 1 helluva tutorial, a nice addition & 
 innovation, & should be used more often. 
  
  Now . . . .
  The 'Not-So-Sim' issues!!
  *The motion on this is NOT fluid. Thay move like they're having convulsions (very jittery) ! 
 
  *Where are the on-the-field referees?!
  *The commentary is extremely generalized. Very few references to the players names. You'll hear 
 more of 'the quarterback' or 'the wideout' instead of Roethlisberger or Ward. Not very NFL at all.
 
  *The soundtrack is weak. 
  *This version (like most of the Maddens of the last 4 years) fails to provide a good balance of 
 pass vs. run, offense vs. defense. Lopsided 1nce again. 
  *The rewind function is a blatant way of breakin' up friendships! LOL There are no "do-overs" in 
 football (unless there's a penalty called) . 
  *The camera angles are very limited. That's exemplified by puttin' yourself in spectator mode. 
 
  *It tends to move & look more arcadish than simulation.
  
  The collector's edition is NOT worth the $90, unless you wanna get Head Coach 09 for half price. 
 Otherwise . . . 
  *The selected bonus footage is weak. They didn't pick the good stuff from last season. 
  
  
 If you're a die-hard Madden fan, then get JUST the game. The collector's edition is not worth collectin'. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1noteshort
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  For those of use to suffered the bad frame rate of last year, EA at least owed us a Madden with 
 a decent one.
  
  A new roster, very good graphics, a somewhat watered down online, fixed bugs but addes new ones, 
 untouched franchise and superstar modes, and missing Broadway Brett. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, Madden 09 is a great game but they really need to focus on game modes than 
 making online leagues that did not live up to anywhere near their expections. Franchise is the 
 exact same as last year, just new mains. Superstar is the same way (still have that annoying unchangable 
 camera) . What is good about madden 09 this year? The solid frame rate, the game play, the graphics 
 on HD, the improved presentation (no more god-awful radio guy) with a very great Chris Colinsworth 
 and a very undramatic Tom (forgot his last name) . John Madden is back, but only for the "Obi Wan 
 Ben John Madden Kenobi" Madden IQ test breif hologram and for Halftime and Pre and Post game highlights. 
 
  
  The collector's edtion has some extra bonus video of NFL productions and the highlights of the 
 Super Bowls and NFC Championship 08 that Favre was in, along with the Classic Madden '93. It also 
 comes with the Menu Flipping Craptastic NFL RPG (ok not that horrible but still needs tons of work) , 
 NFL Head Coach 09 (look for a review the first of September from me) . Is it worth the extra $30? 
 If you love everything NFL, yes. If your a fan of coaching and want a watered down version of "coaching", 
 sure. If your just your avg sports gamer, then the standard $60 edtion will do just fine.
  
  Madden 09 is a good game really, and for me is a great game. Some people might not be willing 
 to over look its flaws and annoying glinches, but for football fans everywhere, a must. 
  
  Final Score = 8.5 out of 10
  
  -1noteshort 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfan10
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  20 years of Madden. That's right, Madden has been going strong since 1989. And let me start off 
 by saying that this is the best Madden game I have played in a few years. The last being 05.
  
  This year, they have revamped the graphics and the overall feel and gameplay. Starting off 
 with graphics. The graphics have been improved to include different player animations and each 
 blade of grass is there. Ocassionaly though, I ran across the ball and players going through the 
 endzone walls and players going through other people, these are just small quirks that don't get 
 in the way with the overall look and feel.
  
  The gameplay is excellent in this edition. The passing and running game handle really well in this 
 game and feel probably the most comfortable than they ever have in the series. The player actually 
 play like their attributes say they are.
  
  The addition of Madden IQ, is cumbersome. Like mentioned in the gamespot video review, the tests 
 are easy to pass and may put you at a higher difficulty setting. I did it the first time and I 
 was placed extremely high. I restarted and selected don't ask me again. But that won't hurt the 
 score since it is small and can be adjusted.
  
  The commentators are the best. They have a great depth given to them that it seems like a spontaneous 
 remark. It is without a doubt the best.
  
  And BOOM!!! that is Madden 09 in a nutshell. The best in the series. Will keep you busy for a while. 
 GO VIKES!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serpens_Solida
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to be brief. The "AI", is totally WRONG. The game is so unbalanced, the CPU's players 
 play a lot better than yours.
  For that reason, it's impossible to establish a running game. Your off. linemen are blind or stupid, 
 because they are set to block, and they let the blitzers or def. linemen get to the QB. It's so 
 frustrating.
  On the other hand, when you send the blitz, they block you perfectly, and the QB doesn't have to 
 scramble ever. When the CPU is decided to pass, there's no defense you can use to stop them. No 
 man to man, no zone, no blitz is capable to prevent them from scoring.
  It's the same game from past years, and that IQ for "my skill" is WRONG. It increases even if you 
 play bad. I'm sick of Madden and their laziness. Don't waste your money and your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Well its that time of the year again and everyone always has high expectations of the Madden series. 
 This year is no different and I am going to break down this game for those who have not played 
 it yet.
  
  GRAPHICS = 9.25/10 
  
  This year EA seemed to focus more on the player models and animations. Last year we had some nice 
 field effects like wear and tear on the field. Rainy games would create mud puddles and such. Well 
 that is gone in 09. The grass, rain, and snow effects look very nice this year however. You can 
 see splashes from the feet of players in the wet field. Footprints stay on the field when its snowing. 
 
  The player models look very impressive. Each player has their likeness and overall have a more 
 realistic look. This year is definately the best the Madden series has ever looked.
  
  SOUND = 8/10
  
  The announcers are better this year in terms of not repeating the same crap 
 over and over but they just have this monotone sound to them. They dont always sound real. Despite 
 that I feel the music, sound effects, and announcers are still better than last year.
  
  GAMEPLAY = 8.75/10
  
  This year EA has added the player IQ test. This test allows the game 
 to figure the best difficulty setting for you as you progress through the game. This makes each 
 game different and sometimes very hard. Personally I just figure my own settings. I struggle with 
 the good teams and breeze through the crappy ones. There is no reason why I should lose 42-10 to 
 the Raiders using the player IQ config lol.
  Also added this year is the REWIND feature. This feature sucks and I wish it was never added to 
 the game. Even though you dont need to use it there is always a time where you click it anyways 
 and feel like you cheated yourself by using it. This feature needs to be removed all together.
 
  I have found that the AI is smarter this year and those money plays you found in 08' do not seem 
 to work as well in 09'. This makes for tougher games and a better experience.
  
  OVERALL = 8.5/10
  
  This is my favorite Madden game to date and I think EA is definately moving 
 in the right direction. I would like to see a real Half-Time show next year and a better looking 
 crowd in the stadiums. I have not played online so this score is only directed towards the single 
 player modes.
  
  This game gets Lethal's "Must Purchase Stamp of Approval!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  First, I want to ask... if Madden wasn't the only football game on the market, what would its rating 
 be? I honestly think a 6 or a 7.
  
  1st off, and I can't believe this escaped the "professional" review... the game freezes regularly 
 during franchise mode play. I have to continually save in order to get through games because this 
 glitch pops up regularly.
  
  The 'My Skill' feature is an absolute joke. Heres why: it rates your skill based on how well you 
 performed in those areas. So... if you choose a REALLY good run team with a poor pass offense... 
 The 'My Skill' feature will increase your run score and decrease your pass score. Now your all-pro 
 offensive line turns into a bunch of halfwits and turns the best RB in the league into a guy who 
 falls down if you cough on him to 'balance' the game. Ridiculous. Ratings mean nothing when these 
 settings are constantly being tweaked by 'My Skill'.
  
  Honestly can we get a some halfway decent presentation? The 'Quarter summary' actually shows the 
 number of yards and scores for the WHOLE GAME. They can't even get that right! Show some stats, 
 some commentary, the old ESPN game blew madden out of the water on this.
  
  The Madden franchise should be sweating the day they lose the exclusive license. It will mark the 
 beginning of the end of this sorry dynasty.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsoxguy12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Greatest madden up to date, obviously. I will break down this review into several different categories.
 
  
  Gameplay- completely revamped this time around. Animations are slick, smooth, and you don't see 
 the same ones every time. Spectacular Catch has been toned down, which is a lot more realistic. 
 Running backs' jukes dont go across the entire O-line and running is a lot more realistic. Some 
 complain that it is impossible to do, it is just something you must get used to. Getting 100 yard 
 rushing games in every game isnt possible anymore. When your receiver gains a little bit of room 
 deep, the lob pass doesn't work every time anymore. Overall, the game play is a lot more realistic 
 and life-like. Although one problem with the AI is that when they have an open field to run to, 
 (possibly for the first down) they run out of bounds. This has occurred a number of times, but 
 EA is addressing the problem.
  
  Graphics- Amazing. EA delivers again with its visuals in madden 2009. Player models are amazingly 
 unreal and weather visuals are unbelievable. Shots outside of the stadium add a very nice touch. 
 Although fans in the stands still look pretty average, you only really see them during a touchdown. 
 They aren't much of a worry. Bench players are improved, but not completely different.
  
  Audio/Commentary- Commentary in the game is vastly improved over the radio announcer, but still 
 has improvement to be made. While the main commentator (his name slips my mind) is very well drawn 
 out, the other who speaks from time to time is monotone and sometimes annoying. You can hear the 
 break in his voice when he comments on some plays. Lets say that tom brady completes a pass, the 
 commentator would be like brady... completes a pass for 15 yards. It is just something you can hear 
 when you play. Audio is great in the game, gameplay sounds are nicely done. I can't say much about 
 the soundtrack because I don't like rap very much. I just shut off the rap songs and put on the 
 classic NFL songs.
  
  Differences from Madden 08/Features- The biggest and newest feature in this madden is the madden 
 IQ. You take some tests, and based on your results, the game makes a personal difficulty for you. 
 Very user-friendly. User-controllers touchdown celebrations exist now as well. For the first time 
 in a madden game, you can break out of a tackle after making contact. The new cameras give gameplay 
 a new feel. On a break away, the camera slowly zooms in a somewhat resemblance of the camera when 
 you sprint in gears of war. On a big hit using the hitstick, the camera shakes the screen a bit. 
 Before the preplay, there can be a camera in the huddle, above the line, or showing the linemen 
 set up. On a deep pass, the camera doesn't automatically show the receiver, it zooms out a bit 
 and then comes in on the receiver. I like the new views, its a nice touch.
  
  Online- I have played quite a few games online, and I have had no problem with lags or disconnections. 
 I honestly don't know what other people are talking about. My online experience was smooth. I am 
 not in a madden league yet, but i heard they are underwhelming. I can understand that since this 
 is the first year they are set up.
  
  Last words- This is must for a hardcore madden fan, person looking for a football game, sports 
 fan, ANYBODY! This is the first madden that truly feels next-gen. Overall, a great game that any 
 newbie or hardcore fan can play and have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gio_Gambino
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Sorry if I am completely confused. I am just mind boggled that haters are STILL brining up NFL 
 2K5 in their reviews. Are you serious? That game had major flaws in its own right, so stop beating 
 a dead horse.
  
  Madden 09 didn't reinvent the wheel, but why does it have to? I am so tired of people saying "same 
 game", "no improvements", blah, blah, blah. First of all, if you can't see the improvements right 
 off the bat, then you have your hater blinders on. This game made the strides that it needed to 
 make. 
  
  They beefed up the graphics and animations, they tuned up the gameplay a bit, they added some solid 
 commentary, and they most importantly left alone what didn't need fixing at the moment. Let's face 
 it, when is the last time you played a perfect game?
  
  This game is a solid representation of the sport, and it's fun. Is it a perfect game? No. Was NFL 
 2K5 perfect? No. Just get over it already.
  
  I'm not here to take sides either way, but didn't 2K Sports have a long time to produce All-Pro 
 Football? That game turned out awful. But because of the haters, that game has a user score a little 
 higher than this. That's how you can tell how unrealistic these user scores are. That game was 
 terrible and I can't believe anybody would think that it portrays football the correct way. The 
 gameplay was so wooden and poor.
  
  If you like the NFL and you're not just a WoW fanatic trying to be a football fan, then buy this 
 game. It seems that a ton of people on here have no idea what football is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  The players are small, the animations are wayy too quick, on big hits, there doesn't feel like 
 much impact whatsoever. It feels plain, it feels boring, it feels quick. This game has quantity 
 over quality. NFL 2K5 had quality over quantity and it showed. EA needs to take a hint on what 
 they did right. The animations were timey and real. On Madden, the animations are a split second 
 and there really isn't much to see. Football is a rough and brutal game. With Madden, you don't 
 feel like you're out there. You feel like everything is plain. I am sad to say this. I bought this 
 game in hopes of a change and got nothing but disappointment. 
  
  The Good:
  
  Not much good but there definitely is some good. There are many options to this game, there is 
 some good commentary, the graphics are much improved. The online doesn't lag. Although there is 
 a very steep learning curve, it's still rewarding to know everything because it does matter online. 
 I'm not saying this is a very BAD football game. What I am saying.. Is that Madden still has PLENTY 
 to improve on. Plenty. For football fans, rent it. For madden fans, buy it. For gamers who aren't 
 into football, don't even glance at it. 
  
  7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matches_Malone
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Madden since it came out 20 years ago. And in that time, the series has definitely 
 had its ups and downs. But recently the series has moved right in the middle. Each new game does 
 somethings right and somethings wrong. Unfortunately, this year has more wrong than right.
  
  For years, gameplay has been one of the cornerstones of Madden, its gone from the arcade play 
 of the late 80's and early 90's to a tight football simulation in the early 2000's. But the series 
 has moved to a game strictly about presentation. It tries hard to look as realistic as an actual 
 football game but at the expense of real football play. 
  
  I have come across examples of this and here are a few. I was playing against the Colts. Manning 
 threw a screen pass to the FB who caught the ball and rather than turn up field he proceeded to 
 run backwards 2 yards and then out of bounds. In another game against the Packers, I attempted 
 to make a tackle and literally dove right through the runner not once but twice. It was as though 
 my player was a ghost. On a designed run to the left, my LT rather than engage the DE ran towards 
 the middle of the field and didn't block a single person. I have also had my 3rd string QB mysteriously 
 inserted at QB. The starter wasn't injured or exhausted, he was simply just replaced by the CPU 
 with my 3rd QB. It's these things make you feel as though you are a beta tester trying to help 
 EA work out the kinks. Only you've already paid for the game and what you see is what you get.
 
  
  Now EA has been working on the presentation of the game. It certainly looks more realistic. I for 
 one cannot stand the cut scenes. There are too many and attempts to skip them can sometimes lead 
 to accidental plays being picked. The commentary is weak. Collinsworth is good however the other 
 guy is simply awful. Personally, I just can't listen to it. It will make you wish for the days 
 of Pat Summerall or Al Michaels. 
  
  I am a few games into my franchise and I just don't feel any sense of accomplishment. Not in the 
 same way I do with NCAA. There I am constantly fighting to get my team to the BCS Championship 
 and recruiting players that can help continue a winning tradition. But with Madden, its just not 
 there. It just seems like there is something missing to Madden. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 was extremely hyped compared to other Madden games in the series. But when it finally 
 came out, people found out that it was just another madden game with small improvements (though 
 they were actually the most improvements) . But unfortunatley Madden 09 didn't have quite as many 
 improvements as the previous game did, but that doesn't mean it cant be a great game.
  
  Madden NFL 09 features only a few new things but if you're thinking about upgrading to the next 
 gen consoles, this is the Madden to begin with. This is because it has new "next-gen-like" animations, 
 realistic looking grass, online leagues, and the most impressive enhancement, the new "my skill" 
 difficulty.
  
  Online leagues is the same thing as a football season but different. Instead of having scheduled 
 times to play certain people, you just simply challenge whoever's available at the time. Unfortunatley, 
 this can lead to more wins/losses to more people than others which can be unfair and annoying to 
 the losers.
  
  The new "my skill" difficulty is why EA calls this game "the first game that adapts to you". At 
 the beginning of the game, when you first put the disc in, it will run the Madden IQ Test, which 
 is basically a playthrough of 4 different mini games to judge how good are you at each one. The 
 mini games judge offensive pass, offensive rush, defensive block pass, and defensive block rush. 
 It works mostly fine but a few things. Defense can be a bit hard and offensive rush can be a bit 
 easy, making the rest of the game be really hard when you decide to do a running play. Otherwise, 
 it's all good. And of course you can choose to turn the "my skill" level off and play with any 
 of the classic difficulties, rookie, pro, all pro, and all madden.
  
  Superstar mode and Franchise mode are both pretty much unchanged and there are actually no new 
 modes whatsoever... Well, besides madden moments, which is a list of plays that happend throughout 
 the 2007 season that you can play through and try to complete, but be warned, the difficulty seems 
 to be automatically set to all madden while you do them. Their are now rewinds that allow you to 
 litterally rewind after a mistake or whatever. And there's also a thing called backtrack that has 
 the announcers talking about the mistake that you or the cpu did. And no, their are still unfortunately 
 no blazing, hot, sexy cheerleaders in the game.
  
  So with that being said, Madden 09 is the best one in its series by far (as usual) and is greatly 
 recommended if you haven't upgraded in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vert56
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the 2 positive aspects of the game first just to be polite.
  
  1) This game has the NFL license........ duh.
  
  2) The TV style presentation is a step up from 
 that silly home team radio announcer.
  
  Ok, now for my b#$%@-fest.....
  
  Why do the computer controlled teams make me offers on the trading block when they don't have room 
 in their rosters? Also, why would the patriots cut Tom Brady after my first franchise year? he's 
 only in the league 9 years and has a 99 rating!!! These are huge issues for me when I expect to 
 play a realistic football sim!!!
  
  Graphics? Why is everyone so impressed? I think the game still looks plastic!
  
  
  The animations 
 are what I really don't get. Everyone is talking about the animations as if they were an upgrade 
 from last year. They are stiff! And when a receiver goes up for the ball it looks like a cardboard 
 cut-out!!
  
  That dunk  it out of the game please!!! Its embarrassing for the 
 dev team to keep it in. 
  
  Players regularly (not seldom like the "expert" reviewers at gamespot claim) run out of bounds 
 for nor reason.
  
  Players slide around on the field standing in pace a lot
  
  Running game is ruined. runners get stuck behind the linemen again. was fixed last year. now its 
 back.
  
  The ball is still shooting through defenders hands when the comp wants to make a play.
  
  Why 
 did they add their silly MTV soundtrack to the practice feature......... annoying as hell!!!
  
  My assessment is that NCAA09 is a much better game. The NCAA09 dev team should take control 
 of the NFL franchise and all of the slackers worrking on Madden for the last five years should 
 be sacked!! Go dev for the Wii. 
  
  In conclusion, I am done. Not buying another Madden until there is competition out there or they 
 change dev teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Shadelon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  This is easily the best Madden ever. I love the new virtual trainer, the new My Skills difficulty, 
 and the new beefed up online mode. So much better than 08. Gamespot proves yet again how STUPID 
 they are.  . Open your eyes! The online league looks great. Great work EA. And best of all, EA 
 has brought their A game this year, getting right to work on patching issues in the game. They 
 patched the game right on release day! That's awesome. I don't know what Gamespot's problem is. 
 One reason why I hate reviews. I never ever ever listen to them. Play the game yourself and make 
 your own decision. Game reviews are just retarded. I have had absolutely no issues with the game 
 myself, though I have heard some people have ran into DC glitchers online and game freezes, but 
 I wouldn't know. I haven't ran into any of those problems myself. The game did sorta lock up on 
 me whenever I tried to get in the lobbies on launch day but that was only because the servers were 
 packed, and rightfully so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  it is not as bad as anyone says it is. they just want too much from it and probably suck and blame 
 the game. if ur good at madden, ull love it. defense can be tough to stop yardage thru the air 
 but it is easy if u play as a safety to pick off quite a few throws. run D is easy no sweat. passing 
 is drastically improved and is the best ive played on the next gen. so easy to hit receivers and 
 break it open. running is tougher, btu that is good b/c in the past it was a breeze. in no way 
 is it worse than last year so there is benefit. when u talk animation and looks.... simply AMAZING. 
 announcing is good finally. controls are simple enough if u played in teh past. but newcomers can 
 easily kill on rookie so it doesnt matter. load times aare wonderful and presentation keeps u locked 
 in until gametime. AI is sometimes lame whether its ur d linemen running past the QB b/c ur busy 
 trying to play SS to little things like con't out of bounds after a catch. in on way are these 
 issues enough to ruin the game. there are no major issues with this game. its does play differently 
 that last yrs. but thats a good thing although it cam be frsutrating at first. u just have to learn 
 game speed and tming a little but no biggie. overall its great and worth buying w/o renting!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboy31
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I have a problem with Ea sports. It's seems like there not listening to the out cry for improvements 
 from there customers. They have exclusive rights to the NFL plus ESPN and they don't use there 
 potential. When Nfl 2k5 had the espn liscene they had a halftime show and a post game show, madden 
 never even atempts to do that. Espn owns Monday night Football, how about putting that into the 
 game. You can have hometown commentators, Nfl network commentators and teams scheduled for Monday 
 night games can have Espn commentators. It just seems to me that there becoming lazy with a if 
 it ain't broke don't fix it mentality. Another pet peeve is the sidelines and the crowds in the 
 game, again they look horrible. Honestly the crowds and the sidelines look better on the PS2. The 
 sidelines need to be more responsive to key plays and the crowd needs to know when to cheer loud 
 and boo when necessary. Ea sports needs some competition, then maybe they'll give us the game that 
 we've always dreamt of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridenne
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  So I've been kinda disappointed with the past few years and the Madden Franchise... 
  
  Seems like EA was just doing glorified roster updates, with features here an there. Nothing that 
 really WOW'ed me like when I turned on my newly launched PS2 and Madden for the first time.
  
  But this one is getting on the right track. Controls are actually doing [for the most part] 
 what you want it to do, without that 1-2 second delay anymore.
  
  Better animations, "shake" visuals for big hits or big runs, better commentary (although some of 
 the audio pieces aren't as nicely produced as some other ones) and overall experience.
  
  I was really on the fence about "renewing" my Madden roster update, but this is more than I expected. 
 Instead of the yearly letdown, I am actually excited to see that the game is much tighter and having 
 fun playing it. It's fresher.
  
  Still, that's the way it should be every year, not once every 5-8 years... For a super computer, 
 the PS3 should be able to provide much better visuals. I still see the pixelation of graphics, 
 players running through each other like they're ghosts, stadium audience looking like animated 
 cardboard characters... 
  
  The officials only seem to show on-screen when there's a penalty. I'd like to see them on the field 
 and use them to be in the way of the defenders, like they do in the NFL. It'd be fun to run over 
 them some times too... by accident of course!
  
  The backtrack is not really working well. I passed to my running back who was double-covered. It 
 told me I was trying to pass to my tight end. Then, it shows me a receiver that was also highly 
 covered... but I could see the tight end was free, with no defenders around. 
  
  Overall, this is an upgrade compared to the "Same old, same old" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKG33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 09 is probably the best football game I have ever played. The graphics are simply amazing. 
 They kept most of the same controls, but changed a few. 
  
  The difficulty is set to your Madden IQ, which you take a test for in the beginning of the game 
 in the Virtual Trainer. As you play games, your Madden IQ will rise or drop depending on how well 
 you play which is cool.
  
  What kept this game from getting a 9-10 rating is the franchise and superstar modes. They are pretty 
 much the same modes as last year. In superstar, its the same thing of either creating a rookie, 
 playing as a NFL rookie or importing a NCAA legend then playing intill it get too boring and repetitive.
 
  
  Overall this is a great game with some cool new features, and some good, some bad old ones. I would 
 suggest getting the Collectors Edition as it not only comes with Madden NFL 09, but NFL Head Coach 
 09 (another ood game, better than the first one but i'll talk about that in another review) as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  And that being good is the fact that Chris C is SUPERB! Wow! now they just need madden, or someone 
 good to go along with him. Along with new updates to franchise mode, superstar mode refs, chain 
 gang, amubulance'es or med staff taking off with the sideline cart they use in real life. Oh did 
 i mention how about HALFTIME SHOW????? USE THE ESPN RIGHTS! EA HONESTLY I AM GETTING EVEM MORE 
 MAD AS I WRITE THIS. I AM SO GLAD HONESTLY THAT I DID NOT BUY THIS GAME AGAIN. I DID THE SAME THING 
 WAIT FOR THE REVIEW, WENT TO MY LOCAL BESTBUY AND PLAYED THE GAME THERE. TWO YRS IN A ROW AND THIS 
 MAKES ME VERY PROUD I DID NOT BUY THIS GAME! NCAA09 IS WAY BETTER!!!!!!! NOT GOING TO GET MY MONEY 
 HONESTLY TILL I SEE A PRODUCT WORTH MY HARD WORKING MONEY! THANK GOD FOR GT4, GOW 3, METAL GEAR 
 4, AND WARHAWK, THE NEW BATMAN LEGO, BURNOUT PARADISE, AND RESIDENT 5, MANY MORE TO KEEP ME OCCUPIED 
 TLL U MAKE A NICE GAME WORTH 60.00!!!!!! 
  
  -gO bROWNS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pktdavew
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Total improvement over last year. I wanted to mail last year's game back to EA. This year the game 
 is worthy of the Madden name.
  
  The look and movement of each player matches up with what you would expect from a platform like 
 the PS3. 
  
  Really good RB's and WR's will put some serious moves on you at the All-Madden level. You can't 
 just run at the ball carrier like a bowling ball. If you do then "Welcome to Plant Clown - population 
 you."
  
  Thankfully they had someone do play by play announcing. It's not Madden but it's good. Really now 
 - what was that AM radio sounding thing they did last year? 
  
  Dear EA Sports, 
  
  This is the mother off all sports games. Don't cheese out when it comes to hiring announcers for 
 the voiceover. I'm sure just about all the football color analysts would line up to get their voice 
 on this game. How about letting Adre Ware work with Chris Collingsworth? Or Rich Gannon? Both are 
 popular QB's that have turned into pretty good TV guys. 
  
  Too early to review online leagues. But this could be the future for sports games. Hopefully EA 
 did it right.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnazario
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I got Madden NFL 09 Limited Edition and it has to be one of the best sports games ive played so 
 far only because its got higher game engines higher quality and comes with things like 1993 madden 
 and greatest moments in history like they make you play the supper bowl giants vs patriots which 
 I thought were pretty cool Features. Also"The game adjusts to your skill level"which I thought was 
 also pretty cool because it determines how good you are not choose easy because you wanna say you 
 can win , and last they let you choose your favorite team and use team it the football season and 
 let you choose rival teams. Another thing is that Madden has aslways been a series so every year 
 its tried to be better than the last one so this year its got the PS3 with HD and High quality 
 Card and Video which make th e game play so much better and the audio so much cleaner, plus if 
 you play this game and think it awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormer454
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  I got Madden NFL 09 Limited Edition and it has to be one of the best sports games ive played so 
 far only because its got higher game engines higher quality and comes with things like 1993 madden 
 and greatest moments in history like they make you play the supper bowl giants vs patriots which 
 I thought were pretty cool Features. Also"The game adjusts to your skill level"which I thought was 
 also pretty cool because it determines how good you are not choose easy because you wanna say you 
 can win , and last they let you choose your favorite team and use team it the football season and 
 let you choose rival teams. Another thing is that Madden has aslways been a series so every year 
 its tried to be better than the last one so this year its got the PS3 with HD and High quality 
 Card and Video which make th e game play so much better and the audio so much cleaner, plus if 
 you play this game and think it awsome but you not playing on a HD tv then you dont know what you 
 missing. - Stormer454 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laplace985
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Needless to say I won that bet. He tried to lie and make his case that madden 09 was better than 
 busted out laughing; so he finally gave me my 20$. Look all you madden haters I am a bonafied 2k5 
 fanboy; nevertheless I cant bring my self to hate easports because they are just business men; 
 thats it. They get paid to sell games not make good games; which is why the fight night and burnout 
 titles surprised me because they were really good titles. After I got my associates degree in business 
 I kind of understand why they do what they do. I mean if I sold rotten hotdogs out of my house 
 and everybody bought them; why would i try to make good ones and use all that effort and brainstorming 
 when my rotten ones were making me a fortune. The bottom line is that they dont get paid to care 
 about you the gamer; their shareholders are rightfully the only people they care about. So either 
 suck it up or stop buying their football titles, because if you didnt buy them they wouldnt make 
 them so crappy because they are business men. Besides they are not all that bad; I'm surprised 
 they are not worse considering they dont have no one to compete with; and you madden fanboys will 
 keep hoping for that perfect madden which will never come. 2010, 2011, 2012 will be the same thing 
 so get use to it and stop whining. After reading all yall pathetic reviews I'm still going buy 
 it because its the only football game in town LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is so great i can't describe it. Yes it has it's problems but they are very easy to look 
 past when you see the rest. 
  
  Graphics: They are the most realistic in the series. The player models are completely redone and 
 are incredibly detailed. All players will get dirtier over the course of the game. The stadiums 
 have also been redone and are perfect, inside and out because of the pregame presentation showing 
 the entrance. The biggest graphical improvement in my opinion are the weather effects and grass 
 detailing. The snow is shoveled off along the painted lines and there are piles of snow along the 
 stadium walls. The rain effects look like your in a storm and both snow and rain effect the game 
 with players slipping in the wet grass/ice patches and other areas.
  
  Presentation: Totally new! All new commentary with NFL network along for the ride. Tom does the 
 play-by-play and Chris does the color, Chris is great and sounds natural... Tom on the other hand 
 sounds choppy and awkward. There is an all new Scoreboard centered on the top of the screen. The 
 largest improvement in presentation is "Backtrack". Which is the introduction of in-game analysis. 
 Chris tells you what you did wrong, what you should have done and (depending on your difficulty 
 setting) the plays called and the % of times the play you called would work.
  
  Game Modes: Madden IQ is the first thing that you see and is a test to determine your "My Skill". 
 This is interesting and kind of works, it is done in a tron-like presentation. Franchise is very 
 similar to last season, upgrades include being able to continue a franchise from last years game, 
 export your current team roster, rival information with scores from rival games all the way back 
 to 1960. Superstar mode is an exact replica from last year with the only upgrade is being able 
 to continue one from last year. Madden Moments are a great addition and gives you the chance to 
 relive or change the biggest moments from last year, the only downside is that it is current rosters 
 not last year's. Virtual Trainer is like the IQ but it's just practice and is a way to improve 
 your skills.
  
  Gameplay: Is still the classic Madden feel with a TON of pre-snap options. On offense you can bluff 
 play art, set hot routes and smart routes, call audibles - including formation specific audibles, 
 and make slide protections. On defense you can also bluff plays, make d-line/linebacker/coverage 
 adjustments, call audibles and spotlights receivers. There are some issues where a player will 
 get stuck in a motion and be carried out of bounds however, the break away engine works great but 
 not too excessively. The action cam is great because is keeps all your receivers in view and goes 
 into a breakaway cam is you break a long one. TD celebrations are cool and are a lot of fun. The 
 rewind feature is a fun addition when screwing with your friends, and is great for when you mess 
 up. Keep it to 1 or 2 per game and it works.
  
  If you buy Madden every year you will love this, if you haven't played in a while then this is 
 the year to get back into it. Of your new this is also a good year to jump into it. This is a GREAT 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumptruck123
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think Ea could screw up more than last year but they did. Last year the game froze on 
 the training sessions but at least you could play the games!!! Now the first series on offense 
 the game will freeze on the play selection screen. First game they had the ball no problems. They 
 punted and after the third play in the game freezes on the play selection screen. I shut the game 
 off and try again. This time I get the ball first and the game freezes after the second play on 
 the play selection screen.
  
  How can that glitch go unnoticed? Did the testers even bother to play a game in the franchise mode? 
 Damn I want a job at EA. I can just sit on my ass all day or find a nice place to sleep in the 
 office. EA. com is claiming that several reviewers have given this game a perfect rating. What did 
 they give this game to a bunch of fan boys who let their devotion to a franchise blind them to 
 obvious flaws. 
  
  I am not the only one, go check out EA. com forums and look at the number of people posting comments 
 about their games freezing.
  
  Wait for them to release patches if there will be any to fix these issues before buy or even renting 
 this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sno0p3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!'
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!!
  
  I love eveything about this game. This is the first madden on my next-gen system haven't played 
 Madden for a while has got me amped an made me love this game even more. Definately buy this game 
 if you don't own a football game already!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The last Madden I played was 04, which probably spent more time in my gamecube than any other game. 
 So here I was, thinking that taking a five year/ one generation jump would make the experience 
 that much better, but really, I'm not all that impressed. It's still fun and addictive, but I wish 
 I had some other NFL games to choose from.
  
  First of all, I've found that many of the points of praise that the game has been lauded for are 
 a bit overstated. For one thing, it's being called the most user-friendly Madden in recent memory, 
 but if that's true than I must have missed out on some serious complexity and difficulty in my 
 five year hiatus. Compared to 04 the controls are very loose, which I suppose is more realistic 
 but it feels much less satisfying. Running the ball is pretty much a lost cause on any difficulty 
 setting other than "rookie", and good luck getting to the quarterback or breaking up a pass on 
 defense. It's not all as bad as I'm making it out to seem, but it feels very flawed. And then there 
 are the "tips" that Chris Collinsworth (one of the more narcissistic sports commentators out there) 
 gives you when you make a mistake, which I found to be flat out pointless. "So what you're saying 
 is, my pass was intercepted because I threw into heavy coverage? What's that? I should have thrown 
 to that open reciever who I couldn't see because he was to the right off the screen? Ohhhhh". It's 
 not helpful.
  
  In terms of the audio and visuals, the game does pretty well. It falls far short of mind-boggling, 
 as some of the motions and animations appear clunky, especially when you watch the instant replays. 
 The lighting is nice, and the weather effects add some cool variety, but it gets overdone a little. 
 As a 49er fan I've already played several games at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, and not one 
 of them took place on a sunny day. The music is nice and the sound effects are as well, but as 
 I mentioned, I'm not a fan of Chris Collinsworth. I'd rather listen to John Madden ramble on in 
 all of his glorious repetitiveness that he's know so well for. I mean, the series is named for 
 him, so why isn't he commentating?
  
  All of the modes are here and they're done pretty well, but I couldn't help but feel a little ripped 
 off by the Franchise mode. Where in the world did all of the training camp mini-games go? Superstar 
 Mode is genuinely interesting for a short time but it doesn't last, and pretty soon you'll be wondering 
 exactly what the purpose is of the daily practices. They're boring, and I really have no idea how 
 they benefit you're player. Finally, the most important feature: Create-a-team. It's buried in 
 the main menu so it took me several anxious minutes to find it, but it's definitely there. This 
 is one area that I'm going to have to put a lot of time in before I can fairly evaluate it, but 
 it seems like it's been overhauled and there are some nice options there. I must've created dozens 
 of teams in Madden '04, and I'm hoping to flex my creative muscle this time around too, at least 
 until the release of LittleBigPlanet.
  
  Overall I just wish that the game was cleaner, like back in the good ol' days of 2004. I don't 
 need all the flashiness, just give me a solid franchise mode with deep stat-tracking and I'm set. 
 '09 is still fun, but I'm beginning to think that this is simply because it's an NFL game, not 
 because EA did anything special.
  
  Edit: Two things to note, now that I've played the game a bit more. First, create-a-team mode is 
 terrible, as there are fewer options for pretty much everything (logos, colors, uniforms, and stadiums) . 
 Also, what little there is in terms of uniforms and stadiums looks ridiculous. Second, I realized 
 what the biggest problem is: there are only two camera angle settings, and both are pretty much 
 the same. Ironically, I discovered this while watching a video review for the Wii version, which 
 made me realize that the camera angles are simply too low and make it difficult to make sense of 
 everything happening on the screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  To start off i like to say this years madden is better than last years. I see
  that certain people are still whining about EA. If you dont like the game just
  move on and let 
 the people who enjoy it enjoy the game. The graphics in
  this game is beautiful and the animations. I think also the presentation is
  also the best in 
 the madden series. Im glad there slowly geting it together
  for the next gen consoles .. i like it that there adding more and more every
  year. As i play 
 this game it really reminds me and feels like a newer NFL Fever certain elements in the game remains 
 me. Like for insteads : snaping
  of the cameras , how the players look is almost the same but slimed down..
  how the field goal 
 is kicked in the air during kick off and exspecially the muxic. overall i like the direction of 
 madden.. cant wait till next year .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claykenobi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The biggest problem gamers have with Madden is the fact that it's one of the most highly anticipated 
 games out there. It's hard not to build it up to being the "one" sports game that conquers all!! 
 The problem is, EA has less than a year to tweak, upgrade and add features, so improvement must 
 be gradual. I must say, Madden 09' is vastly improved in areas it desperately needed to be. The 
 Animation and game speed is so much more natural looking and feeling that it makes it tough to 
 get used to. But after a few hours of play it becomes greatly appreciated. The graphics and presentation 
 are equally a large leap from last years generic feel (Thank god they got rid of the radio announcer!!) . 
 I must say there are still times when I'm steaming out of every Orpheus yelling, "THAT JUST IS 
 NOT FAIR!!". Sometimes the game isn't, but I can't name off many games that are 100% fair. Like 
 the sport of football, This game is competitive and it's the closest thing to the NFL thus far. 
 Playing with a friends at home is the most authentic experience (Unless your friends are cheap) . 
 I found the AI to still have it's annoying characteristics. And the online mode is almost there 
 but not quite. But when it is all said and done, I will not be pressing eject on my console anytime 
 soon.. Saying that, I already can't wait till next years because I think now that they have made 
 the next gen. graphical leap and upgraded online, developers can now focus on tweaking the gameplay 
 and AI to ultimate virtual fooball satisfaction.. GAME ON!!!!!!
  
  Final thought : would it be so hard to add the option of playing music during Virtual training?????? 
 It would make it so much more fun & addicting!
  
  Presentation: 10
  Graphics:10
  Gameplay:8.5
  Sound: 9
  Replay:10
  Online: 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StankOnYa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This years Madden is kinda like the NFL's preseason games going on right now, fun to see who's 
 new, and pretty much what players are going to be good, but yet and still......... this is not the 
 regular season. Although Madden 09 is fun to play and hay ....... it is fun!! it just leaves you 
 feeling like something is missing. Maybe more exciting commentary, Player of the game.
  For me there is no WoW!!!!!!! that games the s^%t,, can't wait to play Madden again feeling that 
 comes over me this year. But more like "man i feel like playing some football, let me throw that 
 Madden in and see whats poppin" feeling i get. Maybe it's too real not arcade enough.?..... or 
 is it too arcade like and not not real enough ? You be the judge. 
  
  Now if you ask me??.................... and i pretty much think you are? Madden 09 is the best Madden 
 yet . Really good graphics, animations are slick, gameplay is smooth like butter and the commentary 
 is on point!! well for the most part any ways. 
  What i do is every year I play with almost every team to see how much they differ from my favorite, 
 and that pretty much lets me know how successful someone with that team could be against me or 
 vise versa. Now weather it's Passing, running or defence, all three are kinda different this year 
 and is going to take some getting used to.
  
  I think most of the people that are complaining about this game are just nit picking and they are 
 really not telling us whats really bothering them. See I got a 360 just for sports games, because 
 thats pretty much all i play........... but after the 6th time my 360 died on me, thats when i 
 jus went out and got a ps3 and sold that heartbreaking, nutt crack-en piece of S$#T 360.
  And for alot of us who mostly play sports games, it hurts big time when that game you've been waiting 
 for letts you down even a little bit..... Bad for the soul and pockets. But I'll bet that 9 out 
 of 10 of everyone who said that they hate the game and that they are going to trade it in , are 
 most likely playing it right now........................... or in a month or so, are going to end 
 up at the store buying it all!!! over!!!!! again!!!!!. LoL...
  
  So what Madden 09 isn't perfect, it plays alot better than 08 and after playing this how could 
 anyone go back. 
  
  I may have some dislikes about Madden 09 but thats more of what I feel could have been put into 
 the game rather than whats in it. So with that said if your a football fan, Madden 09 is a wel 
 worth your money. 
  
  gameplay 9
  graphics -8.7
  sound -8.9 way better than 08
  multiplayer-9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpraser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  I don't know what everyone is complaining about. This has to be the best Madden to date. Not to 
 say there isn't room for improvement or growth, but that is how they get us to buy the same game 
 every year.
  
  The Good: The game play feels real good. Running the football actually is fun again. It feels more 
 like the PS2 versions of the game that I enjoyed before the next gen versions came out. The animations 
 look really nice. The commentary is a thousand times better than last year. Plus the ability to 
 change the difficulty level for Passing and Rushing both for offense and defense really gives you 
 the ability to customize the game to your skill level.
  
  The Bad: Why can't they get more stadium specific with the presentation. I would really like to 
 see stadium specific celebrations after touchdowns. Most teams have a fight song that they play 
 and have guys with flags run out on the field and such. Plus what is wrong with cheerleaders? NCAA 
 has them, why not Madden? A lot of features have not been upgraded since last year like superstar 
 mode.
  
  Bottom line: Madden 09 is more than an updated roster and is a lot more fun to play than Madden 
 08. If you enjoy football as much as I do, then you will like playing Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edscma
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Madden once again plays like a champion that has to many championship rings there is no excitement 
 in the game they dont have any competion so why work as hard to put out a great "total" game experience. 
 But i do have to say this is the best so far for the next-gen systems but it is still lacking a 
 total game experience that it can offer pregameshow halftime commentary and post game wrap up stuff 
 like that and where is the crowd reaction when you score a touchdown to win the game with 30 seconds 
 left where is the thunder the roar of the crowd. the did alot of improvements over the last couple 
 of years but they still have so far to go an when that day comes oh how sweet football will truly 
 be. the nfl head coach is a nice addition to the collectors edition you get two new games for one 
 price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishhop
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Edited 8/15/08
  After playing this game a few more times, I would like to give this a higher rating than a 6.0. 
 I would bump this up to an 8.0. The I. Q idea is a good one but fails to deliver as intended. Graphics 
 are fantastic for 720p. Hammonds commentary is not all that bad after he is starting to grow on 
 me. Still a ways to go for a 10, but 8 is respectabe and besides there is no other competition.
 
  
  
  
  The Madden franchise disappoints again. We have come to expect more from this type of genre, and 
 we simply are not getting it. Aside from Mr. Collinsworth, who is tolerable, the commentary from 
 the other guy is absolutely horrendous. It sounds as though he knows nothing about the sport and 
 is trying to convince you he knows what he is talking about. I don't need to know that the game 
 is being brought to me by the "lovely folks at EA sports", O. K. Believe me, I know, I just gave 
 them $60.00 for this crap! There are new animations, a VR trainer that does absolutely nothing, 
 a baby could score TD's on this build. Play calling, to me looks old, meaning this needs revamped 
 and it seemed to me that there was a delay when selecting plays. The players themselves when looking 
 at the rosters looked generic, in black and white jerseys, what happened to the actual color jerseys 
 that were used last year. This is a next gen system is it not? I am truly disappointed I fell for 
 the hype again. The fact is I love football, as do many others, but with no other games, we are 
 forced to buy this product by the EA monopoly. To sum up, there are new features, but this is a 
 new game, they should be there. Your not going to buy last years game with 09 on it. There is not 
 enough in this game to keep myself interested and will not even put time to try out the other avenues 
 of the game. Save your money, and I hope you find this read helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: straightpullies
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If you are thinking about buying this game PLEASE for the love of Pete, go rent it first. I promise 
 you will hate it. It's like you are not even controlling the players. It is the worst of them all. 
 Buy the ps2 version. Ill bet it is still good. I am so ******* pissed. So i have to write at least 
 100 words so I can warn the public not to fall for the hypeed up reviews that I did. Does no one 
 remember how smooth madden on the ps2 is and how crappy this crap craponzo is. I've played madden 
 for 13 years and this **** is frustrating. I miss my game. Im sticking to ps2 for now, any one 
 want to trade a ps2 version for my ps3 version. So i have like 125 letters left. DO NOT BUY MADDEN 
 09 for the PS3 DO NOT BUY MADDEN 09 for the PS3 it is absolutely horrible I am being honest cuz 
 I just wasted 65 effin dollars on the **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Packers_1fan
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Shotty gameplay with glitches and flashes. No attention given to offline features. Poor voice acting 
 by john madden. I got this game early so i spent all weekend playing it. The game looked promising 
 until i got to playing it. The game is at best a 3 because there is no improvement aside from some 
 presentations. EA sports continues to let fans down with games that should ony exist in the 99 
 cent bin at your local carwash! WHEN WILL WE GET SOME FAIR COMPETITION! AS LONG AS THERE IS THE 
 EA SPORTS MONOPOLY, WE SHOULD NOT EXPECT GOOD SPORTS GAMES. Lets hope to see NFL 2k13. DIE EA SPORTS 
 DIE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockdudeguy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Ah, definitely the best Madden game to date. 
  
  Pros: Must improved graphics. EA Backtrack is very nice and if you pay attention to it, can be 
 helpful. Cris Collinsworth's commentary is great and isn't so annoying to listen to unlike the 
 previous few years. Rewind.... well, I don't like it but I guess if you make a mistake, maybe you 
 will. It allows you to redo the play, but I just think you should take what happens. Weather effects 
 are better than ever. Players get very, very dirty when it rains and makes it hard to distinguish 
 who is who. Smoother tackles and animations. TD celebration control. 
  
  Cons: Gameplay can be a bit choppy at times. No new features to superstar or franchise mood hardly 
 whatsoever. Tom and Madden's voices are pretty bad. ... not much else lol
  
  Yea, by far, this is the best Madden game. Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying EA made a major jump from last year's edition of Madden. Graphics, gameplay, 
 and commentary all have been tweaked for a better gaming experience. I consider myself a Hardcore 
 Madden gamer and I feel as though EA could have done better with competition from 2K Sports. Since 
 they have the license locked up for awhile, we have no choice but to choose Madden by default as 
 our "NFL" game to play. In the gameplay mechanics, passing and carrying the rock are far better 
 than last year (especially carrying the rock) . But defense, defense, defense still needs some improvement. 
 I still feels as though you can't really run a defense like you did in the last gen editions of 
 Madden. You really don't have that "lock on" feeling while playing D. Although every edition of 
 Madden is getting better, it's only getting better without competition of another NFL you can choice 
 off the shelf in the stores. When 2K Sports had their NFL games out in competition with the Madden 
 series, Madden games "definitely" played better. There is really no push for EA to make a better 
 games except for the performance of the previous one. So I'm asking myself is this really what 
 they have to offer or are they holding back so next year's Madden will be better. I love football 
 and I have no choice but to give this game thumbs up, this is the only "NFL" game you can play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basssura
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Alright, I bought it b/c it was really a major pain to edit all the players on NFL2K5 but now I 
 feel I've been duped once more by the "fine" folks at EA. 
  
  I am still in disbelief that EA can not come up with better graphics than this where in matters: 
 In the damn field!!!! The physics although improved can not touch the formidable NFL2K5 yet which 
 is incredibly amazing and led one to think either the dudes at 2KSports were just geniuses or the 
 ones at EA are unbelievable lazy and don't give a damn about any kind of turd product they throw 
 at us.
  
  I gave Madded the benefit of the doubt, bought it, played it and at times it was entertaining specially 
 playing head to head with friends at home. Online was decent but since football is a sport with 
 constant stops EA should do something about the time each player needs to snap the damn ball, perhaps 
 a faster clock, since it is utterly annoying to wait and the games be endless.
  
  My biggest complain is when you play franchise alone, horrible!!! The menus (a plus over 2K most 
 of the time) do not possess the flow it had has in the past. The challange option is completely 
 USELESS!!!! This refs are way worse than the NFL's or need some serious virtual eye doctor's exams 
 asap. Countless mistakes the most glaring being catches made waaayyyyy out of bounds, and I mean 
 by the stands almost. How could 2K had gotten this feature so well done 4 yrs ago and EA can't 
 still touch it!! 
  
  Lastly, why on earth EA is not making use of the fully ESPN license they have, this is completely 
 UNEXCUSABLE and it shows that EA doesn't give a damn about its customers and will continue to do 
 so until they have the sole rights to the NFL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiltz04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Here we go... Madden 2009 for the Playstation 3 is a solid game... It performs better than madden 
 08 with some minor glitchy happenings and some unexpected freezing... Other than that it performs 
 very well with its improved graphics and some addations that make it a lot more appealing. 
  
  Visual/Sound- The Graphics in the game are supurb, in only 720P they still look amazing... In 
 the beginning of each game a picture of the outside of the stadium is shown and it looks fantastic.... The 
 grass on the field looks great, players, and sidelines have been improved as well.... The sound 
 in the game is good (love no more madden and collinsworth is a great addition)
  
  Gameplay- The biggest addition to the game would have to be the rewind... Rewind is an amazing freature 
 that lets you go back into the game and redo a play if you messed up on the previous play before. 
 The CPU is HARD!!! BEWARE!!! I played my first game on all-madden, is what i usually play on, the 
 CPU jumped out to an early 21-0 lead... Picking plays and executing is key in this game so there 
 is no messing around like other previous maddens... The addition of madden moments!.... These are 
 fun... great new additon to redo and relive some of the greatest moments of last year like the PATS 
 CHOKING AGAISNT GIANTS LOL!.... Finally the beginning of the game starts up by madden telling you 
 about this IQ and you have to take some test to see where you stand.... Its cool but ahhh??? Any 
 purpose really? Does it matter? Not really.....
  
  Online- The new online with up to 32 teams in a online fatansy league is great... have trades, play 
 games, and eventually an ultimate superbowl winner... very fun and FINALLY PUT IN THE GAME!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionisawzom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I think that, although tough, the game has tons of depth. There is soooo much to do. Everyone always 
 wants to know what system plays better on which system, well the bottom line is it is your preference, 
 I am playing them side by side and see nothing sticking out. I chose PS3 b/c all of the testers 
 at EA preferred it over the 360. Believe it was tough, b/c I have both systems. The bottom line 
 is I am happy with not only the entire game, but the PS3 version. The real question is what in 
 a rating? Who says that someones choice of a 9.0 instead of an 8.5? I would recommend playing the 
 demo, if you like the demo, well I feel that you are sure to enjoy the game. Yeah it has a couple 
 of quirks, but then what Madden game doesn't? If the voice overs are annoying you, then turn them 
 off and listen to your own music. So when the rubber meets the road, I give this game a 8.5, b/c 
 it is challenging for ME, and tons of features, I do think that they could have worked out quirks 
 before, but hey, it will be patched. "If you patch it, they will play" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezingacid06
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  After some atrocious Madden games for the next-gen systems, I had hoped that Madden 09 would finally 
 be a return for the franchise to greatness. As the critic review pointed out, the I. Q. test at 
 the beginning of the game does little to accurately adjust the difficulty. While the graphics in 
 the game are superb, they do not mean a whole lot when the A. I. is spotty at best and serious gameplay 
 mechanics hamper the whole experience. In the short time I have played, I can not count the number 
 of times there were missed tackles, poor throws by the quarterback, or players trying to juke or 
 spin and running straight out-of-bounds or backwards. Furthermore, there is no way to "surprise" 
 the computer opponent. Even after "establishing the run" by running the ball 15-20 straight times, 
 a play-action pass does nothing to fool the computer. Along those notes, the audible system works 
 good against a human opponent, but fails to ever catch the computer off-guard. The A. I. seemingly 
 has one of their players in my quarterback's head, because they always know what play I am about 
 to run. Until Madden can get the A. I. issues resolved, I will just start to watch real football 
 and play other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixrox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  You have three types of gamers as they apply to Madden football: The hardcore, highly competitive 
 type that can tear an inexperience offense to shreds while taking it to the house every possession 
 without even flinching, the casual gamer who picks the game up on occasion, usually between friends, 
 and finally those who don't care about madden either way. For the better or worse, Madden 09 was 
 designed with the casual gamer in mind. Backtracking, "do overs", the tron-like training camp, 
 and Madden IQ are all advancements which favor the average madden gamer whereas more hardcore fans 
 will probably overlook such features. If you're a hardcore Madden fan, you might scoff at how much 
 the presentation of the game breaks it down to simple x's and o's, while the average fan will probably 
 enjoy the new features immensely, and hopefully find an improvement in their game.
  
  Regardless of where you fit in, Madden 09 looks stunning in high def and is without a doubt the 
 best looking Madden yet. Franchise mode remains unchanged, so if you didn't like it in the more 
 recent incarnations, chances are you won't like this one either. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
