-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/madden08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The new &quot;weapons&quot; feature is a terrific addition.
 A complex but fully manageable control scheme.
 Much deeper franchise mode with owner mode features.
 Excellent animations.
 Much more challenging game than last year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fumbles pop up more than they ought to.
 Audio design is lackluster.
 Still no significant additions to the online play.
 PlayStation 3 version's frame rate is much lower than the 360's.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,520 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 08 is a significant step forward for the series, bringing to the table features that 
 are legitimately game-changing. 

  It's taken two and a half years and three releases, but Madden is finally back to form. In Madden 
 NFL 08 for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, EA Tiburon has put together the most complete version 
 of Madden seen on either console to date. The gameplay is tight, practically every old feature 
 that had been previously missing is back in some form or another, and new additions have been made 
 that significantly change how you play the game -- for the better. By no means is this year's Madden 
 flawless; it's definitely got some quirks and underpolished aspects that will probably drive some 
 people crazy. But taken as a whole, Madden 08 is easily the first great entry for the series on 
 the 360 and PS3.  

  You'll notice the big difference in this year's title the second you hop into a game. Marquee players 
 have been given icons to specifically represent what type of "weapon" they are on the field. There 
 are a ton of these different designations, separating out multiple types of players at each position. 
 Wide receivers, for instance, come in a wide variety of forms. There are quick receivers who are 
 able to nimbly duck and dodge around defenders to get open; possession receivers are good at catching 
 the ball in traffic; hands receivers can grab onto just about any ball thrown their way; and big 
 play receivers will leap up to make those really spectacular catches. Every position has at least 
 a couple of these different designations, though not every player is truly a weapon. In addition, 
 each weapon type has an opposite, a player on the other side of the field who can, in a sense, 
 cancel out their abilities. Big play receivers, for instance, are vulnerable to big hitters, finesse 
 move defensive linemen have a tougher time getting by top pass blockers, and so on.  

           Say hello to the first great football game for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.      

 
  The system itself works beautifully within the context of the game. Sure, you'll certainly note 
 the differences between QBs like Brett Farve and Vince Young, but that would have been the case 
 in any Madden game of the last few years. Here, you'll notice the differences in just about every 
 position. Power running backs and speedier running backs are more individually defined than ever 
 before, as are the differences between run blockers and pass blockers. On the defensive side of 
 the ball, you see more in the technical differences in play between a shutdown corner that guards 
 against the deep threat, and the press coverage corners who prefer to jam up receivers at the line. 
 And the big hitters? Yes, they hit big.  

  These new weapon designations even go beyond basic techniques -- they can actually give you insight 
 into what the other team is doing. Specifically, the "smart" QB and defender designations come 
 with a meter that fills up as individual plays on the other side of the ball are called throughout 
 a game. After a single play or coverage scheme has been called four times, a quarterback like Peyton 
 Manning or Tom Brady can actually see exactly what the defense is going to do, whereas a smart 
 defender can get a glimpse of where the offensive play is going to go. Obviously the counterattack 
 to something like this is to vary up your playbook as much as possible, which is in itself a great 
 thing, since that's what real offensive and defensive coordinators are forced to do in the real 
 game.  

  The excellent new weapons feature isn't the only way the on-field action has changed. Madden's 
 control scheme is more complex than ever before, with more presnap controls than you'll probably 
 ever know what to do with. Once you get the hang of it, the controls become like second nature, 
 but it's likely that players not extremely well versed in the ways of Madden will get a little 
 confused at first as they fumble around with the controls, especially since practically every button 
 on the controller does at least something presnap. This is especially true on defense. The defensive 
 playmaker controls are back, letting you assign coverage changes to individual players before the 
 ball is snapped. You can also now focus coverage on a specific receiver with a quick button press, 
 though doing so will draw defensive resources away from other receivers. When laying in big hits 
 via the right analog stick, you can hit a player high by pressing up, and low by pressing down. 
 Doing this has different effects on different types of players. Hitting high might cause a less 
 cautious ball carrier to cough up the rock, while going low on a power back is probably the best 
 way to take him down as he pushes past the line. There's also a button that will make your controlled 
 defender attempt to strip the ball from a carrier, provided you time the button press right.  

 
  Between that function and the big hits, you'll actually be seeing quite a few fumbles throughout 
 Madden 08. We're not talking NCAA 08 numbers of turnovers here, nor is the number of fumbles per 
 game outlandish or unrealistic, but fumbling is far more regular an occurrence now than it's ever 
 been in a Madden game to date. It's definitely noticeable enough that it will probably frustrate 
 some players. More than anything else, it simply pays to be extra careful with the ball.  

  Between the new weapons feature and all the various control adjustments to this year's game, Madden 
 08 provides an extremely deep and challenging experience on the field -- possibly even a bit too 
 challenging, depending on your tastes. One of the complaints about last year's game was that the 
 defensive back artificial intelligence was too much of a pushover, allowing too many easy completions. 
 That's definitely not the case this year. DBs are quite tough to get out of position, especially 
 on the higher difficulty settings. It's maybe a little overblown in terms of challenge there, as 
 DBs seem to just magnetize themselves to receivers and always find a way to get an arm up to swat 
 a pass away, however unlikely the situation. Even linebackers are tough to get the ball by a lot 
 of times. But that's really the worst thing you can say about the AI on any level. Otherwise, it 
 plays a very realistic game of football across practically every position.  

           The new weapons system of characterizing various players' abilities adds a whole new dimension 
 to the game.      

  Another big complaint about the last couple of iterations of Madden was the distinct lack of features. 
 Madden 06 had only a barren franchise mode and basic online play to its name, and while 07 cranked 
 out a new version of superstar mode and a couple of minigames, franchise and online went basically 
 untouched. In Madden 08, many of these modes have seen at least slight upgrades. The biggest and 
 best differences are to be found in the franchise mode, which, while still not as rich with features 
 as previous installments on older consoles, still has a fair amount to offer. During the season, 
 you can now train individual players before each week's game to try to boost up their stats in 
 certain categories. These stat boosts are tied into point totals you earn during drills. So, say 
 you've got a receiver that's got a high, but not quite high enough rating in the "hands" category; 
 what you'd then do is look at how many points you'd need in order to get him to the next level 
 (points earned are determined by the difficulty level of the drill) , and put him through his reps. 
 These stat bonuses stay put, too, so you won't lose them the next week.  

  In terms of offseason features, the owner mode is back in a relatively new form. During the season, 
 you can keep track of your finances via a series of menus that tell you everything from how your 
 revenues and costs stack up against other teams in the league, to which players are currently in 
 a contract year. You'll also hire a scouting agency at some point, and during the season you can 
 task them with keeping tabs on up to 20 rookies from the upcoming draft class. The reports they 
 give you aren't necessarily much more detailed than the ones you get by default on every player, 
 but they tend to be more accurate in judging potential. Rookie potential is actually a new feature 
 in and of itself, in that now, rookies with different expectation levels can become gems or busts 
 over time. These icons don't pop up until a player has been in the league for a little while, but 
 it's all about what a player's potential is. If a player turns out to be greater than his draft 
 position would initially suggest, he'll get a gem icon and actually perform above his stats. Busts 
 are, as you'd imagine, the polar opposite. Even a bust can still be a useful player if you find 
 a way to get him to make plays, but it's far more challenging a prospect than with any other player. 
     

  Lastly, franchise owners can now maintain their team finances by buying upgrades for their stadiums, 
 gaining sponsorship deals, and even opting to move the whole bloody thing to another town if so 
 inclined. Of course, doing so is a tricky process. You have to find a city interested in a team, 
 and on top of that, the costs of doing so are prohibitive. There's a neat system in place that 
 shows how interested a city is in having you in relation to how much money they'll have to spend 
 in order to do it. You basically have to find ways to cut the city's costs down if you want to 
 move there, and if you submit an offer that isn't up to the city's liking, you lose your chance 
 to move until the following year. Once you do move, you'll build a stadium, edit your squad as 
 you please, and finally have that team in Winnipeg that we're sure you've always dreamed of.  

 
  The superstar mode is much as it was last year, but considering how good the mode was last year, 
 that's not a bad thing. You still create your player, use your influence on the field to boost 
 up your teammates, talk to your agent, sign contracts, and generally go through the motions to 
 try to get yourself into the Hall of Fame. One neat addition is that you can actually choose players 
 from this year's rookie pool, so if you want to live the life as Calvin Johnson or live in a fantasy 
 world where Jamarcus Russell actually signs a contract with the Raiders and gets to start, you 
 can do so. There has also been a slight alteration made to the camera system in this mode. The 
 camera is now a bit more zoomed out, making it easier for you to actually see the field. Granted, 
 the camera is still pretty tight on your player, so it's only a minor improvement.  

           Tired of the fact that Jacksonville has a team, yet not Las Vegas, Los Angeles, or Toronto? 
 Move 'em!      

  Online play is functionally unchanged from the last couple of iterations of Madden. You can go 
 head-to-head against only one other player in ranked and unranked matches. The online matches are 
 certainly solid. Lag popped up here and there, and when it did, it had a palpably negative effect 
 on gameplay -- specifically, it made completing passes nearly impossible in the worst instances. 
 But the bulk of the matches we played weren't very laggy at all. As always, your mileage online 
 may vary. There are some online bells and whistles, like the ability to glance at ESPN-licensed 
 news videos, audio clips, and stories, but nothing you couldn't easily get faster directly from 
 the ESPN Web site. There's still no league play of any kind, which is extra-sad when you consider 
 that EA's NHL franchise plans to debut this exact feature in just a few short weeks.  

  Other ancillary features include the same basic minigames from last year, such as the 40-yard dash 
 and bench press, the same functional create-a-player mode, and, finally, a create-a-team mode, 
 which had been missing. There's a decent amount of customization available for jerseys, stadiums, 
 and whatnot, though you can't actually customize the roster of a created team with actual players 
 unless you bring that team into franchise mode and do a fantasy draft. By default, the game populates 
 the team with generic players that are rated depending on how you set your team up (run heavy, 
 pass heavy, balanced, and the like) . You also can't import a created team into franchise mode without 
 replacing another team, though that's not exactly a new issue.  

  The core graphics engine hasn't evolved much from last year, with maybe a touch more detail in 
 the various player models, and not much else. However, animation is decidedly more impressive than 
 before. Essentially, a gaggle of new branching animations have been thrown into the mix. Receivers 
 who catch the ball on the sidelines will drag their toe while falling out of bounds or carefully 
 angle their steps to stay in bounds. Running backs look decidedly more fluid as they juke and spin 
 past defenders. And on defense, gang tackles are finally on board and look fantastic. Watching 
 as two big defenders wrap up a running back, or two defensive backs simultaneously go high and 
 low on a ball carrier, effectively flipping that poor schmuck head over heels, is quite a sight 
 to behold. There are a few slightly off-looking animations, like the way that every single player 
 on a field goal defense or an onside kick return team will simultaneously stand up and then crouch 
 down into proper position, and a few catches we saw looked a little buggy and off-kilter. But by 
 and large, the animation in this year's Madden is the best it's ever been.  

  One of the big points of contention about this year's Madden has been the difference in performance 
 between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. It was announced some time ago that the 360 version 
 would run at 60 frames a second, versus 30 on the PS3. When you compare the two games side by side, 
 yes, there is a noticeable difference. The PS3 version is certainly choppier and slightly more 
 prone to hitching up in-game than the 360 one. However, simply taken on its own merits, the PS3 
 version isn't suddenly awful because of this one issue. The choppiness rarely ever distracts you 
 from the gameplay, and for the most part, the 30 frames a second number holds pretty steady. If 
 you have a choice between the two, certainly the 360 version is the preferable one from a visual 
 standpoint, but the PS3 version isn't unplayable by any means.  

  Madden 08's audio is the one area that really feels like it lacks. The on-the-field sound effects 
 are still great, and the soundtrack consists of the usual roster of modern rock and rap acts, combined 
 with the NFL Films music. Commentary, however, is a sticking point. The EA Sports radio announcer 
 who's been around since Madden 06 sounds like he's still spouting the same lines from two years 
 ago, and he still can't seem to get the correct yardage numbers at the end of each play. John Madden 
 still provides voice work for any plays where you choose to "Ask Madden" for a suggestion, but 
 this dialogue is also largely recycled, and sometimes incorrect. There are times when he'll go 
 off about running a screen play when the play being suggested is a four wide receiver set with 
 nothing but deep routes, or a quick pass play when the suggestion is a run up the middle. Finally, 
 Marshall Faulk tries to provide a bit of preshow and postgame commentary, talking about the matchup, 
 key players, and the like. The problem is that he's terrible. The commentary is flat, monotone, 
 and completely uninteresting, not to mention that he practically never uses a player's name.  

 
           New animations are the high points of this year's visual presentation.      

  Sadly enough, ESPN commentators Merril Hodge and Mark Schlereth pop up to do tutorials for some 
 of the minigames, but that's it. You've got actual broadcasters in the game, and they're not even 
 broadcasting. This speaks to a larger issue with Madden, which is that it still hasn't found a 
 way to do broadcast presentation right. The EA Sports radio guy felt like a placeholder when he 
 first debuted, and while he was good, isn't it time to get a real broadcast team? EA has the ESPN 
 license, so there's not much excuse not to get the Monday Night Football crew for games. And why 
 no ESPN integration into the franchise mode? No commentary or week-in-review from Schlereth, Hodge, 
 or the multitude of other NFL experts floating around the network? Heck, even the Super Bowl feels 
 low-rent. There's practically nothing in the game to separate it from any other game during the 
 regular season. Considering it's the biggest sporting event out there, that just strikes as lazy. 

  It's issues like these that hold Madden NFL 08 back from being a truly stellar effort. Make no 
 mistake, this is a great game of football through and through, especially on the field, where the 
 new weapons feature has a fantastic effect on how you play the game. The new additions to the control 
 scheme, the new animation system, and the franchise upgrades also can't be counted out. If anything, 
 Madden 08 seems to represent a tipping point of sorts for the series. You feel like the game is 
 right on the brink of getting back to where it was four or five years ago in terms of stature and 
 innovation. Still, while it might not be quite there yet, Madden NFL 08 offers more than enough 
 quality content to make it worth your while, and features the best football gameplay you'll find 
 on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (116 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nayroneal
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Madden Football is clearly still the prototype for NFL games. It is undoubtedbly the greatest sports 
 game ever. I too know that there are usually minimal differences between the yearly titles, but 
 the small changes make the gameply more fum, the online mode works better than last year's title, 
 the gameplay too a little longer to adjust to this year, but overall it was an improvement to me 
 from last year's title. I still primarily play the franchise mode, I still draft my NCAAF 09 players 
 into the Madden league, and I stil play about 5-6 seasons per title. Trying to make the palyoffs, 
 in the title, and get players to the pro bowl are the main goals. One thing I would like to see 
 though, a better reward for winning the championship. The celebrations are always somewhat boring, 
 and a plaque on the wall sucks. THe game needs a more elaborate champioship celebration, and a 
 better franchise tracking method for success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is exacatly the same as Madden 07 the only change is a little difference in superstar 
 mode. Also addition of rookies that doesn't honestely make a difference. It has better graphics 
 but besides Superstar mode it's pretty much same old same old. After you beat super star mode it 
 gets very boring. Because there isn't pretty much anything else you can do. It's stilll a good 
 game but it's just not a whole lot different. If you have Nfl 07 don't waste 50 bucks on this game 
 because it'll just be a waste. It's worth more like 10 or 15 dollars. Another problem is that it 
 has lousy franchise and season modes. It is exactly the same Madden just change it when 09 is out. 
 Make it better that is worth like an 8.5. Those are the problems but it is still fun to play for 
 a week or two then your pretty much sick of it and begging for 09 to come out. Not the besat Madden 
 i've seen. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ishgamer
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought Madden 08 last Christmas, after purchasing my PS3. I expected this 'next-gen" game to 
 be the best in the series.
  Boy, was I disappointed.
  
  For starters, the graphics look alright, not mind-blowing, but just alright. To me it still looks 
 like a low end PC with "anti-aliasing" not turned on. (i. e., the jaggies)
  This is on a 52" HDTV.
  Compared with MLB 08 The Show, there is no comparison. The Show got it 
 right.
  Ok, so the graphics weren't impressive. Let's try the gameplay.
  I picked the Patriots vs. the Browns.
  I played as the Browns....
  Ok, so in real life last 
 season, the Browns's running game wasn't spectacular. But on Madden, it was non-existent. I mean, 
 an average of 2 yds per carry just doesn't cut it.
  Soo...... I have to pass more and more to get some positive yardage.
  This proved to be more frustrating 
 than fun.
  I played on "pro" level, and even turned the slider for CPU interceptions all the way off.
  No 
 matter....... every other pass was picked off!
  If a defender is within five yards of your receiver, he'll pick it off.
  Ok, so, let's wait a 
 bit for a receiver to get wide a$$ open before throwing the rock. Yeah, right. You do this, you 
 WILL get sacked.
  So, to summarize -----can't run worth a dam, and can't pass without being picked. Wait too long 
 in the pocket, and you get sacked.
  What's left!?
  
  Thinking it was because I played as the Browns, I changed controllers to the Pats. No diff....... Brady 
 was picked three times in three different plays! All in the first quarter!
  And the Pats running game faired no better.
  
  This game was such a disappointment, I almost 
 broke my Sixxaxis controller more than once throwing it in frustration.
  
  And what's up with that stupid radio announcer guy!? Boring...
  
  Speaking of boring, the playoffs 
 and Super Bowl are just pre-season games. No fanfare, no celebrations, nothing. Excuse me ---*yawn*
 
  
  At least make me feel like I won it all, sheesh.
  
  I know the glory days of Sega Football are gone, but come on, EA, take some pointers from these 
 older games!
  
  The ESPN presentation touted on the cover is nothing more than live Sportscenter, provided you 
 have a good internet connection. Felt like a ripoff to me.... oh well.
  
  I can live without seeing refs on the field, but soo many other things just have to be improved 
 before I spend my hard-earned cash on this series again.
  
  I actually went back to Madden 07 for PS2. The graphics look horrible, because it's not in HD, but 
 it's much more enjoyable to play. (at least I hear Madden and Michaels calling the game!)
  
  Graphics: 7.0
  Sound: 6.0
  Gameplay: 4.0
  
  BTW, I downloaded the patch that was supposed 
 to limit fumbles, and it seemed to work. But those dam INT's.....
  
  I just may trade this thing in and get..... oh, I dunno....... College lacrosse!!?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I got to say this is defenitly the worst madden game I have ever played. Ok lets start of with 
 the graphics... the look HORRABLE!!! the ps2 graphics look better then these ones, I mean come on 
 I got this game on a PS3 and expected it to be better then the ps2 version... well thats defenitly 
 far from it. The fans in the stands are blury,..... whats up with that? It seems like they just 
 put this game together in a matter of a few days! Now lets go to the sound its ok you can hear 
 the players talking to each other talking trash and stuff and the tackles sound real so its not 
 that bad. The gameplay is the same as any other madden, except for the superstar thats a lot harder 
 then the other maddens because you literally have to do everything they do in the rookie scouting 
 (weight lifting,4 yard dash, ect.) but i guess that what makes it a litte more realalistic. Well 
 maybe it would be if the controles worked all the time! This game is an ok game it's defenitly 
 not the best but i wouldn't say it was the worst either. I would not reconmend this game to anyone 
 though but if you want to try it out its worth a rent but not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I enjoyed playing Madden 07 on the PS2 much better than I enjoyed this game. 
 The collisions are just not impressive in comparison. The audio is a HUGE step back as well. There 
 just wasn't anything here to make me prefer to play this Next Gen game over it's predecessor.
 
  
  For people who like to compete in two player mode. Don't even bother touching this game. In Madden 
 07 on PS2, both players had their formations displayed on the screen, but the opponent wouldn't 
 be able to see which play you called. Now in Madden 08, your opponent can CLEARLY see which play 
 you're calling making every game a battle of audibles. 
  
  The ONLY reason I even gave Madden a 6.0 is because they ARE the exclusive owners of the NFL licenses 
 which unfortunately means if you are an NFL fan, this is ultimately your ONLY choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: straightpullies
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is dumb, You cannot move, This games no fun, I want to groove
  And Shimmy Shake a touchdown dance, Not ride on rails of Circumstance You'd have more luck making 
 a call, To Andy Reid than move the ball
  With any hope of accuracy, this game is Next-Gen Lunacy
  My PS2 is what I play, My Madden fix 
 till judgement day
  When EA Sports will eat some pie, any one mo-nop-oly They own the rights to make a game, with grace 
 I'll call it simply lame
  The guys who run all on the field, my name is Robot Coffinspiel 
  This game is dumb don't waste your money, buy Drakes Revenge that **** is money.
  
  Games to 
 be made or I can't wait for on Next Gen Systems.
  Drakan, Mafia II, GTA's, FF's, MG's, Katamari, Oh this is dumb.
  
  Next Gen Madden is Dumb 
 - Next Gen Madden is Dumb - Next Gen Madden is dumb - Don't buy it - It is a trick - EA sports 
 is loony - Punch them in the Boony - Say it don't spray it - Takes one to know one - Leave your 
 number after the beep - Ring and Run - 2nd Lunch - Open Campus - Madden is Dumb - Madden is Dumb 
 - NEXT GEN MADDEN IS DUMB.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtysoutherner
Rating: 4
Date: May 27, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Madden is the most widely known video game for one reason only- its NFL football and EA wisely 
 acquired the NFL license for themselves and themselves only. If they hadnt done that then 2K sports 
 would probably be putting out annual NFL football games that blow Madden out of the water.
  
  Madden 08 is not impressive at all. PS3 owners get the short end of the EA sports stick with 
 both of their football games. With all the flaws in the basic gameplay, PS3 versions are even worse 
 which make them laughable in some areas. But, everyone who spent 60$ on the game arent laughing 
 too hard right now. Half the frames per second as the Xbox 360, thats just completely lazy. But 
 just like all the other laundry list of really bad flaws in Madden- what are you going to do? Go 
 buy another NFL football game? Dont I ,and many others, wish there was one to buy.
  
  Some things in this years Madden are horrible. Things happen that should have been left behind 
 in the PS1 days. Sometimes, when the center snaps the ball it will dissapear and then appear in 
 the quarterbacks hands. These things are small but not exactly next generation worth. The sidelines 
 are beyond pathetic as well. Just like NCAA 08, Madden 08's sidelines remind me of Madden 98 but 
 at least the 98 version had line judges and refs. This is a PS3 game, remember EA? We are in a 
 new age of technology. This is a slap in the face if you ask me. Combine that with 30 frames per 
 second gameplay and you have the joke of a PS3 game known as Madden 08.
  
  This is not football. Your players only play their position when its convienient for the cpu. Their 
 is no way to justify the backwards actions of your players on the field. Its so obvious and cheap 
 its not a real challange and its no fun. When the cpu needs a first down they will get it cheaply. 
 Probably by using your own teamates against you. Your corners run circles around the reciever they 
 are covering and simply dont make a play on the ball when its an inch away from their hand. They 
 just stand there and watch the ball go right by them. Sometimes they will even leave their man 
 for no reason. They start running in the opposite direction of the reciever for no reason when 
 their only job is to cover that man. Ive seen this happen and a safety who should be covering the 
 same man didnt move until the reciever was 10 yards by him. Why do your players get lost on the 
 field and run away from their obligation and towards nothing. The cpu always makes the play when 
 this type of thing happens and its common on third down especially third and long. See a pattern 
 here? I could understand my guy getting beat by a good reciever or biting on a play action or pump 
 fake but to just be braindead in the stupidest ways possible is unacceptable.
  
  Same thing when you are on offense, your recievers will sometimes simply run away from the ball 
 and the cpu will make a play on the ball. The passing game is rigged, well so is the entire game 
 actually. Throw to an open reviever and the ball is intercepted or it hits him right in the face 
 and he doesnt even try to catch it. There have been so many times I throw to an open guy and the 
 ball hits him and falls to the ground, he doesnt even try to catch it. The cpu throws into triple 
 coverage for easy catches. Its all about the animations, your players will go into slow animations 
 and break away from the ball and the cpu will do the opposite and break on the ball, nothing you 
 can do about it and no, position doesnt matter.
  
  The Madden cheating is STILL very obvious after all these years. Its so rediculous it takes any 
 fun and challange out of the game and replaces it with pure cheapness and impossible plays that 
 the cpu always benefits from. How you play doesnt determine the outcome like it should. Its insane 
 that EA hasnt developed a football game that doesnt use complete cheapness and utter impossiblities 
 to defeat you instead of a smart, well balanced AI that just plays and doesnt dictate and cheap 
 you by using any means nessasary no matter how improbable.
  
  The cpu has control of every single player on the field except the one your controlling and they 
 take full advantage of it. The ball is also controlled completely by the cpu so you will regularly 
 see it vacuum impossibly to the cpus benefit. Whats more insane than the fact this is still what 
 the gameplay is like after all these years, all the money EA has into the most popular sports game 
 ever created, next gen technology to work with, is that hardly any people really even point it 
 out. Its beyond me why so many people either dont notice, which is near impossible, or simply overlook 
 the cheating altogether. Every sports game cheats a little but for the all mighty madden, game 
 of all games, to be completely cheap so frequently and so obviously is impossible for me to stomach. 
 It sucks most of the fun out of the game, if not all. 
  
  Cpu corners have magic awareness and amazing skills. Your corners have no brains to go along with 
 no skill. You can bet that your corners who are covering the cpu reciever being thrown to will 
 usually stand and watch the ball pass right by them. The ball isnt even a half arms length away 
 from them and they just watch it go right into the recievers hands when they are in perfect position 
 to make the play. My cornerback sprints to the reciever being thrown to who is standing still and 
 he runs right beside the reciever before the ball even gets there and all he has to do it stick 
 a hand out but he stands and watches the ball go right by his head. On the other hand, if that 
 were the cpu defender covering your reciever that would happen about as often as people are struck 
 by lighting. Im saying that if the cpu was covering you that ball would NEVER have a chance of 
 touching your hands, in fact, cpu defenders regularly make amazing interceptions. They will be 
 running behind recievers who are running across the middle of the field and then run in front of 
 the reciever to make the very improbable pick. When the ball is in the air your recievers will 
 run AWAY from the ball and the defenders will run TOWARDS the ball. When the cpu is on offense, 
 its the opposite. Your corners will run in circles most often than making a good play on the ball. 
 You have to switch to every player on every play. If you let the cpu control the action you will 
 get burned in the cheapest ways. Your teammate cpu controlled corners have the talent, awareness 
 and coordination of a high school player...... a very bad high school player. They always seem to 
 mis-time the easiest balls which should be at least knocked down but probably should be picked 
 if it were a real NFL pass in a real NFL game but Madden is far from reality. The cpu simply lobbs 
 sloppy passes in the air and your corners simply jump and swat the air and hit nothing and the 
 ball sails right by them. That is not to say that the cpu players dont blow simple plays, they 
 just do it very less frequently than your braindead teammates do.
  
  How is it acceptable on a 3rd and 10 (with the cpu on offense) for them to throw a 5 yard pass 
 with your cornerback standing directly behind the reciever no more than a yard away and then he 
 runs toward the ball when its in the air and doesnt make a play on the ball but simply runs by 
 the reciever and does nothing. The cpu makes the first down when they never should have been able 
 to. The defender easily could have knocked down the ball but all he really had to do was stand 
 right where he was standing and tackle the reciever when he caught the ball. Its pretty simple 
 stuff. How stupid and cheap can gameplay get? The obviousness, frequency and unbelievably lame 
 gameplay is incredibly infuriating. How can you get into a game when you know this cheating happens 
 all the time? Throw a pass to a reciever who is open only to have the ball go right at his hands 
 then, at the last second before he catches it, vacuum 3 yards to the right and go into the defenders 
 hands. The cpu player was in no position to even make a play on the ball so the ball just magically 
 sucks into his hands. Watch the replays....
  
  Play a perfect game and then sit back as the cpu makes a impossible, unstoppable drive to neat 
 you by cheating every play. First down they run and break three tackles in the backfield to get 
 about 5. Second they run and you stop them for a loss of 4. Third and 9 and and they throw a 5 
 yard pass and your linebacker is standing in perfect position to make a tackle and stop them short 
 but instead he performs a catch animation behind the reciever like the ball is going to go through 
 the body of the cpu player. This stupidity results in a first down. You play good defense on first 
 and second down and its third and 12. Their running back runs a route out of the backfield and 
 the linebacker whos job it is to cover the guy plays his position perfectly until the ball is in 
 the air. While the cpu player is running his route the linebacker follows him perfectly and is 
 in good position until the quarterback desides to throw to his man. When the ball leaves the quarterbacks 
 hands your linebacker turns around the other direction and starts running away from the reciever. 
 When the reciever catches the ball the linebacker turns back around and makes the tackle. Another 
 cpu first down. The cpu throws long to a reciever being covered perfectly one on one. Your corner 
 jumps to swat the ball at the perfect time in perfect position and somehow he doesnt touch the 
 ball and the pass goes for a touchdown. You watch the replay and see that the ball actually went 
 right through the hands of your defender as he timed his swat perfectly. Or maybe what just happened 
 to me could happen- You blitz and your linebacker runs unblocked straight at the qb and could easily 
 knock his lights out with a sack but instead trys to jump and deflect the ball. He actually times 
 it perfectly and hes so close to the qb the ball should certainly be knocked down but its not. 
 It is a perfect spiral to a covered receiver. When I say covered I mean my defender is standing 
 in FRONT of the reciever waiting on the ball and what happens? Pick six right? Nope, my defender 
 stands and WATCHES the ball pass right by him. If he sticks a finger out he touches the ball but 
 he just stands and watches the reciever catch it. Does this make you feel like you have been outplayed 
 and now you are determined to answer with a score of your own or does this make you feel like you 
 want to destroy your ps3 controller along with Madden?
  
  A great thing about football is any team can win on any given day. The underdog has a chance if 
 they play well enough. In Madden their is NO CHANCE for you. I wouldnt mind at all to lose a game. 
 In fact I would absolutely love to be beaten fairly in Madden. I would love for the cpu to use 
 their weapons, to exploit mismatches like a great reciever against a average defender or like a 
 great cornerback shutting down a go to reciever or a good defense being hard to score on because 
 they are talented all around. But I never feel like this is the reason im losing the game. Its 
 always because im getting cheated not outplayed.
  
  The ball always magically bounces in the cpus favor. You would think after all these years EA could 
 develope a relatively skilled cpu that takes advantages of mistakes you make and uses their weapons 
 and exploits mismatches. Nope, they still simply cheap you in the most rediculous ways imagionable. 
 With all the technology to work with we should expect more than this cheap gameplay.
  
  Speaking of the cheap Madden gameplay what is with the loose ball fumbling maddness. Yeah, you 
 fumble an insane amount of times no matter what but its how you pick up the fumbles that makes 
 it so infuriating. Its somewhat better than in past years but you still see the ball vacuum into 
 cpu players hands from a few yards away. You still see your guys bend down to pick up the ball 
 and come back up with nothing. My first game my quarterback was sacked and lost the ball and the 
 only player who was within 5 yards of the ball was an offensive linemen. He ran over to the ball, 
 with no one even around him, bent down to pick it up and didnt even touch the ball but kept running 
 down the field like a brainless robot. Of course a cpu player came over and jumped right on the 
 ball. 
  
  Why do the cpu players always do things your players would never do. They see passes coming and 
 pick them off when they had their backs turned away from the ball. Your defender is standing right 
 behind a reciever staring in the direction of quarterback 5 seconds before he throws the ball and 
 they take some horrible angle which takes them out of the play when all they had to do was stick 
 a hand out and knock the ball down. Sometimes, your defenders will be standing right behind a reciever 
 and when the ball is thrown to him, instead of making a play on the ball they do a catch animation 
 BEHIND the reciever as if he was a ghost and the ball was going to go right through him. How stupid 
 can my teammates get? 
  
  Your defensive players will run towards blockers. You think your teammate is going to sack the 
 quarterback and your player diverts his angle and runs right into a blocker who he easily had beat. 
 He will be running right at the quarterback and completely turn a different direction and run right 
 into a block. Plenty of times your defensive linemen will have their man beat behind them and somehow 
 they manage to block you still. There is a penalty for holding but not amazing magic. Your guy 
 can be touching the quarterback and still get blocked somehow without taking down the qb. Sometimes 
 you can run unblocked and run right into the qb and not even tackle him. Only after he throws the 
 ball can you actually make the tackle. Also, when on offense running with your back your blockers 
 hardly ever hold their blocks when you run their direction. Run by them and they immediately stop 
 blocking and you get tackled right there. Two of your offensive blockers can be assigned to block 
 one defender and both just stand beside him and he sprints and tackles you for a loss. As far as 
 the cpu blocking goes, their running backs run right around the edges and their blockers have no 
 problem holding their blocks until the back is by them. 
  
  The animations are mostly good but whoever at EA thought the running animation looked right needs 
 to be fired. The players look totally goofy when they run and the way the quarterback holds the 
 ball looks bad too. I dont understand how EA thought it was ok for the players to run so akward 
 and goofy. It looks so wrong but I cant understand how a lot of whats in the game made it through 
 the development process. I guess EA should change it from - EA Sports- its in the game -to- EA 
 Sports- same ol' same. Or even better- EA Sports- its mostly lame.
  
  EA went out of their way to make you feel like you were playing a game and not watching or actually 
 playing in a real NFL football game. Marshall Faulk even makes a prediction at the begginning of 
 the game based on the user stats you have and the cpu. No line judges or refs make it even worse. 
 Also, the replays are about 3 feet away from the ballcarrier. They are so far zoomed in it makes 
 it very unrealistic, sometimes its so close you cant even see whats happening. Thats not as bad 
 as the halftime highlights. At halftime all the key highlights are shown in the same camera angle 
 youve been playing the entire game in. You cant even change it, either. Wouldnt it be nice to see 
 those plays in a sideline camera view to make it seem like actual halftime replays? Any other camera 
 angle would be nice other than the one youve seen every play of the game in. Not only does All 
 Pro Football show their halftime show replays in a nice, realistic, sideline view but they even 
 had an announcer explaining the action. Once again EA makes you feel like your playing a game, 
 not playing football.
  
  This years Madden boasts about giving you complete control of your player by being able to change 
 direction while performing a juke move and not having to wait for the animation to end. But, why 
 cant my quarterback throw the ball if a defender is remotely close to him? The cpu makes the decision 
 to eat the ball even though im pounding the pass button. Its very frustrating to have a wide open 
 reciever and push the button to pass it to him only to hold onto the ball and be sacked by the 
 defender who was 5 yards away. Total control? I dont think so. You should be able to throw the 
 pass no matter how close defenders are to you, that should be YOUR choice and if you get hit while 
 throwing the pass will be bad and you risk getting picked off but its YOUR decision. 
  
  As bad as a lot of Madden is its still NFL "football". The animations are the best ive ever seen 
 in a football game. Gang tackles are good, player celebrations are decent except for the fact that 
 there arent near enough team celebrations. Most of the celebrations are solo which is crazy seeing 
 as how most of the time when a player makes a good play his teamates congragulate him which is 
 almost nonexcistent in Madden. After a guy scores a touchdown he celebrates by himself which rarely 
 happens in NFL football. When a guy scores a td in the NFL he is usually surrounded by teamates 
 but almost never in Madden. You will regularly see the guy who scored a td celebrate and walk right 
 through a wall. He enters a celebration animation and walks over to the wall and clips right through 
 it. It doesnt scream next gen.
  
  Still, with all thats wrong with Madden it still is somewhat enjoyable. Your recievers will actually 
 try to keep their feet in bounds when making a catch on the sidelines. It only took this many years 
 to for them to actually be able to do that. Also, you can control your player more than ever before 
 which is also a nice and welcome touch. You can change direction quicker and smoother and it feels 
 good. The weapon system works well too. Youll see Randy Moss and Terrell Owens making spectacular 
 catches that Wes Welker cant.
  
  If the gameplay didnt cheap you all the time the game would be terrific but the cheap gameplay 
 takes all that fun away. Turn the difficulty down and the game will be simple but its better than 
 getting cheaped. Would you rather beat a team 51-7 or get cheaped every other play? Seriously, 
 when playing on anything but the hardest difficulty, the opposing team can barely even score. I 
 played a game on all pro and the cpu threw 6 interceptions, 2 of them went for touchdowns. 
  
  Whats baffling to me is the complete lack of outrage by anyone regarding the completely and 
 blatently rediculous cheating that Madden thrives off of. No one hardly ever mentions it. Am I 
 the only one who watches the replays and notices my defenders running the opposite way they should 
 be, 300 pound linemen getting speed bursts faster than Devon Hester, the ball vacuuming into the 
 cpus hands impossibly, my team fumbling the ball and three of my teammates closest to the ball 
 bend down to pick the ball up then come back up with nothing then a cpu player clips through one 
 of my players entire body and picks the ball right up.... ect? Wheres the fun in playing when the 
 gameplay is so pathetically cheap? I guess because its NFL football and Madden is all you can choose 
 from. If I could connect my PS3 to the internet and play against other humans maybe then I could 
 somewhat enjoy this pathetic exuse for a football game.
  
  How hard would it be to create a gameplay engine that is smart and realistic? One that just plays 
 and doesnt dictate everything and cheap you. I played on all pro (second hardest difficulty behind 
 all madden) against the Patroits and Tom Brady threw picks on their first two offensive possetions 
 of the game. Turn the difficulty up to all madden (all cheatin) and the Raiders complete every 
 pass they throw in the first five drives. If you watch the replays you will clearly see you are 
 constantly being cheaped. The cpu should exploit mismatches, use their strengths and take advantage 
 of your weak links, you know, play smart football.
  
  Good animations, decent announcing, and pretty good graphics are all Madden does right. The gameplay 
 is cheap and unrealistic in so many ways. I cant even force myself to finish a full game of this 
 garbage. I end up ready to break something before halftime because of the pathetic, obvious, rediculously 
 cheap gameplay. 
  
  Here are some more flaws that I think I havent mentioned. If youve read this far read more of the 
 reasons this game is a total waste of money- The cpu players move like robots when running, the 
 whole team will do the same animation and move at the exact same time when the cpu audibles when 
 punting. You can actually see your defenders start to run in the right direction before they realize 
 they are doing the right thing and lose their mind and run away from where they should be running. 
 Your blockers will do anything to not block. I even saw my lead blocker jump in the backfield letting 
 his man run right by him and tackle me for a big loss. The halftime replays arent even in order 
 and arent the biggest plays of the half. You cant even change the camera angle so your stuck with 
 the default camera that I think is too close to the action and doesnt allow you to see your recievers 
 well enough.
  
  More- The animation system is broken and you regularly clip through multiple guys who could have 
 easily tackled you, your players will also get stuck in an animation and then just appear a few 
 yards away where they should be. I think ive mentioned a few times how worthless your "blockers" 
 are. Kicking is extremely easy. Sometimes you simply arent allowed to get to the qb for a sack, 
 there is an invisible bubble around him that you cant enter. Ive seen myself run in a circle around 
 the qb until the ball leaves his hands, you know the pass will be completed when this happens. 
 You can turn off certain tracks on the menus but not for the entrances to the games so you will 
 have to watch your team run onto the field to a Justin Timberlake song. The entire opening to the 
 game is lame, the coin toss is the first thing you do, even before the teams take the field. The 
 cpu plays ultra conservative never going for it on 4th down even if they are 5 yards out of field 
 goal range on forth and inches. When you intercept the ball you will see the 300 pound linemen 
 explode into speed bursts faster than Reggie Bush and tackle you stopping a sure touchdown. When 
 the ball is hit on a pass is bounces off players very unrealisticly. A lot of times your reciever 
 wont even attempt to catch the ball throw to them. Seriously, the ball will hit them right in the 
 chest as they just stand and stare not even moving their hands. This, as with all the gameplay 
 flaws, happens way too often.
  
  These gameplay "flaws" should happen about as often as you winning the lotto, but its hard to play 
 through a series on offense or defense without seeing one or more of these pathetic gameplay mechanics 
 Ive mentioned. When the cpu gets into the "cheat zone" you can all out blitz and break through 
 the line but you wont sack the qb. Your guys will simply run away from the qb if nessasary. How 
 am I supposed to engross myself into a game that plays like this? For me, its impossible.
  
  So, now that ive ripped this rediculous exuse for a football game how do I close this review? 
 If you want NFL football your only choice is Madden. Hopefully, 2k will continue to make football 
 games without the NFL liscense and improve and make a good football game because this........ this 
 is not football. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drums4me15
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  gulp! ten seconds left on the clock. Your team is down sik points. you see Troy Polomolu eyeing 
 you with great dislike. you decide to try the hail mary. TOUCHDOWN!!! ever find yourself in this 
 position? I have many, many, times. What is it about madden that brings our true sportselfs out? 
 Is it the unbeliviable graphics? the massive amount of plays? Madden is just a true classic. I 
 always find myself glue to the screen every sunday, first to watch the game, then to play it. Madden 
 just keeps getting better. efinately a great game and if you haven't bought it already, buy it! 
 With sooooooo many improvements, it is clear this is a sloid game. I have always loved the franchise 
 mode in which I do not only have to worry about the games, but the money you ear, too. Who knows, 
 you might even be able to beat your own dad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob046
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  From what I have heard, one of the bigger complaints about this game was a frame rate issue. Quite 
 honestly, while there is the occasional jitter, I don't really have an issue with the framerate 
 because it doesn't detract from the gameplay for me. Some people are overly picky or overly sensitive 
 about these things I guess.
  
  That aside, the game is solid. Never played '07 on the PS3, so this is my first Madden game on 
 the PS3. I have played '08 for a number of months on the PS2, so after buying for the PS3, I have 
 the benefit of truly seeing the "next gen" enhancements and they really stuck out at me. And I 
 also was happy knowing that this was the 2nd year of this game on the PS3 meaning that surely a 
 number of things were improved on since '07 on the PS3.
  That made me feel more comfortable buying this one. That along with the fact that the PC version 
 absolutely sucks and is the same as the PS2 port. For true next gen, I knew I had to get the PS3 
 version. 
  
  For me, for 720p I think the graphics are very acceptable. No doubt they will improve a bit over 
 the next couple releases. But also consider that even though this is the 2nd PS3 Madden, '08 was 
 still released only about 9 months after the PS3 itself was released, not giving EA much time to 
 build upon '07.
  Taking all that into consideration, this is still a worthy game and makes great "next gen" leaps 
 and bounds over '08 for the PC and PS2 as far as graphics and audio/commentary. 
  I really like not having to listen to Madden's voice while playing. After all these years, I think 
 it was wise to add in the radio like commentary while playing. And the commentary is on your side! 
 A real nice change of pace, and I wouldn't mind going a couple more years using the same commentary 
 system that can be hopefully improved upon even more.
  
  I won't go deep into the graphics. Basically they are as "next gen" as you are going to get with 
 a football game right now, and not like you have any other choice if you want to play with real 
 NFL teams and players. All the models seem to have a decent next gen overhaul, including stadiums, 
 fans, and of course players. I might hope to see more improvement on that in the future, but for 
 a mid-07 release I can't complain. And it is hard to complain. With this game you get your Madden 
 fix and it's true "next gen" and will look great on any HDTV capable of 720p or 1080p. 
  
  Gameplay is great as always. Not much more I need to say there. And I do like the slight but notable 
 changes with the controls on the PS3. It is an easy and quick adjustment for anybody.
  
  Even though I'm writing this in late January, this game is still worth a buy, especially if you 
 can find it for a good 20% off or more, which you should be able to, because there is still a good 
 8-9 months to go until the next madden, which is too long to wait for!
  Also with my buying the game late in the season, I got the benefit of having the final rosters 
 and final patches right away. And you are required to download a patch before you can play.
  So this game is definitely worth it for those needing their NFL or Madden fix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 was supposed to be the best version of Madden to ever be released, and it showed 
 the promise to do so. Unfortunately, it isn't. And in my opinion, it isn't even close. That doesn't 
 mean that this year's version of Madden isn't enjoyable at all, as it is the best current gen football 
 game around. It offers up a fantastic animation system that really sets the bar for the future 
 of this veteran series.
  
  Getting back to my earlier statement of Madden 08 not being as good as it's cracked up to be, it 
 simply isn't as fun and innovative as its predecessors. It's becoming more of a sim, than a pure 
 sports game, and even though that ain't necessarily bad, it does mean that it isn't great. Also, 
 the power of current gen systems simply aren't being used. The Ps3 and 360 versions of Madden both 
 look good, but they just don't have that visual flair of NHL and NBA Live 08. Things just aren't 
 bright enough, and both versions suffer.
  
  Unfortunately, for Ps3 owners, it doesn't end there. The framerate is just not up to par. It barely 
 runs at 30 frames, and can't hold its own during those frozen weather games. It subtracts from 
 the detail and superb animations. It really makes the game uninspiring at times, which is really 
 frustrating.
  
  But, hey, I never said that 08 isn't good. It just isn't great. And what's a game without flaws? 
 (see Uncharted, Call of Duty 4) The animations are excellent, and players are controllable 360 
 degrees seemlessly. Guys like Braylon Edwards will make one handed grabs, and it just looks phenomenal.
 
  
  Also worth noting is the addition of the weapons system. If a player has a rating over 92 in almost 
 anything, he will become a weapon, usable on the field in certain situations. If a cannon arm QB 
 throws to a speed WR, against DB's without any weapons, it is a great mismatch, that should be 
 utilized, if you are good enough. Everybody's been saying how much that the weapons system is so 
 invigorating, but I just felt it to be a real tack on.
  
  Training camp still hasn't returned to franchise, which sucks. But the financial mumbo jumbo is 
 more realized than ever. Since when did Madden become about off the field stuff? It's just disappointing.
 
  
  Overall, this year's iteration of Madden is semi enjoyable. If you love football, and Madden NFL, 
 then there's nothing really nothing stopping you from getting this. It's not bad, it's just slowly 
 slipping away. A great animation system, and a cool mismatch gameplay element are great, but we 
 really just need to return to the core of what made this series the titan it is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyricsborn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Great game. Just a bad menu setup. Not much of an interactive owner mode, Or players interest needs 
 menu setup of current gen systems. New scouting is a bit complicated. A good game on the field 
 but a bad one in the office. New create a team is nice but not enough features. Needs to convert 
 back to old scrolling system. Neat extra videos featuring hall of famers and their biographys. 
 Good game, could be great next year if EA can work out its small inperfections. Good but not great 
 superstar mode, needs more otions for players when in off season. Needs more ESPN integration visual 
 and audio. John Madden and Al Micheals still missing. Needs more coaching choices besides coordinators, 
 needs to add position coaches. Needs to describe how to get roster updates and patches through 
 online. Good multiplayer and online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmacscores91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 was a waste, Madden 07 finally brought the Madden franchise to the playstation 3 console, 
 but it still had major flaws. Madden 08 is a completely different story. Now don't get me wrong, 
 Madden 08 still has its flaws, but this is the closest that a game has gotten to actually allowing 
 the player to be "apart" of the game. Or to at least feel that way. The game is deep, and has a 
 high replay value. The superstar mode is the same as last year, and the franchise has been what 
 it has been lately. But the real improvement in this years game, is the gameplay. Unfortunately 
 for the PS3 gamers out there, the PS3 version runs at 30 FPS, and the 360 version runs at 60 FPS. 
 Trust me, you can tell the difference, the ps3 is rather choppy, and sometimes stops completely 
 just to load. the 360 version is smooth. Hopefully next year EA can get it right... but thats for 
 another time. This game is a great improvement over previous titles, with only minor flaws including: 
 many fumbles, and turnovers. However, there is a patch on the Playstation Network supposedly lowering 
 the amount of fumbles a player has. But other than that, this is the best football sim on the market, 
 and is highly recommended for all the football junkies everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the newest hit to the Madden series. Oveall, to me it's a very solid game with a wide verity 
 of things to do. Whether it's a quick play game or the newly refurbished superstar mode. It's a 
 very cool game. Also this game has a very fun, "never gets old" type of gameplay online. You can 
 basically play with anyone and talk trash, all that great stuff. One of the things I also noticed 
 was the amazing graphics. The fans arn't cardboard anymore "yay"! Also each and every stadium has 
 lots of details. I really like the music in this game too. Anywhere from punk rock to hip-hop its 
 a great veriaty. I would definetly have to say that this is easily the best game in the madden 
 series. From the updated controls, stadiums, and game-play modes, it will never get boring. So 
 if your looking for the next great football game get Madden 2008. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob-11
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This will be short graphics are terrible the only part that looks better is the players faces crowd 
 looks like i drew them in paint. game play worse then the graphics. There is no cutting in this 
 game you can turn at will. Quarter backs under throw the ball every time precision passing is gone 
 because there is absolutely no precision. Way too many interceptions and fumbles (big reason is 
 under thrown balls) The announcer is horrible and the players look like they are skating. With 
 all the processing ability of PS3 you would think you could see the grass being ripped up from 
 players spikes no . The grass on the fielfdlooks terrible. I would gladly take Madden 07 for ps2. 
 In multiplayer mode the other person can literally see what play you pick because you highlight 
 it with the joystick worst football game i have every played. It's terrible how they took a close 
 to perfect game and made it worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is the best Madden game so far in the series. It offers new and revised game modes which 
 are a lot better this year. In Superstar mode you can play as NFL rokkies this year such as Brady 
 Quinn, Adrian Peterson, or Calvin Johnson and guide them through their career, or you can create 
 your own Superstar and play as him. There is also a new Franchise Mode where you can play during 
 the season and manage your team during the offseason, doing tasks such as recruiting, player retirements, 
 the NFL Draft, and manage your stadium. Madden 08 also offers Ring Challenges where if you do good 
 in a game you can win Super Bowl Rings. Madden 08 also offer great multiplayer and excellent online 
 play. The online play also has the ring challenges as well. Madden also offers the Hall of Fame 
 where you can view all the players who are in the Hall of Fame and all their stats, like Joe Montana, 
 Barry Sanders, and Walter Payton. One of my favorite features of Madden 08 is the Create a Team 
 feature. You can design your teams uniform, stadium, select your teams name, logo, and location, 
 and you also have the option of having a Fantisy Team where any player in the NFL or Hall of Fame 
 can be on your team. Madden 08 also is the best looking Football game yet with a great overall 
 presintation. A great feature of Madden is the instant replay. If you look closely at the players 
 in the Instant Replay they look like that certain player in real life. The players also blink and 
 have facial expressions making it look real. Madden 08 also has great videos in the EA sports extras 
 menues which are nice to watch. Overall Madden 08 is a great game I think all NFL fans should play.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanMillerCEO
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  As in all previous incarnations of Madden Football games, this one outdoes its predecessors in 
 all the expected places: it's smoother, both in gameplay and graphics, it provides a few more extras, 
 and it's always a blast to play. But, as it always does, it leaves you scratching your head wondering 
 why certain things haven't been improved over the decades. It has always been a pet peave of mine 
 with the Madden franchise that modifying rosters is such a chore. I can't figure out why an existing 
 (even if it's not a real team) roster has to be implemented before any modification can be done. 
 Why not let you start with a blank canvas so that you can modify numbers without switching existing 
 numbers first? It's a minor point, but considering that each year, we have to buy a new one to 
 keep current with NFL rosters, I would think that one of the priorities would be making the customizable 
 features easy and fun to use so that we don't put the game back on the shelf once the NFL season 
 is over.
  
  And as always, there is an inexplicable recurrance of footballs bouncing off of the hands of cornerbacks 
 and receivers alike. In a given game, you will undoubtedly throw your controller down no less than 
 5 times because a sure interception was visibly dropped by your defensive back. Just for aesthetics, 
 why not simply let the ball be underthrown instead of bouncing off of the receiver's hands?
  
  But the most mind-boggling habit of the Madden franchise is to release the game so far in advance 
 of the NFL season that you will inevitably have someone on your kick return team who didn't actually 
 make your NFL counterpart's practice squad. Although, this gripe is pretty much null and void now 
 that you can get updated rosters throughout the season. It still drives me nuts to have to realign 
 my salary cap to allot for some guy who didn't lace up in the preseason.
  
  And, as always, the game has its share of seemingly unstoppable passing patterns, though it seems 
 that the engine has taken steps toward a more adaptive AI. Eventually, your defense will learn 
 to defend that 5 yard slant when you take on the computer. But in head to head matchups, It's still 
 a huge advantage to the player who's figured out the handful of invincible pass routes.
  
  Finally, when the hell are they going to get rid of some of the 8 year old comments from John Madden? 
 In general, this is one of the better games in terms of play-by-play variety. But it does feel 
 at times like the voice over session with Al Michaels and John Madden each season is limited to 
 the anunciation of some new player names. I say put John to work, and make him sit in the studio 
 for three straight days allowing him only breaks to eat a turkey once in a while, and make sure 
 that he lays down every possible Maddenism in his repertoire. If I have to hear "There's nothing 
 that will upset your quarterback more than his receiver dropping a pass" one more time, I'll have 
 a cocktail with Pat Summerall and ask him to voice my game. I've had many years to come up with 
 a list of other things that would upset my quarterback more than dropped passes, and while "repetetive 
 commentary" is on the list, it is miles away from "sleeping with his wife." 
  
  Really though, this game is fantastic, and it always is. It's fun to play against the computer, 
 but even more fun to play aginst a friend or an online stranger. And the side benefit is that your 
 knowledge of football will increase drastically the more you play this game. In fact, I'm sending 
 a copy to the head coach of the Rams Scott Linehan as we speak. Hopefully after some Madden 101, 
 he'll know how to utilize Steven Jackson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMagic12x
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Stop experimenting and start innovating: Vision and Precision Passing, Superstar mode -- the last 
 two big features coming out of this series can best be described as "great in theory, poor in execution." 
 Thankfully, that's not the case this season as 08 introduces something much simpler yet way more 
 effective. The new "weapons" feature has a two-pronged effect. First, these onfield icons make 
 it supereasy to identify a team's key players and their strengths. And more importantly, these 
 classifications bring some much-needed variety to each position. So running the pigskin with elusive 
 Saints running back Reggie Bush feels way different than using Chiefs power back Larry Johnson. 
 The game even takes into account which NFL players show some smarts on the gridiron. Brainiacs 
 like the Colts' Peyton Manning and the Ravens' Ed Reed (who receive the lightbulb icon) can eventually 
 fill up that lightbulb and read the defensive or offensive play, which will appear on the field 
 as a diagram. Now that's what we call innovation. 
  
  Aside from these player classifications, the developers went back and cleaned up some of their 
 previous "experiments." Superstar mode returns, but this time the position-specific camera angles 
 are actually playable -- the view's been pulled back, which allows you to see more of the action. 
 Also, rather than creating a superstar, you can also play this mode with one of the league's top 
 rookies. The game's franchise mode takes another step forward with its scouting options, and for 
 all you Xbox 360 owners, you've never played a Madden that moves as blistering fast and smooth 
 as this one. That's what 60 frames per second can do for football (see the sidebar for the unfortunate 
 PS3 difference) . 
  
  Give 'em something upstairs: From the terrible secondary play to the errant line blocking, we've 
 often wondered why Madden's group of NFLers even wear helmets -- it's not like they got much to 
 protect up there. But just like our innovation wish, you'll find a much smarter brand of football 
 in 08: Quarterbacks now scramble when no one is open, wideouts continue to make blocks 30 yards 
 downfield, and defensive backs rarely fall for the deep ball. Some might even say that pass defense 
 is a tad too stingy this season, but we'd rather have it be challenging than face another Madden 
 secondary that sports more holes than Swiss cheese. 
  
  This year's game makes the developers look wise in other ways as well. Ball carriers will now push 
 on the back of an offensive lineman if the fatty is pluggin' up the hole. If you call a play-action 
 pass at the goal line, you'll actually see the running back continue with the fake and jump over 
 the pile -- very nice. Surprisingly, 08 also isn't afraid to make its players look dumb (at the 
 appropriate times, naturally) . For example, bad weather finally has an effect on gameplay as players 
 will occasionally slip on a rain-soaked or snow-covered field while juking or going for a tackle. 
 
  
  Show some emotion: When you boot up the game, it starts with a video montage that shows Eagles 
 hit man Brian Dawkins pounding his chest and screaming to his teammates, "Can you feel it?!" Well, 
 Brian, not entirely in 08. While we really dig that the players display more personality in this 
 year's edition (usually through celebrations like Giants defensive end Michael Strahan's sack-tastic 
 jump shot and Cowboys wideout Terrell Owens' TD shimmy) , we're still waiting for the sport's true 
 emotion to come out. As this writer mentioned in the EGM article, "If we're playing in the Super 
 Bowl -- from the announcers to the fans in the stands -- it better damn well feel like a special 
 event." Bumping up the player's reactions to what's happening on the field is a start, but this 
 series -- along with most other sports sims -- desperately needs to turn up the atmosphere dial. 
 
  
  Online leagues or bust: Another year, another Madden -- and another year without online leagues. 
 Disappointing? Heck yeah, especially with the recent announcement that NHL 08, another EA sports 
 franchise with an online community a fraction of the size of Madden, will receive this most-wanted 
 feature. But perhaps calling this wish "online leagues or bust" was a li'l dramatic. Playing four 
 quarters across the Internet was pretty much lag-free, and die-hard football fans should enjoy 
 the "NFL News" tab that gives you access to tons of news articles and ESPN clips. 
  
  Stop putting players on the cover: Some initially read this wish as a joke, but we're not kidding: 
 When will EA realize that putting stars like Titans quarterback Vince Young on the Madden cover 
 messes up not only fantasy football, but more importantly, the actual NFL? We feel for ya, Titans 
 fans -- it's going to be one long (and soon-to-be Young-less) season. 
  
  So as we wrap up, is this the "best Madden ever?" Well, EA's still gotta get its online act together 
 before we can bestow such an honor. But we definitely do feel bad for folks like Pacman Jones and 
 Tank Johnson -- these guys won't be part of the best Madden in a long while. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopsign69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I'll always love Madden, I've been a huge Madden fan for years. The game ALWAYS grows on me after 
 a while, but EA just seems to be always changing the wrong things which leads to a bad first impression. 
 They added some new cool features though.
  
  It was hard to get a hold of the controls a bit at first, they are similar to the other Madden 
 games but they always seem to be adding new stuff. There are certain things you have to take into 
 consideration now, like the direction your analog stick is in, etc. 
  
  They also seemed to have put more time into the tackling, it's much smoother now. I'd say it's 
 pretty well flawless, I've seem some really cool tackles too.
  
  Madden will always be a classic game, they also made the Superstar mode MUCH more playable from 
 07, which adds a lot more replay value to the game since you can play different positions. 
  
  Overall a great game, deffinetly a buy. I understand why some people are disapointed, even 
 I was at first, but that's because I didn't give it a chance. I currently play Madden often and 
 I will continue to do so for a long time, atleast until 09 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yero2115
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I received this game as a Christmas gift to play on my new PlayStation 3 console. I have always 
 been a fan of the Madden franchise, going way back to Madden '96 on the Gameboy. In recent years 
 I have purchased installments of Madden (2002,2004,2006) , but I was always disappointed in the 
 lack of new features each year. To me, it always seemed like the same game with a few new knick 
 knacks. 
  
  I was thrilled to give another go at Madden on a next generation console. I expected to get another 
 great football simulation, and that's exactly what I got. Since it is football, there are only 
 so many things you can do to change up the game play. All the core elements that have made past 
 installments great have returned, plus some new features such as the built in weapon system, and 
 a menu that comes up prior to each play making it more convenient for users to change up the play 
 and assign certain duties for their players. These are great features for gamers who aren't exactly 
 football junkies and have trouble calling the right plays. 
  
  Although not a big deal to some, I was very disappointed to not hear John Madden's voice commenting 
 the games. That was one key feature that always kept the series unique to his name. His replacement, 
 however, isn't too bad. You still get a good authentic football experience.
  
  Of course, Franchise mode returns in the 2008 season, as well as Superstar mode. I played superstar 
 mode in 2006 when it first debuted, and was extremely disappointed with the lack of customization 
 that goes into it. Alot of the things in SS mode haven't changed: still the same interview questions, 
 and still the same boring, all text-menus. 
  
  I had never previously played Madden on a next-gen console, so I was extremely pleased with the 
 sharp graphics and player animations. This game lived up to my expectations, but I feel as if there 
 is room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This madden was the best of all of them but still they need to work on it. I usually play SuperStar 
 and wow. Thats pretty cool and also play as rookie. But the gameplay ........ ya. Whats with the 
 fumbles thats something they need to fix real quick if they are ever gonna make another Madden 
 and also whats with some of the key players sucking and some that totally suck 8--  and some of 
 the teams just WTF ya they nearly made to the superbowl so lets give em an 86. hint thats the saints 
 im a broncos fan but they deserved more, bears deserve less and bengals, 49ers, and the Chargers 
 and the broncos sadly lol but some that should be high, Steerlers i think even tho they had a horible 
 season last year they still got great players and they can turn back a season. Just kinda screwed 
 up but i hope they also change superstar to where ya can better during the season instead of after 
 the season and also let ya create a better powerback like everytime i create i get like 40000 points 
 each time and they still suck. Madden 08 coulda done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line, this game is a huge step in a different direction for the Madden series. As a recent 
 fan of Madden, I really enjoy this game. However most of my friends who are hardcore Madden gamers 
 (have been playing it since they were kids) absolutely despise this game. Virtually everything 
 is different about '08. For starters the layout of picking your plays has been mostly revamped. 
 The control schemes are completely new (and no you don't have the option of playing with classic 
 controls- I. E. Madden 05 controls) . The ringbuilder is a lot of fun, but it takes a lot of commitment 
 to get to the level 5 ring. The new weapons system is very useful and well put together. Graphics 
 are nothing special, as always with Madden games. Overall the game is a personal favorite of mine, 
 although I like talking more about its flaws than its feats. Heres my conclusion, you'll either 
 love this game or hate it, so rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chargers37
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  PS3's Madden 08 is one of the most unnapreciated games I have seen. It has upps and downs like 
 all games but this is just rediculous!
  
  The regular Play Now is very impressive. Between every single play a player has a response whether 
 its a mad, happy, or whatever, it's realistic to see the responses. Also, when the QB is doing 
 autobles at the line, the voice of the quarterback is the same as they are than in real life, which 
 is a VERY neat part to tje gameplay.
  
  Madden 08 on PS3 Superstar is quite a let down this year. The player's abbilities are not good 
 at all when you start. For instance, as a QB when you just want to throw a short, easy pass, they 
 will throw far off 50 % of the time.......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doneskey57
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  It's Madden, and as such is a fine football sim with all the current NFL rosters built in. You'll 
 love some of the tackling animations, which are better than ever before. Since the game includes 
 actual NFL players, you can match skills against QB's like Brady and Manning, outrun LB's like 
 Urlacher and D. J. Williams, or pick off a pass with Champ Bailey.
  
  The Bad: Madden veterans who have played other versions of the game will go nuts with some of the 
 quirks in the game. Several examples:
  
  The fumbles are so frequent that 1) it's unrealistic and 2) so frustrating you may well destroy 
 that cool wireless Playstation 3 controller. Fumbles happen even more frequently in the red zone, 
 meaning that you have to have your guy "cover the ball" constantly -- so no juking, spinning, or 
 truck-sticking for you! Might as well not even have those options, cuz if you use them in the red 
 zone, goodbye ball.
  
  Geez, the game play is hard. I've played Madden for years and in recent years always played Franchises 
 in All-Madden mode. This year's version is much more difficult, almost crushingly so. It's hard 
 to score any points! I've scaled back to All-Pro for three Franchise seasons, and even so some 
 games are really tough.
  
  The player progression is very slow. If you are used to having your players improve through a season, 
 you may be disappointed in finding your QB no better after a whole season's play. About the only 
 progression you'll see you have to create yourself by doing the training drills before each game, 
 which leads to ---
  
  The training drills are boring and limited and hard -- but absolutely necessary. Some are wacky! 
 Why would a punter need to do the bench press to improve? You may have a hard time mastering some 
 of the drills, while some are no-brainers. At harder settings (All-Madden) some drills seem nearly 
 impossible.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Jack-ups! In Franchise mode, after 2 1/2 seasons, the game "froze" and became unplayable. I called 
 the help line and heard the words "EA is aware of this problem and you need to go online and download 
 the new rosters, but I'm sorry sir, you'll need to restart your entire franchise." And this after 
 100 hours of gameplay! And EA was aware of the problem! Great, so why didn't they fix it before 
 it shipped? Something really similar happened in EA's Head Coach. Doesn't anybody care about quality 
 control? This isn't EA's first version of Madden. That this happened shows that this game was rushed 
 to market. And while this is the most glaring example, it's not the only one. The game will freeze 
 in spots, have glitches, etc.
  
  No Madden play-calling in a game called "Madden?" Are you kidding me? And the "radio" announcer 
 sounds like he's in a tin can. Hey, EA, the play-calling should be one of the best parts of the 
 game. Go play MLB the Show and see how much play-calling can add to a game.
  
  The out-of-game options are poor. No newspaper headlines, no e-mail, no player feedback, no real 
 effect on morale of player moves, etc. The PS3 version of Madden should have gotten richer, but 
 it got poorer -- like Madden light. Only the graphics and tacking animations are better -- and since 
 they were great before, you may well wonder why you shelled out $60 for this year's version.
  
  In sum, only Madden die-hards should get this game. Everyone else, wait till Madden 09 and 
 hope EA gets it together when they have much longer to produce a quality game for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Just like its accompanying NCAA football game this year, Madden gives me a lot of mixed reactions. 
 Its a good game, and is a lot of fun to play, but it just seems that the development team just 
 glossed over a lot of details.
  
  There is still no commentary from the Madden/Michaels duo, so all we get is some lame, generic 
 radio announcer guy. Graphics look good, but players tend to be too shiny and reflective and a 
 lot of details are just not there. No player tattoes, very limited number of face options, and 
 no different haristyles (hair styles now come as part of the face, which is very limiting for created 
 players) . Also, there are no referees or coaches on the field during gameplay, which is really 
 odd considering that there are coach and referee models that appear during cutscenes between plays. 
 And the ref model looks pretty good too, although the coaches look kinda akward. Just as in my 
 NCAA review, I have to say how upset I am that I am paying 10 more dollars for a "realistic-looking 
 High-Def" game, but EA doesn't even bother to put in details like referees or the chain gang or 
 coaches or cheerleaders or any of the other little things that are part of the game but not one 
 of the 22 on-field players!
  
  Gameplay is also full of problems. Usually the first half of a game will play really well for me, 
 but then in the second half, things will go downhill. Once the first INT is thrown or the first 
 fumble is dropped, it seems that the game makes all the players in the game lose their confidence 
 and everybody starts looking like a nervous Superbowl Rex Grossman, tossing picks and dropping 
 the ball left and right. Even the really good quarterbacks like Peyton Manning and Tom Brady will 
 throw tons of interceptions. Part of the problem is that the QBs just don't put any air under the 
 ball. There is no arc at all. Every pass seems to follow a straight line, which leads to a lot 
 of tipped passes and INTs by linebackers and zone coveraging DBs. And even holding down the "cover-up 
 ball" button from the second a runner gets the ball to the moment the whistle is blown doesn't 
 stop him from fumbling 4 or 5 times a game. The rest of the gameplay, however, seems to be quite 
 well implemented and balanced (especially if you tweak some of the AI sliders a bit to fit your 
 style and skill) . Kick and punt returning is a whole lot simpler since return blocking is greatly 
 improved, which means that special teams is finally a little more relevant in the game.
  
  The new weapon feature is also kind of a mixed issue with me. On one hand, it has a lot of potential, 
 but in reality, the weapons are just directly related to the player's regular stats. Having a stat 
 in the 90s or above makes that player a "weapon" in that category. Some weapons have cool special 
 abilities such as "smart" weapons being able to read the other team's play at the line of scremmage, 
 but it seems to take forever for the read play ability to charge, and I usually am only able to 
 read my opponent's plays once per game (if I'm lucky) . Most of the other abilities are pretty passive 
 effects that don't seem to do much in terms of overall gameplay. Even the speed weapon is not as 
 decisive as I would have thought. I have often seen Devin Hester get chased down from behind on 
 kick and punt returns despite being the single fastest player in the game, with a perfect 100 speed 
 weapon rating.
  
  The Franchise mode also feels very stripped down. The EA radio, newspapers, and storyline features 
 are all apparently absent, so there usually isn't much to do in between games. EA tried to add 
 a little content to franchise mode, though, as you can now perform in-season scouting of college 
 players. Of course, if you have NCAA and want to import your draft class, this means you now have 
 to keep a whole season ahead in your NCAA dynasty in order to be able to import them to Madden 
 for the in-season scouting. Also, the scouting doesn't seem to do much, as you are given all of 
 the players' info and stats without having to scout them, and actually scouting them doesn't seem 
 to display any new information at all. So I really don't get what the in-season scouting is supposed 
 to do, maybe my copy of the game is just broken. You can also "train" several players for a game 
 every week using the practice mini-games. This is a pretty cool new addition but still has a lot 
 of problems. Basically, you are allowed to choose 3 players every week with whome to run position-specific 
 practice drills to earn skill points. However, the mini-games in Madden don't work nearly as well 
 as the PS2 training camp games did. Most of the new mini-games are just way too difficult and some 
 (like the bench-press and 40-yrd dash) only give you one opportunity to do the drill. There is 
 also an absolute point value for any drill that you must meet to pass which is based on the difficulty 
 level you chose before starting the drill. Fail to meet that goal and you get nothing. Blow that 
 goal out of the water, and you get the same amount of skill points as you would if you had made 
 it exactly. It would be nice if they would have done something similar to the PS2 training camp 
 in which if you pass on an easy difficulty, you could have the oportunity to try a harder difficulty 
 at the risk of not getting as many points if you don't do as well. But no. You get one shot and 
 one shot alone. You can also use these drills to rehab injured players, but this doesn't seem to 
 work too well either, as I have never been able to "impress the training staff" enough to move 
 the player's recovery up at all.
  
  Madden 08 is a good game, but it lacks the polish of many of its PS2/Xbox predecessors (especially 
 the 03-05 games) .
  
  Yep, the Glory Days of video game football have come to an end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moomooman_milk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Having not played last year madden, i felt that it was time to give it a shot again. I made a good 
 decision. The game play is amazing especially the new feature off the hit stick where you can give 
 crushing to the opponents player but a result of that is really unnecessary fumbles. The hit stick 
 is pretty cools how if you point it downwards then you take out the runners knees but if upwards 
 then you give them a big high tackle blow. there are also cool labels for superstar players such 
 as Devin Hester a speedster, LT has a lightning sign telling you he is an allusive back and you 
 a RB has a truck sign on them then that tells you to get out of the way he will just run you over 
 such as Larry Johnson. The franchise is again pretty good but mostly the same, put the superstar 
 mode is pretty good. The connotation of good but not seem that amazing but trust me its probably 
 the best mode in the game, You play as an up and coming rookie, i chose adrian peterson, and use 
 him only not even his team and you can meet with the press fire you agents etc.. Now the online 
 is not to shabby, but the frame rate for the ps3 which is slower then the 360's comes back to haunt 
 you. The game feels really laggy at points but there actually is no lag. This is especially ridiculous 
 when you attempt a field goal it messes up the timing of the power and accuracy. Also, the ESPN 
 radio that comes on when you online is pretty cool and it also give u real sports news. The updates 
 are amazing never thought that could happen where EA updates each teams rating and players accordingly 
 by recent happenings such as injury etc. But the most redundant thing about online is when everyone 
 chooses the patriots because there rated 99/100 which is a joke cause with the right formula they 
 can easily be stopped ( DOUBLE TEAM RANDY MOSS ALWAYS) . No one goes for any other team maybe the 
 colts. I myself like to go with the vikings and cardinals, both good offensive teams, or the broncos 
 or steels, for their potent defenses. Overall this game is for sure a must by, even though i recommended 
 it mostly for 360 owners doesn't mean you should not get it for the ps3 just saying if you have 
 both systems like some richer guyer people then id go for the ps3. The franchise mode and superstar 
 modes will keep you busy for a good quarter of a year and the online can amuse you however long 
 you want. Probably the best sports game out there so go ahead and give it a shot like i did, you'll 
 be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkybreakbts
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  HORRIBLE. Whats sad is I bought Madden 08 for the PS2 just months ago, and even though its basically 
 the same as 07 with new players, it blows Madden 08 for the PS3 out of the water.
  
  The new controls, and not being able to put them back to the way madden has been for 17 YEARS! 
 Hello EA do you not think we could audible to a different play, change to the receiver open field 
 catch, spin move, stiff arm and go the distance in our sleep???? All just to change EVERY SINGLE 
 BUTTON on the controller. Ridiculous. And they aren't even logical at all. X for stiff arm? WTF? 
 run with R2 WTF?
  
  Why change the controls only for the PS3 and 360 versions? while the Xbox and Ps2 have the old 
 controls the way they should be?? I hate you sometimes EA!!
  
  
  This is the worst madden in the series since it came out for the N64.
  
  Graphics are nice, 
 but choppy and screen rate sux.
  The players animations are nice.
  Sound is fair to say the least, the crowd noise is loud and annoying now.
  .... the players, are 
 so SLOW now, and the moves are so slow, even when just playing the CPU. Ruined the online experience 
 with the delayed moves, spin move takes seconds unlike the Ps2 version which I was in love with.
 
  
  Your lucky you got a 3.5 out of me.
  
  RENT THIS GAME BEFORE YOU THROW THE DISC OUT THE WINDOW ON THE HIGHWAY!! TRUST ME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotownBear
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  The weapons system is a great addition. The graphics have been upped. Gameplay and depth in franchise 
 have been great. Buy this game and you will be very pleased with the online play. Hall of Fame 
 mode gives a great in depth look at all of the hall of famers. This game is great, but some nags 
 keep it from being perfect. This is why I give this game a 9.0. Don't buy this game, and you are 
 a genuine fool. AI is great, forcing fumbles and getting more interceptions. But do not get me 
 wrong, this is still the best madden game on the new generation of game systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHELLEYROCKBOY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is just out of this world. I didn't get last years edition, Madden 07, which was a big 
 mistake because i missed madden sooo much. I have played over ten seasons with my guy who is a 
 QB with the washington Redskins. My guy in the game is has an overall of 99. I have won all the 
 ten super bowls with my guy that i have played in. I have started the franchise mode and find it 
 great crack play on all-madden. For my first season i just ran the ball, the second passed and 
 had the most fun ever in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romer318
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I have been a Madden fan since the early days. Madden 08 on the PS3 has really hurt my love of 
 the franchise. The fact that they changed up THE ENTIRE CONTROL SCHEME makes me want to break the 
 game over my knee. The graphics are great, and the animations are perfect. But its going to take 
 you about a week or two to get use to the controls. Gone are the days where you can easily switch 
 to the receiver and catch the ball yourself. You try and do that on Madden 08 for the PS3 and your 
 going to fail... bad. But lets move to the good, the online play is perfect, there are hardly 
 ever any disconnects, and there are a good amount of players playing at all times. All of the modes 
 are still there, and the addition to new player roles makes the game some what better. Listen, 
 rent this game, play it, and then decide for yourself if you want to spend 60 bucks on this game. 
 For me, I'm kind of sad that I ever even got this game. So yeah, I'll leave it up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehockeyman
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I read a review every year that says something similar to what I'm about to say here. I'm sure 
 some people will read this, and think exactly what I used to think when I read these types of reviews: 
 it's not that bad, it'll get better, ect. ect. The Madden franchise is dead to me after this release, 
 it goes beyond embarrassing that this game was even put on store shelves.
  
  The first thing that aggravated me was the fact that EA lied to us, big surprise there. They said 
 everything from the PS2/Xbox version of the game, would be included in this one. If you have played 
 the prior versions you would see how blatantly obvious that lie was. Franchise mode is still a 
 watered down version, no mini-camp/madden challenge mini-games. Also, the fact that they said everything 
 was included, makes me believe we'll never see those features again. Super Star mode is abhorrent, 
 I had no fun at all creating a super star that was 40 overall, and even after a few seasons he 
 still sucked. And it seems to me you throw at least one interception a game, well maybe you skip 
 one and get 4 the next.
  
  The frame rate issue is downright embarrassing, and I don't care what anyone says, it is a huge 
 issue. Even Gamespot said it could be overlooked, I just don't see how that could happen, it's 
 choppy and bothersome. The fact that EA couldn't code this correctly shows you how incompetent 
 they really are. The graphics are nothing to be excited about, and the animations never intrigued 
 me either. There were a few things I thought were good improvements to Madden, one was the replays 
 at halftime, nothing special but interesting none the less. The ring was also a nice idea, it made 
 you feel like you were earning something. Then there was the simulator in Super Star mode, making 
 it so you didn't have to watch the defense/offense when you weren't on the field.
  
  The fact of the matter is, EA just wants your money, for doing pretty much nothing. There were 
 a couple interesting things thrown in there, but not enough to even come close to salvaging the 
 title. The frame rate is an issue, and I might have given 0.5 more to the 360 version, but that 
 alone couldn't fix this game. Madden 08 is an uninteresting and uninspired game of football, and 
 if I were John Madden I would be embarrassed to be putting my name on such garbage. If you want 
 to play some football, might I suggest rounding up a few friends and going outside. Even if you 
 get hurt the experience couldn't get any worse than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdamSprague
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, I played this game for 100+ hours.
  
  for 90 hours of them I was frustrated.
  
  Either the game is too easy or too hard. If you don't have a top 3 RB, expect to fumble nearly 
 every drive at some point. For DEF, feel free to run GOAL LINE - JAM COVER every play even when 
 they go to 5 WR sets and you still will dominate because you rush the QB so fast they cant even 
 move.
  
  P. Manning and most other QBs are dinasours and cannot escape the pressure... ever.
  
  Randy 
 Moss = GOD and can be beated 5 yards when you throw it, but end up with a 10 yard spread when he 
 comes down with a TD pass.
  
  This game has holes in it everywhere and isn't very enjoyable. I've played madden every year since 
 1995 on the GAME GEAR, and this is by far the worst version.... EA is lucky, very lucky so many 
 people are addicted to football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anskyfan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The Franchise mode is better than the PS2 version, however if you are really into superstar it 
 is not the same at all. (yet) i am only in my 2nd year but so far i dont have any movie shoots 
 (i always thought those were fun but unrealistic you never see your fav. player in a movie, but 
 a lot of commercials though) anyway. no shoe deals signing with companies. The mini games are all 
 gone the ones where you go a cross the nation on different teams and work on stuff like coffin 
 corner, pocket presence etc. like i said rent it first and hope for a comeback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramsboy39
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The main problem with this game is the FPS. It is half of the 360's, and not only is it a pain 
 when playing a game, its a hell of a chore to control your franchise. Loading takes forever, and 
 everything just seems so slow, and can get very frustrating after a while. This is the only problem 
 other than the announcer. The gameplay is great, and even though its kinda slow online, you get 
 used to it, and it can be loads of fun.
  
  Superstar is awesome. The new camera angles help out a lot, and since the gameplay is improved, 
 it's a lot more fun. And using an NFL rookie is a blast too, but when creating a player from scratch, 
 they really end up being like 60 overall.
  
  Overall, its has good gameplay, but the players still look chunky; and it can be vastly improved 
 if they can bring the FPS up. This review may sound negative, but Madden 08 is actually a really 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbarone
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Outstanding animations and graphics. Most realistic to date.
  The bad:
  Ridiculous number of turnovers. In 9-10 minute quarters (approx 120 total plays in game) there 
 will be an average of 10 turnovers between both teams. Even using the protect the ball button proves 
 useless. You'll get tired very quickly of CPU players jumping all over the field with omniscient 
 awareness making improbable spectacular interceptions. You won't believe how many horrendous decisions 
 the CPU quarterback makes. It really takes the excitement out of an interception if you are getting 
 5-6 a game. Forget about the sliders, they do not allow you to correct the poor AI or flawed default 
 settings. Turn interceptions down to 0 and it makes absolutely no difference. Turn clipping up 
 to 55 and you see 10 clipping penalties a game. I've turned face-masks up to 100 and I actually 
 haven't seen one facemask penalty in all the time I've played. Penalties are rarely called against 
 the CPU; you end up with roughly 80% of penalties. All of the above happens regardless of how well 
 you play. Pro mode is too easy, all-pro mode will have you pulling you hair out with the number 
 of fumbles, penalties and ridiculous interceptions to apparently equalize difficulty. For the number 
 of years this game has existed, you would think the developers would have figured a lot of these 
 issues out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychowithabow
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I should just throw this out there: yes, believe it or not Madden is STILL doing 
 football. I know this may surprise some gamers as Madden has only been doing football every year 
 since before '95. And, going out on a limb here, next year will be yet ANOTHER football sim. Madden 
 is football, I'm sorry that football isn't changing. Continuing now... Another year of NFL means 
 another year of Madden, and I'm pleased to say that EA has finally got on track in the new generation. 
 Near perfect player models and branching animations means that the game looks the best that it 
 ever has. Audio also hits a franchise high note with visceral pad crunches and the usual EA trax 
 licensed fare (which I'm happy to report also includes a wealth of Sam Spence. No I'm not explaining 
 what that means, if you don't already understand it will mean nothing to you anyway.) .
  
  But this is all to be expected. The real crowning achievement of any annual franchise is what new 
 game play it adds. This year the addition of player weapon classification means that gone are the 
 days of a great player being great at everything. This coupled with the retooled hit stick and 
 running back controls means that Madden has put together a solid sequel. EA puts together a smooth, 
 realistic football simulation.
  
  Now, it is true that this is very similar to past Maddens, as football has yet to add aliens and 
 paratroopers. And is a football SIMULATION, so some solid knowledge of real football theory and 
 strategy is required. But if you can figure out (or have an athletic friend explain to you) football 
 you will find a rewarding and entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  So... lets get it out the way... the framerate on the PS3 is not that great compared to other versions 
 of the game. It's not terribly slow to be honest when playing offline. However... online the game 
 moves almost too slow to enjoy (but it does that on the 360 as well) . With those two issues aside 
 this is one of the best Madden games to come along in a long while. The new weapons system is amazing 
 and also works for people who like to play with different teams or use random sometimes for a nice 
 challenge when going heads up with friends. Because the weapons system allows you to automatically 
 see who are the key players or what your strengths are. The animations this year around are even 
 better than last year with more variations on tackling, catching, blocking, etc. The presentation 
 is cool this year and the ring aspect isn't a make or break feature but it's a cool little whistle/bell 
 to add something to the game. Superstar mode is back and better than last year (even though they 
 still make your mom sound like a simple-minded house wife from Wisconsin) . On top of that you can 
 play superstar mode in NCAA 08 and play part of your highschool career, then college then get drafted 
 into the pros by importing your created player into Madden. Probably the only downfall is the limited 
 customization of your face/hair in Madden but I guess they figure you're wearing a helmet so who 
 cares right?
  
  Overall a great football game and still enjoyable despite the overhyped framerate issues. It's 
 not as drastic a difference as you'd think. If you need football this year then this is one of 
 the best Madden games in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suackie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by the hype on the new weapon system ... it's just a fancy way of saying that a 
 player has a high rating somewhere. If you're an NFL fan, you didn't really need the weapon system.
 
  
  Instead of developing this new feature, EA should have playtested this game. Bugs from Madden 07 
 are still there (e. g. the simmed games INT discrepancy) and they even added more.
  
  Game hangs/freezes deep in the Franchise and doesn't allow you to train/rehab your players (sometimes 
 as early as midway your first season) . Worst of all, there are issues with the free agency/rookie 
 signing system that will limit the shelf life of your franchise to 3-5 years.
  
  There are numerous other small bugs (e. g. some trained stats do not improve, etc.) but the freezing 
 is the one that makes this game horrible.
  
  They did improve a few things though and basically brought back features from Madden 06... which 
 they should never have removed in the first place (e. g. custom player edit, owner mode, etc.) .
 
  
  Game isn't totally unplayable and is best enjoyed when immediately gamed from the box ( play now 
 ) . Graphics are improving and the on-field movements are the best so far.
  
  However, I'd trade all the new improvements for a fix to get the Franchise mode playable for ten 
 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Graphics... simply amazing in all it's HD glory. From the opening menus to each detail of the 
 game, the graphics are sweet! If you have an HDTV, you'll be loving it. I especially like the detail 
 on the players during close ups. It looks so realistic.
  
  - Sound: also spectacular. You can feel each hit. Very clear, very clean. Music selection is also 
 decent, ranging from hip hop to Ozzy.
  
  - Gameplay: controls are easy to learn/use in general. There are tons of juke moves to try when 
 running the ball. Pass blocking it tricky though.
  
  - Multitude of game modes, include lots of online play.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Game is just too deep 
 for my tastes. I remember the Madden of old, when you could pick your favorite team, and get right 
 into season play. You had simple stats menus with standings, player and team stats. It was easy 
 and addictive. Now, there isn't even an option for season mode! You are forced to play Franchise 
 mode. The franchise mode menu has nearly 50 choices alone! You can see everything down to stadium 
 income, pie charts, etc. I'm sure Madden fanatics love all this detail, but to me it's just overwhelming 
 and takes away from the game... I JUST WANT TO PLAY FOOTBALL!
  
  - Points/Ring system is confusing. Apparently you get points for various things during each game... 
 scoring touchdowns, getting interceptions, etc. However, how these points are accumulated is a 
 big mystery. Then if you accumulate enough points, you get a shiny ring! Score more points, and 
 you get a sweet engraving on your ring! On top of the ring, there are numerous trophies, plaques, 
 etc. to earn. Again, how you earn a lot of them is a mystery.
  
  - Opening menu structure is a bit confusing/overwhelming
  
  - Bottom line... this is the most 
 in depth game you'll ever play, period. If you just want a football game you can pick up and play, 
 Madden isn't for you. If you're a Madden fanatic, you're probably not reading this review, but 
 rather sitting on your couch engrossed by a pie chart of your player's salary... too much for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rioswa1977
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. So many of its predecessors have been dissapointing. I bought the 
 PS3 version and I was upset. The graphics were terrible, even on high definition with the LCD TV. 
 So I returned it and bought the 360 version. The 360 version is way more superior to the PS 3. 
 Franshise mode is awesome and on my 46 inch Sony LCD, it is a great experience. Gameplay reminds 
 me of the old Madden. The old 2002 version was pretty good. Since the new gens came out the first 
 version of madden was like the 2k series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridenne
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The official review on this site was all about improved gameplay, same graphics.
  
  I don't know which game they were playing. Madden '07 on PS2 has a much better gameplay than any 
 PS3 versions out there, Madden '08 included.
  
  I mean... you use the hit stick and the player freezes in place. You hit the pass button and the 
 quarterback waits until he gets sacked. You go for a jumping tackle and the player goes everywhere 
 BUT where the ball is. Sure, there are a few more animations here and there... but it's lust trying 
 to polish a turd.
  
  It doesn't have ANY graphics improvements, nor did it fix any of the previous bugs. Actually, it 
 seems to play slower than the previous version. Lots of freeze frames between plays and animations. 
 The game actually crapped out on me a few times.
  
  Overall, this still feels like the game wasn't produced... just repackaged with more un-needed 
 features (weapons) and a roster update. Training camp is pretty useless and point assignment is 
 awfully wrong. Annoying announcer still can't be turned off as a default setting (you had to go 
 in there EVER TIME as they hit the field) . Madden on PS3 had such great potential an EA really 
 messed this up.
  
  EA, if you're listening, please pay attention:
  
  1) take the gameplay of Madden '07 on PS2 and tighten that a bit.
  
  2) have a true training 
 camp where your players can increase their awareness, speed, etc, based on specific plays/drills. 
 Choose to allocate points how the user sees fit
  
  3) make players more realistic. Faces and body types need much work.
  
  4) when injury happens, 
 depending on the severity, show replay, get medical staff on field, show other players getting 
 towels, drinks, talking to coaches, huddle up next to the player, ambulance, stretcher, thumbs 
 up, crowd cheers as we know everything's fine.
  
  5) when you're controlling a player, depending on their abilities, they go into the zone when things 
 slow down: as a running back, you can see where the hole is going to be; as a quarterback, you 
 have a bit more time to throw the ball; as a db, you can see where the ball is headed... stuff 
 like that.
  
  6) need to introduce lateral passes and punching balls out
  
  7) where are the officials on the field and where is the coaching staff on the sidelines? Why are 
 the players on the sidelines acting like fat clone puppets doing the same thing at the same time?
 
  
  8) smooth out transitions between plays and between play selection.
  
  9) make the next version a download and reduce the price by $20
  
  10) make title championships 
 and superbowl ceremonies available
  
  11) bring back the madden cards
  
  12) let me save games at ANY POINT during the game, saving all my current accomplishments up to 
 that point.
  
  13) keep the highlight plays... that was a shiny point of madden '08
  
  14) ring building is boring... scratch that
  
  15) where are the trick plays??
  
  16) why 
 so much loading time for a PS3 super-computer ?? 17) update animations. players running looks very 
 artificial. compare that to actual real NFL action... (hint: players move their whole body, not 
 just arms and legs)
  
  18) where are the mascots by the field goal post??
  
  19) why are fans never seen leaving seats, eating food, showing signs? they definitely need a major 
 next-gen overhaul
  
  20) where are all the camera folks? I see the cameras... but no body... there's never anyone on 
 sidelines.
  
  21) have a home team advantage guage that increases false start penalties for the visiting Team 
 (when momentum guage is going strong.. more on that next)
  
  22) have a momentum guage for teams that are on a roll during a game. You can steal momentum away 
 in real life...
  
  23) leverage the hit stick to have tacklers hit in the direction you're pointing the hit stick 
 to (and use L3 or R3 for a big hit/trucking)
  
  24) if it's in the game... IT HAS TO BE IN THE GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuna12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is great for the hardcore players and brings back the fun that madden was. but if u r 
 a casual player this game is hard to adjust to with differnt defensive schems and playcalling
 
  
  Online is solid for ps3, way way way way way way to lagy in some spots if u know u have bad connection 
 its not worth going online
  
  My favorite part about the game is the ticker and the sports anylist that give u updates. even 
 when o. j. got arrested how funny,, Wepons break up the game. it makes u think in differnt ways. 
 it also makes u wann choose the patriots all the time.
  
  madden is simply an all around impressive game they really put a lot of effort in to the making 
 a producing it. i dont care what any 1 says but this is the best one yet GO BRONCOS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM_00
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Most people are or aren't fans of Madden. One of the biggest turnoffs for newcomers is that it 
 is very difficult to get into. Madden 2008 is still a challenge for newcomers and for Madden fans 
 whose first next-gen Madden experience is Madden 08, then the controls might be a little hard to 
 get used to as well. Examples of control changes would be moving sprint to R2 instead of X where 
 stiff arm is now, and the addition of a hurdle command in triangle. Aside from the first one or 
 two learn-the-controls games then it becomes second nature. I came from Madden 07 from the PS2 
 and then made the switch, so I can relate. One of my biggest complaints is that the plays are highlighted 
 when you select them, so it's really easy to see what your opponent is selecting if your not playing 
 online. Online really hasn't changed much at all. It's still there if that's what your into, but 
 I like my opponents to see my victory dances as I make that 4th quarter field goal from 53 yards 
 out. The franchise mode is back with a scouting option this time. It's a nice add-on, but doesn't 
 really change franchise too much. It's very similar to 07, except they lost the tacky newspaper 
 and the depth chart is a lot simpler. The same franchise mode which isn't necessarily a bad thing. 
 Superstar mode is back in it, but I never really liked it that much. There is an option to play 
 as a rookie which could be pretty cool. I really prefer the college legend mode in NCAA 08 to the 
 superstar mode of Madden. The influence meter is affected by the play of the people around you 
 and not just you. Imagine that your a half-back and your blocking for the quarterback. He drops 
 back and you give him solid protection for a long time only for him to throw a pick that's returned 
 for a TD. You lose influence points for that. I don't understand what the philosophy behind that 
 is. Luckily it does work the other way around; a TD from you quarterback will boost your influence 
 meter as well. There are a bunch of new mini-games in addition to some of the returning ones. I 
 still don't understand how the bench-press works, but it's a mini-game. Who cares. It doesn't really 
 sound like they did much, right? It's in the game play where Madden 08 truly separates itself from 
 its predecessors. The main new feature of Madden 08 is the weapons feature. It's meant to separate 
 decent or good players from great ones, and it does a helluva job of it, too. One weapon example 
 is a power back. They have the ability to use the highlight stick to easily roll over defenders. 
 The counter for a power back would be to use the hit stick 2.0. The hit stick 2.0 is an elegant 
 term for a leg-tackle. The normal hit stick is used by tapping up on the right stick and is used 
 to try and force a fumble while the lower hit stick is used by tapping low to stop the trucking 
 ability of a power back. The power back could hurdle over the defender with triangle. The counter 
 for that would be the high hit stick. As you can see there are plenty of options to make a good 
 open-field broken tackle or open-field tackler. There are also plenty of weapons on defense such 
 as big-hitters or brick wall defenders and there are possession receivers who will hold on to the 
 ball or spectacular catch receivers who will make those tough juggling catches. There are counters 
 for all of these. Probably the most interesting weapon would be the smart weapons. Smart quarterbacks 
 will fill up their meter as defenses keep reusing the same play. Once their meter is filled, they 
 will be able to see the opponents play. There are also smart defenders in almost every position. 
 It is a good idea in theory and is useful when you get it, but it happens once a game if you're 
 lucky so its not that important. Its real use is when the defense or offense keeps using a play 
 that's driving you wild because you don't know what it is and can't find the way to stop it. Most 
 real Madden players will be able to recognize reused plays anyway. So some weapons can be really 
 useful such as possession receivers, speed, and brick wall defenders while others aren't really 
 as effective like press corners or the smart weapons. Most of them do have pretty useful effects 
 though. The best feature, yet the most simple one, I think, would be group tackling. I know it 
 seems like it wouldn't be too important, but I hated it when a back would be in the middle of a 
 break-tackle animation when there are about other defenders around him and he manages to escape 
 the defenders because his animation causes him to go forward and can't be tackled by another. That 
 doesn't happen. If a defender is having trouble getting a guy, and then another defender comes 
 over to tackle him, the runner gets knocked on his ass like he just got hit like 4 tons of bricks. 
 The animations have also gotten a lot better. No longer will a receiver in the flat do that stupid 
 spinning move to catch the ball and accidentally run out of bounds after losing a yard. The tackle 
 animations are tried and true as they allow the runners to go backwards, forwards, or nowhere depending 
 on where the tackle came from. There are also little minor features like being able to double cover 
 a receiver or jumping the snap. The one major grievance about Madden 08's game play is the high 
 rate of fumbles. This is a legitimate complaint because they will happen all of the time, even 
 by most of the trusted carriers. This can be easily avoided by adjusting some of the turnover sliders. 
 It's still annoying though. I can say that the AI has been quite better than it has in past years. 
 The corners will actually keep up with the receivers and they will make more interceptions. The 
 linebackers are also better too. The offensive AI uses their weapons too as well. It seems less 
 one sided and it will offer most veterans a decent challenge every now and again. That was quite 
 a long review, but I think Madden deserved it being the most dominant game series ever. It may 
 not be the best game ever, but it is the only way to go to get a true football-sim. If you like 
 Madden, get this game. If you like football and video games, get this game. If you like a good 
 sports game, get this game. If you liked NCAA 08, get this game. If you bothered to read this far, 
 get this far because you obviously took enough interest in Madden to read this much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamaSume
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 for the PS3 finally focused on key gameplay flaws and additions this year instead of 
 an entirely new system that hardly ever works. First and foremost the new player weapons are a 
 welcome addition that works surprisingly well. Power Backs go down moving forward and Spectacular 
 Catch Receivers catch some amazing almost un-catchable passes. Big Hit defenders are clear avoiders 
 for any QB or RB in that direction of the field. Even the minute ones like Brick Wall defenders 
 have noticeable differences (mainly in the fumble area of gameplay) . Speaking of fumbles you've 
 probably heard of the fumble prone bug in this madden. This is an extremely frustrating aspect 
 of the game when it's 4th quarter, 30 sec and your Back fumbles it for the 5th time in the game. 
 Good running backs only fumble once a season, if that. So to have it happen at the least twice 
 a game is frustrating. Also passing just for the hell of passing is strictly forbidden aswell on 
 madden. Normally if no passes were open you throw it to some guy and hope for the best. Now if 
 you pass it without thinking you WILL BE INTERCEPTED. Even passes that in the old would normally 
 be caught are now incomplete. This is good and bad in the fact that it makes a clearer line between 
 Madden Experts (*cough* me) from the cheesers. Now for the not gameplay part ; ) . Graphics are 
 nice (most early Madden's are) . The menu screen is nicely developed but I find that game modes 
 like superstar and franchise are under developed and aren't super fun to play. But they did still 
 put franchise mode in there so thank god for that. Online mode with rings, trophies, etc is very 
 appealing and fun. 30 fps my ass this is still fun. Graphics: 8.0 great. They maintain a good NFL 
 vibe.
  
  Sound:8.5 Good soundtrack, best in a couple of years. Good announcers and crowd Gameplay:9.0 Nice 
 gameplay additions will hold you over for a long time.
  
  Presentation:8.5 Real strong NFL vibe.
  
  Lasting Appeal:7.0 - 9.0 If you like Football 9.0 
 if you don't 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  In the past few yrs. Madden has lost it's edge. But this yr having competition from 2K sport's 
 APF 2K8 it stepped up again. It also has MORE HOF players than it.
  MADDEN NFL 08 is a great game with only a couple of issues. The graphics are even better than they 
 were in 07 and they got rid of the pre-snap cut scenes. For the most part the animations are perfect 
 and blend together nicely but some of the gang tackles need to be tweaked a little bit. And there 
 needs to be more in game stats presentation- all you get is Under Armor red zone reports that tell 
 you what you did last RZ possession. You got ESPN -- USE IT!
  The main problem with 08 is sound. You get really sick of having the same radio broadcaster for 
 every team/game. Also they need a better selection of music PLEASE.
  As for game modes you get the essential franchise/play now/online options along with the recycled 
 superstar mode from last year. Franchise has added Finance mode to tell you everyone thats in a 
 contract year/expenses/income. It also allows you to scout upcoming rookies. Play now is just that 
 and online plays great and lets you watch box scores of current games, but no leagues. The last 
 great addition is playing for trophies and ring- trophies are obtained in play now or online and 
 rings are points earned from playing. And the weapons system works better than you would think 
 and does not make players unstoppable -- just hard to beat like in real life.
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiNoRu808
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Some of the things that are being said is it's 30 frames per second deal. it's not a really big 
 deal. The gamespot reviewer said it right that it really doesn't affect the game that much. but 
 that is just my opinion. It's a great game for anyone to enjoy if your a madden fan and enjoy football 
 (NFL) . The new player weapons feature is money. Sweet addition to the game and something original 
 and new to bring to madden. So an overall good game. Hell it better be at least somewhat entertaining 
 considering the fact that your paying almost $60.00 for it. Or if your a blockbuster player and 
 just pay 7 bucks and keep it until you get bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Once again EA has disappointed me, but this time around the game isn't garbage like I felt before. 
 When I see what they could have done for the game and what the Xbox 360 fanboys get to enjoy I 
 can't help but feel EA is heavily favoring Microsoft something awful. How else can you explain 
 lackluster graphics and game play? That's just my opinion. I'm a firm believer that if it's not 
 broke don't fix it. I say this when I think about the control scheme. For years the controller 
 scheme was basically the same. A Madden player could play Madden 2006 and could jump back and play 
 2003 and still know what he's doing. I tried to play Madden 08 on the PS3 and struggled big time 
 especially while in the middle of a play. I'm running trying to remember what button is to sprint 
 or stiff arm when with the older scheme it was second nature. I hate the new scheme and the game 
 forces you to use it if you decide to play in All Madden mode. That makes it pointless to customize 
 the scheme. I can't understand why they did this but I wish they would go back to the old set up. 
 My next gripe was the play choosing. What happened to the rectangle window with the three plays 
 and the ability to pick a play with square, X, or circle? Now, if you play with someone sitting 
 next to you they can see the play you choose. Lame!!! We all know about the 30fps BS so I won't 
 even go there. The presentation was lackluster and boring. No Madden or Al voice over. Now this 
 isn't necessarily bad considering how awful Madden sounded from time to time but they could have 
 chosen a better presentation for the game. I mean come on!!! You have the ESPN license on the cover 
 but you can't get someone like Stuart Scott, Joe Theisman (just to name a few) to throw their voice 
 in the game. When I think of NFL 2K5 when they had the license it makes me think how they put Madden's 
 presentation to shame... and it still does. My last gripe was the background graphics. When you 
 are in the middle of the game it looks blurred in the background like EA was trying to go for some 
 sort poor attempt at a focus affect. The players look fine but the background looks bad. To me, 
 it's distracting. Not to mention the hazy affect in the background as well. What's up with that? 
 Fumbles, fumbles, fumbles. There are way to many fumbles!!! I can't believe they let this bug get 
 by. I can't believe how easy it is to lose the ball. I hardly could get a drive going without coughing 
 up the pigskin. This really needs to get fixed. I know this is the first year that EA really had 
 a chance to polish the game but I think it really needs more work. I was very disappointed with 
 the overall game and hope they can come back next year and make a gem. With Madden, for years now, 
 I've always felt they take one step forward one year, and then two steps back the next. Example, 
 balanced game in 2006. Madden 2007 running backs could run all over your butt. One day they will 
 get it right but until then I'll just take my PS3 version back and get the PS2 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  It is finally here, its the game football fans wait so much for. It has been amazing, though not 
 quite as good the last 2 years. Will this be different. Not quite. Although not a bad game, it 
 still isn't better than even last years madden. First off the graphics, they are pretty good. I 
 have no problems except that the fans look terrible, but thats not very important.
  
  The gameplay. The controls are a little weird, but it's fine as soon as you get used to it. I enjoy 
 that I don't have to use qb vision. A big deal was the framerate issue. It runs great offline. 
 I love how it runs offline. Online is extremely choppy though. Madden is fun, but it has annoyances. 
 For example, its annoying if my guy doesn't jump for the ball right above his head. You also will 
 fumble a lot. There are some new features. The whole people have roles a good idea. I enjoy it. 
 There is also the ai improvement that happens with every new madden.
  
  It is a bit disappointing, but you should feel ok with what you receive. Its only not quite what 
 it used to be. Don't let yourself miss out on this installment just because of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustangsurf66
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game disappointed me in almost every way. For everything they did right in the game there 
 were 3 more things that suck and just add up to ruin the game. Here is a list of things that annoy 
 me in this game: Fumbles, interceptions, the amount of defensive touchdowns, the anouncer, the 
 dumb penalties that are called but dont take place, the terrible rap/hip hop songs that play constantly (worst 
 of all Daddy Yankee) , John Madden, the menu, the new weapons system doesnt really make sense and 
 as far as i can tell it really doesnt do much if anything, and just an overall feeling of crappiness. 
 Every reviewer talks about how often fumbles pop up and they aren't lying. Even LT fumbles close 
 to every game. The computer AI is a lot tougher than last years and it results in a lot of turn 
 overs. Close to every interception in the games I play is returned for a TD and all these things 
 just make the game kind of crappy and un-fun to play. The one main thing I do like are the player 
 animations. running backs slip and tumble through the lines more realisticly and stylishly than 
 ever; and up until they fumble it looks pretty good. On defense you can finally gang tackle! That 
 is a huge step forward for defensive play. There are just too many things that make you want to 
 turn the game off and throw it away or yell and wonder what the programmers were thinking. Only 
 buy it if you are desperate for a football game for ps3 and your fantasy leagues get boring. Overall 
 I suggest to skip it, save the 60 bucks, and wait one more long year and hope they finally get 
 it right and bring Madden back to the glory days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLpenny23
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for the PS3 version are disastrous. The player models are very small. The frame rate 
 is slower than NCAA 2008. Navigation through the menus can become tedious. No option to customize 
 substitutions or even create your own playbook. Very disappointing. The weapons are not very useful. 
 The fumbling rate for even the best running backs is alarming. The scouting feature is not very 
 helpful. The radio announcers are not accurate. Marshall Faulk's pre-game analysis and prediction 
 is pointless. I am very disappointed in the this game. The essential letdown was the graphics. 
 Honestly, Madden 07 on PS3 was smoother and crisper than Madden 08 on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2424
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  EVERYBODY SHOULD BUY THIS GAME... IT IS DEFINTLY THE BEST MADDEN TO DATE.. FROM THE GRAPHICS TO 
 THE SOUNDTRACK... ITS ALL PERFECT! AND WITH THE NEW ADDED SPRING DRILLS MAKES IT EVEN BETTER... AND 
 THE NEW WEAPONS IN THE GAME LIKE THE BIG HITTER AND ALL THOSE NEW ADDD FEATURRES DEFINTLY MAKES 
 THE FRANCHISSE ALOT BETTER... I KNOW IM GOING TO BUY 2009 WHEN IT IS RELEASED AND I RECOMMEND EVERYBODY 
 ELSE DO THE SAME..... IT IS DEFINTLY WORTH THE MONEY AND TIME.... IT IS GREAT FOR HAVING FRIENDS 
 OR FAMILY OVER AND EVERYBODY GETTING INTO A NICE GAME OF FOOTBALL...... THE ONLY THING THAT DISAPPOINTS 
 ME IS EA COULD HAVE PICKED A BETTER COVER PERSON THAN VINCE YOUNG..... DONT GET ME WRONG HE IS GOOD 
 BUT THEY COULD HAVE CHOSE SOMEBODY LIKE CHAD JOHNSON OR DERRICK BROOKS FOR INSTANCE..... GO BUCCANEERS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svdbygrce02
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  I was excited about playing Madden 08 until I actually saw it on screen. The graphics are blurry 
 at times, the gameplay is really choppy, and the game just isn't fun to play. I am trading in my 
 copy for NCAA 08 which seems to have better gameplay and overall seems more fun. I didn't care 
 for the weapons feature but you can also turn that off.. seems too arcade to me.
  
  Madden 08 may be worth a rent, but make sure you at least play NCAA 08 if you are into college 
 football and only have enough cash for one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsk001
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2008 falls short in several areas, first off it still doesnt have the reality factor in 
 check. Making computer players smarter come on how is this a justified improvement for the game. 
 The unrealastic nature of reading the peoples plays before the hike is just plain not true. Many 
 quarterbacks today think they know the play but they truly dont so then they are just out of luck 
 and shouldnt be able tor ead plays based on the success of the player in the game. The tackling, 
 speed, and moves of the players are still not true to form. Vince Young wont spin off Ray Lewis 
 no matter what day or what steriod he's on so just stop that. But overall for right now Madden 
 2008 will hold the market buzz on football games but they better make much needed improvements 
 for 2009! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankodefense
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Overall this game is great. The biggest problem with this game is NOT the frame rate as people 
 constantly seem to want to bring up. In fact I'm pretty sure no one would even notice it if professional 
 critics did not say it first. The biggest problem with this game is the camera which tends to always 
 be a problem with football games. However it is very difficult to see the sidelines close to the 
 LOS. In fact its impossible. Which makes flat and screen routes a guessing game. That being said 
 a good guess can be very rewarding. Another problem with the game is the playbook. Absolutly terrible. 
 When i play against a friend they can see exactly what play i am picking. I know you can hold the 
 X button and move the cursor to another play but still i hate it. It just feels too exposed. What 
 was wrong with the way you selected plays in Madden 07 (on every non next-gen console i dont want 
 to talk about the disgrace EA made with the 360, PS3 versions of '07) ? Regardless of its flaws 
 this game is the best football game availeble on any next gen console and i fully recommend it 
 to any football fan looking for something to do to pass these next 5 footballless days.
  
  One last problem though. Why doesnt LT go #1 in fantasy drafts? whatever worked for me i had the 
 #2 pick :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Dad
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game/series has all the potential in the world, but the PS3 version of Madden is being highly 
 over-rated by critics. There are many issues that have plagued the series for years still present, 
 the online lag is in-excusable for a next-gen console. Madden 07 on a PS2 played smoother online. 
 I won't go into all that I found less than stellar with the game, but needless to say, EA needs 
 to clean up the series. People rating this higher than it should be don't help encourage EA to 
 do better either. My advice: Rent the game for a week to see if it suits you, if so buy it, if 
 not your not out $60, only $5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  im sick of people wining cause their FPS isnt at a godly amount. what the hell is wrong with 30fps? 
 there are minor hiccups after plays, but during a play, smooth gameplay all the way through, no 
 matter how much chaos. and yes, the graphics arent up to date, but lets see u try to make 2 separate 
 games for next gen, and previous gen consoles. i only buy a madden game every few years, and so 
 far, this is THE one to get. the gameplay feels alot tighter and realistic. no more invisible walls, 
 no more magnet hands. the controls have been revamped, which takes some getting used to, but once 
 u do, they make a whole lot of sense. and my god, a LATERAL button!!!!!!!!! most of the games in 
 the madden series all kinda feel like the same game after a while, but this changes all the rules. 
 dont listen to all the nerds complain about fps and graphics. the gameplay here is solid, and is 
 a must have for football fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEMIKE76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Madden '08 is the best next gen sports game out there, period. The graphics are amazing, especially 
 in HD and the game play is good. By good I meant on the 360. No frame rate problems there. Maybe 
 all the PS3 fanboys shouls come to the realization that the PS3 is not what it is cracked up to 
 be.
  
  To all the people crying about the game, why do you keep buyiong them if you don't like the Madden 
 franchise? If the framerate problems of the PS3 bother you then get a 360 and you will see a dramatic 
 difference. A lot of game developers have said how hard it is make games for the PS3 hardware, 
 maybe that is the issue here.
  
  Oh one last thing, to whoever the user Shaun is; it is the Tony BRUNO show not the Tony ROMO show. 
 If you are going to talk like you know football and football games, know the facts you stupid idiot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Got the game at 12:01 from GameStop, before I left the store I notice something that already made 
 me feel good 1-4 players can play again ( only 2 vs 2, 2 vs cpu, no 4 vs cpu) . Also you CAN change 
 your control anyway you want it. Saddly Madden and Al are still absent from the game and so are 
 the breif stats window that appear doing game play (like carries and yards for a runningback) but 
 you don't really notice because the new features and gameplay is so fun. It's football at its best 
 also the Lateral is back ( thanks EA) Now when your in need for that last play and can't throw it 
 in the end zone there is still a chance. 30 fps takes nothing from the game most players look real 
 and all of the coaches look real. I've already start a franchise and it's great. I've played the 
 game for 8 hours straight!!! ( Really it's that good) . If your a fan of the game then this game is 
 a sure buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I just dont understand why all Sony's game's are just not good ? I wanted to like this game so 
 much but it is such a downgrade from the XBOX version it's like WHY? Im sure Sony will get it together 
 someday but as of now all games on the PS3 are only worth a rental. The same versions on PC and 
 XBOX are just far superior and I dont like saying so.
  
  I own 2 hd 1080 tv's and and none of PS3 games run at twhats NOW considered STANDARD HD.
  
 
  I own all the consoles so luckely I get to pick the game thats best.
  
  This game is noticably different than XBOX 360. Not even worth the rental. Just play your old version... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 on PS3... it's okay, you can stop hiding. I laugh at people who run from this product, 
 because of the 30fps. Who cares? Is it really that noticeable?
  
  I find this game EXTREMELY enjoyable. Anyone who loves football will love this game. Starting a 
 franchise and playing each game is tons of fun. The new weapons system adds more strategy to the 
 game, but, it's not to say that any casual gamer can pick up the controller and play the game. 
 It's a lot of fun, and I'll be playing it straight through the Super Bowl in January, and maybe 
 even after that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Every year EA releases a new Madden game. I have always hated the series and it was lackluster 
 compared to the 2K series, but now we are left with no choice if we want an NFL game. This could 
 be the crappiest game ever (which it is close to) and would still sell millions of copies. But 
 if we keep buying crappy games like this they will keep making them crappy. I love football, and 
 I hate to see it on a video game console in such a terrible form. First off, the fps is 30, but 
 it lags down below that a lot, and has literally frozen for 5 seconds many times during gameplay. 
 The game is very unresponsive when trying to change directions, spin, juke, and even to select 
 plays. There is no excuse for this. It is still unbelievably easy, I play on All-Pro using the 
 Packers, and I havent lost a game yet, and in fact have won every game by at least 50 points. And 
 I'm not playing 15 minute quarters. There is no reason for this to be acceptable, if I don't want 
 a challenge I will play Rookie, not all-pro. The passing defense has received a major boost, making 
 it much harder to throw the ball, but it seems like the running defense suffered in the process. 
 When I can run up the middle 3 times in a row for 20 yards each time something is wrong. They also 
 made the players very injury prone, I suffer at least 5 injuries a game, although they are usually 
 minor injuries and they return during the game. Although in one game I had the same guy injured 
 4 times. That is ridiculous. They also made it to where you fumble a lot more than in real life. 
 Not even Ahman Green fumbles as much as these guys do. The graphics on this game are no better 
 than on 07, possibly even worse. The crowd looks like it came from Madden 03 on the ps2 when it 
 gets up close, and none of the players look like they do in real life. They have the player's overall's 
 completely screwed up, and they cannot seem to give guys the speed that they really run, it took 
 me 10 seconds to run 20 yards straight down the field with Brett Favre, yet in real life he does 
 it in under half that time. There isn't any true precision passing, you can't locate where to throw 
 the ball, you just throw it and hope your receiver gets lucky. Tackling is a mess on this game. 
 I have dove to tackle guys and literally teleported 5 yards in front of them to hit them, and have 
 also been laying on the ground and teleported up to hit stick a guy. This game gets so laggy that 
 it isn't even funny. Eventually they will update from Madden 06 graphics, but this one sure doesn't. 
 And yes I meant 06. And this is with me in 720p display. I don't even want to know how bad SDTV 
 would look. This game could have been as good looking on the ps2. If you want to play football 
 you might as well make your own game, it would probably be better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I refuse to get this game. If EA sports is going to make inferior games for the Playstation 3 on 
 purpose I won't be purchasing this or any other EA sport game. Making the Playstation 3 version 
 run at 30 fps when it could have easily gone at 60 fps or more is ridiculous. E A Sports has an 
 agenda as do a lot of America companies. To take the gaming industry from Sony by any means possible 
 that includes torpedoing is own titles. its a damn shame that its come to this. I was totally against 
 EA for not playing fair and competing with 2k for superior football game. Instead they used their 
 money to get the NFL to give them exclusive with all things NFL. No competition means no eye of 
 the tiger, no hunger of the lion and inferior games. If your thinking of getting Madden for the 
 Playstation 3 take my advice and don't settle for a inferior product. boycott this game. Get All 
 Pro Football 2k8 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboy31
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Listen i love madden football. I've been playing since 1990, but it seems lately there missing the 
 little ambiances that made it so great in the first place. For instance, what happen to the super 
 fans? What happen to the cheerleaders and refs? The pregame show is a joke with marshall faulk., he 
 has no emotion when he picks these games. Madden needs to install the little things that make football 
 great like, tailgating parties in the parking lot, highlights from other games during timeouts, 
 halftime and post-game shows from around the league, a regular hometown commentator and the espn 
 crew for monday night games and a real feel for the superbowl. This version of madden shows no 
 distinction between regular games and the superbowl. If you put these things in with great playability 
 that you already have in this game, madden will become the most complete video-game of all time. 
 Maybe one day my dream will come true. Please Ea do it soon before another company comes and grabs 
 your thunder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablo091377
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line, this game is solid but lacks any inspiration or style. Madden began as an innovation 
 in simulated football. It evolved year after year until it obtained exclusivity. Now I feel like 
 I'm playing the same game with a new cover athlete. Yeah, it's not a bad game, but that's not the 
 point. When 2K5 outsold Madden hand over fist in 2005, Madden made a smart move. They bought exclusivity. 
 Unfortunately they've done nothing with it. Now I am forced to spend another month updating 2K5's 
 rosters. I wanna love Madden again, but I'm tired of paying $60 for roster updates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Unimpressed w/ the preview footage, it became too easy to get swept up in the hype generated by 
 the Maddenites &amp; Maddeneers. So, I bought it on drop day. Upon putting this in, I immediately 
 expected all of the same that you can expect from previous Madden games. From all of the cut-scene 
 footage that existed, you'd expect a great lookin' game. After the smoke &amp; mirrors are blown 
 away, the reality sets in. For PS3 owners, you'll immediately get frustrated w/ the look &amp; 
 graphics. They're mostly grainy footage, almost like a snuff film. A far cry from any expected 
 NEXT-GEN graphics. The 30 fps is very visible. The men are small in size (I own a 46 HDTV 720p, 
 which IS THE MAX that MAdden supports on PS3) , &amp; move very lethargic. The controls feel stiff, 
 &amp; at times, damn unresponsive. By halftime, I finally noticed that there were no referees on 
 the field . . . .EVER!!! But, somehow, they're making calls! What a crock. The coin toss leaves 
 much to be desired (a spinnin' coin by itself long before you get a shot of the stadium) . The only 
 in-game commentary is that of the stadium PA announcer (extremely dry) . Even though EA has the 
 exclusive use of ESPN, you can't tell. I think I heard Marshall Faulk speak 3 line AT THE END OF 
 THE GAME!!! It took me to the middle of game 2 to notice that there's NO JOHN MADDEN (except for 
 the ask Madden play selection) or AL MICHAELS!! Madden has the same plays it ALWAYS has had. The 
 passing schematics remain the same, for the most part. The rushing game has been scaled back somethin' 
 terrible. The game speed is slower. However, the cut scenes look good. It just seems like, for 
 every feature EA added to this game, they took away 2. In short, this game is nowhere near indicative 
 of being a next-gen game. I don't know what the GameSpot reviewer was playin' when he gave up a 
 8.5 for this. This game looks &amp; feels like when Madden was tryin' to make its breakthrough 
 onto the PS1 (circa 97-98) That game was ugly &amp; played extremely poor. This one isn't too much 
 different. I actually expected what Madden games usually give; I didn't expect what I got: A HELLUVA 
 LOT LESS. Needless to say, All Pro Football 2K8 went directly back into my PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollarbill0069
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  So many people are whining that the game sucks and that its terrible and/or a rip off. I'm sure 
 every one of them are getting their a** handed to them by CPU opponents. Try practicing and understanding 
 how to be a quarterback and call plays and utilize the game controls instead of just mashing all 
 the buttons and getting pissed off when you lose. And to those who are complaining about the purchase 
 of this game wasting their HARD EARNED money , its time to get a new job then because $60 is a 
 drop in the bucket. But i'm sure most of them are using mommy and daddy's money anyway so i don't 
 know what they're complaining about. Bottomline, Madden is an amazing game dynasty and never gets 
 old in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  well after playing the game over and over and over again on my ps3, I have seen many cool hard 
 hits and great game play but for the ps3 even as a fellow ps3 fan boy I have to say I give it a 
 8.0 why the 30 fps from ea is a joke online games are horrid and lag almost always. The graphics 
 are pretty similar, but game play is what counts the most in games and we wanted better game play 
 then this. Im very disappointed in ea for making the 360 a great game and the ps3 version an above 
 average game. Many down falls the announcing 360 gets madden ps3 gets the damn talk show radio. 
 Very very horrid it's a disturbing experience seeing how one sided ea is with profits, if it was 
 the other way around the 360 fans would have a **** fit as well. The trust was unveiled that EA 
 finally admitted they take the side of what will make them more money, and wont make the games 
 equal so everybody could enjoy. But EA decided to not make it that way they favored the 360 and 
 the 360 version is better its plain and simple. There are many upsides it was the first decent 
 football game for the ps3 adding all new tricks and animations with a whole new hit stick system 
 and a great new key players add on where it shows the state of a certain player showing what they 
 shine in. like Payton Manning is a smart quarter back and it states it in game. Cool new features 
 make this a truly new madden experience for the ps3 fans you get all the same graphics perks and 
 new add ons except the most important thing that we wanted a nice smooth flawless game play. Hopefully 
 EA will change there attitude but I really doubt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_garza2242
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I had Madden since the day it came out. I love football so obviously I love the NFL. I played Madden 
 extensively and trying it out and seeing improvements. Even though it is the best in years of course 
 you would still find faults.
  
  One thing that pisses me off is people make a big deal about the 30fps on the ps3 and the 60fps 
 on the 360. It really isnt a big difference. Yes it is better on the 360. It runs smoother and 
 a bit faster but that doesnt make it a horrible madden game on the ps3. You wont really be able 
 to tell unless if you have them side by side or if you have been playing the 360 a whole bunch 
 and then switch to the ps3.
  
  The graphics in this game are alot like last years version with some minor polished stuff. The 
 animations in this game are amazing. It seems very realistic on how they react when there getting 
 tackled. The way they run is also an improvement from last years but I still dont like it. Of course 
 its not goin to stop me playin.
  
  The presintation in this game is pathetic. EA has the rights to ESPN so what the hell use it. Marshall 
 Faulk discusses in the beginning and ending of the game. Nothin against him but he sounds very 
 bored and doesnt even metion the names of the teams. It would have been a lot better if they put 
 it like NFL 2k5.
  
  The sounds in Madden while your playin in game is good. Crowds noise seem pretty nice. But the 
 commentator radio guy may have been good enough for 06 and 07 but in 08 they should have tried 
 something else. When you make a pic or make a big touchdown he gets excited and thats nice but 
 there is a lot of recycled stuff.
  
  Online play is nice. There may not be tournaments and leagues but as long as I get to play thats 
 good enough. People have been lying and telling you that all this game does is lag. Well I have 
 played over 15 games at least online I noticed that there was little or hardly any lag when I would 
 play. Those people are either just trying to tell you that this game is bad and not to buy it or 
 there internet connection is bad. I find it pretty cool that in madden when accomplish certain 
 things than you would be rewarded and it will boost up your ring or get trophies. With your ring 
 there mainly bragging rights if you want to say. There are 5 levels of the rings and you need to 
 play alot for it to keep improving. Also what i found pretty cool was that the stuff you earned 
 in game it would carry over to www. easportsworld. com. Basically goin in it, it gives you points 
 that you get to use and customize your avatar. Also you will be able to join your favorite team 
 in that website so you will see fans across madden. its not the best thing in the world but it 
 is nice.
  
  Gameplay wise it has been tweaked and made it better to play. But at the same time it also probably 
 the hardest madden you will play. if this is goin to be your first time playin madden than i advise 
 you to put it in rookie mode first and work your way their. Constantly the computer will do what 
 it takes to win. When i would play offline and im tryin to throw a pass i find myself constantly 
 gettin rushed. almost every play d line always have a great jump thing. So basically you cannot 
 stay in that backfield that long. You have made like 2 seconds before you get rid of it. Sometimes 
 that doesnt give enough time for your reciever gets to even finish his route and will make you 
 throw an incomplete or interception. Fumbles in this game are also a bit more than what they should 
 be.
  
  Overall this game is fun and it is worthwhile. you shouldnt listen to all those lies people are 
 tellin and try out the game your self. if you dont believe me rent it first. you will have fun 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elron6
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  The games is at best a 5. To me it plays like an arcade game similiar to blitz. I think the only 
 reason this game deserves an 8 is the fact that its the only one with an NFL deal. Besides that 
 i thik that EA rests on this fact and chooses not to make a quaitly product there's just no excuse 
 for the polished feel of the game. In my opinion i'd rather take my xbox 1 out and play 06 which 
 i thought was at least fun. It really bites that we are force to buy this kind of unpolished game 
 just cuase there is nothing else : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p5ilocyb3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  For starters, dont believe all the negative **** you hear about this game. Sure its 30fps as opposed 
 to 60fps since the port wasnt perfect, but its still plays damn good in my opinion. The rare hiccup 
 here and there but not so much that its terrible by any means. Gameplay is tight, I thought the 
 hits looked abit cooler this year then last, graphics are nice, online is also set up decently, 
 I didnt notice any lag over PSN what-so-ever. So if you can look over the very minor/hardly noticable 
 flaws... I think its worth picking up. Definatley a sweet football game to add to the growing library 
 of PS3 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsoxguy12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Madden has been a great game through the years, and this year's madden isnt bad at all! Of course, 
 there are some things that EA could tweak here and there to make it better, but the game is still 
 great! The new weapon system gives gameplay a total new look and really brings out the strengths 
 of each team. The animations of Madden 08 are awesome- whether you have a ps3 or an xbox 360. The 
 offensive linemen are smarter, no more of the unbeatable outside attack of the d-line that was 
 overused on online play. Speaking of online play, theres a letdown on Madden 08. There is not a 
 HUGE difference, but the lag that was in madden 07 is gone and you can even see how the games of 
 the best players are coming out to be. Another letdown of Madden 08 is the commentary- that team 
 based radio guy is still the announcer of the games and honestly im getting tired of his voice. 
 Other than those two things, the game is great! Franchise mode has been upgraded, bringing back 
 owner mode which makes it a lot more fun. The superstar cameras that were messed up in Madden 07 
 are now fixed, making it easier to bring your superstar to the top. And who could forget, the hit 
 stick. Hit Stick 2.0 is here and the players can deck each other. With the new hitstick and the 
 animation system put together, the game is very smooth and nicely put together. Overall, EA is 
 doing great with Madden and im sure all the tiny things that make us mad will be erased next year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmofnbs
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  That being said, every year in Madden it seems to be the same thing. It's football, on a video 
 game console... Football hasn't changed so why should the games? It won't be intuitive or new. 
 They add some depth with the superstar mode, the mini games are fun, and playing with Barry Sanders 
 in your backfield is fantastically fun. The graphics are beautiful- I mean come on it's ps3 what 
 do you want?
  
  The only real problem with the game itself is the frame rate. Every now and then it'll lag but 
 not long and it doesnt disrupt the gameplay.
  
  7/10
  
  It's a sports game- nothing new. If you like football and love madden buy it. If you're looking 
 for a new fun arcade style sports game- don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  All i have to say it stinks very bad an when i say very bad i mean very bad it looked like they 
 bought a hyped up playstation 2 version onto the playstation 3 an said here go buy it. and dont 
 even try playin this game online it is so slow you wont believe it. i guess the article gamespot 
 wrote is true ea just makes good footbal games for the xbox becuase more people have it i think 
 if i get another madden an it stinks like this i wont buy another madden ever i was very dissapointed. 
 and to anyone who is a madden fan please go rent it our go to a friends house or even buy a used 
 copy because im pretty sure there will be plenty of used ones in the store very soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shauwn
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Madden since 1992. In that time the graphics have improved very slightly. Even 
 on the PS3, the graphics are not what they should be. And this is minor compared to every other 
 rant and rave I have over wasting 60 dollars of my hard earned money on somethign I couldn't even 
 play longer than an hour without being disgusted.
  
  First of all, Madden and Michaels are NOT the announcers on the PS3 version, but they are on the 
 regular XBOX version??/ Hmmm, why??
  
  Secondly, why did Sony or EA completely change the controls that I've been used to since my old 
 playstation 1 playing days. Speed burst is now R2, changing players is now O, etc. It seems like 
 playing a completely new game.. Now, If this was EA's way of making Madden feel like a fresh new 
 game, it's the most ridiculous feature to change. NEVER change the controls when they've been the 
 same for the last 10 years. And the worst part is, you can't even customize the controls to change 
 it back to the way you like. Ummm ehhhhh why not?!?!?!?
  
  Third problem I have with the game is the sound is pathetic. Hitting, commentary, tackling, catching, 
 even the refs sound like your listening to the game miles away from the stadium. Its all so bad 
 I couldnt stand it.
  
  fourth problem I have with the game is how incredibly slow and laggy the framerate is. I mean, 
 the last few seasons have been fairly slow on all the other systems, but this years ps3 version 
 is the worst I've ever seen. Loading times take 4x the time to load since last year, not to mention 
 how slow the game action feels. Throwing the ball, running, tackling, timing the jump on a deflection 
 etc will take alot of practice due to the game frame rate being waaaay to slow. This has to be 
 the worst feature of the series.
  
  fifth problem I have is NO TONY ROMO SHOW!?!?!??! Whyyyyy Nottttt?!?!?!
  
  6th problem I have 
 is the play menu's did NOT need to be changed. They still work the same on the xbox version why 
 change them on the ps3 version? Its as if a entirely new team at EA decided to overhaul many features 
 that didnt need to be changed. While they focused on minor things like the star icons, stupid menu 
 changes, retard new commentator etc, they failed to improve on the graphic display, gameplay, and 
 its beyond me how they would even think of releasing this game considering how bad the frame rate 
 and lag is..
  
  Honestly, I'd prefer the xbox or ps2 version over the ps3 due to how horrible the game is. The 
 only positive thing I could honestly say is the graphics and animations are a little bit more cleaner 
 and detailed than the older systems. But one would expect that from a NEXT GEN system.
  
  Other than that, I recommend everyone to stay away from this pile of crap on the PS3. You will 
 be disappointed.
  
  EA, please work harder next year. I dont want to be forced to buy another Madden game on a older 
 system again!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  This day of age I shouldnt have to!!!
  
  How gamespot gave this game a 8.5 and great review is beyond me. Guess their staff was paid a ridiculous 
 amount of money to brainwash you ppl into thinking this piece of garbage is actually a good game 
 lol.. That or these ppl never played previous Madden games on all the other systems.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkybruiser83
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I played it and I believe that some things never change. It honestly felt like I was playing NCAA 
 but with a much easier learning curve. I mean if you can read a playbook you can play this game. 
 I absolutely love playing the Superstar mode, and I love getting my @$$ kicked by my boyfriend. 
 As far as graphics... well its pretty... but who cares? The camp is awesomely frustrating, giving 
 you an irritating incentive to play more and more. You can join your friends for the ride and play 
 a few games and its an amazing social game. I also prefer to simulate games and bet on who wins 
 (I do not advise to do the same) . All-in-all, its fun, it plays well, and its the only game where 
 I will ever be able to actually see my beloved Lions win a single game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smallshot
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  If i could give this game a zero... I would. The complete lack of effort on the part of EA that 
 went into the creation of this game is astounding. This game shipped with more bugs than a trailer 
 home next to a swamp. The turnover bug is by far the biggest. Cover up the ball or not, your ball 
 carrier - elite or not - will fumble. Throw the ball a little too close to the defender - INT, 
 GUARANTEED! Its not just for the human players, but the CPU turns the ball over tremendously as 
 well. And, for a game called Madden, he's STILL not in the booth. Instead we get to listen to the 
 'captain obvious' radio announcer for yet another season. Yes, the graphics look quite good along 
 with all the new animations. That's all fine and dandy but it still doesn't make up for all the 
 gameplay issues this game has. I've tried multiple slider combos with little or no improvement. 
 It's pretty said that the games biggest features, Weapons, is what actually make the game unplayable 
 and every player superhero like making it impossible to complete a game without double digit turnovers. 
 Turning the Weapons Feature off does improve the gameplay, but not much as the turnover bug is 
 still present. To make up for this, EA implemented features such as fantasy draft, player edit, 
 owner mode and such features that should've been in the game from day one. Owner mode is meer graphs 
 and charts that show your teams finances as you have no control over these. No setting ticket or 
 concession prices. The fantasy draft is not much better. If you do it a couple times you notice 
 the same 10 players go first every time and the players in your current roster free agent pool 
 do not participate in the draft. When you start your franchise, you see them in your franchise 
 free agent pool too. Another franchise issue is unrealistic statistics when you play games with 
 quarters more than 5 or 6 minutes. Play with 10 minute quarters and you'll easily see some 80 - 
 55 games. Another addition is that there is pretty much no presentation. Stat overlays? Umm... 
 Nope. Two man commentary? Nopee. If you wanna say that Marshall Faulk giving pre-game predictions 
 and saying the same thing over and over with no dynamics whatsoever, then there you have presentation 
 in the game. I can go on forever and tell you not to buy this game but its your $60 down the drain. 
 EA has proved that having an exculsive license with the NFL will kill football sims. Overall, stick 
 with the Playstation 2 and Xbox versions of the game. You can't go wrong, still a solid experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalGear92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  After the disappointing Madden 07 released for the PS3 last year, EA certainly stepped up its game 
 with its second installment in the Madden franchise for the PS3. While the biggest attack against 
 the PS3 version is the 30fps frame versus the Xbox 360s 60fps, anyone who has seen both versions 
 in action does not notice a major experienceimpacting difference. The wide array and smoothness 
 of the animations makes gameplay a much more realistic football experience. Players interact and 
 collide perfectly, and EA has worked out most of the ghost player glitches where a defender goes 
 right through you. The only compliaint I have is the overlyincreased fumble rate, especially on 
 higer difficulties. As for the graphics, I only have one word  amazing. If you play on an HDTV 
 in 720p, the clarity and detail of the players is perfect. The new key-player introductions at 
 the start of the game are a nice touch as well as the ring-builder and trophy elements. As you 
 progress through the game with a single profile you accumulate points through wins and task accomplishments 
 to earn trophies and upgraded rings. Some new features worth mentioning are the brand-new player 
 weapons  players with extreme skill in a single aspect of their position are considered a weapon 
 with increased attributes to make the big play during a game, Hit-Stick 2.0  take a ballcarriers 
 legs out from underneath them, or deck the crap out of them and attempt forcing the fumble, and 
 the updated Superstar mode, allowing more customization and a more in-depth NFL experience. All 
 in all, Madden 08 takes a giant leap on the second PS3 version of the Madden franchise as it continues 
 to be the prime paramount NFL videogame franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subarulez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is a way different game than the previous titles. The controls may not feel right at 
 first, but after the ignitial shock the games Superstar mode gets you involved. This time around 
 Superstar mode is a lot more user friendly. The camera angles help your character to make the most 
 of the cituation. Instead of close up camera angles the game backs off a little bit to give you 
 more vision. The graphics are something to see, and not to mention the new hard hitting tackles 
 in the game as well as the group tackles have made a reentry into the series. But besides the new 
 controls to get used to, Madden 08 is a great game for the PS3 that people should go out and buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellsing321
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks! same game as ever. way to many interceptions and fumbles where its at the point 
 this game shouldnt even be online because of it. it lacks skills unlike all pro football. its so 
 easy to win againts a 100-10 player because you just rely on fumbles and interceptions. this game 
 sucks. my friends say that all pro football sucks because it got a 7.0 and it has no real teams.. 
 i say there just terrible at it and they waste there money every season. this game is just total 
 total crap. wright when i got this i returned it and mlb the show... thats a different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  After being very disappointed with Madden 06 and Madden 07, Madden 08 was sounding like it was 
 finally going to be the next-gen Madden we've all been waiting for. Sadly, I'm still waiting.
 
  
  One of the first things I expected from this game was a big difference in graphics. I was let down 
 in this category pretty quickly. While the players and stadium look better than previous versions, 
 it isn't that big of a difference. Even worse though, after each play ends the camera pans to the 
 sidelines showing players/coaches/etc. This view doesn't seem to be from the same game. Everything 
 looks very hazy and blurry and lacks any detail. On top of this, there's a slight frame-rate issue 
 in the game which isn't THAT bad but after every tackle or hit, the frame-rate seems to skip. It 
 just becomes a nuisance that should have been polished up before the game shipped.
  
  One thing I really like about this version of Madden is the addition of weapons. It's nice to know 
 what threats you and your opponents have on the field at all times and this really helps with the 
 plays that you pick. If you see a brick-wall defender on the right side of the defense, you might 
 choose to run the ball towards the left side more often. This setup is also nice in that it allows 
 you to look for mismatches on the field. You might find that a speed receiver isn't being covered 
 by a quick defender, possibly allowing your receiver to burn him down the field to complete a long 
 pass.
  
  Now the most frustrating point of the game. FUMBLES!!! They happen often and way too much for a 
 game of football. The average game seems to consist of about 6-8 fumbles. This can get very frustrating 
 when it's a close game and your team fumbles, having the ball run back for a touchdown. Fumbles 
 are fine with me as they happen in football, but they should not happen so often.
  
  Madden 08 is better than it's past few releases but it's still not the Madden I've been waiting 
 for... the Madden that's supposed to knock me off my feet and blow me away. It's still a fun game 
 and the addition of weapons makes the game that much better but it's still missing something. Here's 
 hoping that 09 ends up being that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I had this game for a week now and i wanted to sell it, its bad it looks like they transfer PS2 
 version to PS3 but with slightly better graphics, All-pro is way better and way fun then Madden 
 no question about it, one word Terrible game have no details during the game only thing this game 
 have is franchise, i know this game have NFL license but i can custom those players on All-pro 
 and have same roster with better graphics and details. I would suggest for you to go and rent this 
 game but dont waste 60 dollars like i did and now i want to sell it, its very bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zype2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Of course with that said, I can not say it's the 'best' for any platform. However the 30 fps isn't 
 bad at all. I don't own an 360, and was a little upset in the beginning. However, after playing 
 it for many hours... it's not very noticeable. I haven't played it online, so I wont touch that 
 area.
  
  First I will start with the bad with Madded 08:
  
  There is a big time problem with the fumbles. The settings for playing in the rain is very forgiving 
 in this aspect. When the ball becomes wet, it comes loose often. But why with the no rain games? 
 How did the EA QA team missed this? This issue is in the NCAA 08 game as well which makes it even 
 more odd. Sure there are bigger hits this time around, but fumbles are too excessive.
  The stadiums and crowd could use better work for the future. This is forgiving due to the fact 
 Madden for the next gen is still being explored.
  During rain games, the field may look muddy... but the players still look clean. To capture a 'true' 
 like football game, the players should reflect how the field looks.
  No on field referees. Why can't EA use ESPN for presentation?????????????
  
  No I will focus 
 on the good:
  
  The graphics and player animations are awsome! Tackles seem to be very life like. The weapon feature 
 makes it feel more realistic. Brings more stradegy when spotlighing a player. The AI is pretty 
 smart for the most part playing offline. The controlling is much better now when near the sidelines, 
 the use have more controll staying in bounce.
  
  Even with the 30 fps, this game flows very well! If you only own a PS3 and want a great football 
 experiance, diffently give this a try! The only issue is fumbles. Who knows, maybe EA sports will 
 fix this problem this year with a patch??? I am sure they are well aware that this is probably 
 the worst 'problem' playing offline. How hard is it to re-code the game with less fumbles???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moobaka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The past few years we have seen a lot of changes with the Madden series, some for the good, most 
 for the bad. The reason Madden has become wildly popular over the last decade is because of its 
 basic style of game play and its consistancy in being a stable football game in comparison to all 
 the other football games that tries to compete. Unfortunately the past few years EA has stranded 
 away from this concept but 08 has showed that bringing back some of the old features, adding in 
 some new ones and creating some truly spectacular looking collision animations can make a great 
 football game. Its very unfortunate that the multiplayer has nothing new to offer when it comes 
 to online mode, such as leagues or online seasons, but for the most part the offline is all you 
 need to enjoy yourself. As for all the talk about the choppiness and frame rate issue on the PS3, 
 yes there is very little at times, witch can be rather annoying, but its never during a play, if 
 you experience frame rate issue its normally when you are scrolling fast through option menus or 
 if the game is changing screens without loading, so it has no real effect on the game play itself. 
 If you are an old fan of Madden and are interested in buying it, do it, you won't be dissapointed, 
 if you are new to the series, try it out you will probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennYx7140
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Got the game a couple of days ago and so far I am not disappointed. The game looks great even on 
 just 480i resolution TV's. The Main Menu screen really seemed more clean and nicer looking than 
 in other Madden's I have played. Also didn't seem as slow as the main menu in NCAA Football 08. 
 The modes are both great, Superstar and Franchise. Franchise mode felt like something was missing 
 I'm not sure what though. I felt I wasn't taking full control of the finances etc. In Superstar 
 mode I imported my guy from NCAA 08 and it seemed the same as the other Superstar modes in other 
 Maddens. The combine was nice to do though finally, but the controls for me were hard to get used 
 to. Wish they made the draft a little better along with the celebrations with the announcer, like 
 after winning the Superbowl... they kinda just use tacky/same celebrations as in other Madden's. 
 They didn't even show the trophy or anything. Moving on to gameplay, the gameplay was great. They 
 weren't lieing about the fumbles. My first play ever in the game was a HB slam and Shaun Alexander 
 coughed it up lol. Then my Friend's first play with Frank Gore was a fumble as well. They also 
 forgot the Refs again and the sideline players look exactly the same as the NCAA 08 sideline players. 
 The fans look ok to me except you think they could have made more fan models and maybe even made 
 them look a little better lol. Overall the game is Solid and easily one if not the best in the 
 franchise so far for me. It's definitely heading in the right direction in other words! If your 
 into Football I don't see how you could be upset with this game unless, like I have said in other 
 reviews... (If your a perfectionist) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  When I 1st played Madden 08, the player-video introduction got me pumped up to play. The first 
 mode I played was the practice mode. I had to see if the controls were the same from last yr. After 
 finding out the controls were the same, I kinda felt like I was playing Madden 07 again. When you 
 play the PS2 versions of Madden alot, you kinda set the bar high for the PS3 model of Madden. I 
 know EA has to get the PS3 hardware down to create a good game but I felt like they could of did 
 a little better on gameplay. The gameplay just don't feel smooth and responsive. When playing offense, 
 after you hike the ball on a passing play it feels as though the QB can't move their head fast 
 enough to an option. When the ball is passed in the air, you can barely see it coming. I like to 
 take control of my WR and make adjustments to catching the ball but is not able to lock on to the 
 ball because it's hard to locate. When trying to move a man into the slot or another place on the 
 field, it takes to long. The play clock is winding down and the new button configuration doesn't 
 allow you to make moves quickly, kinda fustrating when trying to make plays. On the defensive end, 
 you have a whole bunch of options, it's pretty much the same way on the offensive end when trying 
 to make adjustments on the field, just don't feel like you have enough to with the new button scheme. 
 I've been known to play good Def. on Madden but this time I feel like i can't do what i do best. 
 Strafing, tackling, and coverage just don't feel smooth and responsive. Also the hit stick 2.0 
 is a good addition but it lags. When you try to make a big hit, I doesn't happen when you nudge 
 the analog, it's like a second behind. But once again this is the second edition of madden on the 
 PS3 so you really can't expect it to be the best football game ever. It's hard to enjoy the game 
 because you just can't do things on demand. I still give this game a good score because it's still 
 a good game. Us Madden fans have to be patient for a good game, expect next yr. with a better frame 
 rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is back again and its better than ever. There are more Features and the Game Modes are 
 Better than last years and the graphics are amzing and the gamplay is to. The players are also 
 alot smarter than before and the new tackles are cool and so are the sideline catches and the one 
 handed catches. The online gameplay is good to. And the player weapons is a nice feature another 
 good thing about this game is that it is more realistic and you can jump over an endzone pile up. 
 So if you are a Football fan and enjoyed the other madden games than you should definatley pick 
 this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is my favorite pro football sim to date. I had never really gotten into the Madden sims 
 that much in th past, but with Madden 08 it's very well worth the money. Graphics look great, and 
 more importantly game play is sweet. I like the controls and especially the new Hit Stick feature, 
 very awesome. This new feature gives you the ability to tackle either high or low. If you are trying 
 to cause a fumble or if you just want to make it hurt. Another cool feature is knowing what player 
 has what injury and how long he will be out. The difficulty setting is great for any type of Madden 
 fan, rather your a rookie or a pro you will love this Madden 08! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-bldes
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I am sick and tired of seeing these lazy developers just port trash over to the Ps3. The Ps3 is 
 getting a bad rep because of poor developers. People are going omg the Ps3 version sucks! get the 
 Xbox version! Ps3 owned!!! Did you ever sit and think why it's bad? And no, Xbox isn't a better 
 console, and no, it's not that the Ps3 can't support features Xbox has (which isn't true according 
 to most foolish speculation) . It's because they are lazy and it's disgraceful. They are running 
 the 360 version at what 60 fps? and the Ps3 version barely hits 30 fps and is choppy? And not to 
 mention how jagged it looks. I don't care if your a die hard Madden fan, this is the worse football 
 game for Ps3 yet. People don't see the potential of the Ps3 and it takes real dedicated developers 
 to show it off. I work at best buy and we had our Ps3 and Xbox 360 set up with madden 08 on 1080p 
 HD tvs' for both consoles and it was utter garbage on the Ps3. It could run just as smoothly as 
 the 360 version, if not better. But yet again, EA just ports it over to Ps3 with all the downgrades 
 and non of the potential. So in my opinion, this is by far the worse example of a football game 
 I have ever seen. If they just keep porting over games instead of taking the time to make improvements 
 and changes for the Ps3 I don't think I will be supporting any EA title if it turns out to be as 
 bad as madden did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMitten9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  EA had some great additions to this years' installment, but it lacks the most important ingredient: 
 fun. I own the PS3 version, and while the modes and features are great, the gameplay itself is 
 borderline disastrous. I'm a casual Madden player - usually buying NCAA twice, then Madden - so 
 I do have familiarity with football games. Nevertheless, the controls are way too complex for casual 
 players. I can see how some die hard Madden fans would love it, but its just too much for someone 
 who just wants to play some football without memorizing dozens of different button options on each 
 side of the ball, especially on defense. The days of dive tackling are long over. In fact, making 
 a successful user controlled tackle (especially in the open field) is incredibly challenging no 
 matter how you make the attempt. The buttons seem to lack quick response as well. At times it almost 
 seemed as though when the ball was given to another player (pass, punt return, ect) the game would 
 take a split second to load the controls or animations for that player, which meant any button 
 you hit during that very short window would not respond. This is especially frustrating in between 
 every single play because the camera leaves the playing field to zoom in on the stadiums monitor 
 before your playbook loads, causing you to sit there and wait. Unfortunately, there is no way to 
 turn that feature (nor the constant replays) off. So instead, you are sitting there mashing X to 
 get through the camera changes, which occasionally results in you selecting a play before the playbook 
 even loads.
  
  Due to the slow response and highly complex controls, managing a defensive player is quite challenging. 
 It's a somewhat different story on offense. I found that the controls are more comfortable and 
 easier to learn. The most annoying aspect of offense is pass knockdowns/interceptions and incredibly 
 bad pass protection. Unlike the defensive problems, several of these issues can be adjusted via 
 the Game AI menu. You can beef up your OL's blocking ability as well as reduce knockdowns and pics 
 to balance the gameplay better, but I still couldn't get it to the point that I would consider 
 acceptable.
  
  The gameplay also suffers from some other smaller issues. Players get tired way too fast. While 
 viewing your playbook you can see circles representing your players in their formation. The circles 
 are colored green, yellow, and red based on current stamina level. One of my uninjured CBs drop 
 from green to yellow after the first play of every game. The player has a STA rating of 88, and 
 will drop to yellow whether the opening play is a pass or run. Gamespot said the PS3 version running 
 at 30 fps was noticeable, but it didn't make the game awful. In my opinion, thats a questionable 
 statement. While it doesn't completely ruin the game, it does have some pretty significant side 
 effects, such as the slow response controls and delays to load camera movement in between plays.
 
  
  As for the other aspects of the game, the graphics and sound are actually quite poor. The graphics 
 are certainly better when compared to the last Madden purchase I made on the PS2, but when I think 
 about the PS3's capabilities, the graphics need a complete overhaul. As for the sound, lets start 
 with the EA Tracks. I don't get into the default rap settings, so I was glad to see the option 
 to turn all of it off - and replace it with NFL Films legend Sam Spence. The in-game commentating 
 suffers from, well, everything. The comments are boring, repetitive, and quite often not accurate.
 
  
  In summary, if you are a die hard Madden fan, you probably already own this game so my review is 
 probably useless for you! For the casual Madden gamers - just skip it this year. Don't make the 
 same mistake I did. I read how terrible NCAA Football was, so in order to get my Fall football 
 fix I just had to get Madden! The end result was wasting $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higginsjc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is definately a more refined and complex game now. I've played all the series over the 
 years and I must say this is the ONE. I was really hoping EA put some muscle into this one, so 
 to speak. And thank goodness they didn't disappoint. I say to all my football fanatics out there 
 to run, not walk to the closes video game outlet and get this years Madden series because you definately 
 won't be disappointed. When I first started playing madden back in 2001 I was instantly hook on 
 this football video game, but thought it didn't really show any realistic qualities of the real 
 thing. But times have changed with the advent of more powerful systems and higher resolution TV 
 sets. We are now in the age of Super Detailed Video gaming and I love being alive in this age of 
 high technology. I believe the Madden Series can only get better now. So, what a you waiting for... GO! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-MaT000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  madden for the ps3 is great. it runs smooth offline but alittle slower online. i dont kno what 
 people are talkin about when they say madden runs faster on 360 it actually looks like its on fast 
 forward for 360 and looks fake. for ps3 the graphics are great gameplay is fun and the new additions 
 are cool. the new hit stick works well, the player weapons are nice and they also work good. if 
 you have a ps3 get this game trust me its fun. Your cant go wrong with this game youll have a great 
 time playing woooooooohooooooooooooooo madden rules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgo_rcjones
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 is an extreme improvement from last year. I mean EXTREME.... I feel like the game play 
 is smoother, the graphics are smoother, and the new features make the game more of a strategic 
 battle as opposed to pitch and catch. I moved away from Madden for a few years and just played 
 NCAA for I felt college was better as far as game play. Not this year... not to take anything away 
 from NCAA but Madden just feels right... I'm not saying the game is perfect it can always be improved... 
 but this year is worth my anticipation. I think EA finally figured out the Playstation 3 formula 
 and should go with this and build for future years to come. Madden has retained a old fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  One of the longest running and most successful video game franchises of all time makes its return 
 here for the 2007-2008 NFL football season. The game needs no introduction, its Madden NFL 08. 
 You know Madden, your friends know Madden, your parents know Madden, even the ninety year old man 
 living across the street knows Madden. The name Madden has become a household name across the country 
 during the past decade, and its not because of the legendary coach and broadcaster John Madden 
 either. Games like this dont become this popular overnight, but after a while Madden was the only 
 game people thought of when discussing football video games. This led to, as the games front cover 
 will tell you, the series becoming the number one selling football franchise of all time. The series 
 rose to its eventual nirvana in 2004, and even bought the NFL license during this time to prevent 
 any form of competition. Since then the series has seen a steady decline in quality, eventually 
 leading them to release quite possibly the worst installment in 2005 on the Xbox 360. Unfamiliarity 
 of the new console was to blame, and to be fair, we can understand. Although a lot of the problems 
 were addressed in the next installment, Madden NFL 07 still failed to deliver what fans of the 
 series had hoped to see again. So after three years of practice on the new hardware, EA Tiburon 
 has finally hit the sweet spot. Madden NFL 08 is most certainly the best football game of this 
 generation, and one of the better ones in EAs long running series.
  
  One of the most immediate things you will notice upon playing your first game is the new player 
 weapon system. This is a way of letting players easily decipher who the playmakers are on the team, 
 as well as which ones are good in certain situations. There are twenty weapons in all, ranging 
 from an accurate quarterback to a press coverage defensive back, and cover all facets of the game. 
 Not all players are a weapon of course, thus giving the honor of being one a pretty big deal. Before 
 the ball is snapped, the weapons on the field are displayed for each team. This is done with an 
 icon that appears under each impact player. By seeing these playmakers before the snap, you are 
 given the chance to adjust your defense or offense to prevent or exploit mismatches. If youre 
 playing defense and see a big weapon on the other teams offense, you might want to set an extra 
 defender to pay a little more attention to that player. Once the ball is snapped however, all of 
 the icons disappear and the play resumes as usual. The individual ratings of each player are what 
 denotes them as weapons or not. If a quarterback has a high rating in throwing power, then they 
 are labeled as a Cannon Arm QB. Every single weapon has its own set of strengths and weaknesses. 
 The aforementioned quarterback skill is very good at launching the deep ball or throwing a bullet 
 pass over the middle before the defenders can react, but on the other hand, the same quarterback 
 may not be able to always put the ball where he wants it to go. Thus resulting in an array of off 
 passes, sometimes sailing over the receivers head or in the arms of a defensive back. The game 
 has information on each and every weapon class, as well as tips on how to counter them while on 
 the field.
  
  The weapons system isnt the only thing new to Madden NFL 08, as the entire interface and menu 
 system have been seemingly hacked and built from the ground up. The first thing you will encounter 
 once the game is up and running is the new showcase feature. This is a 3D environment that displays 
 trophies you earn while playing the game, as well as your ring progress. The rings are basically 
 the new version of the Madden gamer level that was in 07. It works pretty much the same way as 
 the aforementioned system. You earn points after every game that correspond to your performance 
 during that game. Once the game is over you are shown the progress you are making towards your 
 next ring as well as how many trophies you unlocked. There are six rings in all, with the last 
 one resembling a Super Bowl championship ring with your teams logo on it. You can also order any 
 of these rings from Jostens if you are so inclined, but it does get kind of pricey. You can also 
 view replays of any play that occurred during the game, this is a first for any football game. 
 Most of the other new features in this years Madden are things that were new four years ago 
 but have eluded the series ever since it entered the new generation.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Madden has been historically great, but not always the best. Although 
 fun, the series hasnt really been known for the realistic gameplay that we see in other football 
 games. This was especially evident in 2004 when ESPN NFL 2k5 took on Madden NFL 2005. The differences 
 were enormous and most people thought that 2k5 was the superior product. It seemed like EA were 
 ignoring the critics and gamers on this subject for the past few years, until now. Madden NFL 08 
 is quite possibly the most satisfying and enjoyable game of football the series has ever seen, 
 with tons of new animations and player specific play styles. And yes, the long overdue gang tackles 
 are finally here! Even with these improvements however, the gameplay is still not as good as you 
 would have hoped it to be. It still feels more arcadey than the other big football game on the 
 market, All Pro Football 2k8 (could you make that a hyperlink to the review?) , and there are still 
 things they can improve upon for next years release.
  
  Much has been said about the PlayStation 3s version having half the frames that the Xbox 360 version 
 has, and yes you can definitely tell the difference. The 360 version runs at a smooth sixty frames 
 per second, whereas the PS3s game runs at thirty, and sometimes dips below that and chops up a 
 bit. So if you own both consoles and are trying to decide which is the right one to buy, the Xbox 
 360 version is without a doubt the way to go. If you only own a PlayStation 3 however, dont let 
 this prevent you from getting this game because it is still a very fine product.
  
  When EA made it to the next generation, their one goal was to bring the HD experience into all 
 of their sports titles. This somehow effected all of the games features and left many people thinking 
 they spent a little too much time on those high definition graphics. Well now that they have brought 
 back most of the features that made the series so great in the first place, we can finally feel 
 good about the graphics. Madden NFL 08 looks just as sharp as you would expect, and looks stunning 
 on either an HD or SD television. The grass behaves as youd expect it to, and gets messed up from 
 constant play. The same goes for the players jerseys, and they might even get torn after constant 
 bashing. But like all Madden games, this one ultimately looks just like the other current generation 
 games in the series, with some nice improvements of course.
  
  John Madden and Al Michaels do not announce the games like in years past, instead 08 has the same 
 EA radio announcer that has been used in the previous two installments, and does a pretty good 
 job overall. The audio bits are pretty much the same as the last two years, and this can get tiresome 
 after long play sessions. John still shows up when you select ask Madden when picking plays, so 
 hes not completely gone just yet. One thing that is new to the series is Marshalls Minute, which 
 is just a small segment before and after each game where Marshall Faulk tells you his predictions 
 and some other random tidbits that are hardly worth mentioning. Needless to say this is a pretty 
 terrible feature that adds nothing to the game has a whole, except comedy because its so bad. 
 The crowd noise is pretty unpredictable because they dont seem to know which team to root for 
 at times. Sometimes they will even cheer an away teams touchdown, its really puzzling. Like all 
 Madden games there is a wide variety of music to be heard while surfing the menus, almost too wide 
 in fact. Theres even a new Ozzy tune in the mix, its not Crazy Train but its good none the less.
 
  
  The one remarkable thing about this years Madden is its incredible depth in comparison to the 
 previous games in the series. This is the first time this generation that weve seen any kind of 
 owner mode, create-a-team, create-a-stadium, or even mini games. All of these features are a sight 
 for sore eyes, as its been three long years since weve seen them. Like I mentioned before, the 
 rings system is the new Madden Gamer level, so if youre into that kind of thing it will keep you 
 playing for a while. As far as multiplayer goes, its pretty much untouched from last years game. 
 There are still no online leagues or tournaments, so all you can really do are one on one matches. 
 It really is quite puzzling because other football games have had these features for quite some 
 time now. With the multi-player aside however, this is most definitely the deepest game of football 
 on the market today.
  
  With 2Ks return to the football world, EA responds with one of its better efforts in recent memory. 
 Some people might say that 2Ks return is the sole reason, but I think this would have happened 
 eventually. They were close in 2006, and are there now in 2007. This game is perfect for anyone 
 who enjoys the sport of football, as well as people who are new to the game. Its easy for just 
 about anyone to pick up and play, and still stays true to the hardcore Madden gamers out there. 
 Madden NFL 08 brings back everything you remember from the glory days and even adds some new twists 
 here and there. All together this title is the best football game of this year. Its fun to play, 
 great to look at, and it has tons of content for you to enjoy until next year. Madden Nation is 
 still as strong as ever.
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rludeman44
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying, Making games better is all about improvement and progression. They cannot 
 go from a horrible 5.0 Madden 07 to a 10 Madden 08 but what they can do is make it vastly better 
 every year, which is exactly what they did this year. I was worried about this game before it came 
 out b/c last year's was a joke and NCAA this year is just as bad, but don't let the past sway your 
 buying decision. This years Madden is a great game, there are a few problems but they are easily 
 fixed w/ sliders. The graphics are great, the gameplay is great and the realism is getting there. 
 There are a few problems I have seen and that is Reciever's w/ the big catch weapon seem to always 
 catch the deep ball, usually b/c the corner just stands there. Another thing that has happened 
 a few times is, reciever's making the catch w/ one foot in bounds and getting the spot. Finally, 
 and I don't understand why this is still an issue but the announcing is terrible, When will they 
 learn Madden (team-specific) Radio is a terrible idea. All in all though, this game is a huge step 
 from last years and that is why I am giving it an 8. Don't listen to the kids that play Final Fantasy 
 and Warcraft all day, listen to the guys that only play sports games. I have owned every madden 
 since sega and it looks like they are on the right track for the next-gen systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrandonbb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 has all the makings of a truly great sports sim, but I was disappointed by the graphics. 
 The series should be looking more like Gears of War and BioShock these days -- the player models 
 should be bump-mapped, with much more realistic textures, jerseys that flap in the wind, dirt that 
 flies up and hits the screen. Really -- I think the series should be a combination of the original 
 E3 Mindstorm demo (dirt flying everywhere) , with players that look like Gears of War characters 
 (hulking brutes, not slightly bulkier college players) , with stadiums that have intense lighting 
 and realism (think BioShock on a sunny day) . I know, current gen consoles can't handle that many 
 players and a stadium crowd, but why not? We were told the PS3 could be used to fly 16 airplanes 
 and make your coffee at the same time, and we all know the 360 can do even better than Gears with 
 the right programming tricks.
  
  Here's what EA should do. Keep all the gameplay code from this year and move all of those programming 
 guys over the the NBA Live team. Hire a bunch of crazy artists who will add some depth and realism 
 to the game. I'd rank the graphics right now as about a 2 compared to what I think they could and 
 should be right now. I really don't need any more gameplay realism -- I was blown away by the gang 
 tackles new animations, and the hitstick is near perfect. Enough of that stuff, the graphics have 
 lagged so far behind now that it feels like a brilliant 2D cartoon. It's the same reason I get 
 bored with The Simpsons these days -- it's still a pretty smart show, but I was bored with the 
 art about 10 years ago.
  
  I think if the graphics blew us away -- 10 out of 10, where the players looked photorealistic during 
 the actual gameplay (you know, more like how they look in the cutscenes after the whistle) it would 
 suck you into the gameplay even more. I want to see the leather on the ball, dents in helmets, 
 wet grass on the field markers, maybe a few guys limping during a play.
  
  I noticed that -- even after all of these years -- that every player moves almost the same on the 
 field on a long run. They all look like mirror images -- they should all be moving differently 
 on screen. Something like Dead Rising where every one of the zombies looked a bit different, except 
 that they would all have a slightly different animation as well. And wither get rid of the sideline 
 players (who all look alike) or make them look more realistic, too.
  
  Fix the graphics, and Madden 08 could win game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingliono
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Sure it has all the new features that make it better then last years game, but the frame rates 
 are so horribly slow on my PS3 it makes the game unplayable for me. The stuttering frame rates 
 make it very difficult to pull off any of the new running moves and makes passing a guessing game. 
 Sure the graphics this year are fantastic. Playing madden in 1080p on a flat screen with surround 
 sound is unbelievable, and with out a doubt magnifies the problems with the frame rate issue. I 
 am curious if I got stuck with a PS3 that has the minimum number of operating cores... this kind 
 of performance against everyone's reviews really have me second guessing the hardware. Unfortunately, 
 my solution will be to return the game to the store today for trade in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 finally makes its debut on the playstation 3 with the Athlete Vince Young on the cover. 
 I dont think he's gained the superstar status of an nfl player like Ladanian Thomas but he's a 
 popular player and a good choice to hold the madden cover.
  
  The game consists of modes such as mini games which include the 40 yard dash which i still haven't 
 mastered, QB drills, RB Drills, linebacker drills, and bench-pressing. You use these drills depending 
 on what type of player you chose in NFL Superstar mode also. That mode is way improved from last 
 year's version. The camera helps you actually see what your doing and what you need t odo. But 
 sometimes your included in plays in a game that really dont make you do anything. The Franchise 
 mode is excellent and it finally has a fantasy draft and it also includes Front Office mode which 
 is also cool.
  
  The Gameplay is perfect and the whole 30 fps isn't an issue while playing offline but it is an 
 issue playing online. The game features a whole new system that classies players who hit hard and 
 running backs who are fast. This is a good change in the Madden series and it helps generate mismatchs 
 to penetrate defenses. The controls are perfect and they go nicely with the Hitstick 2.0. The new 
 hitstick creates awesome animations that make sacks and interceptions realer than ever. The broadcasting 
 is okay but the guy's voice isn't appealing and it gets annoying. The soundtrack sucks big time. 
 I only like the song by Mims and the other one by Swizz Beatz but thats all the hip hop you get 
 from mainstream.
  
  Online play is just TERRIBLE. The game gets too laggy while playing an online opponent and they 
 just leave and then you have to face the CPU which always wins. The framrate is a joke online a 
 sick joke EA put into the Ps3. Its unacceptable and pisses me off.
  
  Another feature I almost forgot is building up your ring which gets bling to see how good you are 
 in the Madden series its cool b/c you can customize with your favorite team logo and it adds variety 
 online. You can also practice against your previous oppenents and see what plays they did and thats 
 pretty fly.
  
  Madden is overall pretty good and it wont disaapoint fans of the series. The game is a big step 
 forward but it is stll lacking some of the online features and gameplay that we PS3 owners dream 
 of but that shouldn't discourage you of buying its fun and it gets intense so dont miss out and 
 go for the kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amerikazpimp08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  online could be more smooth i hate the fact if the connection messed up it counts as a loss even 
 though it can be the ea sports server messing it all up the kicking on kick return usually goes 
 out and some plays that they call a catch when theyre CLEARLY wrong makes me mad but i mean all 
 games have flaws but with less problems and a better improvement its simply the best in the series 
 and its another step in the right direction but the weapons are supposed to seperate the elite 
 players from the rest why in the world am I able to use some sorry wr with 66 overall on like 90 
 overall corners? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Considering me to be a arcade sports fan, I had some complaints about the previous Maddens for 
 other systems. I really did not like the fact that The Madden 07 and 06 really did not offer that 
 much new. Madden 08 changed everything. They have a Weapons mechanic in the game that caught my 
 attention. Kind of. Madden 08 is a purely next gen NFL game. I really cant say the same thing for 
 the PS2 version. All my friends are talking about the game. I can't believe I am saying this, But 
 I actually want to get this game. Wow...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheefyman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I've been waiting for a next generation Madden game since I bought my ps3 and while 
 I am not totally dissapointed at John's recent video game I am not jumping out of my seat. While 
 the graphics are definitely better than any other Madden games (well shouldn't they be.. it is PS3) 
 Madden fails to deliver in critical areas. The audio commentary is so awful that I had to mute 
 my TV and put on some music from my stereo. Madden is still his corny self and the play by play 
 guy sounds like he's reporting from a 1975 Kentucky radio station.
  
  I do have to admit that this Madden is probably one of the most difficult Madden games that I have 
 ever played. In Madden 07 I had a perfect season with the Chiefs playing All Pro, while in this 
 game I'm struggling to tackle mediocre running backs like Michael Turner. Defenders are much smarter 
 (especially corners so the occasional bomb to Steve Smith will be harder to complete) and running 
 backs are extremely slippery elusive and difficult to tackle. They made the CPU pretty smart and 
 even on Pro they are a formidable opponent.
  
  Finally, I only have a few more complaints/comments. I'm not 100% sure if the option is completely 
 gone but when I went to turn on Accelerated Clock it wasnt there. Plus, for all you cheaters Madden 
 Cards are no longer available so unfortunitely during the fourh quarter you cannot play a gold 
 fumbilities or 5 downs card, so your on your own. I conclude by saying that even with these obvious 
 flaws, what's better than Madden? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpraser
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  First I want to say that I don't see any slow down or problems with the 30fps. If you own both 
 a 360 and a PS3, get the version you are more comfortable with. Stop arguing over which system 
 is better. My only complaint is that I am used to the game play of the PS2 versions of Madden and 
 the PS3 version takes some getting used to. Once you accept the movement of the game and get used 
 to the controls, it is very fun. It just feels slower than the PS2 version, but it feels very real. 
 Double teams, gang tackles, player animations, all very cool. The announcer sucks, but I don't 
 play the game for play by play. I do not miss Madden saying Defense wins championships . If you 
 have a PS3, and you like football, then you are going to like this game. It is not perfect, but 
 why would they make it perfect, you wouldn't buy Madden 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quanito
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Not worth it. Crappy graphics. Blurry compares to crisp and sharpness of MLB the Show 07. Choppy 
 all around. Choppy menus, choppy loading bar, choppy similutations. This came is very disappointing. 
 Wait until it drops in price or rent it. If you bought it already at EBgames or Gamestop, go return 
 it for store credit. It's obvious that EA has not figure out the hardware of the PS3 not the mention 
 allegations of EA going into bed with MS. All you're getting with this game is a roster update 
 and a few new features that don't work right with the PS3. For example, creating a stadium freezes 
 when you do the sideline scheme. This game is too disappointing to even review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicknwing
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  The new branching system is great, the players move so much better than previous years, I threw 
 a ball to the sideline and Devery Henderson tried to keep both feet in bounds leaning to catch 
 the ball. Some of the moves the guys make a phenominal. Gameplay is a lot the same, but the new 
 hit stick is a lot of fun. People are ripping on the slower frame rate, but who cares? Then buy 
 a Xbox and shut up! Madden 08 is a great game, looks great and is a blast to play.
  
  Only complaint is the announcer/play by play guy needs to go, please get some talent in the booth, 
 this guy really detracts from the fun of the game, he's so boring, please EA, get someone, anyone 
 in the booth to announce the games. ESPN should also have a larger presence in the game, you have 
 the rights, use it! Otherwise, it's a fun game if you like football and Madden games you'll enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baztripot
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I was excited about this game , now I really hate the people at EA Sports.
  
  instead of the addictive game I thought this would be, it's more like something you play because 
 it's the only NFL game out there and while you wait for other good games to come out.
  
  issue #1 : the graphics are just rerrible. no real close-ups, when you're making a pass you can 
 really see the receiver making the catch, you have to wait for the play to end to know what happenned. 
 just terrible !
  after a touchdown, you can't even see the player's celebration real good because the camera keeps 
 you so far away. probably done on purpose to hide bad graphics.
  
  issue #2 : the controls are a total mess. there are so many presnap controls, you end up changing 
 plays or making moves along the line that you never intented to. selecting an audible can also be 
 a pain since you can't see the play, just the name of the play.
  
  issue #3 : the drops in framerate are noticeable all throughout the game. supoerstar mode plays 
 well, more options in franchise mode. the AI also gets improved. no more long easy passes down 
 the field. the Pro difficulty is a little more difficult than it was last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent for the PS3. This is a significant improvement over last years game. Getting 
 Hall of Fame players on your team thru fantasy drafts is also a cool feature. I also like the radio 
 personality much better than the robotic Al Michaels and John Madden commentary. There is a lot 
 of extra features which kind of make the game complex to control but the changes are worthwhile. 
 The only distractions I didnt like were the Under Armor drive summaries when you hit the red zone. 
 These could have been better utilized at the end of a score. This is a must-have game for all sports 
 fans. The graphics are amazing, the sound is incredible, and the playability is top-notch. Playing 
 this game on a HD television with a home theatre system fills like your right in game or at least 
 on the sidelines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopy501
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  THIS is no lie this game suck it suck bad if i had paid $60.00 for this i would
  be piss. the graphic is nice and that it. sound is ok the gameplay noway
  when u play the game 
 u can't see the football running or passing in the game the men or to little in the like football 
 this is BS. i rent the from BB video and
  i was think it was going to be good. no camera in the game which is mess up
  EA need to work on 
 this. when the player hit the field i was think is going be nice the men was big then i got mad. but 
 madden will sell because ppl will
  pay to play but not me. EA no this game suck that Y U can get it for $10.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementau
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Kinda wierd that they would now limit audibles to just 5 plays now. And what happened to the smart 
 route where the receiver would run to the first down yard mark before breaking into his route? 
 Not only that, but on defense no more commit? The AI is dramatically improved, except in the secondary. 
 And why is there no more QB vision receiver select (hold down r2 then the receiver and the cone 
 focuses on that receiver. They took away a lot of good stuff and added a bit of not so useful stuff. 
 I like the weapons idea, but not at the expense of limitation of diversifying plays at the line. 
 The onlines newswire is awesome. The game itself is good, but the 360 version is excellent. 360 
 version does not pause and is smoother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escott05
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I have owned almost all Madden games and this one definately is not high on my charts. The game 
 seems a hair on the choppy side and the graphics for me are not as good as some other PS3 games. 
 In addition, to the mediocre game play and graphics, the game also makes navigating the menu somewhat 
 confusing. This could have been built to be more user friendly. Also, everything on the game loads 
 fairly slow (slower compared to other games) . On the positive side I do like the training camps 
 and practice situations much more than on previous games. Madden was hyped up a lot this year; 
 however, I think the game fell short of expectations. Maybe next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebizkit
Rating: 2.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I had to pick this game apart, like I did the NCAA review, but it is seriously getting old, and 
 very fast. I can't speak for other people, but I work hard for my money, and I don't feel that 
 I have been given a quality product from this company in quit some time. I could be wrong but, 
 I read some where online that the guy that use to run the 2K sports series, is the head guy on 
 the football projects at EA, which explains everything to me. Now for my two cents.
  
  I would stay clear of this game, it is nothing more than a patch job from last years, horrific 
 game. Everyone knows there are alot of fumbles, and that Madden is really nowhere to ne found (hence 
 the comentary truly does suck, and I wish I could mute just him and play a custom soundtrack over 
 his pathetic voice) , anyhow, the game flat out looks &amp; feels just like a 2K game, which got 
 horrible reviews, I find it insulting that they would air the commericals of Reggie Bush and make 
 me believe that it was the product I was to be recieving. The guys look and feel like a bunch of 
 stiff tin men, needing a good oiling. I the graphics are very lacking to be a so called HD game, 
 unless that means HORRIFIC DISPLAY. This game is hard to look at, you instantly feel used and abused 
 the minute the first kick off comes out. I am not knocking all versions of Madden 08, check out 
 my review for the Wii, where it gets 2 thumbs up. In a nut shell, this game was thrown together, 
 and patched with excuses, EA stock really has to be dropping, sense they can't seem to get the 
 sports games right any more. I had Tiger Woods on pre order, but I will be cancelling it because, 
 I don't feel EA has shown me any game for the PS3, worth investing more than 20 dollars, into. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsus8091
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything, I've adjusted the controls to my liking and I'm finding myself making 
 plays everywhere. 360 owners are having provlems importing draft classes but not us Sony PS3 owners. 
 The animations are seriously dope, the tackles, the stiff arms, the broken tackles, I mean you 
 get into it more and more on every play. The gameplay is fast and the offline tournaments are furious. 
 I did the whole midnight thing on Aug 14th and my buddies and I played till 4 A. M. We didn't even 
 bother trying o nit pick things because we were to busy having fun. And let's face it. We don't 
 play video game football to complain about FPS or any other tech talk we play because we love football, 
 and that what you get here. I recommend Madden 08 the same way I recommend NCAA 08. Madden is a 
 must have. The franchise mode is deep and intricate with lots of side things you'll love to get 
 involved with, especially the whole new scouting for the upcoming draft. It's better this year 
 than in the past because like in NCAA your scouting prospects during the season. My first few drafts 
 I simmed were right on and they transfered over to the PS3 unlike whats been happening with the 
 360 version. On that system some players are drastically dropping in attributes. Anyway the online 
 mode could use some work but if your a offline tournament player or a franchise nut like me Madden 
 is a must own along with the mini games, which are once again first class.
  
  In all honesty, buy this one, you won't be dissapointed, unless of coarse you a techy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaliSB
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  well lets see, last year i got madden 07 for my bros 360 and i spent many happy hours playing that. 
 of course i pissed about the jetpacking and dumb ai but it was fun. since then i have gotten myself 
 a PS3 so i decided why not get madden 08 for it, which i did and am now kicking myself. first off 
 it annoys me that the same game would run at different FPS on the 360 and PS3. secondly the weapons 
 icon annoy me. they just seem to be a way to make a certain player into a niche player. third there 
 doesnt seem to be any major difference in game play with the exception of some animations. so far 
 jetpacking seems to be a non-issue. EA def has room to... how should i putt it... improve? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DV92Camaro
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Overall the gameplay is sharp along with player models. There are new animations and the game intro 
 is off the hook. If your a Madden fan it's definately worth it. NFL 2K is garbage compared to this. 
 Madden just keeps getting better. I can greatly say I don't understand how this game is getting 
 bad reviews. I can say the PS3 copy I got at midnight was great. And i hear the 360 version just 
 has better framerate. So I can assume it's great all around. I don't know why people are hating. 
 Madden 08 is an awesome game wether it's for PS3 or the XBOX 360. Don't listen to these critics. 
 I been playing madden since 1990 is this years is easily one of the best. Get this game. It's great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memrc
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Why is this game so choppy? I mean wow the game is almost umplayable. For ex, the QB hands the 
 ball off to the RB and then BAME your at the LOS. The FR has to be 10-15 fps At least last years 
 FR was 30 fps!?! It is so so bad. Graphics are ok, on par w/ last years. Some new animations but 
 they look like crap because of the fps. ESPN license, what ESPN license, there isn't any?!? Why 
 have a ESPN license if you're not going to us it? As for online, its ok, same as last years. For 
 some reason EA hasn't figured out that WE want online leagues! None are is this game. I am a VERY 
 disappointed Madden gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow..... um... not even worh the title to me! This game looks, plays, like crap!!! Not getting my 
 $$ i know that! It has not even come close to to what it use to be back on the ps2. This game plays 
 and looks generic. If u need help with it then u producers should ask, especially u david ortiz!!!! 
 um... what r u lead producer? u need to quit!!! I am just glad i did not buy it. I played it at 
 a friends home. And like i told him gods truth. i think ncaa 08 plays, and looks so much better 
 Ask that department how to make football games david ortiz and ur crew!!! . What happen to the 
 eye paint? the white shields, the mouth pieces? online game play? the different face mask features? 
 the voice announcer just sucks!!!! u can find someone else to call the game i mean god u have the 
 rights to it, and work with ESPN i am sure u can ask them for there commentary personal that has 
 to go EA i mean can i even call u EA? u guys suck!!! i hope and prey to god that 2K can somehow 
 get the rights back !!! it is said that ur scared of 2K. And have all the rights, and cannot even 
 make a great game. It is like u guys take our hard earning money and make a game that looks like 
 u just made it 5 months ago. I think i am done with them they do not even deserve to be called 
 there name anymore. EA i hope u guys fail right on ur face and people come to there scenses and 
 stop buying ur games on madden football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McJeph
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I am constantly reading back-to-back negative reviews and bashing of this game everywhere I go, 
 different websites and forums I see people constantly crying about the new Madden.
  
  I don't know what everybody is complaining all that much about, I read a review that Madden isn't 
 a pick up and play type game and requires some learning, of course it is. Most games nowadays you 
 require some learning, especially with football as a sport, there is much involved with it so it's 
 not going to be your typical button mashing game. There is actual strategy involved, you have to 
 pay attention and you can't just throw constant long balls.
  
  The weapons system is simply an extension of the roles that they had in Madden '07, while it's 
 nothing exceptional it's a nice little bit to have. The franchise is improved, as are many other 
 things... the tackling looks smoother than ever, group tackles are even in the game.
  
  Another constant complaint I am reading is the 30fps compared to the Xbox 360's version, which 
 has 60fps. Honestly, if you compare them side-by-side, yes, you can notice the difference quite 
 easily. Is 30fps enjoyable and playable? Yes, easily. Just because the game runs at 30fps does 
 not mean it is of less quality, sure some moments may be less graphically intense, or slightly 
 less smooth, but the bits of a glitches don't seem to be there. The only time my screen skipped 
 was during an onside kick that took a bounce high up into the air, other than that, it has been 
 fine.
  
  Madden '08 is definately an improvement from '07 &amp; '06... there are people constantly bashing 
 it, I say give the game a chance. I must admit, when I first started playing it I was a bit skeptical, 
 just because there was new controls, the layout was very different and much more. But after playing 
 it for a few hours, I grew to enjoy the game more and more.
  
  If you want, you can listen to all of these reviews bashing Madden '08 and choose to not give the 
 game a chance, or go out, rent it even - and play it. I wasn't disappointed and it is still easily 
 a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dshockey
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 at first glance reminded me a little bit too much like Madden 07 for the PS3. If anyone 
 is shifting from PS2 to PS3 with this installment of Madden you may find yourself getting extremely 
 irritated with the tight camera. I don't want to sound to vicious, because many aspects of the 
 game have been improved greatly, with a better franchise and superstar mode, and the weapons system, 
 which provides a helping hand to anyone who didn't have great familiarity with the teams. The weapons 
 system, I'm sad to say, is little more than a way to categorize players by their greatest strength. 
 Just because you don't have a big hitting safety doesn't mean you can't lay down big hits, it just 
 lets you know who you should use to lay the beat. The AI has greatly improved awareness, which 
 some may find more enjoyable. HOWEVER, it seems to me that with the camera angle in this game, 
 you can't really see your outside receivers, making screen passes next to impossible and most out 
 routes a shot in the dark. Another thing that Madden 08 unimproved on was the increased amount 
 of fumbling. I know that Madden has always been pass heavy because most people just want to bomb 
 the ball halfway down the field. If you run a balanced offense expect to fumble at least 2 times 
 a game. After all of my ranting, Madden 08 is still a good game, with improved animations, gang 
 tackling, running controls, and a completely overhauled set of defensive pre-snap controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerk166
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the NCAA game by EA on the gamecube a couple years ago, but i haven't touched 
 football games since becuase i heard they went downhill. Today i bought the NFL Madden 08 game, 
 and i'm very disapointed. The new weapons system that everyone is blabbering about is cool, only 
 if you take the time just to learn how to play the game which can take more then an hour. Otherwise, 
 yes the the weapons system is definitly cool.
  
  The huge problem with this game is that you can't just walk up and play it. It's frustratingly 
 difficult to play at first and you actually need to play a tutorial and some practice games to 
 start to get the hang of it. This is a hue problem for me becuase I bought this game thinking it 
 would be great to invite some friends over to my place and we would all chill and play some NFL 
 football, but it's not. My buddy at work came to my office and i had just bought the game, so we 
 fired up the game and tried to play it on the PS3 I'm using at work. We spent over half an hour 
 trying to figure out how to play the game, i still don't know how to tackle people. We finally 
 gave up and walked away, and I'm seriously thinking of returning it. I unfortuently haven't played 
 the game on an HDTV yet, but the graphics don't look that spectacular in the screenshots or from 
 my standard Def TV im using.
  
  Bottom line, if you want a fun sports game to play during a party, this is not the game for you, 
 people will get frustrated trying to play it at first, guranteed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
