-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/madden07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A number of key features missing in Madden 06 have returned.
 Highlight stick, lead-blocker controls are useful gameplay additions.
 Superstar mode is reasonably compelling this year.
 Having the Hall of Fame players is a nice addition.
 A few bugs from the 360 version are fixed here.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game still lacks features available in other console versions of Madden.
 A few awkward design issues.
 Defensive-back artificial intelligence is easy to exploit on the default difficulty.
 Some animations look rather awkward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 818 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 07 delivers a very good game of football in the series' PlayStation 3 debut. 

  It just wouldn't be a system launch without a Madden game to go with it, and lo and behold, Madden 
 NFL 07 is on hand for the launch of the PlayStation 3. Feature-for-feature, this version of Madden 
 07 takes after the Xbox 360 version from earlier in the year, so if you already bought the game 
 on the 360, there isn't anything here to draw you in. But if Madden on the PS3 is your first go 
 at an NFL game this year, you'll be treated to a slightly less buggy game of football that has 
 some neat features, great graphics, and a few trivial but reasonably amusing uses of the Sixaxis 
 tilt controls.  

  Madden NFL 07 brings back practically every feature that was in Madden 06 (not a tough feat, considering 
 how little there was to the package) , as well as the superstar mode, which was heavily featured 
 in the other console versions of Madden 06 but was absent in the 360 version. On top of that, a 
 number of new gameplay upgrades have been brought to the table, the majority of which are available 
 in all versions of the game. By themselves, none of these individual changes or upgrades is particularly 
 game changing, but taken as a whole, they add a nice dimension of depth to the gameplay experience. 

          Madden makes its PlayStation 3 debut in Madden NFL 07.     

  These features include the highlight stick, a new kick meter, and lead blocking controls. The highlight 
 stick is a new version of the truck stick used for runners on offense. Here, you can use the right 
 analog stick to pull off the sorts of crazy jukes and steps that star running backs are so well 
 known for, and on top of that, depending on the type of back you're playing, you can opt to use 
 more-powerful moves, or more finesse-based maneuvers. This feels like the natural evolution of 
 last year's truck stick, though most experienced Madden players will be able to get by just as 
 easily using the button-based moves rather than making liberal use of the stick. But if you take 
 the time to learn the stick and figure out how to use it and the button controls together, you 
 can be a very hard runner to stop.  

  The new lead blocking controls are likely to inspire some new tactics from all types of players. 
 Here, while on offense, you can opt to switch your controlled player to any of the available blockers 
 during a running play. This includes offensive linemen, tight ends, fullbacks, or whomever else 
 might be blocking on a play. When blocking, you can just do standard blocks, or you can even get 
 dirty and do some mean-spirited cut blocks. This is an interesting mechanic, because it stops you 
 from having to rely on CPU blockers, which, as any experienced player will tell you, are not always 
 the most reliable players on the field. You can also quickly switch back to control the running 
 back once you've laid down your block, which is good, because the CPU running back doesn't always 
 manage to find the holes you're creating. At first, you may find yourself unable to effectively 
 use this feature, as setting up the right blocks isn't always the most intuitive thing in the world. 
 But after some time, this control method gives the running game a really interesting new perspective, 
 and those who love finding new strategies are bound to eat this up.  

  The other changes to the gameplay are less significant, but they're enjoyable all the same. The 
 new kick meter is probably the most accurate representation of kicking available in a game thus 
 far. With this meter, you use the typical arrow to line up your angle and then press down on the 
 right analog stick to set up your power. The meter quickly fills up, and then you press forward 
 on the right stick to set the power, as well as your accuracy. The accuracy is based on the angle 
 at which you press up. If you press too far to the right or left, the kick will get away from you. 
 If you land it within a set space, it'll go right where you want it to.  

  Much like NCAA 07 this year, Madden 07 gives you the option to try and jump the snap while on defense. 
 Pressing a single button at just the right time lets your defensive player get a lead on the blocker 
 in front of him and gives you an advantage while trying to get to the quarterback or runner. Of 
 course, this is a risk-versus-reward situation, as opposing offenses will often try to lure you 
 offside by using a hard count and faking the snap. The CPU tends to make very liberal use of this 
 feature, and it tends to lead to far more encroachment penalties than are realistic for an NFL 
 game. If anything, it ought to lead to more false-start penalties on the offense, since offensive 
 linemen are notorious for jumping before the snap. Still, it's nice to see a key feature from the 
 NCAA series find its way into Madden, and when timed properly, it gives a tangible advantage to 
 the defense.  

  Snap jumps are just one of a few specific control mechanics that are now additionally mapped to 
 the PlayStation 3's Sixaxis tilt controls. When on offense, you can fake the snap by simply flicking 
 the controller upward, and when switching to lead blocker controls, simply pushing up and down 
 with the controller will pull off your block moves. Defensively, you can jump the snap the same 
 way you fake snap on offense, or by pushing the controller forward, you can effectively turn the 
 controller into the hit stick, as you'll lay in a punishing hit. These control additions are interesting, 
 though they really don't affect the gameplay experience in a particularly meaningful way, and some, 
 like the blocking controls, just feel sort of awkward compared to simply using the analog stick 
 controls. Moving the controller around doesn't immerse you in the experience any more than simply 
 flicking the right analog stick or pressing a button would. Perhaps if there were more movement 
 control options available, you might get a bit more out of what's here, but ultimately, though 
 they're an amusing distraction for a short while, eventually you'll probably go right back to the 
 usual controls.  

  Beyond these additions, the changes from 06 to 07 are mostly ancillary, and fundamentally, the 
 game plays very much as its predecessor did last year. The basic feel of the game seems a little 
 bit on the easy side, especially on the default difficulty. Namely, the defensive-back artificial 
 intelligence doesn't seem terribly adept at handling certain types of routes, so it's possible 
 to exploit those routes for easy gains on a regular basis. However, upping the difficulty to all-pro 
 and all-Madden tends to fix that right up. On defense, there are a few more available options in 
 terms of positioning your DB, LB, and DL corps, and you can commit your defense in a certain direction 
 the moment the ball is snapped. But individual defensive-playmaker controls are still missing, 
 which is unfortunate. The quarterback vision cone, which made its debut last year, is still available, 
 though it's not a required feature. You can tap the right analog stick after snapping the ball, 
 and the cone will pop on, letting you use it for a little accuracy boost. No, it's not any more 
 fun to use than it was last year, but that's not altogether surprising.  

          The new superstar mode inarguably benefits from the new role and influence system.     
 

  In terms of features, Madden NFL 07 brings back the franchise mode and online play from last year's 
 game -- literally. The franchise mode is practically untouched in most every way, with only a basic 
 off-season menu list to mess around with and none of the presentational pizzazz of the other console 
 versions -- no Tony Bruno radio show, no newspapers, no e-mail dialogue with your roster, no owner 
 mode. It's certainly functional as is, but that's about all that can be said for the mode. The 
 online play hasn't evolved terribly far, either, with the usual list of EA Sports features included, 
 such as the usual head-to-head play, lobbies, the EA Sports locker, and such. One new feature that 
 sounds very cool on paper is the live franchise game. While in the franchise mode, you can opt 
 to play one of your franchise games against an online opponent by switching on a toggle in the 
 team-select menu. This sends an invite to players sitting in a live franchise game queue in one 
 of the online lobbies. This feature seemed a bit broken in the Xbox 360 version, as we were never 
 actually able to get one of these games to connect. On the PS3, we had better luck, though there 
 were definitely still some issues with clunky search menus and a couple of random disconnects. 
 As always, your mileage will likely vary with the online play.  

  The big new addition to the feature roster this year is superstar mode. If you played the Xbox, 
 PlayStation 2, GameCube, or PC version of Madden last year, you're probably already familiar with 
 this feature in its basic form. You take a fresh rookie player, of any position, through his NFL 
 career, facing the various trials and tribulations that are typical for an NFL player. The version 
 last year suffered from some annoying quirks and interface issues. Some of those problems still 
 exist in the other console versions of Madden 07, but less of them appear on the 360. You no longer 
 hang out in a cheesy hub area modeled after a player's house, nor do you have to worry about taking 
 on movie roles or getting haircuts, and so on. Instead, the sole focus of the mode is on making 
 your player one of the greatest NFL players of all time and eventually getting him into the Hall 
 of Fame.     

  All throughout your superstar's career, a meter will depict how far along your player is toward 
 establishing his legacy as one of the best of all time. There's no specific list of things you 
 have to do to become a Hall of Famer, but obviously you want to have the most storied career possible. 
 Apart from throwing a lot of touchdown passes while playing as a quarterback or intercepting a 
 billion passes as a defensive back, you have to interact with your team and establish a personality. 
 You do this through various interviews, which give you specific answers that gear you toward a 
 team-minded player or a Terrell Owens-like brat, as well as through a new influence system. In 
 this system, every superstar has the ability to play certain roles on the field, and these roles 
 range from, say, a field general for a quarterback to a possession receiver for a wide receiver 
 to a rookie for, you guessed it, a rookie.  

          Lead blocker controls add an interesting new dimension to the gameplay -- though using the 
 Sixaxis control method isn't necessarily the way to go about it.     

  These roles give you tangible bonuses and control over players on the field. A quarterback using 
 the field-general role, for instance, can upgrade his passing-accuracy rating, as well as the blocking 
 ratings for his various offensive linemen. Another role he can take, the team leader, lets him 
 upgrade the awareness, injury, acceleration, and agility ratings for all the other offensive players 
 on the field. You gain these points by upping your influence rating. This rating goes up or down 
 based on what you do on the field. Make a huge completion for a first down, and you'll get a nice 
 bonus. Throw a lame interception that's returned for a touchdown, and it will drop through the 
 floor. It's a great and addictive system that makes you want to play through superstar mode games, 
 rather than just simulate them.  

  This system is  the  reason you'll want to play through the superstar mode. The other big feature 
 to make its way into this year's game, the training minigames, sadly isn't all that great. When 
 you first create your superstar, you put him through a number of workouts with teams and at the 
 combine. In this mode, you run a 40-yard dash, do a number of bench-press reps, and do one position-specific 
 game that's somewhat similar to the minicamp games from the other versions of Madden. The trouble 
 is that none of these games are anywhere near as good as the classic minicamp games. The 40-yard 
 dash and bench-press games are very awkward at first, and the instructions for each game use some 
 confusing language when explaining how to play. With some practice, you'll get the hang of it, 
 but even when you do, the games aren't much fun. The same goes for the position-specific games, 
 which don't feel especially fleshed out. You can play any of these games throughout the superstar 
 mode if your agent has access to the performance institute, and there's also a separate minigames 
 mode that includes all of these, as well, but odds are, you'll never much want to bother with them 
 outside of the requisite superstar-mode workouts.  

  Some of the issues with the original superstar mode rear their ugly head here, too. Mainly, there's 
 no particularly good sense that your agent, wealth, or status really make much difference beyond 
 the Hall of Fame aspect. You could hire the best agent available, sign a gigantic free-agent contract, 
 and never notice a difference save for the change in uniform. There's not much flash to the life 
 of an NFL superstar, and trudging through menus on a constant basis doesn't give you the right 
 kind of vibe. Another issue is that, like last year, some positions just don't play very well. 
 The game uses a zoomed camera angle during the mode that effectively limits your vision to the 
 area immediately surrounding your player, and for some positions, like defensive back, it makes 
 playing it a huge pain. In fact, the camera angle kind of makes all positions a bit more of a pain, 
 but with some positions like quarterback, running back, and linebacker, it doesn't hinder your 
 ability to play properly terribly much.  

  Also, the superstar mode doesn't run as well as the rest of the game, especially when you're playing 
 actual games. Since you're not controlling anyone but your own player, sequences on the other side 
 of the ball from where you play are sped up and played solely by the computer. You'll see some 
 wonky aspects during the sped-up simulation, including a liberal amount of encroachment calls as 
 the CPU-controlled offense goes nuts with the hard counts. If nothing else, the PS3 version of 
 the game does seem to load up menus and play-calling screens in this mode with less choppiness 
 than the 360.  

  Some of the bugs and issues from the Xbox 360 version of Madden 07 are fixed in the PS3 version, 
 but some aren't. One that hasn't been fixed pertains to the game's Madden gamer level and the connected 
 Hall of Fame feature. As you play through the game, your profile has a level associated with it 
 that increases as you perform specific tasks. It's similar to the whole Madden card system from 
 the old console versions. Upping your level unlocks classic NFL players that are currently enshrined 
 in the Hall of Fame, both as video reels you can watch and as players that hit the free-agent pool 
 in the game. Neat as that is, a problem arises when you start a new franchise or superstar mode 
 after unlocking some of these guys. They appear in these modes' free-agent pools, too, and quickly 
 get snapped up by various teams. If you're the type that wants to keep your roster pure, you essentially 
 have to save your default roster when you boot up the game for the first time and reload that roster 
 every time you start a new franchise or superstar. A simple on/off toggle in the options menu for 
 the Hall of Fame players would have gone a great distance toward eliminating this issue. On the 
 plus side, the fatigue bug that prevented any players' fatigue meters from dropping even after 
 extended play on the field is fixed in this version.  

  The PS3 version of Madden, perhaps unsurprisingly, looks near-identical to the Xbox 360 version. 
 On an HD display cranked to the game's maximum resolution of 720p, you might notice some subtle 
 upgrades to things like player helmets, jerseys, and skin textures. It's very minor stuff that 
 the majority of people won't notice, but even so, the game looks great. Apart from the player models, 
 the arenas are huge and detailed, with nice-looking crowd and sideline player graphics. The animation 
 is mostly excellent. You'll see a few clumsy transition animations and run into some random clipping 
 problems now and again, but the big hits look painful, the jukes and spin moves look very natural, 
 and the beautiful diving catches look, well, beautiful. The frame rate holds about as steady as 
 it did on the 360, as well.  

          You won't find many graphical differences between the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of Madden, 
 but it's a great looking game all the same.     

  The audio presentation hasn't changed to any notable degree. John Madden is still relegated to 
 Ask Madden play-calling scenarios, and commentary is handled by an unknown EA Sports radio announcer 
 who delivers 10 times the enthusiasm his predecessors ever could. On-field audio is a delight, 
 with some really top-notch player banter and plenty of bone-crushing hits. The soundtrack is once 
 again made up of a mishmash of popular rock and hip-hop, and just like every other year, it's a 
 wildly varied mix that doesn't gel at all. Not to mention that some song choices, such as Spank 
 Rock's "Backyard Betty," seem a little seedy for an E-for-Everyone game, even with lyrical edits. 

  As was the Xbox 360 version, the PS3 version of Madden NFL 07 is a very good football game that 
 doesn't quite live up to the full potential of the latest console hardware. And while the game 
 looks and plays quite good on the PS3, the added Sixaxis control support isn't really that impressive, 
 nor are the visuals all that much better than what the 360 version offered back in August. Still, 
 the improvements, though small, are there, and for football fans buying a PS3 at launch, Madden's 
 worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Madden's got the moves (blitz, sack, touch down) that you need to take your team all the way. Is 
 your arm strong enough? Use the teams already selected or create your own. I haven't played sports 
 games in about ten to fifteen years but the new create your own player was a nice touch. Fill the 
 position you want to control with this new player. Make him the focal point of the team. As your 
 new leader can he make it happen for you or did you make a mistake. Changing the weather conditions 
 is definitely cool because this usually changes the teams ability to play their game. Learn the 
 different audible calls to create an off sides or to change plays. Route the men on your team for 
 a different strategy in order to get your best results. Learn your defensive and offensive plays 
 to find your own teams weaknesses and strengths. Most of all have fun. Even if you're like me and 
 not a seasoned veteran you can still take on the big teams. And I don't know all the positions 
 on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miguel530
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best football games. It should of been gave more credit then a 7.9. The game 
 should of been rated a 8.5. I am not saying it is the best game in the world, I am saying it should 
 of been rated higher. I think this game is the best football game i have played. should of been 
 rated at least a 8.5 this game is great online. It has great graphic and every thing you can wish 
 for so I do not know what every one is talking about. The game could of been a little bit more 
 difficult. If it would been it would of been a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassinslay
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The 07 installment of madden has gotten ported to the Playstation3.
  And there are many flaws in it which makes it very inferior to the xbox360 version.
  
  
  
 
  Graphics: Not much difference from madden 06 . I personally think the xbox360 version looks more 
 polished. It gets an solid 8
  
  
  Sound: Pretty Mediocre, and i still hate that cannon sound on long passes. Sound gets an 6.5
  
 
  gamplay: Superstar mode is re-introduced in this installment and Franchise is still here. Much more 
 modes are in this version. But bugs, glitches and bad frame rate (30 fps on Ps3, 60 Fps on 360) 
 Really put an cramp in the game. It's still madden fun i'll give game play an 7.5
  
  
  This is an big dissapointment to me because im an huge football and madden fan. Better luck next 
 year guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a good start on the PS3. So lets run down the main modes. Superstar mode has been 
 revamped into the point were you get to pick any position and try to get into the hall of fame. 
 But in order to get there, you gotta play good. And the only way to get there is to fill up a hall 
 of fame bar. Also, EA has a new system of points called "Madden Gamer Points" which is the same 
 as last year, but now you can risk those points and use those saved-up points to gain NFL Hall 
 of famers, which are received in free agency. But still, The graphics i have seen in a sports game, 
 which is saying a lot. But with the good comes the bad. In superstar mode, which ever position 
 you pick, the camera angle is the worst i have ever seen. It is just waaaaay to close for my comferts. 
 Also, Mini-Camp games have replaced for some thing like a 40-Yard Dash and Bench Pressing. The 
 rest of the games are based on your position. What?!?! Anyways, the anoucing is horrible, with 
 some random dude doing radio broadcasting. What happen to the terrific commentary from 06? All 
 in all, Madden gets a good start on the PS3, but with some removels and crappy camera for your 
 position in Superstar mode, some people may be left wanting more from this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  To begin things off, I have never been a Madden fan. This is one of the few madden games I have 
 played. This is the first one I have been able to realy get into. Good things: This has great graphics, 
 the players look and act and react real. There is a great super star mode that lets you creat a 
 player and go thru a season mode with him. There is a lot of neat things, such as pratice and trying 
 out for a team that makes it very realastic. There is also all of your favorite teams from the 
 NFL. the controls are very good, I was really impressed by them. YOu have a lot of control over 
 your player and it makes the game more fun. There is also a nice sound track in the game with some 
 great tunes. But most importantly, they really nailed the game itself. You can jump right in and 
 have loads of fun without having to know much about football. BAD THINGS: the graphics are good, 
 but the fans dont look that realalistic. Sometimes when the camera shows things going on on the 
 sidelines it jerks, not sure what that is . But it still doesnt stop you from enjoying the graphics 
 or the game. Overall: this is my favorite madden game and you can get it for about 12 dollars for 
 the ps3. thats a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a waste of time. The series is pretty much the same thing every single game! EA needs 
 to change their formula because right now their are better games that are worth your money.
  
  The gameplay is the same as previous titles, they need to add something new to it. It's been 
 the same over and over again. EA even said that games have been the same over and over again, so 
 why don't they do something about it?
  
  Sound is passable but for a next -gen title I expected better. To add insult to injury the graphics 
 in this version are a bit worse than the Xbox 360 version. Since the PS3 version was released later 
 it should have been the other way around! But at least EA fixed a few bugs in the PS3 version that 
 were present in the Xbox 360 version.
  
  This game is not worth your money nor would you like it. It is the same game that has been rereleased 
 over and over again. Don't even rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UOducks521
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Right from the start there's something that gives you the 'non-madden' feel. Perhaps its the lack 
 of modes and features or perhaps its the choppy frame-rate that continuously breaks up the action 
 on the field when playing in superstar mode. Whatever it may be, one thing is for certain; this 
 is not the Madden football game that you have grown to love.
  
  Let's talk about the modes for a minute. In this years installment there's: Play Now (obviously) , 
 Superstar Mode, Franchise and Online. You would think that maybe with a next gen debut on a new 
 console (PS3) they might throw in a new game play mode but that is not the case here. Regardless 
 of how many options they have, the game fails to any of them very well. Play Now is just a quick 
 exhibition match that pits you against the computer or a friend to play a friendly game. Franchise 
 lets you control your favorite team and do whatever you want.... well at least it used to. This 
 year they have drastically cut huge parts from the Franchise mode. Owner mode is M. I. A. in Madden 
 on the PS3 and X box 360, instead you just get some menus with different options. This leads me 
 to my next gripe and that's the lack lack of any kind of personality within Franchise Mode. In 
 the ps2, x box and game cube versions they have the Tony Bruno radio show (which is usually is 
 recycled sound bits played over with differentiations to it) . The radio show helps to give Madden 
 the flair that makes its players feel like they are actually a part of the atmosphere. Superstar 
 is a good idea that still needs to be matured and explored. An example of this is when you are 
 designing your digital counter-part you don't have a whole lot of customization options to work 
 with. You cannot designated what type of haircut you want without changing the players entire head 
 which eventually ends up with you compromising on what features are important to you and which 
 ones are just icing on the cake. If you are going to give people the option to design an athlete 
 then customization should probably be very open and easy to do. Another big gripe with the Superstar 
 mode is the camera angle you are given to play with. Have you ever wondered how many holes are 
 on the back of your created players jersey? Well now you can find out because thats the only place 
 you'll be seeing if you play any position other than O-Line or QB. Playing as a running back in 
 this game is utterly impossible due to the fact that when you think you're going to break free 
 and become a game changer; you get tackled by a defender you can't even see. This is hardly good 
 game play mechanics and wont usually make people want to play your game.
  
  The game play in Madden 07 is decent at best. It seems that the guys over at EA decided to revamp 
 the control scheme. This isn't an entirely bad thing because the new controls are not super hard 
 to become accustomed to, but the revamping seems to complicate things more than it eases. Remember 
 how in the last gen versions of madden you could press down on the D-Pad and select a man to send 
 in motion? Well kiss that goodbye because now you have t o hold O or B (respectively) then tap 
 the D-Pad to whatever direction the receiver you want to motion is located. Unfortunately the motioning 
 controls are not the height of the game play problems that Madden posses' this year. It's an almost 
 guarantee that whenever you try to throw up the rock to a receiver like Randy Moss or T. O. it won't 
 be completed. Not because you over threw the receiver or made a bad pass but because the A. I. likes 
 to make the receivers stop running the routes whenever the rock is within 10 yards of them. I cannot 
 remember the number of times I could have had a TD but didn't because my receiver decided to stop 
 and pick daisies on the 20 yard line. This imperfection leads to the next oddity and thats the 
 fact that the commentary by Al Michaels and John Madden himself is absent. Instead we have this 
 guy who does a pseudo-radio broadcast of the game but winds up sounding like a tool who is usually 
 a day late and a dollar short on his calls. When I found out that Madden wasn't talking it baffled 
 me. When your games named MADDEN 07 shouldn't you have his 16 legged turkey eating behind in there? 
 I still wonder why EA / Tiburon decided to cut out another immersing aspect to the game in favor 
 of some cookie cutter announcer. The Graphics are alright. They are not groundbreaking by any means 
 but they definitely get the job done. The one thing that always seems to bug me is the fact that 
 all there is absolutely no chain gang or cheerleaders. The latter I can live without but no chain 
 gangs? Come on man, who is resetting the ball after every play? The simple fact that they failed 
 to even have the 3 guys on the sideline keeping track is sad. Despite having a strong dissatisfaction 
 with the lack of a chain gang, the player models do look good and you can somewhat see the likeliness 
 of the important players like Mike Vick or Jeremiah Trotter. After several hours with this game 
 i was thoroughly unimpressed but found myself continually playing this game based on the fact that 
 I was hungry for football and there wasn't anything else out there. The game is not horrible by 
 any means even though my review may have leaned to only pointing out the negatives; the game does 
 have many positives that essentially even it out. I say that this game is a good deal if you can 
 find it in the bargain bin at your local game shop but isn't worth the 60 dollar price tag that 
 i wound up paying for it. With the impending release of APF2k8, Madden 08 or even NCAA Football 
 08; you should hang onto your money and wait because even if those two games show up to play for 
 at least 2 quarters they already have this installment beat and sent to the showers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaveragejoe90
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Madden has had a huge impact on the way we think about football games and video games in general. 
 Its outstanding gameplay has made a generation of gamers clamour over it every time it releases, 
 but after playing this year's version, that may change. The gameplay is virtually unchanged, with 
 the exception of changing where the sprint button is located and making the truck stick have more 
 purposes than just trucking people over. Overall it is too formal for a casual gamer that is not 
 a fan of the NFL to pick up and play. It lacks the arcade feel of all other pro football games.
 
  
  Visuals are good, but slightly more muddy that the 360 version of the game. Lighting and contact 
 made on the field is as accurate as it gets.
  
  The worst thing about Madden is that it's the only football game with an NFL license, so EA doesn't 
 need to put everything they have into the game to make it the best it can possibly be. This is 
 shown in the bad playbook selection screen where you opponent has the ability to look at your play 
 and adjust his selection to your's. The Superstar Mode offers a fun, innovative gameplay and is 
 the only real addition to the game. Even though Superstar Mode is fun, it doesn't replace the fun 
 simulation fans used to have in the franchise mode, which is oddly missing.
  
  Overall it's as good of a game as it has been for the last few years, but offers no great new features 
 and even lacks some of the old ones. I would not even spend $30 it now costs. Wait until '08 comes 
 out and see if it recaptures our love for the game, or simply buy NCAA '08 or All-Pro Football 
 2K8 for some real arcade-style football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkearse36
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is plain out bad. Okay, I'll start with the good. The good is that it has ok graphics 
 and looks like the players aren't robots. It still is not as good as NFL 2K5. The game has pre 
 snap videos that can become annoying after a while and it is no diffrent from the PS2 version (in 
 terms of gameplay.) Online is bad... it slows down on plays and is not able to play at a normal 
 rate. I think that MAYBE madden can beat NFL 2k5 someday. This game though is not worth 60 bucks. 
 The most I would pay for it is 20. Resist the temptation and rent BEFORE buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2007 for the Playstation 3 System is a game by EA Sports, a well-known name in the category 
 of Sports Video Games. Not much is new to be found in this game, except the graphics are exceptionaly 
 better than those on the PS2, and noticeably better than the graphics on the Xbox 360. Madden 2007 
 is the best football game for the PS3 yet because it's the only one available, sadly. Although 
 it may not be the greatest game for the System, it's worth playing a few games in, but you may 
 want to rent it before purchasing. I recommend Madden 2007 to those who love football so much they 
 can't wait for NCAA Football 2008 or Madden NFL 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Though this version of Madden does have better graphics and better options in gameplay then the 
 Playstation 2 version, it lacks the different modes. Create a Superstar is descent and Franchise 
 is pretty much the same, just looks better. If there was more features and gameplay, this could 
 be a sports game for the ages. Six Axis is hard to control and I just turned it off and used the 
 right analog stick. Highly addictive since I'm a huge fan of football games but with only two players 
 on and off line, it's just not the game I was hoping for. Could be better but could be worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 for the Playstation 3 is football, if nothing else. they have a great gameplay system. 
 the controls are better than ever. but, it seems thats all this next gen game has. is just the 
 football game itself. Sure, you have all yer modes. Superstar, franchise, mini camp. but this game 
 lacks presentation. there is none while yer playing. in that, i mean there are no camera angles 
 u may see when u watch a real game. Its all shots that are unrealistic in relation to a cameraman 
 in real life. Shots up close to the players and such, like on the field. And that may b cool, but 
 i wanna see a presentation that resembles a TV broadcast of an NFL football game. that would have 
 made this game even more realistic. and there are no broadcasters, which also takes away from the 
 overall feel during a game. u dont really feel like its happening. all u hear is a radio broadcast 
 of the home team's radio station, saying things like we're up by 14 now. so that really brings 
 u away from what would b a TV broadcast experience. if they had gone the presentation way, it would 
 have gone a long way in making the football game yer playing feel more important. like everyones 
 watching. The ONLINE play is addicting. im like 54-42. i cant belive ive even played that many 
 games already! if u love watching football, then ull b just as addicted to the online play as i 
 am. I currently have or have played resistence, fight night round 3, and motorstorm online. and 
 im giving madden the award so far. its the only one i play online on a regular basis. but as it 
 is, this is still a very solid playing football game. like i said the gameplay is fantastic. no 
 presentation, the sound is fine, the graphics are great. player models need some work. but in the 
 end, madden NFL is madden NFL. you have to buy this game if yer a fan of the NFL. Year in and year 
 out, i always end up loving the next copy of madden, no matter how dissapointing it may initially 
 seem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgameboybobx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  You know what. Madden 07 on the ps2 was better becuase of the gameplay but the ps3 is better becuase 
 of the graphics. They're even becuase they're both awesome games. I wouldn't say one of them is 
 better than the other in everyway because hell no it isn't. The good part about the ps3 is that 
 it can play ps2 games also (and psone) . It's awesome even when my ps2 broke. I can't wait till 
 Madden 08 comes out. It'll look so good on both systems. Once I was playing Madden 2005 online 
 against this guy from Brazil and he beat me so bad. I think it was 51- 23. He's probably still 
 great at Madden. I heard his name was Pedro and he's one of the best online madden and ncaa football 
 players online. He's won 23 in a row once until one day my cousin played him and beat him by 3 
 touchdowns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The madden seiries has been going on for a long time and some have been really good and some were 
 awful and this game was ok. There should have been more features like the fantasy draft and the 
 college all star game that they have in madden 07 for ps2. so i would not buy this game but its 
 worth renting So i say get the one for ps2 because i used to have it and it was way better then 
 this game but on the good side this game had really good graphics. ok bi la la la la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawgcityClev
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's the nex-gen systems are a little too advanced for the I. Q.'s sitting at EA Tiburon. 
 You take a game that actually looked and played decent on current gen, and make it look worse for 
 nex-gen? Player models look like blob figures on steroids. Body scaling is horrid. And the movement 
 of the players just doesn't feel right. Let's add that the game itself is watered down, and just 
 not what you'd expect a nex-gen game to present. Why remove so many features from current gen? 
 I still can't get over how bad the player models look. Creating a player was the worst experience 
 I've felt in a longtime. Legs look like overbuilt rubberbands. Now, I wasn't happy with Madden 
 on current gen for particular reasons, such as, bad gameplay, slowdown effects, horrible blocking, 
 pathetic A. I. but it did look decent this year on the PS2. And played kinda smooth. Animations 
 are still a joke. EA just doesn't care. And nor do I care to present anymore on this videogame. 
 Complete waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The visuals are pretty nice, and it's good to see a football title make the PS3 launch -- but at 
 what cost?
  Well, how about frame rate lagging during play? Ridiculous ease to run your players offside or 
 grab an encroachment penalty? No Owner Mode? Or how about only catering to two players at a time?
 
  If that sounds like the game for you, then Madden 2007 is definitely your title.
  Don't get me wrong, the graphics are impressive, and the intro videos and cut sequences give a 
 realistic feel (minus the frame rate lag, of course) . And the game does have some positive features, 
 such as a renewed commitment to the Superstar mode, now the Road to the Hall of Fame, so that some 
 of your actions actually make an impact on your character and his fame and ego. The ability to 
 change roles during a game is also positive, as well as taking on the role of a leader and impacting 
 your entire team.
  Yet the game barely squeezes by on the coat tails of the great series that it is. The unparalleled 
 simulation mode, Owner Mode, is scrapped in exchange for a Franchise and Superstar Mode, as well 
 as the ability to play a great party game with more than just 2 people. Not to mention the great 
 use of the Sixaxis controller, where if you happen to shift your arms or move a little before the 
 snap, you've just moved your opponent closer to the end zone. Now I know the feature CAN be turned 
 off, but it still detracts from the game.
  Overall, Madden 2007 looks nice, and you may be tempted to give into a normally great football 
 game. But while you're walking through the aisles, keep that copy of Madden 2007 looking nice in 
 it's wrapping and pray that EA makes up for this unfortunate travesty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tadurham
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because, hey, it's Madden 07 and it's the only football game available for the 
 PS3. The only two modes are Franchise and Superstar. Granted, mini-games and practice mode exists, 
 but they are nothing too special. I like Franchise mode, but even it's freshness wears off quickly. 
 The graphics are typical PS3 graphics, though I hope the release Madden 08 in 1080p. I like to 
 buy a game for what it has to offer, and Madden lacks variety. I developed a LOLB as a superstar, 
 and it's tough to get use to the camera angle. I find myself unable to make big plays and get burned 
 quite often, which drops the players influence rating. I did just buy this game last week though 
 (after the fact, after football season) . Overall, if basic football gameplay is what you want with 
 great graphics, then this game is for you. If you want a game with a lot of variety and a good 
 head coaching module, then you may want to wait until next year. By the way, Madden &amp; Michaels 
 no longer announce the games, which I miss. The EA Radio guy isn't bad, but he's not 'classic' 
 like the other two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happydude64
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I also own this game on xbox 360 and nintedo wii and I have to say that this is the worst of the 
 3. The Wii innovative controls make it the best, the xbox graphics make it second best. But having 
 said that, this version is also very good. The gameplay is unrivalled and it has such detail and 
 fast loading times that you could almost say that it is better than the N64. The PS1 could not 
 handle this nor could the snes but the PS3 can and for that reason alone this is a must have game. 
 The running on this game feels so smooth and the next gen engines has really been put to use here. 
 You can see every small detail but it does not quite match the innovativity of the N64 version 
 but is still a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cz62289
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  IF you want to be frustrated with a game then buy this game. The EA crew screws you out of 60 dollars 
 and you have nothing to show for it. This game is an embaressment on the Madden dynasty. IF they 
 do not deliver this year with 08 then another football game could move in and take the industry 
 over. Think before you leap on this game i. e. dont buy it. If you do buy dont try the superstar 
 mode it will be the most ridiculous thing you have ever played. The way people move is hard, and 
 believe me im an expierenced madden gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I would never consider myself a Madden fan, as this was the first version I had owned or even played. 
 And I can easily say I wasn't too impressed. At times I would much rather pull out 2K5 for the 
 PS2 and just have as much fun with that.
  Theres nothing outstanding about the game when it comes to the graphics, stadium shadows are missing, 
 nothing really too new thrown in with the gameplay.
  The superstar mode is actually quite fun though. Make your own player and only control that player. 
 Ever dream of being a kicker who kicks that Super Bowl winning kick? Make one and kick your way 
 into the Super Bowl!
  One outstanding reason to purchase this game is the absence of the man on the title. John Madden 
 no longer announces the games, which makes the game that much more bearable, though his replacement 
 is kinda bland and boring.
  If you're a die hard Madden fan, get it. A casual football fan... you may JUST want to hold off 
 till next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for something new and refreshing... please don't follow the PLAYSTATION 3. This 
 game should be cut in cost... but it won't be. This is the game that came out several months ago 
 for the XBOX 360. Being curious has costed... and renting should have been the option. I have NCAA 
 07 on the XBOX 360 and this game runs just like it... with the graphic pauses and glitches. EA Sports 
 has not improved anything over the game that was out in late summer. It is very difficult to recommend 
 this game if you have it on any other system. Visuals and sound do not jump out at you once you 
 get into this game. I wish I could say buy it, but this game comes very short on the have to have 
 list. Madden and EA need to do something... due to me not having any want to buy anymore in this 
 series. Warning if you are purchasing this for ONLINE PLAY..... This game runs pretty poorly with 
 several pauses and lag.... The best game on the PS3 is Resistance with minimal latency issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatty09
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  There are some things about it that are better like graphics and gameplay, but there are some things 
 that suck. When I go online it is always laggy and I have to quit. Also, the create a player drills 
 are so hard and that sucks, because in Madden 05 creating a player was so easy. Finally, I think 
 that this game is worth buying and that you will have a lot of fun playing it and you will get 
 many hours of enjoyment. Also, I don't like when you player will jump the snap, and he will do 
 a hitstick when you don't want him to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelRush
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Madden games since the 16-bit age. This game takes a step backwards even from 
 that era! It seems EA is intent on splitting football into two franchises, NFL Head Coach, and 
 Madden. I used to enjoy putting a team together and playing together with a friend against a CPU 
 player. Well now in Madden 2007, you can't play together, 2p can only play against each other. 
 Even in 16-bit Maddens you could play together!
  
  In recent Maddens, I enjoyed putting a franchise together and rather than playing, I liked watching/coaching. 
 Since Head Coach (Do NOT buy that horrible excuse for a football game) is out, it seems EA doesn't 
 want Madden encroaching on their other franchise, and took out the abiliity to simply watch/coach 
 games.
  
  This is inexcusable. I hope the NFL yanks the license from EA, or at the least, someone else comes 
 out with a football game so we don't have to be forcefed whatever crap EA throws at us and calls 
 football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radicaldude10
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 has to be by far one of the ps3 games.! u can go online, and its good u don't have to 
 pay for it like the Xbox live thing.. and plus u can make your own rosters and tons of new stuff. 
 making a new player is really fun on this game. If u have madden 07 u r 1 lucky person. even if 
 your not in to football, even video games, u will love this game. i give this game a full 10. i 
 mean series there i'snt that many ps3 games and overall madden is always fun like hex!!!1 so if 
 u agree comment me on my profile, track me if u want!!!!!!!!!!
  
  This is an extra tip for all those madden 07 players or even 08. This is an old review but i'm 
 adding this to it. if you want to get your DNF% up and your skill points and possibly your level 
 online this it what u do. wen you are playing online pick a team that is worse than the opponents. 
 and if u win it will go up. and just playing will give you points. it worked for me wen i heard 
 about this i tried it and picked Tennessee, and i was lucky enough that the opponent i played picked 
 the bears who were 95 and i was 74 on team overall. so during the game i was surprised to see how 
 good my team was doing even though my team was so much worse and i won the game 54 to 47. the reason 
 y the opponent got points are from HAIL MARYS into the End zone and 2 point conversions. i'm 2-18 
 which u can see i was bad now won games. my DNF% went down and my skill level went up.
  
  i recommend Tennessee or giants.
  so hope you find this helpful to u. enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Madden games on the PS3 will get good as the years go by. Everyone knows that Madden gets better 
 and better as the years go by on a next gen. console. The graphics are good but the gameplay needs 
 improvement. If you own a PS2 and played Madden over the years you will notice a change in the 
 button commands. It'll take a while to gets used to but you'll be too interested in how the game 
 looks. If you have an HDTV you'll know what I'm talking about. Just give the series sometime and 
 I'll promise you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droogie_1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the 2k series, Madden 07 is NOT the game for you. The animation is terrible, 
 the action is wooden, the passing is WAY too easy, the cut scenes between plays are horrendous 
 and make playing defense a nightmare, and the sound and graphics are not good. Overall, it's worse 
 than the last PS2 Madden I played.
  
  Madden and EA football games are still way behind NFL 2k5...
  
  Oh well...2010 will be here 
 shortly and Madden will no longer be the only game in town (if the stupid NFL knows what good for 
 it...) .
  
  I apparantly need more text to post my review. That seems pretty stupid to me. Am I at one hundred 
 words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eerie921
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  First of all, It's Madden!! And some of you'll know what to expect from the series. But as always, 
 everything else will go up a notch in graphics, sounds, features or a new game mode.
  
  Graphics - I have compared my PS3 version with my friend's PS2 and it really does show some improvement. 
 Top notch when it comes to shadowing on your players or the detail they really up into the characters. 
 The stadium or the sidelines have better realistic feeling to it. But besides that, I really dont 
 see some whoooping improvement unless I remind myself that I am playing it with a PS3
  
  Sounds - If you're talking about the sound quality then it SHOULD be better since I really cant 
 notice that much difference myself. But one thing I can notice is that teams have their own words 
 they used while calling an audible or before the snap. For example, I use the Atlanta Falcons and 
 before the snap, one player which I really cant find out who says Here we go Mike!! And Michael 
 Vick calls for a hut. The crowd have different sequence of cheering and the music? There are more 
 rocks than hiphop from my experience. Features - Manually opening a path for your running back? 
 Tried it, but I cant help but to notice that it's kind of annoying when your halfback or your running 
 back have a different mind of it's own. There was a perfect opening for a long run but couldnt 
 do it. Why? cuz the AI runner on my team is on a payroll with this so-called feature. Hot routes, audibles 
 or selecting a player has become easier. But besides that, not much differences.
  
  Hall of Fame - This is basically the same thing as Superstar mode from the previous 2006. But the 
 real difference is that you will be acting as an individual and there's an influence system which 
 is quite fun actually. Depending on your success of a play, your influence will go up or down which 
 affects the whole OFF/DEF team. Since it's really an individual play, you dont decide on the play, 
 unless it's an audible. So when your coach chooses a play, you go with it. Even tho its useless 
 sometimes. The camera view for this is AWFUL!! when you're playing QB. I got intercepted three 
 times in a row before I had enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Madden has been a sound franchise of games since day 1. But with this new addition to the group 
 it just seems to have opened up a whole new level of sports games. The gameplay has been made to 
 play a lot smoother and the extremely impressive graphics make it that more real. With all new 
 training mini - games like the 40 Yard and Weightlifting even the training is better. One of the 
 only downfalls of this game is the multiplayer, the fact that you can't play two people on a team 
 is somewhat disappointing but not too big of a deal i guess. All in all Madden 07 makes for an 
 impressive next - gen sports game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller4realdog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  It is good, I love how the commentary is different and it sounds like your listening to the game 
 on the radio. I also like that you can see the players faces now also i wish they would go back 
 to the old playbook because i don't really like how it is on the left side but i will get used 
 to it. Also if you like madden it is a good game one of the best madden games i have played. So 
 i would reccomend this to anyone who plans on getting a ps3 or has one to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefonte
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This by far is the worst madden since SEGA. I have been playing for over 15 years and considered 
 myself a guru and a top player. This game has a near 0 replay factor (THIS SHOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE 
 FOR A SPORTS GAME ESPECIALLY MADDEN) . The controls are all loosy goosy and speaking of controls 
 if you think you are going to put this game in and put the controller on Classic madden or Madden 
 05, forget it there are no preplanned controled settings and you have to program each button back 
 you the previous versions. No changing of the camera angle, so if liked to see the whole field 
 no classic or over field veiws for you. Play calling is horrible they give you so many option you 
 dont have time to explore because of the play clock. No formation changes on offense, the hit stick 
 is not exiting at all. There is so much not right with this game I would be typing all night.
 
  
  My advice, get 07 for the PS2 and play that until EA gets it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryn2305
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is good throughout most of the game. Players movements are generally lifelike 
 (minus some tackling animations and the awkward running animation - which is particularly noticeable 
 when running in the open field) . For the real football fan, some minor animation details look awkward. 
 Most noteably, the position that the quarterback holds the ball outward before throwing. On the 
 positve side, runningback styles are more realistic. For example, when Tomlinson jukes Jamal Lewis 
 will attempt to run over opponents. In addition, the lead blocker control is an interesting, but 
 not completely satisfying. As a blocker you will often feel slow and inefficient, and movements 
 are commonly unrealistic. Finally in between plays, and any transitions for that matter, you will 
 notice an undesireable skipping glitch - that is, slow rugged motions. While this is not a big 
 deal it is yet another thing that game developers should have cleaned up. It seems far from HD 
 Gaming. 
  
  Graphics: Being on the PS3, graphics are good, but far from great. Player models are not realistic 
 and sometimes unidentifiable. Football fans will notice that faces are almost always very inacurate 
 (other than coaches) . To add to this, facial expressions and mouth motions are not convincing. 
 Bodily features are also poor. For, example, Rex Grossman's arms are large and muscucular instead 
 of small and lacking real definition. For the most part, players bodies - specifically arms - are 
 larger than life. When punters have the same body type as linebackers there is a serious problem. 
 Yet again, this is a minor detail, but another to add to a compilation.
  
  Sound: Though the soundtrack is not oustanding, in-game sound is good. For example, Peyton Manning's 
 snap count is unique and indentifiable. Player comments on the field are enjoyeable and humorous. 
 Defensive communication as well as player celebrations prove to be among the few positives to be 
 noted. The new home announcer, on the other hand, is horrific and shows no sign of interesting 
 diversification throughout the game. Superstar: While better than previous years, Superstar Mode 
 is still shallow. It is stisfying at first, with improved personal workouts, and a more interesting 
 training camps and practises. But as with previous editions, it is mostly the same thing over and 
 over again. Perhaps this would not be such a dissapointment for the Xbox or Playstation 2, but 
 with the PS3, I had expeted a much more detailed and clean-cut game. As other review seem to suggest, 
 so did the average Madden fan.
  
  Final Though: Madden 2007, despite expanding upon Superstar Mode and making minor adjustments to 
 other features has been a true disappointment. For a game which seemed to have unending promise, 
 I can describe it as no more than shallow. If you are looking for a quick game between firends, 
 rent Madden 07, but if you are looking for a game with depth - one that will entertain you for 
 extended peiods of time - this is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razielnk
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Lets cut to the chase, Madden 2007 sucks period. Wait why does it sucks with no further explanation? 
 Good question. 07 my look pretty good looking at first glance but once you play it oh my god you 
 realize this isn't NFL football. Every year Madden has one side of the game to explosive this year 
 its the running game. Since with the new lead blocking controls you can make blocks and open up 
 holes for the HB or FB and if its a player like Jamal Lewis its like impossible to tackle him even 
 with the hit stick. The passing game is so much crap. If you watch real NFL games receivers usually 
 come back for the ball and if its to high for them they'll jump for it. Nope, not in Madden receivers 
 will continue to go through their routes even when the QB is under pressure and throwing them the 
 ball they wont jump over the defender to get it even if its one on one coverage. Even your offensive 
 line wont give you protection to have a chance to throw the ball. Another thing wrong with Madden 
 is the penalties oh my good they'll be screwing you over on crucial downs. It'll be 4-5 and all 
 a sudden your defender that you have control over jumps offsides and gives the other team a first 
 down. Sometimes if I hit the button to pump up the crowd they'll call me offsides. Also I wish 
 I can go through one game without fumbling the ball. One major promblem I had with the game is 
 the outcome of some plays. For instance I scrambled for a first down and was tackled before I crossed 
 the first down mark and the ball popped out and went forward across the first down mark. Knowing 
 my football I knew that was a first down so I challenged it and instead of them challenging if 
 it was a first down they challenged the fumble. Another time the CPU threw a pass to a WR and caught 
 it going out of bounds and they reviewed it and they gave the CPU a first down. I looked back at 
 the replay and clearly the receiver only had one foot in bounds before going out. I know refs make 
 bad calls in real life but in a video game its ridiculious. The only thing I can give the game 
 credit for is the music and graphics even though the players don't look like their real selves. 
 Madden 2007 is a a disgrace to the NFL franchise I even ashamed to have this game in my collection. 
 If you want to play a real football game buy ESPN NFL 2K5 don't buy crap like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdto20
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  I have been buying Madden football faithfully since the days of the Sega Genesis. Every year without 
 fail that it came out, I would go and get the game without thinking twice. Knowing that I would 
 get the game for Christmas, I rented that game so that I would have something to play during the 
 holidays. I'm extremely glad that I did rent it, as it was a complete dissapointment and I returned 
 the game unopened that I received for Christmas. The graphics were very good besides that fact 
 that even the kickers look like they could bench press a small car. The sound and AI were decent 
 as well. The main problem was with the removal of so many of the features that were standard in 
 so many of the previous Madden games. The removal of the owner mode and fantasy draft were big 
 disappointments for me. All in all this game was a huge leftdown from what I expected, as it's 
 merely average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has been mediocre at best since they received exclusive rights to the franchise. The 
 best part of the graphics, are the cut scenes. Otherwise, the graphics just have harder outlines. 
 It's the same gameplay from the PS2 (actually, the PS2 plays better) . It has the same quirks, &amp; 
 all of the same 'maddenisms' (you know, the glitches in the game that only Madden games allow) . 
 It still feels stiff. This was definitely on the borrow before you buy list. Only Madden football 
 enthusiasts will faithfully stand behind this one. EA completely feel off of their game with this 
 franchise, ever since they received exclusive rights. Not too much to say about it, because it's 
 the only game in town for another 3 seasons. } : o ( I cannot wait until NFL 2K can start making NFL 
 games again!! ESPN 2K5 is still the hottest football game in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfnhalf150
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best game for PS3 right now. It has open ended play and many other 
 options. Such as superstar mode (create and follow a player thruought a career) Franchise (manage 
 a team for 30 seasons) online play and an assortment of mini games. Your game progress is measured 
 by different feats you have accomplished during game play. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuman3
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  To put it in a nutshell, Dont get purchase this one, just rent it. Rent it for a month to get the 
 stupid football jitters out of the way. Dont waiste your money buying this game. While the still 
 frame pics make this game look great the frame rate is choppy, Has a cheap career mode, and why 
 are they still calling it Madden when hes not even in it anymore? If you have to get a football 
 game then get it. But if your like me and refuse to get garbage, Wait till 2k sports starts to 
 develop football games in the next couple of years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Madden, no matter what year a la 01-07 (for PS2, or any system for that matter) is pretty simplistic. 
 Always fantastic. So why, why on PS3 the uber machine of the future does it suffer? What kind of 
 rip off is this? The PS3 version of Madden almost faired likes it's half brother NBA Live and is 
 getting streams battering its content. I cannot get into how different this game feels. To me it 
 just wasn't Madden. It looked nice and had all the flash, but the way it plays is more complicated 
 than playing on the Wii!!! Even still, at least the Wii version was fun even if it looked like 
 a PS2 game. Controls were clumpy, the commentary was new but that guy sucked. I just hope that 
 EA gets it's groove back and brings back this title and shuts up all of us that is battering this 
 game. I PRAY THAT NCAA DOES NOT SUFFER THIS BAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieNYC
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  With all the time it took for the PS3 to come out, and all the time EA Sports had to make this 
 game for launch and this is what we get? This is among the worst Maddens ever. Horrible gameplay, 
 mediocre graphics, and bad commentating. And whats with the controls scheme? They completely switched 
 everything around after 15 years? NO THANKS. I bought the game with my PS3 thinking it was a no 
 brainer, but its not even playable for me. Im returning it ASAP for probably Fight Night. I hope 
 this isnt a sign of things to come from EA SPorts. The Madden that was launched with the PS2 was 
 sick and much better graphically than this one. WHAT ARE YOU GUYS DOING OVER THERE????? And someone 
 tell me why the reiviews are so good?? WHAT GAME ARE YOU PEOPLE WATCHING??????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerm867
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  It seems as if the Madden franchise has taken a step back. That is sad because they own the license 
 for another three years. It feels like the players don't have a fluid motion, and it feels like 
 they are ice skating. The graphics are superb, but the gameplay took a huge hit. I dont know if 
 that's due to the graphics being put so high, or EA thinking people are dumb enough to think its 
 a better game with better graphics but sub-par gameplay. Madden 07 on PS2 is what Madden 07 should 
 be like on PS3, but I guess graphics trumped gameplay. EA needs to fix gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHOVA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2007 for the PS3 is basically the same one as the PS2 version with little extra. The only 
 things really different in this games are the gang-tackling feature and the six-axis fake hike 
 snap feature that won't work because your friend is sitting right next to you, and i think he might 
 notice what your trying to do... silly EA guys. The graphics in the game seem somewhat rushed. The 
 players look fat and blocky and run bow-legged at times, no joke guys they do run weird. and the 
 eyes freak me out the most especially when you call an audible. If you like controling professional 
 football teams with gargoyle looking dudes this might be the game for you. I wish they could of 
 done more with the game intros and scouting players. One thing they left out was MADDEN'S voice. What? 
 I know he says dumb things but u still gotta have his voice in here. Anyways I am dissapointed 
 in how EA didnt take advantage of the PS3's power and this game shows that. It seems that the only 
 thing that really stands out and EA is most proud of in this game is the grass. The game just seemed 
 rushed period. John Madden should be drink'n some hard whiskey while listening to TLC after playing 
 this one!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridenne
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Transitions/Introductions look next gen ... the gameplay looks/plays worse than the PS2 version. 
 The fact that they changed the basic controls is really annoying for faithfull fans of the Madden 
 series.
  
  Players don't look realistic (very short and chubby during gameplay) , the eyes are freaking me 
 out (they all look like Riddick) ... The online play is very horrible. Got a great DSL connection, 
 but I get a frame or two a second which makes playing online just USELESS.
  
  EA hasn't been doing much improvements, innovations EVER SINCE PS2 CAME OUT.
  
  The next version 
 has GOT to be better than this... I give this a C- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  If it wasnt for the fact that plenty of loyal Madden users will be perfectly satisfied with the 
 PLAYSTATION 3 version of Madden thats launching with the system hardware - mystifyingly willing 
 to trade in all the great things that have been removed from the game for some plasticky hi-def 
 graphics and to easily swallow the fact that EA Sports has done nothing to move Maddens gameplay 
 into the new era of gaming platforms thats dawning - wed slam the heck out of EA for dropping 
 this retread on us. But numbers dont lie. Joe Gamer still loves Madden. He still buys it in droves. 
 And on a certain level we have to respect the franchises staying power. Of course, Im sure it 
 has nothing to do with the fact that its the only NFL-licensed game in town, right? Right?
  
  Fumblaya
  
  But you cant make us swallow that bitter pill. Madden 07 continues the disappointment 
 weve felt for the series since it arrived on the next generation of systems last year on the Xbox 
 360. That first game was a stripped down abomination, and to their credit EA Sports actually listened 
 to gamers and put back into Madden 07 on the 360 such missed features as Franchise mode and the 
 ability to challenge rulings on the field.
  
  But this time around they do a big disservice to Sony, one of their longtime allies considering 
 how many copies of Madden for PlayStation platforms have sold over the years. The PS3 version is 
 virtually identical to the Xbox 360 version, from feature set, to gameplay, even to the way it 
 looks. If the PS3 is more powerful than the Xbox 360, you sure cant tell from looking at Madden 
 07.
  
  The one place they did have an opportunity to make a big difference was with the Sixaxis controller. 
 Whether its the fault of the gamepads poor design, or simply a lack of imagination on the part 
 of Maddens designers, the Sixaxis is vastly underused by Madden 07. It gives you extra control 
 on a total of four (count em) different actions. You can use it for fake snaps (really only good 
 against a human opponent sitting next to you on the couch, and even then probably only against 
 dim-witted ones) , changing to your lead blocker, jumping the snap on defense, or as the hit stick. 
 The Wiimote does so much more, not just because its capable of more but because it was far more 
 thought out.
  
  Fumblerooski
  
  Aside from what we want Madden to be, there is of course what it is. And 07 is a big improvement 
 over 06, with the inclusion of minicamp drills like the 40 yard dash and a weightlifting minigame. 
 And we really like the idea of the coverage and lineman drills, but a lot more thought needs to 
 be put into the controls for these  like for instance, giving them some actual position specific 
 controls, like maybe a man lock button?  before anyone will accuse them of fun. Thats why the 
 exclusion of the mini-camp feature that existed in the old-gen Maddens (and does in the Wii version) 
 is so harsh. Those games were FUN. Have you forgotten what its like to have fun EA Sports?
  
  Thank goodness the Franchise mode is back, and done largely well. Being able to unlock Hall 
 of Fame players and draft them onto your rosters as free agents adds a lot to the fantasy element; 
 but it does seem some of the classic players are a bit overrated . They cant all be 99s. No disrespect. 
 After a couple years the Superstar mode is even starting to get tolerable.
  
  Fumble-Roni
  
  We could debate our favorite features and modes and which ones make the game 
 great or dont all day. When it really comes down to it, its all about the action on the field. 
 And to be honest, it all feels kind of meh. Characters look more realistic than ever, but they 
 still act like they did in the last generation. Collision detection is still a joke, penalties 
 come few and far between (seriously, watch am NFL game and count the false start penalties; now 
 play 5 straight games of Madden and see if the AI commits even one.) and overall it just doesnt 
 feel like real football. But like I said before, the majority of Madden gamers dont want a real 
 football simulation  they want Madden.
  
  So who cares if this reviewer thinks Madden is ruining football fandom almost as much as fantasy 
 football? Most fans play that too. Its the fact that EA Sports has denied me any other option 
 for enjoying the NFL as a videogame, whether I want realism or not. Oh right, they gave us NFL 
 Street too! You can have your Madden, America. Wake me in 10 years when the license is up for grabs 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splavish
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Now I do not feel so bad for not buying a PS3. This is 1 of 3 games I played on my friends PS3. 
 I have been a Madden and Playstation fan from the very beginning. This is nextgen really. The graphics 
 for this game for PS3 are horrible, the gameplay is glitchy. There is absolutely nothing at all 
 impressive about this game for this system. There is nothing different from the PS3 version from 
 the PS2 version. What happened with the makers of this game. The sound is exactly the same. It 
 is not worth the price. I would have thought they would have put something different or added something 
 more than the PS2 had. I believe it is time for EA to bring back Mutant League. I am sure EA counts 
 on us to keep paying for the same recycled game, with a different roster. Even on my HD television 
 I see absolutely no difference in the graphics. This is a sad day for EA and the Playstation franchise. 
 Welcome to the world that Nintendo has been stuck in for years. I will stick with my xbox360. 41-year-old 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunk32
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing madden for years now, and madden 07 is my first next gen experience. After 
 reading all the reviews and seeing a lot of negative press about the game, I decided to pick it 
 up because I really wanted to taste next gen football. My expectations were not very high but I 
 was pleasantly surprised with the game. The controls threw me off at first but once I got the hang 
 of them it was smooth sailing. The graphics are beautiful and the animations are extremely impressive. 
 Im not a huge fan of superstar mode and online play has been horrible so far. I have played about 
 5 games and all are to beyond the point of playing because of the lag. The core game itself is 
 a blast though and I am having a great time just playing franchise mode. I think this is a great 
 start to madden on the PS3 and I am excited for future improvements because this game shows great 
 potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawman86
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Although there are definite problems with the newest Madden, I think it is a step forward in the 
 series. It has a lot of potential for the next gen consoles over the next few years, and 07 is 
 going in the right direction.
  
  The graphics are an obvious upgrade, as well as a few new tweaks in the control system. Overall 
 gameplay is much of the same thing.
  
  One of the more noticeable differences is the broadcasting. Its no longer John Madden calling every 
 play, its a new voice that changes it up a bit. The game has a few good changes, and it is overall 
 just an addictive launch title for the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashyankles
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a good game (if you never played madden 01-06) . My biggest upset is the announcer, 
 he's repetitive and boring. The graphics are amazing, and even better if you don't care for 1st 
 down markers, kickers with bigger arms than running backs, and ball-boys, on the sideline. I don't 
 know if ea has another production team working the next gen games or not, but honestly, I WOULD'VE 
 BEEN MORE SATISFIED IF IT WAS THE SAME EXACT GAME AS THE PS2 VERSION WITH BETTER GRAPHICS. The 
 gang tackling feature isn't all it's cracked up to be, it looks really choppy when you see it in 
 action. I thought that the last time I would yawn playing a football game was back when the quarterback 
 club games were still around, but madden has proved me wrong. I play with the 49ers and I'm running 
 all over all the top ranked teams even on the hardest level, what happen to the madden I used to 
 play, do the developers even play football games. WHY DID CHANGE SO MUCH? I'll tell you why. Madden 
 bought out the NFL franchise a few years ago, and I believe that's when the egos start growing, 
 because since then the games have been going downhill and honestly if NFL 2k series was still around, 
 I believe madden would've been canceled similar to the Nba Live game. Nba 2k7 blew it out the water. 
 Honestly if you are gonna buy out a franchise, don't just give up because you have no competition, 
 this game can be a lot better than this, I believe they only used 1/4 of the capacity of the blu 
 ray disc and got lazy. THIS GAME IS DEFINITELY A RENTAL. I feel so bad now, I used to invite people 
 over and play madden, now I get laughed at for mentioning it. EA YOUR CONSUMERS ARE NOW HAPPY, 
 AND I'M NOT BUYING THIS GAME NEXT YEAR UNLESS IT'S MAJOR IMPROVEMENT. GOOD LUCK. THIS GAME GETS 
 A 6.0
  (IF IT AIN'T BROKE, DON'T FIX IT) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tat2dchad
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is... GARBAGE! i really dont like it at all.... it looks really nice but it doesnt 
 feel like madden at all... it feels like the 360 game just brought over to the PS3!! i def feel 
 they already had it so just ported it over.... without doing what EA and PS have always done!..... cabt 
 play more than 1 person on a team!!!! biggest mistake ever in my opinion.... alot of people dont 
 play o nthe same team... but we have 4 of us that sit down and play franchise.... its just that much 
 more fun when ya run the ball behind 3 real people blocking for ya!!!!! have to wait and see if 
 they get back to madden the way it is suppose to be next year when they have the time to make it 
 from scratch for the PS3!!
  just my opinion!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIQUIDSMOKE72
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay I'm one of the lucky ones to get the golden ticket on PS3 launch. I''ve been playing Madden 
 since Sega Gensis, and the very first game I grab was Madden 07. I know they alter every new madden 
 on a different system. But I've been playing this game since yesterday. And I noticed alot of features 
 that was either been edited out or just for gotten about. Like when making players in Superstar 
 mode, you was always given a chance to alter their look like tattoos, hair, blah blah. On this 
 madden they give you probably around a dozen faces to choice from but you can not alter there look. 
 Also one thing I really don't like is that they totally changed the controller. The gameplay has 
 been totally be reveresed. Now you use R2 to sprint, changing up you D from pressing Triangle its 
 now X. And the biggest thing that makes me real mad is that YOU CAN NOT CHALLENGE PLAYS!!
  I had alot of plays on here that I would like to have challenged, and hopefully gotten a reverese. 
 Also, they graphics are real nice, but one thing that kinda caught me off guard, was when they 
 showing players faces every person eyes look like came off the set of the new Thriller video. The 
 players eye look to dang weird. But other then those major alterations, I hoping next year they 
 change it up like Madden 07 on the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  A very good debut for the 360 that lacks some features that prevent t from being classic. Other 
 than that it's a solid debut. It is a much better debut for the PS3 than MAdden 06 was for the 
 360. This game doesn't seem to have massive frame rate problems in comparison, but it still has 
 some glitchy game play. The defensive secondaries don't react like they should. The default difficulty 
 has been made easier. I shut out the Pats 71-0 and Charlie Frye through for 6 TD passes... IN THE 
 FIRST HALF!! Even if it is default difficulty, no one should have that easy of a time on default 
 in the first couple of days of playing the game.
  
  The player and crowd animations are stellar. The sound is equally nice. The controls are simple 
 and easy (really no different from previous versions) . The gameplay does seem glitchy, but it actually 
 has some areas that are much better than the 360 version. I have yet to see phantom tackling, which 
 is always good.
  
  A good debut for the PS3 but still could be a lot better. Not bad for being the only NFL game available. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farhanp
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  I think ps 3 sucks big time with all dese flaw controls and frame rate drops. Till now all the 
 multi platform games tht have released onthe ps3 have had there issues .I feel sorry for SONY fans 
 really:) . I hope they come up with some good game s like gears of war , dead rising, saint s row 
 etc. and also they change the controller to something better than this cheap plastic one. I just 
 boght a ps3 already owning a xbox 360 being fooled by it s shiny looks but guess it wont be worth 
 all the trouble gettin one guess i ll just sell it on ebay now and get a good price frm all those 
 other crazy sony fans willing to spend a grand on this stupid console. Even the stupid old controller 
 wch ve been long expird does no justice to game s wid six axis .it cant be no cooler even if it 
 had a 10 axis . Sorry but the PS3 is a total let down and so is this title on ps3. Didnt mean to 
 offend anyone by this review . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
