-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outstanding presentation.
 Most of the player models are fantastic.
 Jon Miller and Joe Morgan do a great job calling the action.
 New franchise interface works well.
 Gameplay shows a lot of improvement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some frustrating quirks and glitches during gameplay and in franchise mode.
 Frame rate isn't great on the 360, and it's flat-out bad on the PS3.
 Lag makes online play a bore.
 Tough to determine pitch speed and location while still having enough time to swing.
 Enough with putting Yankees on the cover already.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 428 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Kush Games
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Feb 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A handful of quirks keep it from being great, but MLB 2K7 is still a very solid baseball game.

  2K Sports' MLB 2K6 left a lot to be desired when it made its first appearance on the Xbox 360 last 
 April. The game didn't take advantage of the system's power, and there were numerous bugs and problems 
 that plagued the gameplay. With another year of development behind it, the series is back for another 
 season on the Xbox 360 and making its first appearance on the PlayStation 3, too. The feature set 
 hasn't changed much, but the presentation is outstanding and has been vastly improved. The gameplay 
 has also been tightened up, and while there are some noticeable quirks, it's a solid game of baseball. 
 The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions are mostly identical, though the PS3 version includes tilt-control 
 support and a nasty frame rate. All in all, MLB 2K7 is a nice improvement over MLB 2K6 and well 
 worth a look for any baseball fan.  

          Player close-ups look amazing.     

  There isn't a whole lot of new content or gameplay modes, but there's still plenty to do in 2K7 -- and 
 everything is easier to use this year thanks to an improved interface. You can play a quick game, 
 season, franchise, GM career, manager challenge, and even five different types of home run derby. 
 In the franchise mode, you can now set ticket prices, and doing so is much more user friendly thanks 
 to a nifty drop-down menu that runs across the top of the screen, as well as a new layout that 
 displays a large amount of pertinent information in an easy-to-view manner. You can also negotiate 
 contracts, call up players from the minors, sign free agents, keep tabs on your players' moods, 
 make trades, and more. Making trades is a snap thanks to the trade finder, which lets you pick 
 the player you want and then find out what that team wants in return. You can also find out how 
 much interest there is for one of your players without going through the cumbersome process of 
 trial and error.  

  Overall, franchise mode is good, but there are a number of quirks that will frustrate those looking 
 for a true simulation. The current roster download cuts player salaries to 10 percent of what they're 
 supposed to be, so rather than A-Rod scraping by on his $25-million-a-year salary, he's practically 
 homeless and makes just $2 million. Unless you turn trades completely off, the CPU will make some 
 questionable trades, sometimes trading for players you don't need and other times trading your 
 best players for little in return. There also seems to be an issue with the game setting up odd 
 lineups based on whether there's a left- or right-handed pitcher. Players will end up in odd spots 
 in the order and will sometimes play out of position, too. Finally, injured players will sometimes 
 not return to the team, seemingly content to hang out in Triple-A rather than the bigs.  

  2K Sports games typically have a full-featured online component, and MLB 2K7 is no different. You 
 can play a quick ranked or unranked match, join or create tournaments, and even participate in 
 and set up your own leagues with up to 30 teams, complete with trades. The one catch is that the 
 game doesn't play all that well online. It's tough enough to figure out if a pitch is going to 
 be a ball or a strike offline and then decide to swing or not swing, but lag makes it almost impossible 
 online. And even if a ball is a strike, trying to time your swing is difficult -- again, thanks to 
 lag and people who like to use pitchers that are adept at changing speeds, like Orlando Hernandez. 
 It's also difficult to find anyone who doesn't want to play anything less than nine innings, which 
 stinks if you're not looking to spend 45 minutes or more playing a laggy game of baseball.  

  On the field, 2K7 plays like a cleaned-up version of last year's game. The pitching interface, 
 which requires you to press a button to determine pitch speed and break, and then another button 
 for accuracy, is mostly the same as it was before. It's not as intuitive as EA's right analog stick 
 mechanic from MVP 07, but it works fine. Your catcher will call a pitch and set up their gloves 
 where they want it, but you're free to shake them off if you'd like. For the most part the catchers 
 call a good game, but they call for a few too many pitches outside the strike zone and occasionally 
 ask for a ball that's right in the hitter's wheelhouse. Even pitchers with high stamina ratings 
 and low pitch counts have a difficult time getting past the seventh and eighth innings. Granted, 
 pitchers these days rarely pitch complete games, but it still happens occasionally, and it would 
 be nice to see here.  

          The swing mechanics work fine, but it's really difficult to judge pitches.     

  When 
 it's your turn to bat you can use the classic timing-based method or pull down and release (or 
 push up for extra power) the right analog stick. The PS3 version also lets you uses the Sixaxis 
 tilt controls to push the controller forward to swing. This works OK, but you don't feel as though 
 you're really swinging and it doesn't add much to the game. Whether it's the fact that pitches 
 come in faster, the camera is zoomed in closer, the difference in timing one player's swing to 
 the next, or a combination of the three, it's extremely difficult to judge whether or not a pitch 
 is going to be a ball or a strike and still properly time your swing. This means you'll probably 
 end up swinging at a lot of bad pitches. The game's pretty forgiving on the easiest difficulty 
 setting, but on the harder levels you'll have a hard time getting by swinging at everything that 
 comes your way. If you do happen to make contact, there's a pretty good chance the ball's leaving 
 the park, because there are a lot of home runs in 2K7. Some games end up feeling more like home 
 run derby than a baseball game, but at least the game's balanced and lets you hit as many taters 
 as the CPU.  

  Baserunning has been improved this year, and while it's still a tad complicated, it works well 
 once you get the hang of it. Small displays pop up on the side of the screen that correspond to 
 the base's location and an icon appears over each player. All it takes to move them is a press 
 of a shoulder (or trigger) and a face button. One small issue is that when you're playing against 
 another person online the game shows what base your runner is headed to well before they've made 
 the turn, which tells your opponent which base they need to throw to.     

  Like pitching and hitting, fielding is much like it was last year, with the biggest changes being 
 that players can actually catch and throw the ball like major leaguers. Well, almost like major 
 leaguers. Infield flies are more of an adventure than they should be, because everyone runs toward 
 the ball but nobody really wants to catch it. It can be tough to see ground balls sometimes, and 
 even harder to run toward a base and step on it thanks to players that will step everywhere  but 
  on the bag. Playing the outfield is easier this year and the players are fast enough to get to 
 balls they should be able to get to, but unless you line them up perfectly, players will still 
 struggle to make routine catches, often lunging at the last second to make the grab. They're also 
 prone to overrunning balls and running face-first into walls. This occasional ineptitude doesn't 
 seem to affect their CPU counterparts, however, as even the worst outfielders routinely dive for 
 flares and climb walls to bring back home runs like they're Jim Edmonds. Speaking of Jim Edmonds, 
 he's almost superpowered in the outfield and catches nearly any ball that doesn't leave Earth's 
 atmosphere.  

          You'll still have some mishaps, but fielding is much-improved.     

  As soon as you 
 start your first game and make it through the stadium introduction (which is in need of an update) , 
 you'll notice the game's improved presentation. Thanks in no small part to more cinematic camera 
 angles, more camera angles in general, and drastically improved player likenesses, it really feels 
 as though you're watching a real game in high definition. Cameras will zoom in on players as they 
 step into the box, and the level of detail is amazing. What's even more amazing is that the camera 
 will zoom in closer still, revealing even more detail in players' faces. There are plenty of different 
 body types, which means David Eckstein looks pretty scrawny and C. C. Sabathia looks, well, like 
 he ate David Eckstein. It's a true testament to how excellent the players look that they can stand 
 up to such close scrutiny. Pujols, Ichiro, Jeter, Ortiz -- they all look fantastic up close. Players 
 don't just look like their real-life counterparts, they move like them, too. Dontrelle Willis has 
 his distinctive pitching motion; Ichiro's practically two steps toward first base by the time he 
 finishes his swing; and Griffey's swing is as smooth as ever. There are plenty of great-looking 
 fielding animations, even if the transition from one to the next is sometimes poor. You'll even 
 notice plenty of amazing little touches as you play more. Pitchers will wear their warm-up jackets 
 when on the base paths, ball boys will chase foul balls, and bullpen pitchers will react to what's 
 going on in the game.  

  The ballparks are very accurate and nicely detailed, though there are some low-quality textures 
 here and there. There's still plenty to enjoy: the way the sun creeps across the grass; the ivy 
 at Wrigley; the starry sky when you hit a homer in a night game in Houston; and the way the green 
 monster looms over left field in Fenway. The fully polygonal crowds don't look great in close-ups, 
 particularly in the intro sequence, but they look pretty good from most angles.  

  As good as the graphics and presentation are, there's still room for improvement. Even though you 
 can turn off most of the superfluous animations and replays, the game's pace of play is slow. Sure, 
 you can tap through and skip the remaining stuff, but some sort of fast-play option would have 
 been great. Some of the camera angles during replays are pretty poor and don't show the action 
 very well. The blur effect is overused and quite often looks as if someone rubbed Vaseline over 
 the camera. There are plenty of little nagging issues such as clipping here and there, some odd 
 tears and artifacts from time to time, player jerseys that flap back and forth like they're caught 
 in a hurricane, and the game really could have used some antialiasing. On the Xbox 360 the frame 
 rate isn't great, but outside of some occasional stuttering it's adequate. Unfortunately, the same 
 can't be said for the PlayStation 3. It looks mostly identical to the 360 version, but the frame 
 rate is downright poor. The frame rate is most problematic in the field, where it chokes and stutters 
 enough to make fielding difficult. It even gets a little choppy when there's nothing going on other 
 than the batter waving his bat back and forth before the pitch.  

  Thanks to the announcing duo of Jon Miller and Joe Morgan, MLB 2K7 sounds outstanding. Jon and 
 Joe have worked together for quite some time on television, and their comfortable rapport with 
 one another comes across here. Their commentary sounds very natural, and it's timely and accurate, 
 too. The sheer amount of dialogue the pair recorded for the game is impressive; they'll tell stories, 
 analyze plays, toss out some trivia questions, and even have in-depth commentary for rare events, 
 such as no-hitters. Jeanne Zelasko and Steve Physioc provide a TV-style pregame introduction for 
 each game, and though their commentary is sometimes a bit long-winded, they dispense a surprising 
 amount of team-specific information. The crowds and stadium noises sound just fine; you'll hear 
 individual fans yelling, and like in so many other 2K Sports games, there's a pretty realistic-sounding 
 PA announcer as well.  

          Camera angles like this one really add to the game's presentation.     

  MLB 2K7 is 
 a good game that shows a lot of improvement over its predecessor. The presentation is excellent 
 and really stands out when compared to the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions of the game. The gameplay 
 is enjoyable, though there's still plenty of room for improvement. Even the 33 achievements in 
 the Xbox 360 version are better than the five from last year, rewarding you for hitting and pitching 
 prowess, online success, and for reaching secret objectives such as hitting for the cycle. If you're 
 trying to decide between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game, the PS3's tilt-control 
 swing mechanic isn't enough to make up for a frame rate that often makes the game difficult to 
 play. The 360 version is the way to go thanks to a better -- but not great -- frame rate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gasmaskman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  It's very easy to like MLB 2k7. It has a very in-depth Franchise mode, a solid player-tracking 
 system, and great pitch mechanics. The batting for the swing stick is unique, and requires a lot 
 of practice. You won't be jacking home runs every at bat (unless, of course, you use the standard 
 difficulty settings) . On to the difficulty, it's very deep. Also, it's very easy to fix problems. 
 The AI hits too many home runs? Turn them down. Want to hit home runs every time? Crank it up. 
 There's so many options it's incredible. The pitches are very accurate and break realistically. 
 Curves drop, knuckles float, and fastballs fly right by. The problems? A glaring amount of bugs. 
 Players go through each other during base-running, errors are random, and sometimes you can run 
 to the next base and the AI will just stand there. It's not game-breaking, but they're there, and 
 they could've been fixed. Another thing is the commentary. Sometimes the commentators say something 
 really cool, but when you throw a pitch or hit one, they just stop talking about what they were 
 to go straight to play-by-play. It definitely breaks the game in thinking it's a real baseball 
 game - which it does very well, from it's very realistic graphics (wind blows jerseys, the stadiums 
 are VERY accurate and the pitches even rotate the right way) to the crowd noises. Overall a solid 
 game that is very use-friendly, but the bugs mar it down. Also, any fan of a deep Franchise mode 
 look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is a great baseball game. The graphics are good. The amazing plays look realistic. The 
 commentators make the game sound like a real one on TV. I do have to say though that its kind of 
 easy to hit a homerun in this game. I hate that the outfielders can rob a homerun easily. Pitching 
 is awesome. The pitching is simple and easy to learn. Its cool how the pitcher gets nervous when 
 its a big inning. Sometimes its frustrating when you cannot get a hit. A good thing is that you 
 will not get bored from playing this game cuz of all the games you can play with the teams. Can' 
 t wait to see what the next game has in store for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: email2003
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  When I reviewed MLB 2K6 for PS2, I was highly disappointed with all the new player animations, 
 and new mechanics like movement, fielding and the new pitch breaking point. Well, to be honest, 
 it takes quite a few days / hours of game play to get all this under control to get accustomed 
 to all the changes and at the same time you find a way to avoid mistakes when your playing the 
 game too.
  
  This years MLB 2K7 arrives on next-gen console PS3 for the 1st time. I was looking for this game 
 to be a major improvement over last years but there seems to be some problems fixed and new ones 
 starting to crawl up. Lets begin with fielding here. Fielding has some how improved a bit from 
 last years game. The players move quite nice and not so sluggish like last year. Though, the most 
 annoying feature when fielding has got to be the dive control when the game tells you can dive 
 for the ball for a catch. You think that when this icon appears under your player you can perform 
 an incredible catch but there are times where you absolutely miss the ball and screw up big time 
 allowing the ball to roll right past you out to the outfield. Batting and pitching are still ok 
 in this years game. No complaints here except for the new SixAxis swing which is sort of ridiculous. 
 I still find the dumb argument mode to be pointless. When the manager goes out to blow off some 
 steam on the umpire, theres always a 100% chance that when the game asks for you to press X to 
 keep arguing, your already on the break of getting your manager kicked out of the game. Something 
 I noticed when playing season and setting your difficulty settings, you can go play season, win 
 3-6 games in a row and strikeout 12-15 batters in one or three of those games even with the lamest 
 pitchers, Woody Williams / Jason Jennings, Wandy Rodriguez, and after winning a streak of games, 
 the game makes you lose the next 4-7 games in a row. Not only that but if your pitching with your 
 ace, and you throw a very low changeup or fastball you know the batter wont hit or hell miss, 
 the CPU manages to hit a huge HR. While losing these game the AI not only beats you 1-0 or 4-2, 
 but they crush the hell out of you like scores of 12-3 or 15-1. I think 2K needs to check and fix 
 their difficulty stats / AI on next years game cause it doesnt feel real sim at all.
  
  Online is still great as ever though Im starting to see many users arent playing online anymore 
 with MLB 2K. Back in the days there used to be more than 20-45 players online everyday but now 
 the games online is really starting to shrink. The average of players playing online with this 
 game is now down to 5-25 or 5-15 players. Makes me wonder if I should get MLB 2K8 next year. Now 
 makes the negative of online play. Sure theres still your bums that cheese, glitch, drop glitch, 
 and play stupid their way to victory. What Im noticing this years online is the ballparks. Theres 
 a list of ballparks online which lag real bad online even though if both players have really good 
 connections / ping. This list consists of Wrigley Field, Dodger Stadium, Citizens Bank Park and 
 probably others, which I have forgotten. Now this problem did not occur in last years game but 
 this is a factor in this years game. As an added bonus, these ball parks also lag even offline 
 too! Even during season or exhibition these parks have some real bad lag when you have bases loaded 
 or runners on base.
  
  Player faces need more detail and upgrades! Some dont even look like them real selves. 2K must 
 have some problem in creating these ballparks cause some parks still have lots of its main features 
 still missing. Minute Maid Park almost looks like Minute Maid Park in the game but the upper seats 
 dont even come close in the game. This goes for other ballparks as well.
  
  Well, 2K, you almost go everything right but theres still lots of work to be done in this game. 
 The ballparks that lag need to be fixed, the difficulty / AI needs tweaking and would it hurt to 
 have some classic ballparks back to unlock like the Astrodome? Heres looking that next year you 
 get all this corrected cause I dont want to be buying MLB 08 The Show! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footballlover44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I love this game because it does baseball right. All the normal game modes are back like season, 
 quick play, online, and franchise mode. The franchise mode is fun and in depth. The quick play 
 is just what it says its quick and easy to pick any two teams and play. Online is where this game 
 shines its so simple you go online and go to a lobby and then you play against anyone in there. 
 Its also really fun to listen to some of the arguments in the lobby over balls and strikes. The 
 online ranking is simple the better your record the better your rank. The only problem with online 
 mode is that sometimes its a little laggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Don't rent this game .......... buy it! I have to give this game the edge over MLB 07. I reallylike 
 how the pichers get razzled if there is a big inning it takes concentration to deliver accurate 
 pitches when the game is on the line........ now that's baseball. The graphics are superb, the action 
 is very realistic.
  
  This game would have got a perfect ten from me if it weren't the plethora of over the wall catches 
 robbing my players of a homerun.
  
  Many will say that I am wrong when favoring this game over MLB The Show but that is how good this 
 game is and THe Show is a real good game! Who needs EA for baseball this game blows EA out of the 
 water and I could care less if EA ever comes back and brings us major league baseball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE44
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Took me a while to learn how to swing, but finally figured it out. Franchise mode does not go very 
 deep into the franchise. Able to draft a great team though in fantasy draft. The graphics are great. 
 And the player ratings are too. The bad players are bad and the good players are good. Sometimes 
 you could play all day sometimes it can get boringt but always fun. Its like any other baseball 
 game it gets boring after a while. But its still good. I like that you can edit the players thats 
 what I did and it made my really good. I do wish it had a career mode that would make it a lot 
 better. I would play more, next year im goin with MLB 07 The Show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  While being a huge fan of sports and their games I usually dont mind if a game is flawed because 
 I enjoy just playing the sport. But this game makes me sick. This is the most glitched , lagged, 
 and unplayable game I have played in recent memory. Ill admit the game looks beautiful, when nothing 
 is moving but when the pitcher starts his wind up look out because it looks like hes having a seizure. 
 And i dont even want to get started with the outfield because its moving in slooowwwww motttttiiooooonn. 
 In between innings it looks like they actually made the game in slow motion, its god awful. Please 
 if your looking for a baseball game do NOT buy this one, i wish i would of read this review before 
 I made my horrible choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_kid42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. From the second I started playing, I was hooked.
  
  First of all, the graphics are amazing. The Wow Factor of them is basically unmeasurable; sometimes 
 I think the graphics look even better than real life. Everything from the look on the players' 
 faces depending on the situation, to how they move, to how their uniform blows in the wind and 
 wrinkles... it's all amazing.
  
  Next comes sound. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan do an excellent job, with the exception of a few flat-out 
 wrong announcements. I do believe I've heard in my GM mode, The Braves are coming into this game 
 with a .500 record; they're going to need to step it up. This would be a fine announcement, if 
 it weren't for the fact that I am currently undefeated. Otherwise, however, everyone and everything 
 sounds real, and you can definitely hear the fans get pumped up in a close game.
  
  Now for the part everyone's been waiting for: The gameplay. I have one word: Stunning. The realism 
 put into this game just awes me. Pitching is fun; seeing a batter whiff the ball when Carlos Zambrano 
 deliver a curve with just the right timed break or watching John Smoltz deliver a mean slider just 
 off the plate never gets old.
  
  Batting is also great, and with the swing stick, you really feel that sense of timing that is baseball. 
 And when you see that ball go flying out of the park in a close 2 - 3 game... it feels just right.
 
  
  I can't believe I'm saying this, but even the fielding is fun. The players' ratings really make 
 an impact. This means that you can't just run home on any sac fly like you could in other baseball 
 games such as MVP Baseball. If someone hits a medium pop fly to the likes of Vladimir Guerrero 
 or Andruw Jones, a smart baserunner will stay put.
  
  The only reason it was docked a point was because it wasn't for everyone. Most huge fans of the 
 likes of Slugfest Loaded won't really love this game as much as the lovers of realistic baseball. 
 Though, if you are a fan of baseball, no matter what road you like to take with it, I definitely 
 recommend picking up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. It has great graphics, nice soundtracks, and the players look very realistic. 
 In my opinion, the coolest game feature is the SIXAXIS control. You thrust your controller forwards 
 to hit the ball. Pitching is definatly a plus. Another plus is the commentary. The commentators 
 do a great job. I really wish this game had better online play. Online play is one of the worst 
 things in this game. It's hard to get a game going and also the connection is quite bad. The game 
 moves at slow speed while your playing online. I only rented this game, ( i rent alot of games, 
 and buy only the best) and i am quite thinkfull cuz i think this game can be improved. The online 
 play is a big factor, and if it's not done properly, I aint gunna buy it. I suggest you rent the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slr5097
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics and pretty realistic gameplay in most areas. This is a fun game to play and I feel 
 it was worth buying at the time, though I havent played The Show yet. A couple bugs and sketchy 
 controls make this game a little frustrating at times. Another thing that is frustrating about 
 it is the huge difference between Pro and All star difficulty levels. Pitching is very tough on 
 All star and is very easy on Pro so its just too much of a difference in my opinionMlb2k7 isnt 
 as good in my opinion as the old MVP series in terms of fun gameplay and replay value but overall 
 this is a solid baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pauln353
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  By far the best graphics of any baseball game, pitching system is cool, only a few minor problems. 
 Way to many homeruns and homeruns robbed by outfielders. Other then that it rules. I just wish 
 that they had put in a road to the show type feature. Also the manager game mode sucks so bad, 
 why cant we manage and watch the actual game at the same time? Why is no one commenting on the 
 horrible graphics that The Show has? It looks just like a PS2 game!!! Next year MLB2k8 will be 
 the best baseball game ever to be made hands down no denying that. The Show would have to make 
 huge strides in graphical quality and it doesnt look like the guys making that game know how to 
 do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfl123kid
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  To start off mlb2k7 looks pretty dam good with its player models and facial expression its top 
 notch. but the constant frame rate issues takes away from all of that. pitching lags and especially 
 during cut scenes. The game modes here franchise, season and somehow found a way not to include 
 a career mode which pretty much all sports games have now. If you think about playing online FORGET 
 it this game is literally unplayable and is no fun playing a nine inning game that moves slower 
 then a turtle. so if you need a quick baseball fix this is the only one you got and if you don't 
 like it trade it in for the show like i am basically probably going to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good one for any baseball fan. I am huge into the Mariners so this game is a good 
 one fer me. It takes alot of getting used to, especially with the batting. I like the interface 
 for base running and pitching. Most aspects of this game are pretty original. Movement on some 
 of the pitches gets a little eccessive but is still fun. I like how you can bring Mickey Mantle 
 onto your team with cheats. My favorite baseball player of all time. Almost every aspect of the 
 game is adjustable and that makes it very fun. This game isnt gonna make any record books but its 
 right up there with madden or NHL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGaming
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  The Good : Slick presentation and good commentary really makes you feel like your watching the 
 real thing. Player models are highly detail. Pitching still works good. Using the Si-axis controller 
 for hitting is a blast. Slightly improved base-running.
  
  The Bad: For every good looking player model there are 10 ugly ones. Batting animations are still 
 way off. Fielding is boring and inconsistant. Overall : Iam very disappointed with this game. Yes 
 the graphics can look great at times, but thats really the only upside. The overall gameplay has 
 way to many problems, which makes it almost impossible to enjoy MLB 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  2007 season is upon us and we all just want to play with out team (whether there good or bad) and 
 get some runs.
  
  gameplay - 3 different bating ways makes this game interesting. have 3 different version (buttons, 
 analog, siaxxis) makes it interesting when the game drags. pitching is same to where the pitchers 
 different pitches are compared to buttons. a control marker allows for speed and control. on the 
 defensive side its really easy to control and infielder or an outfielder.
  
  online - very little lag IMO, but not as many gamers as you would want.
  
  modes - one thing 
 this game has is a variety of modes that will keep you playing. to put it in one word... replay
 
  
  overall - with MLB 07 not coming anytime soon, this game is a very good filler and if you were 
 to buy this game you wouldn't go wrong. i recommend rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy8vien
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Almost but not quite, MLB2k7 I think is the one of the rough edges of PS3 the presentation and 
 the effort to make this one of the Next Gen game for the new consoles is there but there will be 
 improvement in the future I'm sure at least we know that PS3 is capable of an excellent graphics 
 and for sure it'll be awsome as time comes. Overall MLB 2k7 is a good baseball game to have for 
 now ... let see how MLB live live up to its expectation can't wait. I think the best featuire here 
 other than the graphics is the commentators having the ESPN baseball team of John Miller and Joe 
 Morgan makes the game feel much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawgcityClev
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  I left 2K Baseball a couple years ago, and resorted to 989's title, which has been the best in 
 the market lately. 2K has ended this run. You say, 989 hasn't released their game yet. I've seen 
 vid advertisments already, and there is no comparison. I will still play it though. MLB 2K7 is 
 visually unbelievable. No need for me to bore you with what you've already seen from this game 
 in the graphical area. But little things in this game were stunning. In-game highlights of earlier 
 great plays or HR's. Flipping the ball in the stands after catching the inning ending out. So many 
 my mind is drawing a blank right now. I played the game at 2am in the morning and went to sleep 
 in awe. Should wrote more things down. One thing that bothers me about the game is the removal 
 of the *fast play* feature or accelerated count feature. This would've made the game even more 
 awesome. The sixaxis hitting is fun, but only for a few games. I resorted back to *classic swinging* 
 for my late night play. Pitching is relatively hard. I tend to give up huge innings. You have to 
 really put thought into this game while playing. This is not a pick up and whoop the computer game 
 by any means. 2K has answered the call for diehard Sports gamers to a tee. Animations in this game 
 are fluid, beautiful, and doesn't miss a beat. A few clips jump here and there but very rarely 
 seen. I havent purchased this yet, as I'm renting, but this is coming into my PS3 archive for the 
 year. And I'm proud of 2K for stepping up and presenting such a beautfiul game of baseball. NOW 
 BRING BACK THE ACCELERATED GAMEPLAY!! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madden_Master44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is an amazing game. If you are going to get MLB The Show, don't! 2K7 blows it away
  
  The graphics in 2K7 are the best I've ever seen. I seriously can barely tell the difference 
 between the game and real life. They're are so many shadows and differnent effects that make the 
 game look so realistic, you won't believe your eyes.
  
  The gameplay in this game is good. Not incredible but good. It's kind of annoying when some games, 
 your team scores 20 runs in a game and your pitcher pitches a shutout. And the next game you can't 
 score a run and the other team is bombing your pitcher, and it's on the same difficulty. The gameplay 
 is inconsistant. But overall, the gameplay is fun. Pitching is actually just as fun as batting. 
 It's cool how they use a differnent view for when you pitch.
  
  The sound in this game isn't good at all. The crowd doesn't cheer that much if you hit a homerun, 
 the announcers are quite annoying after you've played the game for over 2 hours, and the sounds 
 of the game don't sound that realistic either.
  
  Overall, MLB 2K7 is a fantastic game. I recommend this to anyone that is interested in baseball. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Spring is nearly in the air, teams have already reported to camp, and opening day is right around 
 the corner. Yes, baseballreal baseballis back. That might suffice for many in this world, but 
 what about those of us who desire to show our worth on the digital field of play?
  
  When I learned that the team over at 2K Sports actually planned on shipping Major League Baseball 
 2K7 to stores a bit earlier than originally expected, I got even more excited about the title. 
 Ever since EA Sports lost the rights to use the various MLB licenses in their baseball titles, 
 I have been playing a modded version of MVP 2005 for the PC. Last year, the PS2 version of The 
 Show did little more than leave me yearning for more MVP. I figured 2007 would be much the same, 
 until I learned that Ben Brinkman, the man who once spearheaded the development of my beloved franchise, 
 was coming to the rescue of the often critically panned 2K series.
  
  Considering what you now know, keep in mind that this review is written from the perspective of 
 a man who longs for the return of another series. I am highly critical of anything that is not 
 MVP baseball. Also, I have no prior MLB 2K experience, so if I find any ho-hum aspects (to veterans) 
 to be new and exciting, please forgive me.
  
  Graphics
  
  As console developers continue to the push envelope with the sheer power of their systems, graphics 
 unfortunately continue to be over-emphasized, where-as quality game play is pushed to the backburner. 
 Being pretty usually is never enough. You need to have that substance. Nonetheless, it is hard 
 not to admit that the graphical presentation of this game immediately sucks right you in.
  
  MLB 2K7 truly does hityes, you guessed ita home run when it comes to its looks. But seriously, 
 and though it is a cliche we have beaten to death with every new generation of consoles, it really 
 is getting closer and closer to watching the real thing. Almost every, single small detail has 
 been accounted for, ranging from wind-blown jerseys to snow-cone grabs. The baseball physics are 
 accurate, and so many players actually look and even move exactly like their real-life counterparts. 
 The extremely well designed and detailed stadiums often feel alive, despite the fact that many 
 cutaways to the fans will show them clapping in superslowmotion.
  
  The now well-documented frame rate issues are certainly disappointing, considering the money we 
 are now sinking into these machines and games. Fortunately, the problem is not so bad that it cripples 
 your ability to play or creates any terribly disturbing visuals. The fact remains, though, that 
 we'd like to see things like this ironed out next year. There really isn't any excuse for it.
 
  
  Game Play
  
  Players that are all style and have little substance rarely go far. That might have been the case 
 with last year's offering last year, but I suppose some time in the minors helped clean up 2K's 
 act.
  
  At the plate, the player is offered three different approaches to batting, but the newest one, 
 the SIXAXIS control, feels exactly like it does in most titles: gimmicky. Luckily, both the classic 
 and analog stick controls are done correctly and should be enough to satisfy us all. The game's 
 realism does make batting extremely difficulty, at least in the beginning, because everything is 
 coming at you so fast. By the time you recognize the pitch type and location, the ball has already 
 hit the catcher's glove. It really forces you to think like a real batter. You begin to look for 
 a particular pitch in a particular location. Until you reach two strikes, you need to avoid defensive 
 swings. Make the pitcher come to you.
  
  Speaking of pitching, it is down right fun. Your catcher calls the entire game, and for the most 
 part, he does a good job. When in doubt, you can always call him off and throw whatever you want. 
 The nice touches here include variable pitch ratings dependent upon the accuracy of payoff pitches 
 and rattled pitchers who lose their ability to throw strikes. As was the case with hitting, you've 
 got to try playing it like the real thing. Calling off your catcher all the time and throwing nothing 
 but strikes will eventually burn you.
  
  Fielding is the one area that the developers desperately need to revamp next year. The switch from 
 pitching to fielder needs a slight pause, and while outfield play has come a little bit easier, 
 way too many easy grounders slip right past the infield. This is the one place where the previously 
 discussed frame rate issues really come into effect. Many times, I have overrun easily caught balls, 
 because the player jumps from one spot to another.
  
  Game developers offer the user game play sliders in most sports titles, so that the difficulty 
 level can be tailored to one's own ability and style of play. Trust me when I tell you that you'll 
 be using them in MLB 2K7. No matter what generic difficulty level you choose, there are many normally 
 rare happenings that become far too common. You'll hit too many home runs, the opposition will 
 rob you of you too many home runs, terrible pitchers will always paint the corners, and the list 
 goes on. I haven't had the opportunity to fully test out what can be alleviated with the sliders, 
 but I'm sure that a majority of players will eventually be able to find a happy medium.
  
  Sound
  
  Like the visuals, MLB 2K7's sounds make you feel right at home. The crack of the bat, 
 the pop of the glove, and the roll call at Yankee Stadium create an atmosphere that nearly duplicates, 
 yes, the real thing. There are numerous tense moments when you expect the fans to get a little 
 bit more excited about what is going on, but you'll probably be so wrapped in the game itself, 
 you won't notice that they are a little too quiet.
  
  As many of us discover to be the case with numerous sports game, the weakest part of MLB 2K7's 
 audio presentation is the announcers. If you are a fan of the Miller/Morgan team, you will probably 
 enjoy what they have to say. They really seem to a duo that is either loved or loathed. After a 
 few games, many of you will likely find yourselves putting on music or talk radio or whatever it 
 is you use to drown out the voices in your head.
  
  The soundtrack to this game is amazing. It features some excellent titles from artists that span 
 a number of rock sub-genres, eras, and levels of notoriety. Rather than just serving as mere advertising 
 for the artists, the soundtrack actually feels like it fits the game. I have found myself just 
 stopping and enjoying the music from time-to-time. Obviously, you will eventually get bored with 
 the limited number of tracks, and I would have liked to see a custom tracks option, but I'll still 
 give them a lot of credit for offering up some decent licensed music.
  
  Features
  
  There's not much new here. You'll find your standard modes, like exhibition and franchise. There 
 are a number of different takes on the home run derby, which is always a fun party game. The initial 
 rosters are out-of-date, and the first updated ones they issued have incorrect salary information. 
 During the season, the CPU does odd things that simply cannot be explained. I'd still like to see 
 a baseball title that offers a practice mode, affording newcomers the opportunity to polish their 
 skills without having to play a whole game.
  
  There are many unlockable extras, which range from silly game boosts to mini-games that may or 
 may not kill a few minutes of your time. As always, it's nice to reach certain accomplishments 
 and unlock the ability to bunt a home run in an exhibition game, but obviously such stuff doesn't 
 exactly have legs.
  
  Lag plagues this title's online mode, as it often did with MVP. Considering that baseball is almost 
 always about timing, I doubt I will even bother playing anymore online games. It also doesn't help 
 that there simply aren't many people out there that currently own this title or even a PS3.
  
  Conclusion
  
  I still feel that a certain game from 2005 holds up well against this titan 
 of the seventh generation. Nonetheless, it would appear that Brinkman's role was definitely not 
 just for show or as a mouthpiece. Though I am obviously a rookie to the series, I highly doubt 
 this title is anything more than a distant cousin of the game that received average reviews but 
 one year ago on the 360. The presentation is near perfect, and what gripes I have with the game 
 play should be easily worked out once I am able to fool around more with the sliders. There are 
 still some major issues that need to be resolved, which is near unacceptable when we are paying 
 so much money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evan_hotham
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I really like MLB 2K7. The visuals are fantastic. The signature style blows you away. Seeing how 
 baseball players really look like and act is amazing, especially pitching techniques, batting stances, 
 and fielding. The game is also presented fantastically. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan are a perfect 
 announcing team for a baseball video game, when you play it, it feels and sounds like you are watching 
 a real game on TV. The stadiums look awesome, and the graphics and stats and all that cool stuff 
 between innings and between batters or after a homerun has been hit, etc, are AWESOME. I love it. 
 The only let down graphically is the crowd, and there are some framerate issues after the ball 
 has been hit, but other than that, there are no other framerate issues and the game looks gorgeous. 
 As for batting, it could be better. The sixaxis control is just pointless, I use classic. In my 
 opinion, that is the best one to use for batting. The Swing Stick control is also pretty disappointing. 
 However, the pitching (Payoff Pitching) is amazing. It is the best part of the game and it really 
 immerses you into the excitement and frustrations of pitching in the big leagues (sometime when 
 the pitcher is really tense your target shakes so it is difficult to aim your pitch) . Fielding 
 is pretty satisfying, and some people have said that going over the wall to rob a home run doesnt 
 work, but the key is you have to push the right stick up exactly when the game shows you the rob 
 a home run right stick up graphic. It is really fun to rob a home run. All in all, I think the 
 game is well worth your money, and it is very fun to play. I forgot to mention that franchise mode 
 is really well done in this game. I think you should buy this game if you are a hardcore MLB fan 
 like me.
  
  GO SOX!
  
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fulton2874
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  hen writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. hen writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. hen writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  i have really enjoyed this game more new features now i can 't wait til 2k8 for next year for MLB 
 there still some glitches on the game but it still gives you the hi-def graphics not all of them 
 really the actual player... but i have no problem with that and the other thing the batting is 
 really great its really hard to hit the ball like the actual game it's good co'z i dont want to 
 hit a homerun for every single game and hit every at bats this game is on that path for future 
 reality of baseball sim in PS3.... i understand people opinions but please if you buy it be satisfied 
 to it if you rent it and ur not satisfied thats fine but it still sold a lot of copies..... i give 
 this game 9.5 almost perfect the sounds are great but sometimes it gets annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboy31
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  when u first play the game it's kinda of disapointing. There's a few flaws here and there you don't 
 think would be on a ps3 game. However after u get the hang of it it becomes very addicting. The 
 models of the stadiums are outstanding and the player models are the best i have ever seen in a 
 baseball game. The crowd models however need work and the playability could be a little better, 
 especially in the outfield. All and all though the game is pretty addicting. The model for all 
 baseball games was mvp 2005 now i believe its mlb 2k7. Keep on working out those kinks and little 
 flaws and maybe this might be the best baseball game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmpepper23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Overall I think this is a great game. 2K always makes the best sports games when it comes to the 
 B Ball sports. The graphics are very nice on this game. At times the frame rate is slow, but not 
 to the point that it is unbearable. The game play is good but not yet great. Pitching imo is the 
 best in any baseball game. Personally I love the sixaxis swing controls. If you don't like it, 
 you have the option to change it. There is no better announcing crew on any sports game than Hall 
 of Famer Joe Morgan and Jon Miller. Franchise mode is the best. If you like baseball, then you 
 can't go wrong with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STRICK26
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has let me down, graphical it looks like crap on ps3, its slow, its unresponsive. I liked 
 the demo on 360 better than the PS3 full version, I only bought it for ps3 cause I spent $600 and 
 dont even play it. pwned. I dont understand why the ps3 version cant look as good if not better 
 than the 360, Im seriously reconsidering my purchase of the PS3, motostorm got a lower score cause 
 its so short, the f-ing games are on a blu-ray disc cant they make them a little more content packed, 
 hesus crist. Sony what is your problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmitt316
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  If you have any interest in buying this game you might want to rent it first and/or read other 
 user reviews. I was really excited about this game coming out. MLB 2K7 has great sound and graphics 
 but the frame rate is unbearable. Aside from all that, it ends there. The controls are terrible. 
 Sixaxis batting just does not work well but luckily you don't have to use it. I've been having 
 a lot of trouble when it comes to saving my user settings. I set everything just the way I want 
 it and save my settings and turn the console off. When I play later on I find that my settings 
 were not saved. Unless a significant patch is released within the month then I will be trading 
 this game in towards the purchase of MLB 07: The Show . MLB 2K7 strikes out looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Baseball is one of those sports you really have to be into to watch on tv. It's one of the classic 
 more fun to play type of deals. MLB 2k7 is no different. It looks great and the presentation is 
 spectacular. The audio alone can make you feel like you're watching (or at depending on how you 
 tweak your audio settings) an actualy major league game. The game play is fairly crisp with a few 
 minor glitches. The timing with pitching can seem a bit off no matter how much you play the game. 
 As far as batting, the sixaxis controls are ambitious at best but something you'll get over fairly 
 quickly and most likely end up playing with the classic option of hitting the x button to swing 
 a bat. Overall it's an improvement over last year's game but it gets boring fairly quickly. Bad 
 camera angles and default fielding assistance from the computer can make it feel like you're not 
 even playing at times. In the end... unless you're a huge baseball fan and just HAVE TO HAVE A BASEBALL 
 GAME FOR YOUR PS3 i'd say don't waste the time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malimn
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I was expecting more of a WOW factor on the graphics side and was disappointed here unfortunately. 
 I like how they did the base running interface as well as the graphics of that, but the fan, player, 
 and close up graphics leave a lot to be desired.
  
  I was expecting a Madden 07 type of graphics and got PS2 style graphics. Now if that was in game 
 then it would get a better rating.
  
  I have a 1080p 40 Sony display and using HDMI cable.
  
  If I had to purchase all over again 
 I would not purchase again and I would just rent the game. HUGE Sports nut and I guess they have 
 a lot of catching up to do on the graphics against EA Sports. Then again I should have learned 
 with the NBA 2k7 graphics vs Sony's NBA 07.
  
  Oh well... lessoned learned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osaedebiri
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for over two hrs now. I have used over five different pitchers and 
 it seems like no matter what i do, all the balls goes right in the happy spot except for sliders 
 some times. The tilt control ( swing) is unbearable, the analog swing sucks and the clasic swing..... 
 lets just say i miss aloooooott. Now my defence on the other hand just dont do what i want them 
 to do. it just doesn't look and feel like a real baseball game to me. Is there something am missing? 
 And yes i read all the HINTS. Well.... don't nobody get mad at me am sure alot of people love this 
 game. This is just my openion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riverdragon13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  I got this obviously because the game looked amazing and I enjoy my baseball games. The frame rate 
 though absolutely ruins the experience at some points. I just could not handle it and traded it 
 in to get the xbox 360 version. Which still has some frame rate hiccups when there are a lot of 
 guys on the screen or if you are throwing from the infield to the outfield but it definately does 
 not interfere with the gameplay as much. If you have both systems get the 360 version even though 
 using the six axis to bat is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckunks06
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was extremely excited because of all the hype it got. Bringing 
 in Ben Brinkman who produced mine and others favorite baseball game ever (MVP'05) . New Signature 
 style, and everything else they advertised towards us. When I first played it, I wasn't at all 
 impressed. It seemed like a worn-out baseball glove in a shiny chrome box. Maybe I just was not 
 used to everything coming from MVP'05 (the last baseball game I've bought) . As I've put more hours 
 into it, I've realized this is actually a pretty good game, and the best we'll get for any platform 
 this year. If your a huge baseball enthusiast it's amazing to see every player perform and act 
 like their realife counter-parts, similar to 2k's NBA 2k7. The different options of hitting provide 
 some good variety to the user (s) . Pitching takes awhile to master, but once you got it down, it's 
 a pretty decent pitching tool. Visuals are amazing... although they run at a slower frame rate on 
 the PS3, their still pretty stunning. Some replays blew me away, some could use some work. Gameplay 
 has improved although not quite there. But all-in-all, this is a pretty good baseball game once 
 you get used to it. Just remember, if they had made a perfect baseball game right off the bat, 
 their would be no use for next year's game except for roster updates, which can now come through 
 the internet. Give this game a rent first if your picky, otherwise if your like me and realize 
 this is the best we're going to get this year, just take what they give you and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManyStyles101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  At first I didn't like this game it seem really complicated, but the graphics and commantary blew 
 my mind and the way the players act like their real counter part with their signature taunts ect... I 
 hated how you bat with the control and it just confuse the hell out of me... but then the next day 
 i gave it a other try but I changed the control option to classic.. Then it was much better and 
 I got used to the control and it became fun and much easier... So all im saying this game is worth 
 it.. just need to adjust to the controls and everything...2k still need to improve their baseball 
 franchise but this is a good game overall... So to all the ppl who just played it for like a few 
 games and said it sucks,... ya need to give it a try and get used to everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdjohnst
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  MLB is back with 2K7 and the game has some promising improvements. The developer's threw out the 
 old engine and replaced it with a better, improved, more promising one. With EA's MVP developer 
 now with the 2K Sports, the game has had a vast improvement over last years disaster. The graphics 
 are great too, but still is not as good as the Xbox 360's. The fans aren't as annoying or UGLY 
 as they were last year, and at least this year you didn't see that annoying yellow vendor walking 
 back and forth everytime you pitch. The gameplay is much improved and smoother, but the batting 
 stick still gets on your nerve a bit. It is hard to get the timing down. You'll get use to it though. 
 The only things that 2K needs to improve on is the instant replay (hard to maneuver) , the hit stick, 
 and the fielding view (sometimes hard to tell where the ball is) . Otherwise, it is a great improvement 
 over last year's, but if you don't want to pay 60 bucks for it, get MLB 07: The Show for the PS2. 
 If you have a 360, buy it for that instead of the PS3. Feels more natural for the Xbox 360 than 
 it does for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on a high def t. v and it looks great. The batting is fun and the home run derby 
 is way cool too. The controls are gunna take some getting used to since this is the first MLB game 
 I've bought scince, I don't know when. I jumped right into it and was taught by in game tip pop 
 ups that walked me though pitching and batting. I had a great time playing this game. The fielding 
 is what was the hardest to use, but it was my own dumb fault by not knowing where to throw the 
 damn ball. But all in all it's a must have for the small array of games that they have to offer... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chumpion69
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up at launch. At first I was impressed with the graphics but didnt like the 
 gameplay. As I have been playing it more, I am finding this to be a pretty good and complete game. 
 Hitting was frustrating at first, but it can be tweaked with sliders and I learned that my timing 
 was just off after really spending some time with the game. I really like the pitching part of 
 this game and think that the catcher interaction and Inside Edge integration are well done. As 
 mentioned by others, there are some fielding issues but that has more to do with the camera angle. 
 Plus, the fielders are set at a more realistic speed so bloop singles that drop in real life drop 
 in the game. Overall, I'd buy this game but suggest a person rents it first and really spends some 
 time with it. It probably isnt for everyone, but seems like a good start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This years baseball game sure is different from last year. Read on as I break it down for you.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics this year are absolutely amazing. The character detail is near perfect. In MLB 2k6 
 every batter looked the same. This year each player has their own face and stance. You can see 
 every blade of grass and every piece of dirt in the close ups. On windy days your clothes ripple 
 as if they were real. Stadiums never looked better and the weather effects are quite life like.
 
  
  Sound
  The color commentary is almost the same as last years except this year there are no glitches in 
 the commentary. The fans really get into the game this year. My opponent hit a HR against me and 
 the crowd started chanting Throw it back, Throw it back!! You can ever hear the other team mates 
 yelling at you during the game.
  
  Extras
  This year you can manage alot of what goes on. You have to keep track of payroll and also manage 
 your ticket prices. Scout players from the minors and keep the fans happy. Your not just a player 
 this year, Your an owner!
  Another nice little feature the PS3 sports is the six-axis batting. You push the controller forward 
 to swing and if you play around with it a bit you can actually use it like a real bat. This feature 
 really makes the game different.
  
  Another nice addition to this years game is the catcher. The catcher now highlights the pitch he 
 wants you to throw and puts his glove where he wants you to throw it to. The really makes the game 
 feel more realistic. Of course you do not have to listen to the catcher.
  
  Overall
  This years baseball game is not one to be missed. 2K Sports really did their homework on this one 
 and it shows.
  
  Online
  Well today the servers are screwed up and I couldnt play online. Kept failing to connect. Hopefully 
 this gets fixed quickly.
  
  92/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majkoenig77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, to the guy who reviewed this game badly and wanted to get MLB The Show, and wanted a 
 more fast paced and realistic game, obviously never watched a baseball game or possibly knows what 
 baseball is. If he wants fast pace, dont play baseball, its not fast, the only fast pace you will 
 get is the speed at which the pitchers throw the ball, second, if you want realism, this would 
 have been the game, but I guess MLB The Show will be with all its unrealistic features and game 
 play. Sheesh! I wish people did some research before they review a game and rate it badly. This 
 game is meant to be as close to the real thing as they can, all packed up in a video game, and 
 I give credit to the 2K series, they do that. Batting stances, pitching styles, etc. The 360 version 
 is a clone, its hard to tell which is better visually, having it on HD makes any and all games 
 glorious. Thus why I have both systems:) This game keeps it real and will give this who truly want 
 realism and those who love the game, a chance to play in the bigs, and not in some fantasy land 
 like the show game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  It's here and it's next gen but is not quite there yet. The graphics look great but the gameplay 
 is not there to support this great looking baseball game. I was really looking forward to this 
 game but was a little let down with the controls of the game. You have create a player, franchise, 
 season mode, homerun derby everything you expect in a baseball game but the game play is lacking.
 
  
  On the playstation3 version you have 3 different types of way of hitting. You can hit with the 
 analog stick, buttons, or using the sixaxis motion senses. I'm more of an old school type of gamer 
 so I play with the good old button mashing I'm use to. 2k sports really need to tighten up their 
 game play controls because when you play MLB 2k7 nothing feels natural but everything else looks 
 great in the game. Maybe is just will take a little getting use to since I'm comparing it a little 
 to MVP baseball and MLB 06 The Show. Those were great baseball games that were flawless. If you're 
 looking for a sim type of baseball game think again homerun hitting on this game is way to easy. 
 It's very difficult to hit line drives, singles, doubles, or even triples on the AI. Sometimes 
 all you will do is hit homeruns or hit for outs and sometimes the AI will rob you of a homerun 
 way too many times. 2k Sports definitely needs to go back to the drawing board on this game and 
 hopefully next year they will tighten up their controls. If anything I will give this one a rent 
 instead of a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazz80
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The problem with 2K basball games has always been the lack of interaction from the player. Back 
 when the series was titled World Series Baseball you often found yourself watching the game more 
 than playing. The same holds true here. Although the game does sport some above average graphics 
 they are plagued by slow down and poor animation. The fielding engine lacks the feel of actually 
 playing babseball. (because of the poor camera angles)
  
  I was very excited to purchase this game but it lacks the fun and fast paced gameplay of MVP and 
 07 The Show. Overall this is a decent game but much like the actual sport it moves at a turtles 
 pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinHendre
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't like this game at all, It seems slow and unresponsive. The graphics are choppy, and doesn't 
 feel genuine to the platform. It is hard to control your players accurately and get them to do 
 what you want. The controls are strange, and using swing stick seems impossible to time everybodys 
 different signature swing. Really the only thing that impresses me is the close ups on player faces 
 during a replay. The rest of the game is below average graphically. I havn't seen a 360 version 
 to see if it's any smoother but all I know is I just bought this game today and It's getting traded 
 in tommorrow. I just cannot play the game. I'm hoping the MLB the show for PS3 will own all and 
 be the fast paced realistic baseball game I am looking for. Keep in mind this game is very slow 
 paced. The players miss dives a lot and if they hit the wall they get stuck on it for a couple 
 of seconds. Any little mistake will completely allow the batting team to rain down on you hard. 
 Also 2K sports posted amazing photo realistic screenshots, well thats not what the gameplay looks 
 like at all, not even close, and it was very misleading for me to pop in the game and be so disapointed 
 with the graphics. No offense to anyone who likes this game, really I'm sure some people will love 
 it. For me It must go back, but thats only a personal opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  some of the most amazing graphics for a baseball game... once you start playing the game they do 
 a walkthrough of each of the stadiums which look very very sharp, but nowhere near how good the 
 players are.. there shirts blow in the wind and the voices of kids in the backround screaming you 
 stink or w/e very great.... i cant stress enough how much better the detail looks on the game in 
 1080i (since it didnt say full 1080p i havent played it on that yet) its like the first time you 
 played madden 2001 for ps2 ... just a total difference in gaming... gameplay while im a fan of 
 mvp 2005 (greatest game ever) its gonna take a little while doing things the 2k way but i managed 
 to get 3 homers reading the pitcher .... just an overall fun game to play and the graphics sure 
 make this one top notch game.... neway hope that helps anyone whos on the fence about getting it.... 
 oh and no sosa or dice-k (that i can find yet) : ( which is sad hopefully some roster updates will 
 fix that ... great game graphics boost this game from like a 8.7 to like a 9+ in my opinion ... 
 cant wait to see its full potential ... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
