-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of little control problems add up to a huge amount of frustration.
 Hit results can seem canned.
 Crammed with bugs.
 Homeruns are much too prevalent.
 Laggy online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB 2K9 is a deeply flawed funhouse-mirror distortion of baseball. 

  Scientists have long pondered the existence of other universes where the physics are totally different 
 than they are here. In these strange dimensions, up would be down, fast would be slow, and Major 
 League Baseball 2K9 would be a realistic depiction of the national pastime game. In our own mundane 
 reality, however, 2K Sports' latest look at the grand old American game skews baseball so much 
 that you seem to be viewing the diamond action through a funhouse mirror. All of these distortions 
 become more glaring the more time you spend with the game, resulting in a deeply frustrating experience 
 that never feels like the real thing.  

           Hit the ball and touch 'em all. A lot.      

  Most features are identical to what 
 they were in MLB 2K8, so you still have the options for single games, franchise play, playoffs, 
 and the home-run derby, as well as multiplayer matches, tournaments, and seasons against buddies 
 on the couch or over the Internet. Living rosters have been added, so you can enable this feature 
 and see your rosters mirror those of the real Majors this summer. If the Twins and Jays pull off 
 a trade in the real world, it happens in your franchise league, too. The interface has been refurbished 
 with the addition of nested menus similar to those on display in NHL 2K9. Everything is a lot easier 
 to find here, however, with all of your GM and manager duties split up into separate lists. Some 
 items aren't where you might expect them to be, but after you spend about five minutes figuring 
 your way around, you can navigate the interface with a gamepad almost as smoothly as if you were 
 using a mouse.  

  Hitting, pitching, and fielding are carried over largely intact from last year, although everything 
 has been made a little easier. As with most sports games these days, the default controls make 
 just about everything reliant on the right analog stick. Hitting is a straightforward pull back 
 to get set and a shove forward to swing, with the extra option of pushing the left stick around 
 to pull the ball, slap it the other way, keep it on the ground, or get it into the air. Pitching 
 works in a similar fashion, although it is a bit more involved in that you have to move the right 
 stick to sort of mimic the motion of the ball. So for a fastball, you just pull back to fill up 
 a yellow circle and then push forward to release the ball, while change-ups are handled by making 
 the same movements in reverse, and breaking pitches are thrown by twisting the stick in a circular 
 motion. To field balls, you guide players around with the left stick and then throw to the base 
 of your choice by pushing the right stick in the appropriate direction. You hold the stick to fill 
 up a meter and determine how hard your throw will be. Overall, the controls are intuitive and simple 
 to dive right into, but they don't have a good feel and can be extremely imprecise.  

           Pitching hasn't changed dramatically, but it's easier this year.      

  Hitting is 
 too easy on all difficulty levels. Games often wind up being slugfests where the teams combine 
 to clock something in the neighborhood of 30 hits. You don't have to be a good twitch gamer, either, 
 because it's a snap to time your swings right and get big-time wood on the ball even if you're 
 going up against a fireballer like Jonathan Papelbon. The left stick makes it easy to call your 
 shot and place the ball wherever you would like, as long as you don't try to do something physically 
 impossible like pull a hard outside pitch. Hit results tend to feel canned. While there are a good 
 variety of flies, fouls, and grounders to cycle through, it seems like you're getting roughly the 
 same results. A single to left is a single to left, in other words. You need to play a couple of 
 dozen games to generate even a handful of "Huh, I've never seen that before" moments. And top sluggers 
 get on absurd hot streaks. We hit multiple home runs with players many times, including a spectacular 
 four straight in one match with A-Rod and three in a row in a game with teammate Nick Swisher. 
 Expect these homer explosions to happen consistently. It's so predictable that if you send a ball 
 over the fence in the first or second inning, you can pretty much bank on being able to hit a couple 
 more with the same player before the end of the game.     

  Stepping onto the rubber has its issues as well. Throwing a circle change, a four-seam fastball, 
 a slider, a curveball, or whatever else is handled with a simple right-stick twirl that's easy 
 to pull off moments after starting your very first game. This makes the game accessible, but also 
 a bit dull in that there is no challenge to pitching. It's not any harder to throw even the most 
 arm-aching breaking balls after pitchers get tired in the later stages of games. An equally irritating 
 problem is presented by catchers. They work with you and call pitch types and locations, but they're 
 dumb and have a limited imagination, to say the least. Catchers call for fastballs a good two-thirds 
 of the time, even if you've got a starter on the mound with highly rated breaking pitches. The 
 result? You get shelled. Thankfully, you can wave off the big lunks wearing the tools of ignorance. 
 But doing so takes so much time that you're better off throwing whatever you feel like at wherever 
 the catcher is holding his glove and risking the odd passed ball.  

           Yes, there are a few faces that only mothers could love in the real Major Leagues. But 
 some of the characters in MLB 2K9 would fit in at a burn ward.      

  Fielding is the biggest irritation in MLB 2K9. Controls are amazingly touchy. The throwing meter 
 is so sensitive that you can easily accidentally go into the red and throw the ball away. If the 
 catcher drops a third strike, for example, and you have to throw down to first to record the out, 
 a light touch is needed to avoid chucking the ball down the line into right field. Moving fielders 
 can also be an adventure, especially in the outfield. Just touching the left stick at about the 
 same time that a fly ball arrives seems to cause the ball to be dropped. Also, infielders and outfielders 
 seem to have been switched up by the developers. Infielders never appear to be in a rush to get 
 rid of the ball. Second basemen double-pump for no reason, and shortstops take an eternity to get 
 the ball out of their gloves. The result is a lot of infield singles and a ton of botched double-plays. 
 Conversely, outfielders scoop up every routine ground ball hit for a single and gun it back in 
 like their lives depend on it. Fielding even has the power to irritate you when you're not doing 
 it. Watching the computer-controlled fielders at work is like being poked with a sharp stick. Opposing 
 infielders can somehow throw lasers from their knees from behind third to nail speedy runners at 
 first, while their regular tosses are often rainbow-arc lobs that travel faster than is physically 
 possible.  

  Slipshod quality control can also be found elsewhere. Animations stutter on a regular basis, mostly 
 between plays after outs have been recorded. Online play with the PlayStation 3 is laggy to the 
 point of being unplayable at times. Xbox 360 multiplayer is considerably better, although there 
 is a slight response delay when hitting that forces you to swing much earlier than you do in solo 
 games. Both the visual quality and the audio are second rate. Players tend to look like Madame 
 Tussaud refugees who've spent too much time in a tanning salon, and runners kick up globby clouds 
 that look more like brown lens flare than infield dust. Both the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of the 
 game have specific visual quirks, as well. The former has a strange softness that gives everything 
 an indistinct, Vaseline-on-the-lens appearance, while the latter is loaded with jaggies in the 
 stadium architecture.  

  Play-by-play commentary from newcomers Gary Thorne and Steve Phillips is loaded with absurdities 
 like telling a pitcher throwing a one-hitter that he needs to buckle down to keep things from getting 
 out of control. They also make the same weather observation during every single game -- that it's 
 getting a little colder. Music is a truly bizarre kitchen-sink mix of tunes. One moment you're 
 listening to Europe's "The Final Countdown," and the next some Latin hip-hop number, and then you're 
 on to Judas Priest bashing through "You've Got Another Thing Coming." We would love to meet the 
 guy who came up with this soundtrack.  

           Generic scowling relief pitcher or Shaggy a couple of decades after leaving the Mystery 
 Machine?      

  Stats appear to be unreliable. We hit seven home runs with A-Rod in the first four games of a season, 
 yet the stats credited him with only three. Cutting down the Yankee star's home-run totals probably 
 wouldn't be a bad idea given his recent confessions of steroid abuse, but there are better ways 
 to go about it.  

  Either MLB 2K9 shipped in a half-finished state or the developers have never seen a baseball, much 
 less thrown one around. You can see that the foundations have been laid for what could be a creditable 
 baseball game, but design screw-ups render playing it an exercise in frustration that grows more 
 bothersome every time you hit the diamond. Like Chicago Cubs fans say at the end of every September: 
 "Wait till next year." Maybe 2K Sports will get it right with MLB 2K10.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: theru8543
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok im going to make this short and to the point. This is my tragic story. It the was the day Mlb 
 09 the show came out and 2K9, being that i am a PS3 owner i went and got The Show without any shades 
 of doubt in my mind. Until the guy at Game Stop was like you should get 2K9 its way better. The 
 funny thing is i go to this Game Stop alot so i usually trust his judgement. I stuck with my MLB 
 and got home and popped it in and i loved the game. Well of course i liked it, its the same game 
 as last year. So i kept beating myself up over 2K9. So finally i went back and got 2K9. Ok my biggest 
 problem are the glitches. I am a big fan of sports game that are actually big on making the games 
 realitstic. I dont like games where you can pick off the baserunner everytime the step on first, 
 Hitting homeruns everytime im at the plate, i literally hit 6 home runs in a row the first time 
 i played with the Sox. The fielding in the outfield i think could have a better camera angle. There 
 are no options to change it. The need to zoom in and they need to zoom in on the players a little 
 bit. Now some plus sides of the game, the controls and the hitting and pitching system. Its very 
 fun and addicting. MLB 09 is not offering anything different with their one button controls. I 
 enjoy the hit stick feature and the total control of the pitching. That is the only thing keeping 
 the game relevant for me. Even though the game is glitchy and easy as hell, the hitting and pitching 
 system is so fun it keeps me playing it. So all in all if you dont have a PS3, your stuck with 
 this game. If you have a PS3 get the show and never look back until EA brings back MVP!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAMFANVILLAR
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game is a baseball sim. It is a really good game. The graphics are great and the controls 
 are awesome too (easy to use but challenge) . The interface was great. The statistics were enough 
 and good. The challenge is good and close to real baseball game. The sound only is good, can be 
 improved. In my opinion, the best way to test if a sport game is realistic, is in CPU Vs. CPU games; 
 MLB 2K9 pass this test (with some adjusts to sliders) . Another feature I looking in sports game 
 is the spectate mode (Madden and NCAA FB) . This mode let me watch (CPU Vs. CPU) or play any game 
 with any team in franchise or season mode, independent the team I choose to manage and play in 
 the start. (NHL, NBA Live and FIFA series don't have this mode; please give this note to EA Sports) 
 I recommend this game to any baseball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectroFilmsCom
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 12, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  im new to the 2K series, and this was my 1st MLB game on PS3. i was really excited cause X-Play 
 rated it 4 out of 5 stars. i got home and fired it up, and was totally disappointed. 1st off, batting 
 is easy as pie using the thumbsticks, i enjoined the concept. 2nd pitching was horrible, it required 
 one to charge the thumbstick back then preform a street fighter special attack motion to pitch 
 perfectly. the tutorial for pitching is horrible and teaches nothing. it took me a few hours and 
 form post to get the technique down, even then, no one knew for sure. this game is infested with 
 bugs. 1st baseman is off the bag 4 out of 5 times when throwing him the ball. outfield balls will 
 pop off outfielders heads 1 out of 3 times. batters disappear and their bats float at the base. 
 the list goes on. stay away from this game, its for busters only. i traded it in for MLB 09 the 
 show. MLB 2K9 sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  when i got the demo i thought it was pretty stupid but then i start playing with it and saw couple 
 o bugs on demo. i thought to myself that will change when the actual game comes out. so when i 
 got the game i was pretty excited at first it seems difficult to play co'z the buttons are so different. 
 so i started the franchise mode i was amaze by the graphics and model of the players was fantastic. 
 what i like the most it's getting close to the real past time. the problem is the technology and 
 time to build this game. tweaking this kind of game is not easy it cost a lot of money and a lot 
 of people involved $60 dollars is not enough but were still lucky to just pay that.. anyways a 
 lot of bugs on it ater inning i notice one of my player got stuck on the ground atleast half of 
 body. but it was not a biggy for me i never seen any other bugs that interupt my gaming only after 
 every inning. the pitching was kind of new for me but i hope that would change in 2k10... 2k09 
 is great you just need to be patient like in real baseball i know people won't like this review 
 but i think we should be content people out there still making decent games that close to reality 
 of sort....!!!! all i can say to the 2k sports keep it up and need more tweaking and time i know 
 spring time in baseball time but giving your team time and release the game before opening day 
 so all your roster will be updated too as well i think people can wait to have greatgame so i will 
 be looking forward for the next year 2k10... but right now i'm enjoying playing 2k9 i like all 
 the cut scene and it continues it's nice seeing a bat boy getting the bat hehehehe... ayways i 
 need to beat LAA really bad they keep beating me up...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game as it says on the title its dull and boring. MLB 2k9 is the worst in the series and they 
 keep managing to screw up the series even more. That being said its highly recommended that you 
 buy The show instead. A horrible game is just making the 2k name lose more and more reputation. 
 Bottomline this game is horrible, and the 2k makers should stick to NBA. Like many baseball games 
 since 06 the show has always came out on top. 989 sports is the way to go and anyone who will get 
 this game will have a horrible reaction to its horrible graphics, clunky controls and also bad 
 gameplay. Thats the review for MLB 2k9 as the series continues to go down after 2k. from 2k5 which 
 was 80 it went down to 60 to 30 and right now to 10. Its getting worse and everyone sees it. 2k 
 needs to start seeing it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
