-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Signature styles for pitchers and hitters look great.
 2K cards is a promising new feature.
 No shortage of game modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs, glitches, and other technical problems mar nearly every aspect of the game.
 Frame rate is extremely poor during fielding.
 Online play lags.
 Collecting cards is cumbersome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB 2K8 is full of new ideas; unfortunately, it's also filled with technical problems. 

  2K Sports deserves credit for trying to deliver more than a roster update with MLB 2K8. There's 
 a new pitching mechanic, fielding has been revamped, and you can now put together your own team 
 using in-game baseball cards. There are also new bugs and poor design choices that come with every 
 new feature, making MLB 2K8 as frustrating as it is enjoyable.  

           The new pitching mechanic is flawed, but it's a step in the right direction.      

 
  The most notable change to how 2K8 plays when compared to 2K7 is the new pitching mechanic. To 
 throw a pitch, you pull the right analog stick in the direction shown in the pitch's diagram and 
 then wait for the expanding ring to flash. This determines the effectiveness of the pitch. Then 
 you release the stick when the ring has contracted into the release zone to throw the pitch. For 
 example, to throw a curveball, you would move the stick diagonally to the lower left and then make 
 a counterclockwise motion. If you time it all right, the pitch goes where you want it to, but if 
 you're just a bit off, the ball will end up several inches from its intended target -- a big problem 
 if you're trying to paint the corners. Certainly, pitchers miss their spots in real life, but very 
 seldom are they punished like in 2K8. If you're really off with your timing or stick movement, 
 you'll throw a meatball, and if you throw a meatball, chances are pretty good that you're giving 
 up a home run. The problem is that the game is extremely demanding when it comes to throwing a 
 pitch properly, but how it determines what is and isn't a good pitch doesn't seem to be as precise. 
 Sometimes you'll see the red flash that indicates you're getting ready to throw a meatball before 
 you've completed the first gesture; at other times, the game will think you're throwing one pitch 
 when you're trying to throw another. This is extremely frustrating and will likely cause you to 
 switch to the traditional button-pressing method of pitching if you care at all about winning close 
 games.  

  Pitching is just one of several mechanics that utilize the right analog stick. Once again, hitting 
 is mapped to the right stick, though you can swing via buttons if you prefer. To swing, you pull 
 the right stick back when the pitcher is getting ready to release the ball and then push forward 
 to swing. The game manual says you release the stick after pulling it back to perform a contact 
 swing, but this doesn't actually do anything. Although it may not work as described in the manual, 
 this method of hitting generally works well. It certainly works better than last year, though it's 
 still extremely difficult to judge a pitch's location and still have time to swing.  

  Fielding also eschews buttons for the right analog stick. You move your fielder with the left analog 
 stick, and to throw the ball, you push the right analog stick in the direction of your desired 
 base. As soon as you move the stick, a meter begins to fill. When it's filled to the center section, 
 you release the stick and the player makes the throw. If you move the stick to the wrong spot or 
 you release too late or early, you'll unleash an errant throw and either pull your man off base 
 or the ball will go right past the base. For the most part, this new method works well, and it 
 makes routine throws a little less routine, which in turn keeps them interesting. That's not to 
 say fielding doesn't have its problems -- because it has plenty. Players will fail to even attempt 
 to pick up slow-rolling ground balls at least once a game, and they'll stay down on the ground 
 as if they've been shot for what feels like an eternity if they miss a diving catch. Outfielders 
 really have it rough. You have to call one of them off if they're anywhere near one another or 
 they'll knock each other down, and they'll get in each other's way if they're both trying to pick 
 up a ball in the outfield. While they make like Willie Mays on balls hit over their heads, they 
 have a tough time getting to any ball hit in front of them.  

  The trend of new ideas that is almost really cool but has a fatal flaw continues with 2K8's 2K 
 cards: in-game baseball cards you can earn by performing certain feats with specific players. For 
 example: To unlock Randy Johnson, you need to strike out eight batters in a game; to earn David 
 Ortiz, you must hit two homers in a game; and to unlock Derrek Lee, you need to get three hits 
 in a single game. The cards aren't just for collecting; you can put a team together and then take 
 that team online to play other users' card teams. There's quite a bit of strategy involved when 
 putting together a team because each card has a monetary value assigned to it that counts against 
 your team's $150 million cap. There are three different types of cards: black, gold, and platinum. 
 Each player has one of each type, with the difference being that a black card counts the most against 
 the cap and platinum the least. The higher the difficulty you play, the better your odds are of 
 earning a gold or platinum card.  

           Collecting cards is time-consuming but fun.      

  This is a really neat feature that's 
 held back by a number of problems. For starters, it's incredibly time-consuming to put together 
 a team because most of the feats required to unlock a player are rather difficult. You can't unlock 
 player cards using a custom difficulty setting either. You can purchase packs, but they cost 500 
 credits, and the only way to earn credits is to sell cards you've already unlocked. These typically 
 go for five to 20 credits apiece, so you're looking at playing quite a few games to earn enough 
 just to buy one pack because you'll probably only unlock two to five cards a game. The game promises 
 a legend player in every pack, but we won or purchased seven or eight new packs and never received 
 one. You can unlock wild cards by hitting home runs, stealing bases, and striking out players, 
 but unless you're playing on the punishing harder difficulties, you're not likely to earn very 
 many; thus, you're not likely to earn any gold or platinum cards.  

  When you play online with your card team, the game randomly selects both teams' starting pitcher, 
 thereby encouraging you to put together a proper five-man rotation, but as soon as the game starts, 
 you can put in any starting pitcher you like, thereby negating the random selection process. That 
 doesn't really matter though, because you're not likely to play online. It lags so much that it's 
 nearly unplayable, and it's definitely not fun. 2K Sports is onto something with this card feature, 
 but it needs another year in the minors before it's user-friendly enough for the show.     

 
  MLB 2K8 includes a robust franchise mode that on the surface appears to give hardcore stat geeks 
 everything they'd want. Most notable is how much control you have over your entire franchise's 
 farm system from AAA to A. You can call up or demote players, manage the rosters of each squad, 
 and carefully monitor every player in your organization. The menus are clean, and thanks to the 
 excellent player finder that can pick out players by first or last name, position, handedness, 
 age, experience, salary, or rating, it's a breeze to locate any player in a matter of seconds. 
 It's one of the most user-friendly franchise modes in any sports game.  

           Signature styles for pitchers and hitters are one of the game's best features.      

 
  It's too bad, then, that the franchise mode has so many annoyances that will frustrate the same 
 audience to which it's trying to appeal. You might as well not even play as the Padres; every time 
 you promote or demote a starting pitcher, the game changes his position to long reliever, and there 
 doesn't appear to be any way to change it back in franchise mode. The Padres don't have a monopoly 
 on glitches though. We also experienced weird statistics in the minors -- rotations that would reset 
 for no apparent reason. On two occasions, we were unable to play past a certain date on the schedule 
 and had to start all over.  

  The trend of glitches and technical problems carries right over to the game's presentation. There 
 is some good, though. There are more signature styles than ever -- most of the hitters have the same 
 stance and swing in the game as they do in real life. And for the most part, pitchers' deliveries 
 seem to be spot-on. This gives the game a lot of character, highlighting the difference between 
 one player and another. The ballparks look about the same as last year, which is not a problem 
 because they're generally dead-on with the real thing. There are quite a few spring training and 
 minor league stadiums as well.  

  Now, for the bad. The frame rate is downright pitiful once the ball is put into play. It can get 
 so choppy that it's difficult to field and throw the ball. It also makes any camera transitions 
 terrible -- the game will pause and stutter, often leaving player shadows on the ground after the 
 player has vanished. Don't even bother with the postgame highlights; they're typically so jittery 
 that they're unwatchable. We thought turning off the ticker that runs across the bottom of the 
 screen might help, but turning it off in the menu doesn't actually get rid of it. PlayStation 3 
 owners get the worst of the lousy frame rate, but Xbox 360 owners don't get much better. But wait, 
 there's more.  

  Players don't have to be tagged with the ball to be called out; they just have to come into contact 
 with the fielder. At least you assume the player is coming into contact with the fielder because 
 the clipping is so bad they actually pass right through one another. The game has a difficult time 
 transitioning from one animation to another, which often results in players making late, acrobatic 
 throws on routine plays. Sometimes the game just gets confused, and fielders will hold on to the 
 ball while runners run the bases. Or the artificial intelligence won't recognize a play is over 
 and will stand there for seven or eight seconds before finally waking up to move on to the next 
 batter.  

  It shouldn't come as any surprise that MLB 2K8's audio suffers from the same sort of technical 
 issues as the rest of the game. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan generally do a competent job calling 
 the action, but it doesn't sound like they recorded any new dialogue. They seem to offer less insight 
 into the proceedings than last year and have a propensity for making the incorrect call or calling 
 out two entirely different plays during the same play. Jon will say a ball goes through for a base 
 hit and then follow that up by saying the fielder scooped it up for a routine play. One nice feature, 
 or one that should have been nice, is you can assign walk-up music using your own music -- it's too 
 bad that doing so frequently causes the game to lock up.  

           The poor frame rate makes fielding difficult.      

  Despite a bevy of technical problems, 
 those of you who are just looking to play a few games and aren't worried about playing a franchise 
 or trying to win close games on a higher difficulty will probably be reasonably pleased with MLB 
 2K8. With new pitching, hitting, and fielding mechanics, as well as new player cards, there's a 
 lot to like if you're the forgiving type. However, if you're someone who relishes the finer points 
 of the game, you'll walk away in disgust after just a few games. MLB 2K8 is a fine example of how 
 exclusive sports licenses hurt the average consumer. PlayStation 3 owners at least have the option 
 of MLB 08, but if you're an Xbox 360 owner and looking for a baseball game, it's either MLB 2K8 
 or the highway. And that's just not right.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game was disastrous as i can't believe i spent 60 bucks on this when i wish i wouldn't 
 have even payed a cent for it. Here's my opinion the show is ALOT better plain and simple. MLB 
 2k8 first thing that's wrong is even when you play on easy its hard to win a game which is boring. 
 Homeruns are easy to hit and your players are really slow getting into gaps. There is so many glitches 
 in this game that when you catch a ball to end an inning you run through a wall. This game was 
 disastrous online was buggy this whole game was just horrible.
  
  The only good thing about this game is that like 2k6 and 2k7 you can get your coach to argue to 
 get ejected which is kinda fun. If you seriously like this game then you must not have tried the 
 show. GET THE SHOW.
  
  My review this game is horrible and should not ever be played again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm glad the PS3 has more than one baseball game (three to be exact for 2008) , because if I had 
 just this on Xbox 360, I think I would shoot myself. This game is exactly how NOT to do a baseball 
 game. The brain donors at 2K Sports obviously decided to fix something that wasn't terribly broken. 
 Instead of doing minor repairs, they decided to tear the house down and rebuild it, but with the 
 bath riveted to the wall.
  
  First, the good things. The Signature Style was excellent last year, and it's still very good this 
 year. The only game that comes close to emulating each and every single player's nuances such as 
 batting walkups, pitching motions is Konami's Pro Yakyu Spirits 5, but at least that game is playable, 
 despite the fact that PYS5 is all in Japanese.
  
  That's about it for all the good stuff. The graphics in the game are just terrible, a major step 
 backwards from last year, when everything was vibrant and the lighting was perfect on all the stadiums, 
 regardless of time of day. In MLB 2K7, the field had some beautiful illuminations in night games, 
 but in 2K8 everything seems like half the lighting in the field is out for night games. Also, the 
 same graphical annoyances are in MLB 2K8 that have been in there since the very beginning. The 
 hat logos are way too big, and are positioned towards the brim of the hat. Also, it looks like 
 you can see the seams on the hat since they are rendered in a lighter color, which is idiotic. 
 Also, the numbers for teams that don't have names on the back of their jerseys (Red Sox, Yankees, 
 Dodgers) are positioned way too low, and they're positioned so far apart they look totally unrealistic. 
 I know that sounds like nitpicking, but when you play graphically superior games like The Show 
 and Pro Yakyu Spirits, it's very noticeable, especially for a game that poses as a baseball sim.
 
  
  Now for the real reason for this game's demise, the god-awful gameplay. All of the default controls 
 have been mapped to the right analog stick, and I do mean everything. Batting, pitching, fielding, 
 picking your nose, everything is on the right analog stick. And a good 90% of it is terrible.
 
  
  Let's start with the fielding. The fielding is actually pretty good because you get to control 
 how hard you throw to the bag, and which base you throw to just by pointing the right stick in 
 the direction of the base you want to throw to. Holding the stick in the direction of the base 
 makes for a harder but less accurate throw. The problem comes with base hits that make it to the 
 outfield, which can go awry way too easily. Holding down the left trigger/L2 makes you throw to 
 the cutoff man, but when trying to gun down a baserunner you get excited very easily and end up 
 missing your recepient. That wouldn't be so bad if your teammate AI was smart enough to back up 
 your errant cutoff throw. Unfortunately they're not, which means you have to do everything yourself. 
 All in all, the fielding is good enough. Small changes need to be made for MLB 2K9.
  
  The batting was supposedly improved from MLB 2K7, which suffered from a few problems. For one, 
 it was too easy to hit home runs, and if you didn't hit dingers, you hit singles. The batting animation 
 for all players has been given more frames (an increase from 10 to 13, I believe) , but it doesn't 
 make a bit of difference. The results are exactly the same as last year: either you hit home runs, 
 or you hit singles. Also, queuing up a swing is a step backwards from last year. In MLB 2K7, you 
 could step and swing at any time. However, in 2K8 you're restricted to stepping and swinging AFTER 
 the pitcher begins his windup, which gives you very little time to react. Also, another flaw in 
 2K7 was not fixed for 2K8, and that is that opposing pitchers strike you out way too often, and 
 this is because all the pitches look the same when they come out of the pitcher's hand. I know 
 this is for realism, but when a curveball comes out of a pitcher's hand looking like a 75-MPH fastball, 
 something is wrong.
  
  And now for the main offender in this game's failure, the pitching. The 2-click pitching mechanic 
 from last year is gone, and instead replaced with an analog system that is more broken than Rick 
 Ankiel's psyche on the mound. The goal is to mimic the pitcher's motion on the mound, corresponding 
 to the arm action a pitcher's arm would actually take. So, if you were to throw a curveball, you 
 would start your motion in the low-left corner, then come around counter-clockwise to the starting 
 point. However, with this game's broken timing system, it's impossible to even throw a perfect 
 pitch. Even if you're a millimeter off, your pitch will miss horribly, and the computer will most 
 likely slam it into the stands for a home run. Pitchers miss their spots in real life, but they 
 can get away with it. MLB 2K8 demands perfection on the mound every time, which is far too much 
 to ask, especially when the tutorial for pitching is so poorly explained and executed.
  
  Game modes are also lacking in MLB 2K8. I'm probably spoiled by The Show's sterling Road to the 
 Show mode, but the MLB 2K series cannot go on any further without some sort of Career or Superstar 
 mode. Franchise mode doesn't have the depth of The Show's franchise mode, and the online play borders 
 on unplayable. Speaking of unplayable, the frame rate has not been fixed at all from last year 
 on the PS3 version. In fact, I believe it's even worse than last year. The framerate hiccups every 
 other second, making for something that is barely playable. I sense a complete and total refusal 
 by 2K to even attempt to develop for the PS3, which is not fair to PS3 gamers, but a small loss 
 given the sterling record of The Show. I'm not even going to go into the card-collecting mode, 
 as it's a small tacked-on feature that is barely worth playing.
  
  Even if you have an Xbox 360 or a Wii, don't even bother with Major League Baseball 2K8. While 
 2K7 was a step forward and a step back last year, 2K8 is a giant leap backwards for the series, 
 and probably humanity in general. If you have a PS3, you can at least play MLB 08: The Show, or 
 if you're feeling bold and have $80 to drop, then by all means import Pro Yakyu Spirits 5. Just 
 find some other use for your money other than buying this piece of garbage.
  
  Major League Baseball 2K8 gets 1 giant Yankees choke out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnrcrazy19
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game seeing how great the gameplay and visuals were the year 
 before. I bought this game on its release date and was really surprised by what i saw. Changing 
 the pitching was a good idea, it worked great even though it took time to get use to. The frame 
 rate was horrible and the player models looked bad. I was really upset because i was looking forward 
 to this game, so i took it back. I told the gamestop guy what was wrong and he let me change it 
 for the show. I am trying to find a game that can stand up there with what i consider the best 
 baseball game ever which is mvp 05. The show does a lot right, and i am addicted to road to the 
 show, but it doesnt do everything that the mvp series did. Dont buy 2k8 go out and get the show 
 you wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wideguyz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  I bought the Show first and was amazed with the graphics on my 1080P LCDTV then played the game. 
 The pitching was good but when it came to the batting I was so upset because you can't hit the 
 ball or try to hit the ball left, right or up in the air when need to. Baseball is about situations 
 when batting like trying to get a man from 2nd to 3rd by hitting the ball to the right side of 
 the field or hitting a deep fly outfield to bring the man in home from 3rd and you just can't do 
 all of that in MLB The Show. 2K8 has everything from the Batting to the Pitching and tons of stats. 
 The game play in 2K8 is nice when batting a little choppy in fielding on the PS3. I wanted to get 
 it for the 360 but I wanted at least one game for the PS3 because I have so many on the 360... for 
 some reason games seem to play a little smoother on the 360 in my opion, anyway 2K8 ia a better 
 game if you like the real way of Baseball. The only thing The Show has over 2K8 is graphics but 
 I don't play games for graphics I play for GAMEPLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razasharp20
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was very excited to pick up a copy of MLB 2K8. In my opinion, baseball games are 
 the most fun sports games. However, I can honestly say playing this game has been FAR from fun. 
 I have been playing this game since its release and I can honestly say this thing is a load of 
 crap. I give it a 5 because it works, but even thats generous. I'll approach it from the three 
 fundamentals of baseball, fielding, hitting, and pitching.
  
  Fielding is a mess. as the review says routine plays often require acrobatic throws. You'll often 
 see your SS go back to field a slow roller, turn for a full 360, jump and fire to first base. That 
 sequence is a common occurance. .The fielders animations are WAY too exagerrated, there are NO 
 routine plays. Fly balls in the outfield are almost always circus catches. Oh and make sure to 
 call off your other fielders on EVERY pop fly, regardless of where u are on the field. other fielders 
 will barrel into for no apparent reason. I've seen the pitcher, catcher and first baseman all collide 
 on a routine pop-up, hit the ground stay there for what seems like an hour while the runner just 
 blasts around the bases. There is also a bug that literally happens like every 3rd game where a 
 liner back up at the pitcher will ricochet off the pitcher over to 1st base for a called out. it's 
 crazy.
  
  Hitting is a complete guessing game. You honestly have to guess when to pull back on the stick 
 in regards to what pitch you think is coming. A late step and you'll be way late on a fastball, 
 step to early and you're out in front of the changeup. It is cool when you time it perfectly and 
 slap one out but more often than not it feels like you just guessed right rather than had a good 
 eye. And the idea of checkswinging is a joke, you're supposed to pull back on the swing twice to 
 stop your swing? It's way too hard. If you play online I promise you you'll never see anyone check 
 swinging. Even if you play offline only u will rarely checkswing. This is big to me because thats 
 a huge part of baseball, recognizing a pitch, checking up, letting that bad pitch fly by.
  
  Pitching is the only part of this game that's fun. While it takes a lot of getting used to, 
 once you get it down it can be very rewarding to nail that outside corner or break that curve down 
 and in for a K. The slight downside to this is that it is way too unforgiving as u will leave at 
 least 3 meatballs that get smashed every game when u don't finish the motion correctly. Pitching 
 is very fun but tough to master.
  
  Before I break this off just a heads up. Playing online is so laggy that I can't recommend the 
 purchase if that's your biggest reason for buying it. Lobbies are broken also, everytime you challenge 
 someone your Xbox freezes, leaving you only with the option of quick, random matches. Also, if 
 you play online and offline you'll noticed adjusting back and forth is just impossible and a waste 
 of time, I guarantee if you buy this game you will eventually play either online exclusively or 
 offline exclusively. This game the most frustrating thin I have ever played and I can't wait for 
 this exclusive license to be done with.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTSwii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I don't know how the game is on the other consoles, but on Wii, it's definately different. First, 
 the graphics are a step down from the other consoles, which was expected. The good thing about 
 this is the wii's unique controls. The wii remote makes everything a bit more realistic from the 
 other consoles. For those of you who have played the MVP Baseball series on the pre-gen consoles, 
 the pitching was a boring addition. Using the analog stick to move the pitch, and pressing the 
 buttons to the desired velocity. Yawn... But with the Wii and MLB 2K8, they've tried to revolutionize 
 the pitching mechanics. It takes time to get used to, for those who are still brainwashed into 
 the button mashing, but it's really cool once you get used to it. Obviously, you use the wii remote 
 to aim, but with a twist, you use the analog stick on the nunchuck to select the pitch. Then pull 
 back while pressing B, and release. The faster you release, the faster the pitch. This is a revolution 
 in baseball video games. Once you've played the game a couple of times, it gets easier. The only 
 major drawback is the graphics. If the three next-gen consoles were combined, I'm sure every game 
 would be getting 9-10 on every person's score. With the wii's controller, XBox's online capability, 
 and the PS3's graphics, every game would be spectacular. Unfortunately, this video game utopia 
 doesn't exist yet. There's still a three way console war. and, to many people's discomfort, the 
 wi had to sacrifice it's graphics for the unique gameplay. It's obvious in almost every game, save 
 a couple game of the month's here and there. In MLB 2K8, if you can get past it's abismal graphics, 
 and completely wrong shadowing, you can hve a great time. In the end, that's what the wii is all 
 about. Just have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  What happen to this baseball game? Last year edition wasnt as bad to
  me as this years edition. 2k7s issuse wasnt that serious but had little 
  issues. I think the 
 graphics from 2k7 series was very good ,everything about the game was ok except for blasting homeruns 
 over the fence left and right
  Now MLB2k8 ! has too many problems. I think they took to many steps back
  wards. The graphics 
 wasnt good the gameplay wasnt good just face it !!!!!!!
  This game is horrible. All they had to do is just change the fielding and how
  the homeruns was 
 being hit thats all.. I played this game for 20mins and
  just took it out of my ps3 ,its just a waste of time and money. Theres nothing
  at all i like 
 about this game so i will leave it at that.. Guess i will wait till next
  year . But for now MLB 08 The show is the ticket 
  
  Go Cleveland Indians ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played The Show for two years and decided to check out the 2k8 demo. 
  
  I was impressed with the demo even with the frame rate issue and was intrigued by the control scheme.
 
  
  After getting the full game here is my first time 2kMLB player summary:
  
  My breakdown is a follows:
  
  2k8 Pros
  Best sound
  More natural commentary.
  more detailed 
 atmosphere sounds
  the crowd sounds are perfect and has a ton more detail than The Show.
  2k8 blows away The Show when it comes to audio.
  
  Deep simulation:
  Awesome level of detail 
 for both major and minor leagues.
  The only thing the Show has on 2k8 is the road the show mode but that's it. 2k8 wins the rest.
 
  
  Single handedly the best feature of 2k8 is the control scheme. Talk about innovative and natural. 
 Both batting and pictching are a dream to play and absolutely FUN!. This is one thing that no Show 
 Fanboy can deny. The analog scheme fantastic compared to using face buttons.
  
  Sony better copy this for next year or they are in trouble.
  
  
  2k8 Cons:
  Textures are 
 dated but the detail in objects are very impressive. The statdiums look meticulous compared to 
 The Show. The Show has a more sterile simplistic look to it's stadiums. Keep in mind I have over 
 40 hours of The Show 07/08 gameplay under my belt and over 20 hours of 2k8.
  
  Player models not as nice as the Show's.
  
  Stadium crowds have weaker animation but much better 
 color detail and variety than the Show.
  
  Bottom line:
  2k8 has it where it counts and that's the detail. The detail is everywhere. From the audio to the 
 natual time of day lighting that changes during the game. Little details like how the home plate 
 markings begin to wear out as the game progresses. This is simply terrific attention to detail. 
 And it's everywhere. The show is very sterile compared to 2k8.
  
  Frame rate issues are a factor until they are patched out. Thankfully there is a work around. You 
 simply have to log out of your VIP profile.
  Then the game is smooth as silk.
  
  This year I pre-orded The Show with a wait and see for 2k8. The demo was key for me buying 2k8.
 
  
  Next year I will preorder 2k9 and will wait for a show demo before deciding on The Show. The show 
 really didn't add much to this year. But 2k8 was refreshing to me with it's contorl scheme. Awesome 
 controls!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bach193
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  It's not worth explaining any features of MLB 2K8. All there is that is worth saying is the features 
 that make the game the embarrassment it is. All MLB 2K8 has in its game mode category is exhibition, 
 franchise, home run derby, manager showdown and situation. If you have played any baseball game 
 previous to this one these are all game modes that you should recognize because there is nothing 
 new here (it doesn't even have a season mode anymore) . This means that there is no motivation to 
 say, "Hey that sounds cool I'd like to try that". Also, with the limited amount of game modes it 
 makes MLB 2K8 a very simple and limited baseball experience. 
  
  In game play, there are many things that are very unrealistic and noticeable that make the game 
 even worse. If you begin an exhibition game, immediately without toggling any of the difficulty 
 options you should notice many of the following things. The new "total control pitching" gestures 
 are far too sensitive and way too many meatballs are a result. And much like last year's addition 
 there are, again, way too many home runs; except this year 2K sports took it to the next level 
 because you don't hit many of them; the opposing team does and this is a result of the extremely 
 poor "total control pitching". Also, much like last year's game, the opposing team is perfect and 
 makes some pretty unbelievable and almost impossible defensive plays. This is very frustrating 
 when you can't do these things but the AI can. The visuals in the game are not as good as last 
 year's edition either. Things like the ivy at Wrigley or the coke bottle at Fenway don't stand 
 out anymore. The visuals compared to the MLB the show series are about even but this is only in 
 the 2008 versions of the game. Furthermore, MLB 2K7's and MLB 2K8's physics are as usual, nothing 
 compared to the MLB The Show series. 
  
  Online, the weak articles and poor roster downloads in MLB 2K8 are measly compared to the hourly 
 updated articles and daily updated roster downloads of MLB 08 The Show. These are also much easier 
 to work with. Also, there are more people online in the MLB 08 The show game and you get to rate 
 your opponent and make sure there are no bad seeds. So ,overall, the online capability in MLB 2K8 
 is ,again, nothing compared to MLB 08 The Show. And about this new baseball card feature, if you 
 cannot go online it is worthless so there are no good new features in MLB 2K8.
  
  As you can see, MLB 2K8 is a terrible, terrible baseball game and experience when compared to anything 
 else including MLB 2K7.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterBogart
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  I promise, don't waste your time and money on this. It looks almost like they didn't finish it 
 in time for release. It has a ton of cool ideas.. but they surround an in-game play that rivals 
 the worst on Playstation 2. I think Tony Larussa Baseball on the PC played with a smoother framerate. 
 It is more than distracting.... it makes the game completely annoying. I feel bad too, because I 
 loved the baseball card idea... but what is the point of winning cards in a game that you can't 
 enjoy because it runs so poorly and looks like a bad PS2 game. I usually love everything from 2K.. but 
 this game really dissapointed me. I went out after and bought the Show, which has been fun so far. 
 I am sad that I can't take some of the features from 2K and put them with the in-game from the 
 Show.... that would be cool. All I can say is that this game is definitely going fast to the bargain 
 bin.... and a lot of people will get screwed in the process. Really Really bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HerdXB90
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought both MLB 2K8 and MLB 08: The Show on release day. I thought MLB 2K7 was so-so, but I was 
 hoping and thinking that MLB 2K8 would be better. Was I ever disappointed. 2K8 is even worse.
 
  
  The player models don't look as good, the animations seem robotic and choppy and the game is a 
 home-run fest. I've tried for hours to find a reason to keep the game around, but I can't. I will 
 be selling this crap back.
  
  I give them an A for effort with the new pitching system but that is the only bright spot in this 
 game. It's just not fun. What I don't understand is how the game took a hit in graphics and frame-rate. 
 After playing several games of MLB 08: The Show, it's not only hard to play MLB 2K8 because of 
 the lack of fun but it's also hard to look at.
  
  This game was nothing but a huge disappointment and a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppi
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought this game I just knew it was going to be spectacular! Man was I so wrong. This 
 game actually digressed from last years version. The only thing I did right was when I bought this 
 game I also bought The Show. The Show blows this game out and if you only have the money to buy 
 only one of these games definately get The Show. The graphics are not that good.
  
  The gameplay itself is kinda jagged the framerate speeds are just atrocious. Overall is this game 
 tolerable? The answer is yes. It has enough to provide the minimum entertainment quality to at 
 least allow you to play a season. Maybe next year things will improve for this game. As for now 
 if you want something that is a tad bit above mediocrity get 2K8 on the other hand if you want 
 a spectacular game you may want to spend your 60 bucks on The Show! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
