-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marvel: Ultimate Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/marvelultimatealliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, eclectic cast of Marvel heroes and villains.
 deep yet largely optional character customization system.
 great variety of environments.
 seamless local and online co-op play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Presentation a little technically uneven.
 some customization options seem contradictory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,317 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 17, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Raven improves upon the great work it did with the X-Men Legends games, with a lengthy adventure 
 that touches upon nearly every last corner of the Marvel Universe. 

  In 2004, Raven Software surprised a lot of people with X-Men Legends, an action RPG focusing on 
 the exploits of Marvel's mutant superheroes. The Diablo-style gameplay was a significant departure 
 for Raven, a developer best known for its extensive work on first-person shooters. Perhaps more 
 surprising was the game's success in introducing action RPG conventions to the world of superheroes, 
 a fairly novel combination at the time. It proved to be a winning formula, one that Raven further 
 refined with last year's X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse. Not content with the localized struggles 
 of the X-Men, the concept has been blown out to an intergalactic, interdimensional scale with Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance. With well over 20 unique playable heroes, a massive campaign that features a 
 wide variety of well-known Marvel Universe villains, supporting characters, and locations, as well 
 as plenty of hidden extras, it's the biggest piece of Marvel fan service seen in a video game. 
 It also builds upon a lot of the gameplay systems established in the X-Men Legends games, making 
 for an experience that's deeper, longer-lasting, and generally more satisfying.  

          The stars of the world's greatest comics join forces in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance.     
 

  Ominous things are afoot right from the start in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. Dr. Doom has brought 
 together a coalition of supervillains under the Masters of Evil name, whose first act is to attack 
 a S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier. An opposing coalition of superheroes quickly comes to the aid of S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 director Nick Fury, who takes command of the situation and coordinates the superheroes as they 
 continue to track Doom and his minions across the universe and into different dimensions. The sheer 
 quantity of Marvel supervillains you'll face on your quest to defeat Dr. Doom is genuinely staggering. 
 Heavy hitters like Ultron, the Mandarin, Mephisto, Loki, and Galactus all play major roles, but 
 there's still room for lower-profile villains like M. O. D. O. K., Fin Fang Foom, Arcade, Grey Gargoyle, 
 Blackheart, Super Skrull, and literally dozens of others. There are a couple of truly excellent 
 twists and turns, and the story does a good job of concealing the true nature of Dr. Doom's plans 
 until just the right moment. Some of the finer points, such as the excess of long-winded expository 
 speeches in between levels, don't stand up to close scrutiny so well, but the narrative is successful 
 in keeping the game moving at a fast clip.  

  Your starting lineup in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance consists of Captain America, Thor, Spider-Man, 
 and Wolverine, but after a few levels playing with these heroes, you're given the option to create 
 your own custom team. At first you'll have about 18 different heroes to choose from, and they represent 
 a good cross-section of high-profile heroes and more obscure fan favorites. Old-schoolers like 
 the Fantastic Four, Iron Man, and several X-Men are there, as are a number of heroes who are likely 
 unknown to those who don't keep up with comics, such as Moon Knight, Luke Cage, Spider-Woman, and 
 Deadpool. As you progress you'll run into other heroes such as Blade, Dr. Strange, Ghost Rider, 
 and the Silver Surfer, who will in turn join the cause. Part of the fun of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 is the sheer variety of places the game takes you. While the X-Men Legends games seemed stuck mostly 
 in dungeonlike corridors and sewers and such, here you'll visit some of the most spectacular and 
 mythical locations in the Marvel Universe, including Mephisto's Realm, Asgard, Mandarin's palace, 
 the Skrull homeworld, and, finally, Dr. Doom's sinister Latverian castle. The lush environments 
 really do look as if they came straight out of a comic book, and the game's overall look is enhanced 
 with loads of dramatic lighting and crazy particle effects. The heroes and villains look good from 
 afar, but up close they lack detail and have been bump-mapped to the point that they look like 
 action figures. There are other inconsistencies, such as a few distractingly large, blurry background 
 textures and the ravine of difference in quality among some of the prerendered cinematic sequences. 
 It's also unfortunate that the frame rate isn't more stable. Too many special effects can make 
 the game stutter a little when running at 720p. It's a bit worse when you run the game at 1080p, 
 though when it's running smoothly, it's by far as good as Marvel: Ultimate Alliance looks on any 
 platform. The sound design is also a little uneven, with some overly chatty characters and environmental 
 sound loops, but it more than makes up for this with a soundtrack that's just fantastic, capably 
 shifting gears to keep up with the game's near-constant, dramatic scenery changes.  

  The basics of the gameplay should be perfectly familiar by now to fans of hack-and-slash dungeon 
 crawlers like Diablo, Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, or Raven's own X-Men Legends games. Commanding 
 a group of four superheroes, you'll fight your way through swarms of enemies, becoming more powerful 
 and gaining new abilities and the occasional piece of gear along the way. From the get-go, everyone 
 can perform a handful of straight-up melee combos. There are a few details that give the basic 
 combat some depth beyond simple button mashing, such as the ability to disarm enemies and grapple 
 with them and enemies that are only susceptible to specific attacks. Pulling the right trigger 
 gives you access to a number of your hero's special powers, and these special powers, along with 
 stuff like the ability of flight when appropriate, play a big part in giving each hero a unique 
 feel. As different as the abilities can look and feel, most can be easily slotted into a handful 
 of categories. There are melee attacks, radial attacks, projectile attacks, beam attacks, individual 
 as well as team boosts, and high-powered "xtreme" attacks that you can only trigger after your 
 usually slow-filling momentum meter reaches capacity. Save for the Silver Surfer, who seems stymied 
 by the terranean nature of the gameplay, the heroes feel quite comparable to their ink-and-paper 
 counterparts. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance on the PlayStation 3 makes occasional use of the gyroscopic 
 features in the Sixaxis controller, and the implementation can be inconsistent. It works pretty 
 well for puzzles, such as when you have to follow a series of on-screen tilt commands to disarm 
 a bomb. Sometimes it just adds unnecessary steps, such as when you have to hold the left shoulder 
 button and then tilt the controller to perform a roll, when just tapping the left shoulder button 
 produces the same results.         Character customization runs deep, though you can choose to 
 automate it if it's too much for you.     

  Though you have little control over how your hero's basic stats like health and energy increase 
 as you reach new experience levels, with each new level you're given skill points that you can 
 put toward special powers. Each hero has eight or more special powers in an arsenal, though many 
 of them are inaccessible until you reach certain experience plateaus. You can also use cold, hard 
 cash that you pick up by beating enemies and smashing crates to purchase points, though they start 
 off pricey and become exponentially more so as you progress. Each hero also has three alternate 
 costumes that you can unlock, which not only can drastically affect the hero's appearance, but 
 also comes with a unique set of bonuses that you can pay to increase. Defeating significant villains 
 and finding special treasure chests will usually net you a piece of performance-enhancing equipment. 
 Usually any hero can use any gear you happen upon, though it never shows up on their person, and 
 there are also lots of rare pieces of gear that only specific heroes can use.     

  It would seem that there would be a bit of a conundrum in having an RPG-style experience system 
 with such a huge cast of characters. You'd think that any hero who isn't constantly a part of your 
 active team would become useless after the first level. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance addresses this 
 smartly by artificially increasing the experience levels of nonactive heroes as your active team 
 progresses. Nonactive heroes will usually be about one full experience level behind your active 
 heroes, which is just enough that, should you choose to swap in a hero that you haven't used before, 
 they'll still be tough enough to keep up. Perhaps most interesting about the whole hero customization 
 system in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the fact that few of your choices are permanent. Though 
 you can't take back any money spent, any skill points you've earned or purchased can be redistributed 
 to different special powers at the drop of a hat. Additionally, if all of this talk of skill points 
 and team boosts seems boring or confusing to you and you're just interested in beating up lots 
 of bad guys, you'll love that the game handles all character customization by default.  

          Who you choose as teammates can earn you unique performance enhancements.     

  Beyond 
 the individual heroes, the actual team building plays an interesting role in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. 
 When you're initially given the choice to create a team, you can either pick a prefab group such 
 as the Fantastic Four or the Avengers, or you can pick four heroes of your liking to create a custom 
 team. You can swap in other heroes as you please, but by playing with heroes that have been designated 
 as a part of your team, your team gains reputation points that can be used to infer specific bonuses 
 on the team. Playing with heroes who aren't designated as part of your team will reduce reputation, 
 though if you stick with your initial team of four for a while, you'll be able to add additional 
 heroes to the team. Separate from the team reputation system, who you choose for your team can 
 earn you yet another stat bonus. Some of them are obvious. For example, you'll get an X-Men boost 
 for playing with mutants, and a Fantastic Four bonus for playing with Mister Fantastic, Invisible 
 Woman, Human Torch, and The Thing. Alternately, if you play with, say, Captain America, Spider-Woman, 
 Luke Cage, and Spider-Man, you'll get a New Avengers bonus, while playing with all female characters 
 will earn you a Femme Fatale bonus. Juggling specific heroes' skill points, gear, and costumes, 
 as well as your team reputation points and roster-specific team bonuses, can be overwhelming at 
 times, but this also facilitates a great amount of flexibility for those who seek it.  

  The amount of crate and barrel smashing that you'll do in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is discouraging, 
 but the game does a lot to keep the action interesting and varied. There are a few puzzles that 
 you'll have to solve while simultaneously wailing on villains, though they have a tendency to alternate 
 between painfully obvious and excessively obscured. There's no shortage of boss battles, the best 
 of which incorporate Resident Evil 4-style real-time cutscenes that prompt you to press specific 
 face buttons in order to successfully attack the enemy. The mechanics of these sequences are rarely 
 difficult to pull off, but they make moments like your confrontation with Galactus satisfying and 
 memorable. The game is also unafraid to indulge in the occasional gameplay tangent, which is no 
 more apparent than when you face the villain Arcade in his ominously named amusement park Murderworld, 
 which finds your heroes engaging in video game and carnival activities in rather unexpected ways. 
 You can play Marvel: Ultimate Alliance by yourself, allowing the computer to pick up the slack 
 with the three heroes you're currently not controlling. You can instantly assume control of a different 
 team member with the D pad, and holding the left trigger gives you access to some basic team behavior 
 controls. The artificial intelligence can generally hold its own, but it doesn't always listen 
 to orders and can act a bit buggy at times. For a better experience, you can have other, real-life 
 players take control at any point for some satisfying cooperative play, which holds true regardless 
 of whether the other players are playing on the same system or over the Internet.  

  Another fun distraction is the way you can earn experience points in between missions by correctly 
 answering Marvel-themed trivia questions. The trivia questions range from relative basics, like 
 which newspaper Peter Parker works for, to obscure details, like the name of Fin Fang Foom's home 
 planet. There's no time limit for answering questions, making it easy enough to hit up the Internet 
 for answers, and you'll find that you can find the answers to most questions by chatting up non-player 
 characters in the game. Still, it's a nice touch for fans to see just how much they really know 
 about comics.         Seamless cooperative play makes it easy for others to jump in.     

  Even if you choose to ignore the numerous side missions that you'll be presented with along the 
 way, it'll easily take you a good 15 or 20 hours to play through Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, and 
 it's a good ride from start to finish. The game gives you the sense that you can affect how the 
 story ends by certain decisions you make, but these choices are usually pretty superficial, and 
 not really worth playing through the entire game again for. The unlockable hard mode is much more 
 attractive since you can import the buffed-up team you already beat the game with. Beyond being 
 a well-made and accessible action RPG, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance really captures the essence of 
 the Marvel Universe, a pretty incredible feat considering the breadth of the source material, though 
 there are just enough omissions to easily justify a sequel. This is simply a must-have for Marvel 
 fans, though the action itself remains satisfying enough for those in search of a good dungeon-crawl 
 to enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe, but i will do my best. The Good: great graphics, it almost looks 
 real. Pretty good multiplayer considering. The Bad: horrible gameplay, terrible sound, way too 
 hard and long. So, as you can see, there are definetly worse games than this, but not too many. 
 Bottomline: Get it if you are a fan of marvel comics (or games) don't get it if you think horrible 
 gameplay, terrible sound, and a long story ruin a game to a break point. Well, that's it for 2day 
 gaming fans. I will write again very  
 bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl bbl  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  i think this game was very exciting to play, the storyline has got to be one of the best to hit 
 gaming history, online is VERY  especially if your friends 
 have it!!!! you can create your own alliance from 4 of your favorite marvel characters, ps3 has 
 moon night and collosuss as an extra added bonus. if you always loved marvel or like heroes from 
 marvel then THIS IS YOUR GAME!!!! my team usually consists of, spiderman (regular suit) , iron man 
 (ultimate suit, sometimes regular suit) , captain america (classic suit) , and wolverine (astonishing 
 suit which is the one with the black yellow and blue kinda like the comic costume) . you can assemble 
 teams and get extra hit points or +5 health you can make these teams such as the fantastic four, ultimate 
 avengers, etc. i recommend this game for kids and adults how play marvels games and have always 
 been fans of marvel.......... HAVE FUN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Why am I reviewing an old game? (I can't sleep)
  
  So... moving on...
  
  Diablo was an addicting game... simple mechanics, lots of powerups/feeling of progress.... This game 
 has a similar design and yet lacks that addicting punch.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance (MUA) is a strange game... it seems like it should be more fun than it 
 actually is...
  
  The powerups/abilities are clunky to manage... the specials you pick up are really strange... I am 
 not explaining this well at all...
  
  Ok... when given the ability to upgrade something, I want to have all the choices I will eventually 
 have... in other words... give me a tree of choices... in MUA you keep getting more options as the 
 game progresses but which can make earlier choices meaningless.
  
  For example... you can create a custom team that gains reputation points... kinda cool... except that 
 all of the heroes aren't available at the start of the game... so you may find that you really want 
 a team of Blade/Thor/Wolverine and Ghost Rider but by the time Blade/Ghost rider are available, 
 you will already have invested too much in another team (you can eventually add more members to 
 a team) .
  
  You can spend money to enhance a uniform, only to find that you prefer another uniform that becomes 
 available later in the game (and can't get back that money)
  
  It all makes for an upgrade system that I find clunky... I would have actually just made it simpler... make 
 every hero available, choose each characters uniform at the start and make it final...
  
  The missions are ok... it's definitely fun to run around with Marvel characters... there are just 
 too many strange features... for example, you can switch team members at given points during a mission... so 
 one mission, I have three team members "die" and juuuust make it to a SHIELD point... boom, swap 
 out the "dead' (they are just resting) and boom, new team... or you can just put the controller 
 down and wait until your preferred teammates are rested...
  
  It's fun... but something is missing.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigflu
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  I like the game, but I seriously have to question Activision (or Marvel's) decision on who to put 
 into the game ......... and their choices on their powers. 
  
  I realize that several characters don't have what I would classify as "executable" powers. So they 
 substitute in various options to try and make them equal to those that do ........ and that sort 
 of makes it lame. For example ....... Wolverine has super healing ability, which is not something 
 that can be used as an offensive move. So why not just fill up one of his allotted 8 super power 
 options with the healing ability? It just means that he has one less cheesy claw slashing move 
 to utilize, but the benefits of self-healing could outweigh that ......... or at least they would 
 if you have any sense in your head. A character like Spiderman is given 8 different ways to utilize 
 his web ability .... which is cool and all, and makes him more fun to use. 
  
  So basically what I'm saying is that unless the character shoots stuff, they kind of get cheesy 
 moves. Which makes me question the character selection for this game in general. I realize you 
 need to put the favorites in ..... but some of the obscure selections confuse me. Nick Fury? Really? 
 What does he do other than shoot a gun and smoke? I've never used his character, and probably never 
 will.
  
  And since I brought up my displeasure with the individual characters, my main pet peeve is Iron 
 Man. I only bought this game so that I could play as Iron Man ..... and his powers kind of blow. 
 When you finally earn the cool ones (or cheat to get them) they're kind of weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant colors at 1080p so the characters jump out at you. The scenery complements the games 
 layout where you'll roam. This is a must play for all Marvel lovers and any X-Men fans. Of course 
 my favorite is Wolverine so he' part of my four man line up. Pick the crew you want to run with 
 and do damage. As you plow your way through this game you can gain all kinds of points. Build your 
 strength, stamina, health, ability and collection different rings with all kinds of attributes. 
 I was feeling the games layout where you went from one world to another to stop Dr Doom. The best 
 of the best is on reserve so you can switch teammates any time you want to. But when you do you 
 loose your achievements with the original team. This is a gain you will play over and over if you're 
 part of the Marvel Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I think if I played this game on Playstation 2, I wouldn't have been so critical of it. But on 
 the Playstation 3... you just start to expect more.
  
  Not many surprises with the 3rd installment of Raven's popular gaming engine. It looks, plays, 
 and feels the same as the previous two X-men games. Again classified as RPG, but other than leveling 
 up and vague equipment, this is an action based hack and slash through and though.
  
  I was not overly thrilled with leaving the X-men behind and introducing all the new (and some very 
 lame) Marvel classic heroes. Took a lot of the enjoyment for me from the previous games.
  
  There are some novel missions in this game. Galactus destroying the city in the background during 
 Act IV comes to mind. Very cool. However the voice acting is sub par and the CG graphics, especially 
 during mission briefing are terrible.
  
  I still had fun playing this game, but not nearly as much as the previous two X-men games.
  
 
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartantec1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance an action RPG that truly brings the powerful and diverse beings of the 
 Marvel Universe together with a good story and plot twists.
  
  This game starts off with known heroes, u get to have 4 player team for the full game, u can choose 
 the characters you like from a huge roast of characters from the marvel universe in many point 
 in the game when u stand on a shield command point. The animations are good, the graphics are really 
 sharp and pretty lighting, detailed textures makes u want to look at the game in pleasure. Even 
 the voice work of all the characters are right to their marvel personalities. Ever character has 
 their own strengths and weaknesses, powers can be upgraded through combat or purchased. Items dropped 
 by the enemy can be used to enhance character attributes.
  
  It is wise to choose a team with different strengths to be more versatile against enemies. Some 
 combination of heroes like all the fantastic 4 or all the x-men give a boost to your teams attributes.
 
  The action is tight and enjoyable to see the heroes ripping apart the enemies. The control system 
 is simple and fun. The integration of the six-axis feature in this game is really good better than 
 any other game I've played actually. The CG cut-scenes a really fantastic and Epic. Choice options 
 in story are limited but has consequences once u finish the game u get to know what happened to 
 the other parts of the story depending on the path u took. Right from begining to end you are pulled 
 into the story. Overall, surprisingly good game and a worth a look for marvel fans and rpg players 
 who want to experience some superhero fun!
  
  Personal Opinion and view:
  Actually, this was my 1st ps3 game. I got it because at that time i could not get Resistance: Fall 
 of man. Even though i bought this one 1st i just played it once and did not play it. After a few 
 months i again took this game on playing it i realized what a great game it was and how short sighted 
 and foolish i was. Really well balanced RPG From marvel and raven. A must play for all the fans 
 of marvel and rpg fans.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  It is hard not to like this game. It gives you the slap, slam dunk, burn and destroy part of a smash-em-up. 
 It has the choices of evolution like Diablo, it has a fun factor surpassing the original LEGO game 
 and the graphics of an excellent comic. Add to this the strong plot-line/story-line and the picture 
 is complete.
  
  Like the X-Men games the control is very similar, however, the story-line here is lot better. The 
 game could have been perfect if the cut scenes would have been more representing the characters, 
 but, i can live with that.
  
  The overall fun of this game is just amazing. The game does have a weak part or two, but not as 
 you go through the storyline.
  Another mention here is that the graphics are better then the 360 version. Even on a smaller screen, 
 the unlockable figurines were a lot better to see.
  
  That part is a minor detail! the overall game is identical and the race to the final fight is done 
 in such a way that it honors the comic characters from their books into this game.
  
  I do miss the Hero/Villain pack that the 360 has, but that does not take away the fun that this 
 game delivers. 
  
  this game is so strong on the platforms, that it will be a hard task for Ultimate Alliance II to 
 surpass, especially as this game is often on special sale, and at $49 this game is an absolute 
 must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  My expectations were very high for this game, since it was getting such good reviews from both 
 critics and gamers alike. Don't be angry with me, but I didn't think this game was that great. 
 I have no idea how anyone could say this game is an 8.5/10, because it just isn't. Let me start 
 off by saying the story sucks in this game. Dr. Doom (from the Fantastic Four movies) wants to 
 take over the world or something, and it's your job to stop it. Despite the poorly designed plot, 
 it isn't the worst part of the game, because I usually don't expect much of a story. Visually, 
 the game looks fair at best. The super-heroes look generally good, though some could use some work 
 ( like the Hulk) . The environments mostly look bland and also look kind of the same, sometimes 
 making you backtrack. There isn't much enemy variety either. The audio, though, is pretty good. 
 Both the in-game sound and voice acting are solid. However, the gameplay is flat out boring. You 
 run around levels with three other super-heroes, and you can also play co-op, which is nice. However, 
 the combat is bad. It's basically just a button masher, with a few special team moves and so on. 
 It gets boring after the first 10-15 minutes you play the game. I personally don't know why everyone 
 was so hyped up about this boring game.
  
  Story: 5/10 -- average story, since developers don't really pay much attention the the plot
  
 
  Graphics: 6/10 -- they're alright but the environments look bland and there isn't much enemy variety
 
  
  Sound: 7.5/10 -- solid voice acting along with the in-game sound
  
  Gameplay: 4.5/10 -- way too boring and basic, even with co-op
  
  Enjoyment: 5.5/10 -- I didn't 
 get too much enjoyment out of this game, but most people somehow did
  
  Final Thoughts: If you're a fan of any Marvel character then consider renting this game. The sound 
 in the game is good, but the visuals, plot and the gameplay ruin the entire game in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I bought for the PS3. It actually was what sold the system to me. I couldn't 
 wait to play it. I am a big fan of the X-men Legends games, that I wanted any incarnation of it. 
 Now if only the Time Warner guys would get off their asses and bring us a better Justice League.
 
  
  I was absolutely amazed by the graphics for this game. Especially the load screens. The colors 
 simply come to life on the TV. In play graphics are also impressive. There was never any slowdowns. 
 
  
  The dialogue and story are a bit hinky. I would say, if anything was wrong with the game, it would 
 be that it was to long. Way to much was thrown into the pot. Situations that could have been their 
 own game suddenly is here, as just one level. That howver is a small nit to pick.
  
  Over all gameplay and controls are sharp and responsive. Only a couple of times did the camera 
 get in my way. Controls are tight and responsive.
  
  Over all it is another good grade for the studio that made it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Marvel ultimate alliance is good almost only as long as you play it with your buddy. two or more 
 player coop saves this game, and this is the fun element which makes Marvel ultimate alliance so 
 addictive. I honestly say that i skipped all the ingame story texts, i just didnt care, i was more 
 likely into gameplay, it various super heros, who all had their own unique abilities. So, story 
 didnt interested me at all.
  
  Graphics reminds to me morelikely the ps2 game.
  
  positive things:
  few great environment design. awesome boss fights, i liked Dr dooms fight scene, 
 it required the max amount of patience :) . Great use of sixaxis almost in every boss fight. Four 
 player coop using one screen (aka without splitscreen) , its the key feature of this game. Discovering 
 all the hidden characters was fun. Game also has competitive gameplay. All characters had their 
 awesome magic abilitys. Different endings, depends how u play this game.
  
  Negative:
  
  Not memorable, maybe even boring environment, i mean the whole levels almost looked identical 
 to each other even the colours were the same (more variation people!) , exept some: like the clown 
 land, the underwater world, vallhalla, and "iceworld". darn camera angle, u will see probably one 
 of the gaming history worst camera angle, especially at the very end of the game (in dooms castle) , 
 sometime the camera irritates u by switching the angle right in the middle of the hot battle.
 
  
  SO, to sum this up, you probably want to stay away from this game if u dont have someone to play 
 it with!! To all others, brothers and sisters, best friends out there- its guaranteed, absolute 
 fun!! U wont find anyother so addictive coop game even today!
  
  Go beat up some Dr dooms villains 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is an excellent example of a fun - if simple - rpg executed to near perfection.
 
  
  The button-bash oriented fighting is easy to master, yet it offers you enough to keep players interested 
 throughout. Then there's the muiltitude of characters, each one unique enough to bring something 
 different to the table.
  
  Sure it looks like a last-gen console game, but let's be honest; a game that's still fun despite 
 looking fairly old-hat deserves special acclaim.
  
  It's reasonably long too, and the character development (while fairly shallow) lends enough to 
 your specific hero to make you feel like you've left our stamp on the Marvel universe.
  
  Co-op mode deserves to be mentioned too, as it's probably the most fun I've had on a two-player 
 since Call of Duty 4. It's no Phantasy Star Online, but it's a proper multiplayer that doesn't 
 feel tacked on.
  
  In the end, I'd recommend this to all rpg fans, and even some people who don't go fo the grand 
 epic role-playing options will find something to enjoy here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contracts420
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  When you want to play as a marvel character you would go out and get the hulk, spider-man or even 
 Ironman. But if you want to play as a lot of characters then what do you do. Go pick up Marvel 
 Ultimate alliance and you will find just that. The huge roster and great variety in almost every 
 aspect of the game make it worth your hard earned money. The gameplay may not be very deep but 
 with all the added extras like being able to tune your characters and make them better or unlocking 
 new outfits for each and every character make the game more than your average beat em up. The levels 
 themselves are big and fun to play through more than once. Graphics dont meen much in the end but 
 I have to talk about them anyway. They arent exactly next gen but if you have seen the ps2 version 
 then you will appreciate the ps3 versions graphics alot. 
  The sound is great and the story is interesting esp If your a marvel fan. I would suggest getting 
 this game because its fun and has alot of replay value if you love making the characters the best 
 they can be. Go pick it up and have fun true believers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  
  A superb RPG it is, a great action it has, but its way to short and sometimes lack of challenge.
 
  
  So the story might not be the best part of the story, doom attacks and blah b lah. The combos and 
 the teamwork attacks are pretty fun and also there skill points that you can level up. .Creating 
 and upgrading your team is always fun ,you are able to make some great power-ups too and unlocking 
 combos.
  
  The game has a great Multiplayer but doesnt hav a V. S mode. Each charcters play in a differnt way, 
 level upping is nice bonus. Upgrading combos ar cool. The animation is nice and the gameplay itself 
 is outstanding. The camera doesnt hav alot ov probs. Though its very good 2 play it over and ove 
 again .
  
  The game is way to short and the Story looks prett messed upp (a bit) .The game lacks a bit of 
 a challenge. The boss fights are to easy and its pretty boring to play witout a friend, And the sixxasis 
 control just messes the whole view at certain points ,but its stil might be overboard
  
  If you wanna a great fighting RPG game, then UA ,is just a game for ya ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Interesting story, not one you would typically not see from Marvel.
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics were very good for this style of game, shading and lighting were 
 tip top.
  Sound: 7.5 - Alright sound, some of the commentary by characters is somewhat lame but sometimes 
 very comical.
  Environment/Maps: 7 - Maps were alright throughout the game, nothing too difficult to figure out 
 puzzle wise. It was annoying that the tips would re-appear everytime you walked by the area they 
 were assigned too, this should have been fixed.
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Development did a great job on this game and I could find very few 
 flaws in the scripting. I will definately play the next game that this development team makes.
 
  Interface: 9 - Default controls are very confusing on the PC, but with a little tweaking it's 
 very easy. Other systems controls were much easier to learn. Huge selection of heroes to play from 
 and many many villians to fight. Leveling was a cool feature due to the powers you advance or gain.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Huge selection of heroes and with each lots of different gainable powers. I'm not 
 a big fan of this style of game but It proved to be fun for hours. Definately worth playing or 
 at least trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  ok when i got this i thought this is bad! but then i got into the story a little and it wasn't bad 
 not at all bad!
  
  graphics 7/10
  these are pretty good from a birds eye view type game and the cut scenes are nice like watching 
 a movie!
  
  sound:7/10
  gets annoying some times but other than that they're nice,
  
  fighting:8/10 amazing
  it is amazing theres no level with out fighting! and all the moves and 
 combos it makes it a great experience! game play: 8/10
  fun but story is way too short!!!! i 100% finished it (all the side missions, unlocked every character) 
 and thats without cheats! its about 3-6 hours depending on your skill level!
  
  but overall this game just does not feel like a 8/10 or a 9/10 because it could have been much 
 better and the online is soooooo bad! I've found 1 person over about one year of playing! and 2 
 player is bad! sometimes you don't even know who you character is half the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of this Genre, then you cannot go wrong with this game. Its your typical platform 
 "Button Mashing" superhero game, but where this game steps it up where others have merely failed, 
 is the massive collection of heros you can unlock as you progress through the storyline. All your 
 MARVEL heros are in this one, which makes this games "value" high. Not to mention the ability to 
 UPGRADE each and every character as you progress. Its pretty extensive compared to the average 
 game in this genre and even offers abit of a Roll Playing feature that is a bit new. You even get 
 a chance to do "side" quest so to speak, something I have yet to see in the category of games. 
 The game looks great and is "Polished" well considering it also was a PS2 release. The mechanics 
 are pretty simple and they give you the oppritunity to use POWERS that make for some killer combos. 
 If your a Marvel fan then you are sure to get a kick outta this one, I mean how can you not when 
 you can have Ghost Rider, Deadpool, Thing, and Silver Surfer team up at one time kickin some.... well 
 you get the point! Trust me the entrouge of character choices is the one reason you gotta get this 
 one.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlavizzo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  By no means would I call this a "next-gen" game. The characters look great when they're standing 
 still, but as soon as you get into any sort of action, the frame rate drops abysmally and the game 
 chops worse than it's PS2 sibling. The chop was bad enough that I went and searched for downloadable 
 fixes (there are none) .
  
  This is a perfect example of a next-gen game gone horribly wrong. I'm no developer, but what it 
 looks like they did is just upped the poly counts of everything in the game and slapped a "1080p" 
 sticker on it. The only time the frame rate is bearable to watch is at the character selection 
 screen, and even then there's some noticeable chug when you select any character with particle 
 effects (Iceman, Human Torch are the two that come to mind) .
  
  I'm not terribly, terribly upset since I picked this game up for 19.99, but had I paid full price 
 for this so-called "next-gen" fiasco I'd be asking for my money back. A complete disservice to 
 the processing power of the PS3. With games like The Orange Box and Rainbow Six: Vegas simply blowing 
 away even the PC versions, there's no reason to play an embarrassment like this one. 
  
  The only redeeming factor this game has is the sheer amount of fanboy service it has. It's awesome 
 that you can play as the underrated Moon Knight right out of the gate. Luke Cage is another under 
 appreciated hero that many long time Marvel fans will be happy to see. The costume unlocks are 
 great also - Spider-man's black costume was cool, but being able to play as Classic Captain America 
 was even better. 
  
  Further, I don't want to ruin it for anyone, but the Murderworld level will make you want to murder 
 your PS3 controller. The jump mechanic in the arcade game is so ridiculously hard to predict that 
 it had even some of the top gamers in my play group chucking the controller and giving up. Docked 
 a full point for this frustrating waste of time.
  
  All in all, if the frame rate issues were cleared up somehow, this game would be a solid 9. As 
 it is, trying to play it makes my head hurt - I actually have spent more time with the PS3 version 
 just for that reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panthermattnyc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  A lot of characters. That's what this games offers, in the "plus" column. As a life long Marvel 
 fan, it's great to see the incredible amount of heroes and villains that pop up in this one! I 
 mean, Fin Fang Foom?!?! Really?!?! How cool is that? Cool enough to keep me playing this poseur 
 Next Gen game, that's how cool.
  
  The story is uninspired, the screens are cluttered, and the fighting is little more than major 
 button mashing. The top down view took me back to the days of playing Gauntlet, in the arcades 
 (I realize how I've just dated myself) .
  
  I suppose mixing and matching the characters to form unique teams and develop new fighting combos 
 is supposed to be enthralling, but I found it quite... "meh".
  
  I am very hopeful that the sequel will truly be a next gen game, instead of a last gen game broadcast 
 in 720i.
  
  'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waferlawrence
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game you can get very deep into or just a game to sit and have fun with, 
 this game should do it. I love the fact that I can sit around and goof with it when I want to relax, 
 or sit there and get into upgrading my characters when I want to get deep into it.
  
  You control a good number of characters in a game very much like the X-Men Legends games. Now, 
 however, your roster goes deeper than just the X-Men. You have Deadpool, Captain America, Blade, 
 The Fantastic Four, Ghost Rider, and Moonknight just to name a few. Some of the Xmen are back too, 
 like Wolverine, Storm, and Iceman. With this being PS3, you get Colossus and Moon Knight, exclusive 
 to 7th generation versions of this game.
  
  There's a lot of side quests, NPCs, and a great story to interact with. There's always something 
 else to shoot for as well. You won't find yourself bored for a very long time.
  
  The only problem is how annoying the Multiplayer can be. One of you runs one way, the other gets 
 trapped behind some stairs. Granted, due to the nature of the game, it would be hard to make improvements, 
 but it is possible.
  
  You'll find yourself switching people out, seeing how characters compliment each other. Each of 
 the 20+ characters has a large number of unique abilities to use and strengthen as your whim.
 
  
  Gameplay 8.5 
  I might have given this one a ten if the multiplayer didn't get messy.
  
  Graphics 7 
  The graphics aren't astounding, but aren't awful either. I tend to expect a 
 little more from a game on a 7th generation console. Cut scenes are decent, but I honestly think 
 it can be done on a PS2 without problem.
  
  Sound 9 
  The unique character dialogues are why I'm rating this one so high. I loved it when Deadpool and 
 Fury would start mouthing at each other, and I was tempted to redo boss fights multiple times just 
 to see what they'd say to each other. 
  
  Value 10
  The game isn't expensive (at least it wasn't for me) and is one of the funnest and most addicting 
 action RPGs I've ever played. If you're like me, and have a mild interest in comic book characters 
 but don't have the time to read up on them, you'll enjoy this. You'll learn a little but about 
 characters you don't know well or at all. For instance, I'm tempted to go buy some Deadpool comics 
 because of how much I enjoyed playing him in this game. I've been playing it non stop since I bought 
 it, and it cost me 23 dollars. Not too shabby if you ask me. If you see this used, I seriously 
 suggest picking it up.
  
  Tilt 9
  I want to give this part a ten too, but the multiplayer is annoying. When you unlock Hard, you 
 find that all the abilities you've maxed out and love can be upgraded more. Also, you can start 
 with the characters you've leveled and the game adjusts to your level. It's not a cakewalk anymore, 
 and I love that. Also, you'll find yourself tweaking and unlocking suits all day, there's a barrage 
 of training simulators, and with PS3 taking advantage of the six axis controller, you'll find yourself 
 in some very fun mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  A superb RPG it is, a great action it has, but its way to short and sometimes lack of challenge.
 
  
  So the story might not be the best part of the story, doom attacks and blah b lah. The combos and 
 the teamwork attacks are pretty fun and also there skills. Creating and upgrading your team is always 
 fun ,you level upp, you are able to make some great power-ups too.
  
  The game has a great Multiplayer but doesnt hav a V. S mode. Each charcters play in a differnt way, 
 level upping is nice bonus. Upgrades ar cool. The animation is nicem and the gameplay itself is 
 outstanding. The camera doesnt hav alot ov probs.
  
  The game is way to short and the Story looks prett messed upp (a bit) .The game lacks a bit of 
 a challenge. The boss fights are to easy and its pretty boring to play without a friend, And the 
 sixxasis control just messes the whole view.
  
  If you wanna a great game, UA should bring you a nice short time of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendetta58
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Oh the possibities are great. Send in a team of ninjas like Blade, Deadpool, Elektra and Daredevil 
 into a building to take it down. Have a team of big tough guys like the Thing, Captain America, 
 Collusus, and Luke Cage beat enemies into a pulp, and create other teams to fight evil. Fun!
  
  The storyline of the game is good and certain thing that you do in the whole story effect the 
 ending of the game. It's also fun to watch the cut-scenes and see the Marvel Super Heroes interacting 
 with each other (such as Wolverine calling Spidey "web-head") .
  
  My only criticism of the game is that the PS3 version left out the add-on content you can get on 
 the XBox. I would have liked to be able to use the Incredible Hulk, Cyclops, Venom, Magneto, and 
 others. They easily could have been added on to the game for download, but for some reason, it 
 wasn't put on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlesix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Bought this for me and my partner to play together (beats talking!!) and was excited to be playing 
 our comic hero's. We jumped straight inot the action as i gave Kel the low down as i had thsi game 
 previously for the PSP. Graphics were polished and the actors voices superb! Animation on the cut 
 scenes were brilliant although after a while went on a liitle long.
  
  The game is like any comic book story with the goodies against the baddies, but here its all the 
 goodies against all the baddies. Started playing the game and it became increasingly obvious that 
 the screen wasnt big enough for all 4 comic heros to be involved. Our characters often clashed 
 and we didnt know who was enemy and one of our own team i. e. Kel threw me around ALLOT!! Too busy 
 and needed allot of communication to decifer where we was going and who would collect the rewards 
 for a level up.
  
  Nice idea but way too complicated with all of the characters on the screen. I understand that they 
 are your back up players in case you die and that each character has their own special ability 
 i. e. Iron Man can fly, but i felt that it just didnt work. We will perservere as we have only just 
 had the game but i doubt the score will improve!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to throw in a quick review for M: UA for the Ps3 since I have both versions. (I got the 
 one for the 360 free) . This is just comparing the game with the Xbox 360 version
  
  Pros: 1080p
  Extra Characters
  
  Cons:
  Framrate seems a lot choppier than its 360 couterpart
 
  The Sixaxis controls in the game are terrible
  
  This is a great game that should be enjoyed by everyone! But if you happen to have both consoles, 
 get the 360 version. The Ps3 version isn't bad by a longshot, don't get me wrong. One of the big 
 downfalls for me was the Sixaxis controls. They seem thrown into the game, and I find myself having 
 a repeat boards because they are not very responsive. 
  
  Another thing was the framerate. This seems to be a fight between both the 360 and the Ps3 with 
 a lot of mutiplatform titles. In M: UA, the framerate does suffer just a little. It's not so bad 
 where you can't play it, but like I've said before, it's just a little better on the 360.
  
  I don't mean to bash anything about the Ps3 version of the game. I just wanted to let folks 
 know my opinion since I happen to get the game for both consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is just another launch title for a next-gen system IMO. It brings nothing original or 
 interesting to any of the characters in it. I love Marvel, but this game is subpar at best.
  
  I couldn't even force myself to play through this entire game mostly because of the fact that 
 I didn't find it very entertaining. At first, playing the different characters was fun and interesting, 
 but I quickly lost my urge to play it. The story wasn't exactly something that pushed me to play 
 more either. Lack of great music and mediocre controls didn't help. The graphics were pretty good, 
 but nowhere near the capabilities we have seen come from these next-gen systems. This is a game 
 that you might play through and somewhat enjoy it, but forget as soon as you put down. For huge 
 Marvel fans, it can be somewhat interesting, but I would recommend renting, not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froman2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a pretty good game. it is fun being all of the characters in the game. 
 my favorite guy is probably that fire guy ( forgot his name, my game got stolen) . it is cool how 
 he is able to fly in the game. this game gives a pretty good adventure story mode. you can choose 
 from about 15 people in the beginging. you choose 4 of the that you want to be on your team. then 
 when you play, you can collect coins that enable you to upgrade your players. 
  the online for this game is ok. it could be better if more poeple where online to play with. overall 
 this game is really cool. you can play 4 player co-op to play with your friends. you should get 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  MUA is an ultimate game ,that has a nice story, The playebel characters ar cool looking, the camera 
 isnt such a pain in the ASS.
  
  lets start withs som -
  MUA is great game, but the level disagin isnt much to lookat and explore . Also has som lack ov 
 Boss fights When ur against 1 and ur team has 4 charcters its dead easy. The enemis itselar easy 
 caus u jast ran up to dem and ur teamates wil help u. Also iv u use the supercombo it will br easy 
 too. The game itself isnt so hard and it doesnt pretty last long , it has only 5 chaps But dey ar 
 short. Though its reealy wierd that it doesnt hav a combat arean since der ar som much charcters.
 
  
  And now som +
  
  The game has a great Multiplayer but doesnt hav a V. S mode. Each charcters play in a differnt way, 
 level upping is nice bonus. Upgrades ar cool. The animation is nicem and the gameplay itself is 
 outstanding. The camera doesnt hav alot ov probs.
  
  Overall its a nice game but has alot ov probs, itself its a great and entartaing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I read reviews about this game and was suspicious at first. After having played it a few hours, 
 I must say this game is quite interesting. Graphics are outstanding and gameplay is fun. You can 
 switch between a lot of heroes while playing the game, so that you are not bored after a few minutes. 
 Different scenarios amazes you while going through the game. It's my first slashing game ever and 
 this might be the reason why I enjoy it and some dislike it. I'd say to buy it if you have never 
 played such slashing games. I bought a few games for my PS3 and Ultimate is my second favorite 
 one after Resistance. I also bought Call of Duty 3, Oblivion, FEAR; I prefer Ultimate than those 
 last ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actr4evr93
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate alliance follows along the success of x-men legends 1 and 2. The game has a lot 
 of similar features but some are new and for the better. I really wasn't into x men legends but 
 this game was really good, it kept me glued to the tv for a while. This game has a lot of features 
 and goodies and unlockables to keep you busy for good time. The game also took me around 14 or 
 16 hours to complete which is really good. And it has 20 characters for you to use and make teams 
 with. Great maps, tons of bosses, and an ok story with crappy graphics, make this a very good rent. And 
 yes I said crappy graphics cause they are not ps3 quality graphics unless you have a 1080p tv (although 
 in 1080p in wont look beautiful) it will make a difference. If you are tired of waiting for halo 
 3 and have nothing to do play this itll keep you calm and busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancerex6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance on the PS3 is a great port compare to other games from Xbox 360 to PS3. 
 Although this game's visual presentation doesn't have a completely next-gen feel, it still looks 
 much better than PS2's version, and luckily there's not much framerate issues. There was one bug 
 that set you off to an endless lift ride, where the cutscene does not kick in, and you get stuck 
 in the lift forever. and this can be very fustrating as you'll have to restart to your last save 
 point, so when you are playing the game, remember to save whenever you can!
  
  The controls are simple, and easy to use. the Sixaxis functionality is great when grab-throw an 
 enemy in the direction you want, but in the boss fight, the tilt action doesn't always get it right, 
 which can be very fustrating at times.
  
  The story is very engaging and fun, but way too short, because the game lacks replay values, yes, 
 you can unlock various things, but the gameplay can become repetitive towards the end of the game.
 
  
  The online is useless, it's impossible to find anyone online, let alone play online.
  
  Overall the game itself is not quite a must-get, but for the fans of marvel universe. this 
 will be a great game as it has lots of superheroes to control and test out their powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game on my friends PS3.... He didnt like it because of the overhead view... and 
 just pusing one button most of the time. I tried it, and loved it instantly. It was the best button 
 masher that I have ever played. I went through the levels, switching heroes, trying all the combos.. It 
 was great. The gameplay has you and 3 other marvel superheroes of your choice, walking around through 
 levels, while you mash buttons, and try to kill enemies. The best feature of this game is how you 
 can choose all of the marvel superheroes. That is the best. The sound quality is excellent, and 
 for an overhead, the graphics are fantastic. It also has the cutscenes that look absolutely brilliant. 
 This game is a must have especially for a console like the wii, or PS3, that have good game shortages 
 up until not that long ago. I recommend it for all consoles except GBA. Dont bother with that version. 
 This game is the ultimate button masher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Um... ya, just one problem, the graphics!!!!!!! What in the blue hell is up with that?? These visuals 
 seriously needs fixing up. They look like ps2 graphics. I played this game on the wii and it looked 
 terrible but i understood cuz it was the wii , so i thought i would buy it for the ps3 for better 
 graphics. I was kinda hesistant in buying it cuz it gamespot gave it a 6 on graphics but i htought 
 it had to be much better than the wii graphics. BUT when i bought it, the graphics looked just 
 as bad. wat the hell. I have a hdtv and the looks of the characters are **** Other then that, its 
 a typical beat em up game, except with cool superheroes and powers. Gameplay is what i expected 
 and sound quality is ok at best. The voices of the characters sounds nothing like they do in the 
 movies, but im willing to let that go. Great multiplayer when playing with friends, but its still 
 fun playing solo. Cinematics are cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  If you have friends or siblings to play this game with, it is a must-buy, especially if you like 
 Superheroes. It has its fair share to choose from in that department. It isn't too hard, so you 
 folks that aren't good at games can pretty easily beat it too. It is probably just worth a rent, 
 unless you are a hardcore fan. But it is definitely worth the rent. Me and my girlfriend have played 
 this for hours, so for you lonely guys this is a good way to spend some time with your girl haha. 
 This is a great game that shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  If you love marvel and dungeon crawler games, then this is a game to try out. A great selection 
 of characters with plenty of options, upgrades and custums. Being able to switch characters at 
 each check point in the game is a good option (much like the xmen legend games) so you can try 
 everyone out. But you eventually end up picking from your favorites most of the time. I ended up 
 switching between about 5 or 6 different characters, the rest were barely used. There is a code 
 available so you can unlock all characters from the start if you wish. I didnt find it really affected 
 the outcome of the game. The only unlockable really worth using was silver surfer in my opinion. 
 This is also a good multi-player game. The bad part of the game is that the enemies and the scenes 
 can get a little repetative. There are combos but this is for the most part a button mashing game. 
 The music is kind of annoying. I just ended up turning the music down. The cut scenes are nice 
 but the graphics in general are nothing special. There is not much difference between the ps2, 
 pc and ps3 versions. The game for the most part is a decent length if you can get over the repetativeness. 
 Probably worth buying used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzdaman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying... I'm writing my first review, cut me some slack.
  
  On a more serious note, the review:
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very solid, in its most basic 
 form. You can run around and fight enemies, collecting coins to boost your stats and gaining more 
 abilities and increasing your level. There's also a level of more complexity, optional objectives 
 to unlock extra costumes that upgrade different statistics and offer bonuses to your character, 
 a very deep abilities / powers upgrading menu, and enough extras to keep you playing for hours 
 on end. Graphics: The graphics are wonderful, they're clean and represent the characters and settings 
 the way i'd always pictured them before. Galactus' toon made me smile from end to end. Graphically, 
 this game was very well done. The framerate slows down a bit at 1080p but, bring it down to 720p 
 and you won't have a problem.
  
  Sound: The sound isn't the greatest, but it definitely deserves some praise. It sounds great and 
 the battle music is pretty good, no complaints here.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I'm skipping value, because it generally speaks for itself. My tilt, which I am 
 defining as my sway towards one direction or another due to personal preference, has to do with 
 my familiarity with the Marvel Universe. I love Marvel, having most of my favorite characters all 
 in one game, looking this awesome, is everything I could ever ask for.
  
  In conclusion, good game that's worth the money. Don't be suprised if you wear dirty laundry for 
 a week just because you couldn't pull yourself away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlift700
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, I'm a Comic Fanboy. The ability to play all the characters of my favorite childhood 
 hobby is so cool that I choose to look over the button mashing and the bad camera angles.
  
  The graphics on the PS3 version are pretty badass... the character models are incredible... 
 the flames coming off the human torch alone are eye catching, but when you zoom in (and cant see 
 any of your opponents) , you really get a cool feel for the model work.
  
  The game isnt for everyone though... It will get repetitive quick.. a lot of the powers between 
 the different characters are essentially the same, but the Fanboy in me will play every character 
 through every level just because I can.
  
  Overall, unless you are a comic fan like me, I'd say rent this for a week or so, then return it 
 for something that will hold your attention. As for me, it's (currently) the only game I own on 
 the PS3 and I don't see myself trading it in anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  marvel: ultimate alliance is a good game but it has a lot in common with the x-men legends games: many 
 characters, lots of unlockables, up to 4 characters to be used at once, lots of action and enemies, lots 
 of customization and long campaigns. but it also has some things that sets it apart from the them:3-D 
 graphics and characters and that can't be found in the x-men universe. although there aren't many 
 things in this game that are differrent from the x-men legends games, this is still a good game. there 
 are lots of  and environments. the campaign is long and 
 playing with other players while you're online or offline is very fun. if you're a fan of the x-men 
 legends games, if you're looking for a great action-rpg or if you're a fan of the marvel comics, buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aim49
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 19, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  the game is exciting when you first play it . but later on it gets boring the graphics is not so 
 good .In the game you can play as many characters including spiderman, wolverine, captin America. the 
 main dissapointment I found was that the game was too short . i played it once and did not feel 
 like playing i again but if you like x men legends 2 then you will like this game .I finnished 
 the game in 6 days .fighting dr. doom in the last level was really easy. playing as spiderman is 
 horrible but playing as wolverine is really fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheonmd
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  If you played any of the legends series you already know what to expect. The joy I got out of playing 
 the game came from being able to use heroes that weren't X-men (which in my opinion has been done 
 to death) . Being able to use the classics like Thor and Iron Man made this game worth playing, 
 and the sheer joy of being able to just plain kick butt was pretty cool. For a true fan of comics, 
 there are little inconsistencies that are annoying (like a powerhouse like Iron Man having trouble 
 with a weenie like Bullseye) but nothing that interferes with the gameplay. Although I got a lot 
 of hours of play from the game, it did appear to be a little on the short side as the last 2 acts 
 seemed a bit hurried and weren't nearly as detailed as the first 3 acts. Also, some of the characters 
 had to be unlocked and that didn't add to the story AND made it such that you really don't have 
 an opportunity to use them until you play the game for a second time (which may not be something 
 you are interested in doing) . This game is a must-have for any fan of Marvel Comics and hopefully 
 will open the door to more detailed iterations in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rothman713
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay = I highly enjoy this style of gameplay which is why I ranked it so high. It's easy to 
 get into. It's even easier to set up your characters this time around since we can reassign points. 
 It's easy for friends to jump in with an extra controller and start playing. All in all, as a fan 
 of the X-Men Legends series, I feel this game builds on everything that was right in those games 
 and eliminated the character rigidity by allowing the redistribution of points. I did not give 
 this a perfect score as the online play is sluggish, requires you to start from the beginning each 
 time, and just isn't as much fun as a single player game (or a multiplayer game on one PS3)
  
  Graphics = The score I gave it is pretty low and I'll admit I was a bit disappointed with the 
 graphics. This was my first game for the PS3 and I guess I was just expecting a graphical masterpiece. 
 Which was silly of me since this game was already available for last generation systems. Not to 
 mention the distance the camera has to zoom out to accommodate all the characters and action also 
 limits the amount of graphical brilliance that can be squeezed in the game. That being said, the 
 opening movie was quite clear and vivid. Perhaps one day, we'll be able to experience gameplay 
 like that? :)
  
  Sound = Admittedly, I am not an audiophile. I don't really find myself paying attention to the 
 music when I play so I gave this portion of the game a fairly pedestrian score. The voice acting 
 in the game was OK but certainly not a reason to play through the game again. Just to reiterate, 
 the low score is not representative of a poor soundtrack but rather my lack of appreciation for 
 this attribute in all games.
  
  Value = There are those out there who would question why I gave this category a value of 9. Many 
 of my friends have commented that once they played through it once, they would never do so again. 
 I must be the oddball of the group as I have played through this game 3 times and highly enjoyed 
 each time! The ability to input cheat codes and just sprint through the portions of the game I 
 find dull is also appreciated. I've found a lot of companies seem to be phasing out cheats now. 
 The ability to do sidequests and at the end, actually have a movie recap the benefits of doing 
 them (or in some cases, the downfalls of not completing them) is also a nice touch and a bit of 
 an incentive to snoop around a bit more before moving on with a level.
  
  Tilt = Again, I thought this was a thoroughly enjoyable game. Many people wouldn't have made this 
 their 1st purchase for the PS3 but seeing as I was a huge fan of the X-Men Legends game for the 
 Xbox, I knew I would certainly enjoy the game (perhaps not be blown away by it though) . The game 
 is easy to pick up and the game is (for me anyways) something that can keep my attention for a 
 long time. Most importantly, the game is just fun. Whether I'm walking around just mashing opponents 
 with punches with my little cousins or I'm alone trying to test the unique powers and abilities 
 of all the characters, the game is just a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay95
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the massive release of the PS3 in Europe introduced us to some awesome games. Marvel Ultimate 
 Alliance is among them. I have played the 360 and PSP versions and I couldn't wait to get my hands 
 on the PS3 version.
  
  So whats New?
  Well for starters there are shorter loading times. This can mean a swift rise in levelling up, 
 however because all new games do a have a slow down speed it can get a bit irritating. We also 
 see the SixAxis Controller in action here. With just a tilt you can throw a enemy while you have 
 grabbed them, dodge a hell of alot easier by holding L1 and tilting the way you wanna go and you 
 can even give your air blast (jump and superpunch down) an added damage bonus.
  
  Along with the 360 versions we see the characters Collosus and Moon Knight which are next gen exclusives. 
 I was hoping to see some new characters here and was a little disappointed. With the release of 
 the Good and Evil team packs on Xbox Live soon we could see the edge go to them. I believe the 
 PS3 well get the same pack online but not for a while. When it does we can finally play as the 
 Green Giant the Hulk. In the evil pack I have heard that they are inroducing Dr. Doom and Venom 
 as PLAYABLE characters. If anyone could tell me the release date of these that would be great.
 
  
  The PS3 version is pretty much the same. Same storyline, superheroes, powers and unlocks. There 
 is a lot of hard work to get the unlocks but it is worth it.
  
  The story
  The story is pretty simple. Bad guys are trying to get ultimate power, good guys come in and kick 
 ass! The Masters of Evil are lead by Dr. Doom himself. The good guys consist of heroes such as Captain 
 America, Spiderman and Thor. It is a Xmen Legends 2 style game and if you loved that you will love 
 this. With 5 acts of brawling you can change characters at any time.
  
  What I like!
  I love what PS3 has done to the SixAxis, being able to tilt and dodge is so much easier than dodging 
 one attack and hitting a projectile. I like the story, although there is no new missions or side 
 quests. The character customisation is all the same as the other consoles.
  
  What I dislike!
  I did not like the way that nothing has changed apart from the new controls. 
 I am still playing it through and part of me is still expecting something great but it isn't going 
 to happen. I also like the acheivement you feel when you have beaten and unlocked everything, you 
 can the play around wth Daredevil, Black Panther and Nick Fury.
  
  Overall
  A great game worth getting if you liked Xmen. Easy learning curb and very fast to get into. Worth 
 spending hours of gameplay on although once you complete it you probably won't want to play it 
 through again with the new characters. The SixAxis controller really does it for me, when you thought 
 that this would have the same or a lower rating as the other consoles Sony knows how to do things. 
 PS3 has the edge... for now. With the new packs on Xbox Live it is breathing new air into a game 
 that was dead for a while. I love it and so should every comic book fan. You even get to see the 
 new Spidey Armor made by Iron Man as a unlockable costume in Act 3. If you want to play as a unlockable 
 character I would advise you use cheats instead of playing it through twice.
  
  Final Score: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This game offers a fun perspective on marvel comics from different generations. Being able to play 
 with a ton of comic books characters is enjoyable for a while and then after it's been beaten can 
 be played maybe once or twice more. Overall it is a solid multi-player that has descent powers 
 and tons of small bosses throughout. Some characters are a lot more stronger than others (Sliver 
 Surfer vs. Spiderwoman) which makes chosing a character not just based on favorites. This game 
 does not requires a lot of skill; however, due to just using your powers and punching are pretty 
 much the only thing you can do. The ablitily to play with your previous character's stats is nice 
 especially during hard mode but that can be done maybe once before you get sick of the story and 
 same creatures. Graphics wise it could be better but looks a lot better when it comes to games 
 like X-Men Legends and the Playstation 2 version. Voice acting is descent but some (such as Spiderman) 
 are just plain annoying though they don't come up except when you approach them or watch the cinamatics. 
 Renting this game would be a better choice considering it takes about 10-20 hours to talk to everybody 
 and do every side mission they ask which is nice when you have a group of friends to play with; 
 but there are other better multi-player games than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rey1294
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The game will become a classic. This game has all of the greatest Marvel characters and it is mad 
 fun! You can play until you beat the whole game and you won't get bored at all! It isn't a easy 
 game, it gets a little hard sometimes. You get to cause destruction in all of the enviroments which 
 is the best part of all! It is a must have game especially for the Playstation 3, so go buy the 
 game right now this instant. It is a highly addictive game. Do not listen to Gamespot because they 
 rated it less than they should rate it which is wrong!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stl_rams28
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who aren't in to Marvel comics, you will still enjoy playing this game. Even though 
 you probably won't know the names or faces of villains or even some heroes, you'll still be having 
 a blast while playing. The Good: Many different characters to choose from, great customization 
 opportunities, a solid story with strong action all combine to make Ultimate Alliance a great time. 
 The Bad: Not much bad here, the only exception being the parts of the game that implement the tilt 
 function of the controller can be a little difficult and frustrating. To sum it all up, even if 
 you're not familiar with the Marvel universe, you won't seem to care while playing Ultimate Alliance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloud222
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  My wife made me run out and buy this game based on the reviews and that we are big Marvel fans. 
 The gameplay was weird for us, we just didn't like how small the characters are and that you can 
 hardly tell who their hitting with four characters and several enemies fighting together. Also 
 the world feels really tight and hard to navigate even on our 50 inch. For example when you are 
 flying you almost cant even tell if your character is flying or walking; it was that bad for us. 
 We got really bored really fast with this game and we don't normally do that. Funny too, I like 
 most games, but this one just didnt do it. For me it was $60 negative fun equity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rydr94
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great story and good voice acting. It also is easy to learn how to play and is, 
 if you have 4 controllers a fun party game. The downsides to this game are that even though it 
 plays nicely in 1080p the character models are downright ugly. It also doesn't last very long in 
 playing time, it takes at most 12 hours to beat it at a higher level. I like most of the characters 
 but it would be nicer if some weren't there such as spider- woman (what the hell) . Nobody is ever 
 online so if you like online i wouldn't buy this game, but if you like Marvel comics and a good 
 story i would recommend to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  As the Playstation 3 begins its launch, few games out of the already small released list get ignored, 
 either because of their release on multiple consoles, or because they've already received bad reviews 
 from video game critics. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is one of the few games which were already released 
 on other systems beforehand, leaving less to be desired from it. However, it's difficult to base 
 a review without making it a comparison, especially if you've played it on a different system. 
 This review is based solely on the Playstation 3 and nothing else, and is made only to critique 
 what is shown in this game alone. This review was also written playing solo and with one friend, 
 leaving out any comments on online or large-group play.
  
  Graphics: - 10/10 - Absolutely beautiful. The graphics for Marvel: Ultimate Alliance are absolutely 
 perfect for a Playstation 3 launch game. The game looks simply astounding, and can easily be seen 
 as such when compared to games of the last generation. Even if a few of the costumes look a bit 
 too shiny for their own good, each figure it loaded with detail and it works to perfection. From 
 the levels, to the characters, to the breakable objects, to the cutscenes and back, the game looks 
 overall about as great as it ever possibly could. It's not hard to see that M: UA is a downright 
 beautiful game, especially for the task it's given (having so many characters on screen at once 
 without losing any sense of graphics at all) .
  
  Sound: - 7.0/10 - Great while playing, but you won't remember any of the songs or sounds, that's 
 for sure. The sounds are forgettable, honestly, but it doesn't mean they're necessarily bad. The 
 smashes and explosions don't take away from the game, but add to the experience and nothing more. 
 The music in the background isn't groundbreaking in the least, but it's still great music to listen 
 to while killing bad guys left and right. The voice acting is quite spot-on, with only a few characters 
 seeming a bit too out-of-place (Spider-Man's VA comes to mind) . With actors such as Steven Jay 
 Blum (of anime fame) , Cam Clarke (of metal gear fame) and Quinton Flynn (of everything fame) , you're 
 sure to get your grade-A voice acting from this game.
  
  Concept/Story: - 9.5/10 - The storyline is a blend of storylines from different Marvel comics all 
 gathered into one giant adventure. With the help of S. H. I. E. L. D., the Marvel Superheroes are out 
 to save the world from the evil Dr. Doom. Granted, it's not the most original story, but it's not 
 a bad story at alland actually a lot of fun for comic book fans. The concept of the game, overall, 
 is great. Mixing elements from other hack n' slash games, with a few RPG elements, and putting 
 in Marvel's greatest heroes (though some would argue other characters should've been included as 
 well) makes for a beautiful, fun, and exciting game. Choose one to four members in a team, each 
 with their own move sets, powers, experience gauges and items to wear, and destroy hordes of bad 
 guys to reach the evil doctor that's destroying the world. It's a concept lacking of originality, 
 but it makes up for it in its beautiful presentation.
  
  Gameplay Mechanics: - 9.0/10 - The gameplay is nearly flawless for the type of game it is, but 
 it loses points in a few sections for minor problems. The first and major problem with me is the 
 glitches. While there were only a few through my whole run-through of the game, they did prove 
 to be rather annoyingsticking to walls, unable to get down from flying, and getting stuck in certain 
 parts of the game (all which were easily cured by using the Portal function in the Pause Menu, 
 which is rather handyyou've got to wonder if they put it there on purpose for that exact reason) . 
 However, other than the minor glitches, the game works beautifully. Each character's move set mirrors 
 that of their comic book entity, with no character being left out of the creative loop. Each character 
 has their ups and downs, making it fun to plan a good strategic team that manages to destroy the 
 opponents in every way possible. You're able to interact with many items on screen, enemies are 
 all beatable and the game is just downright fun. Hindered by a bit of stupid A. I. from the computer, 
 on both sides of the team, you'll have a bit of trouble getting through the game with four members 
 on your team destroying things left and right. Gladly, there are options to shorten your team and 
 work with only a partner or two (which I did throughout the whole game) .
  Each character is given their own move-set/power-set, four different outfits (three for Moon Knight) 
 with their own unique stat-raising abilities, and the option to equip one item to help them fight. 
 Powers are gained by points or money, both which are available (almost in excess) during the game. 
 It works, and it all blends together beautifully. As for the unique bit of the game made solely 
 for the Playstation 3, the tilt controller does play a small role in the game. The tilt is used 
 for taking enemies shields or weapons, and small puzzles in the game. Overall, a pretty lacking 
 feature, it does seem as if they added the idea as an afterthought, leaving a bit to be desired 
 from it. The response is a bit quirky at times, and I felt like you had to hold the controller 
 in a still, upright position (though my partner disagreed with that) , or else it wouldn't know 
 what you were talking about. Regardless, I see it as more of a gimmick than anything, and not a 
 huge part of the game. It definitely won't hinder your experience at all.
  
  Replay Value/Fun Factor: - 9.0/10 - It's fun and I definitely want to play it more and more. Is 
 that enough? It's not a game that I'll obsess over for ages, thus the lacking of a perfect score 
 in this sense, but it's a game I wake up wanting to go back to just for a bit. As it is a launch 
 game, and only my second game on the Playstation 3 to this day (with the other being Resistance) , 
 it's difficult to say that I'm not swayed by the idea of playing other games. Yet, M: UA is still 
 taking over my Playstation 3, not leaving the system whatsoever unless it's for the occasional 
 movie. The game isn't long, by all means, and the unlocks aren't very hard to find, yet getting 
 100% in the game should take the casual gamer a few weeks, or the hardcore gamer a week or two 
 tops.
  
  Final Thoughts: - 9.0/10 (avg.) - Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great game to start a new system 
 on. It's fun, it's not boring and it provides loads of entertainment for everyone, especially fans 
 of the characters. A great game and one I'd recommend for every Playstation 3 owner to have at 
 one time or another. Even those with other systems are recommended to grab this title if it's anything 
 like this version (or better?) . Overall, a solid release and a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishpoo805
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  If you like superheroes (and who honestly doesn't,) then you may enjoy this game. A word of warning 
 though, if you did not enjoy either X-MEN LEGENDS OR X-MEN LEGENDS 2: RISE OF APOCOLIPSE, then 
 you most likely will not enjoy this game. If you didn't play either of those games, or did and 
 like them, read on.
  
  This game features a wide variety of marvel heroes that team together to stop the maniacal Doctor 
 Doom and his alliance of henchmen. Your team of up to 4 heroes work together using punches, kicks, 
 throws, and special powers through a bunch of levels spanning from Atlantis to Murderworld. Each 
 character is well animated with unique powers. No two heroes play exactly alike. Although a jaded 
 player may think that The Thing and Colossus are the same, it isn't true, even down to the basic 
 strikes. While The Thing stops on a downed opponent (instead of punching,) Colossus can use other 
 solders as weapons (like a sword or pipe!) PROS:
  
  Simplified combat scheme is better overall: 3-button combinations instead of the traditional X-MEN 
 LEGENDS 4-button combinations
  
  Control layout also seems to function better due to each character having less overall abilities, 
 yet each one is diverse and serves its purpose
  
  Loads of unlockable costumes for each character, all giving different boost abilities!
  
  Up 
 to 4 player online cooperative gameplay
  
  Makes a great party game
  
  Includes a quiz game which gives experience points for right answers
  
  New create a team allows 
 for making a custom team which can be extremely useful, especially with challenging situations
 
  
  Great overall selection of playable characters
  
  Quick load times.
  
  CONS:
  
  Some of the characters you will not like; some even seeming worthless.
  
  Gameplay does 
 tend to get repetitive towards the end. No extras after completion of the game except an ability 
 to view what you've unlocked throughout the game.
  
  Hands will hurt if the game is played too long. The SIXAXIS motion control is terrible!
  
  
 THE BOTTOM LINE:
  
  Aside from the game not really able to functionally use the SIXAXIS controller and not much extra 
 visual flair over the PS2 variant, this is still a great game. Its worth at least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cptgrenade
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The camera angle can be very annoying and the graphics are not that big a leap. Punch, kick, where 
 is that laser coming from? Sure lots of characters but not much difference in play. I liked X-Men 
 Legends..... this, not so much. Most of the levels are claustaphobic. I will keep playing and hope 
 it gets better. $59 dollers kinda forces you to be critical. I should have waited for price reduction. 
 Mostly diappointing. I don't understand why everyone is raving about this game. I think that the 
 next one should let you have the option of your view. I would love to see what it would look like 
 in first person. When you zoom in on characters during the game you can't figure out where the 
 attacks are coming from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmbjr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I love Marvel, but when I started to play it I hated the 3/4 view (never 
 played one like this) . I tried to return it, but because it had been opened they would not let 
 me. I decided to sell it on E-bay, but figured I would try it a little first. I am so glad I did 
 not return or sell it. First time through I chose the Fantastic Four because of the extra boost 
 you got from being an established team. I could not put the thing down, and as soon as I go through 
 Resistance again, I plan on going through this one again with a different team of my choosing. 
 If you like RPG's and the Marvel Universe you really must get this game. I will definitely be getting 
 the next one in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH2FaN12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a fun game that will spawn hours of gameplay. Online is cool but could 
 be a lot better. There is no competitive online modes which makes it not that great. All you can 
 do online is help somebody in their game or have somebody help you in theirs. This gets tedious 
 because whoevers hosting controls when to pause it and go to extraction points. If they have to 
 go to the bathroom your stuck waiting for 15 minutes while the host is doing whatever he wants. 
 But besides online, this game is fun with all of the amazing characters you can be from Iron Man 
 to Ghost Rider to the Silver Surfer. This game has a very simple fighting structure because you 
 just smash the x button to attack. You can use 4 special powers and you can level up which makes 
 the game more fun. During certain boss battles, you use the sixaxis controller to dodge boss attacks 
 and other things like that which makes the game more interesting. The storyline is great and the 
 levels are beautifully made. There is always something to do in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance and it 
 is definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zizaz11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Hands down this is the longest 4 player action rpg I have ever played. For some reason it is one 
 of those games you need to get used to like cold water. It wins the character selection award by 
 far. The gameplay is very hard on hard mode. You can only unlock it by beating it though. It was 
 worth 60 bucks and is a blast with a friend!!!! This is not a game to rent unless you can beat 
 the 25 hour story mode within the rental period. It was worth it and shows that with the 25 hour 
 story mode that Blu-ray disc was the way to go. It also has great graphics for its genre. Have 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timerino
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Been there; done that. Not an improvement from prior titles.
  
  The new coat of paint for PS3 looks worse on big screen than the old PSP X-Men Legends 2 on PSP. 
 The color choices of PCs and backgounds are shiny and not well pronounced. The camera does a worse 
 job than the old PSP title. In just the first level, I had the camera stuck (the right knob could 
 not control move it) where the PCs are in a corner I could not see. The fire was tack'ed on. The 
 explosions (higher pixels) did not improve the gaming experience.
  
  Same ol' gameplay: very disappointed in the utter lack of gameplay creativity. Use of six-axis 
 controller is minimal: would have loved better use. The use of the R2/L2 'trigger' style buttons 
 are weak: does not use the 'range' of press.
  
  NO ONE IS ONLINE for this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21miller
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  I give this game a 10 One best game marvel has made so far. I Im very happy with all the game play. 
 This game was very easy to lean how to play. Playing with all the marvel heros was great. The developer 
 raven software has done a great job with this game. There are so little games for ps3 at this time 
 to have a great like this is great to play. I hope that they have more games at this level. I hope 
 that you enjoy reading the info that is in here. With well over 20 unique playable heroes, a massive 
 campaign that features a wide variety of well-known Marvel Universe villains, supporting characters, 
 and locations, as well as plenty of hidden extras, it's the biggest piece of Marvel fan service 
 seen in a video game. It also builds upon a lot of the gameplay systems established in the X-Men 
 Legends games, making for an experience that's deeper, longer-lasting, and generally more satisfying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafonsecais
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was probably the greatest game of its category. At first I was kind of sceptic of the 
 Play Station 3 because of the cost of the games but the money was well spent on this game. The 
 graphics are not top rate but it is good. The on-line mode is always fun knowing that there is 
 some one that you can play with if you get stuck at a part and need help knowing where to go. the 
 controls are easy enough to understand so you don't need to spend a large part of your time just 
 trying to figure out how to play it. The only problem i had with this game was how Sony added the 
 controller motion thing because that kept getting in my way. While I was playing guys with shield 
 attacked me and they proved very difficult to take their shields from them by rocking the controler 
 back and forth because the PS3 controller doesn't pick up the motion very good. Other than that 
 the whole game play was good. I loved the fact that they brought back old school characters like 
 Thor and Iron man that was a bonus. All in all this is a must have game for ever one who likes 
 this kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew0313
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I know what you're saying, why get Marvel Ultimate Alliance for PS3 when you already played it 
 on the PS2?
  
  I'm not saying that it's a must-have game, it's got some added features that could still make it 
 worth playing for any hardcore Marvel fan.
  
  Most notable difference: the graphics are awesome. No doubt you can actually see Spider-man and 
 Captain America's costumes shine off your TV screens. Much improved character designs especially 
 for the Fantastic Four and Galactus. Shadows are now added during the Hero Selection menu which 
 wasn't on the PS2 version. And with HD, even better.
  
  Second thing, two new playable characters: Colossus and Moon Knight. You probably saw them from 
 the loading screens in the PS2 version but actually playing them beats watching a static pic.
 
  
  The part that wasn't very good about the game, the story is exactly the same. I mean there's no 
 utter difference. This drops the replay value of the game, especially if you already owned it before.
 
  
  Well, I guess that covers everything. If you're willing to see the difference and the bonus features 
 I suggest renting it first, but if your die-hard Marvel fan or just haven't gotten a copy yet, 
 I still advise getting this rather than the PS2 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickshot2004
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  With a large variety of characters from throughout the Marvel Universe, this game lets any fanboy 
 take on the role of their favorite Marvel superhero. If you have ever wanted to websling with Spider-man, 
 freeze your enemies like Iceman or even just hack and slash like Wolverine, then this is the game 
 for you. However, if you have no interest in comic book characters, this is just an average action 
 RPG. This is definitely a game made for the comic book fans. I don't believe that is necessarily 
 a bad thing though. I think the variety between the different characters let's you really get into 
 the game. On the surface, it looks like a typical run through and smash anything and everything 
 in site. That however is not the real depth of the game. You will not win this game by just going 
 through and doing nothing but hitting the attack buttons. There is some strategy involved with 
 winning. The bosses can be very tough, but not impossible. I would definitely recommend this came 
 to anyone who likes action RPG games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  Okay, I went to best buy today in hopes of finding two games worth buying. So I picked up Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance and Full Auto 2. I heard alot of hype about Marvel and thought it was going to 
 be awesome.
  
  First off, im dissapointed about the back of the box it came in. It praises the combat and such 
 to be innovative. Nonsense, they are just the same if worse than Dark Kingdom. Bland and repetitive. 
 The animations are also extremely off and your allies seem to have a really bad habit of seizuring 
 while in combat and idle. Marvel is one of those games that looks amazing by its cinematics.. but 
 is a total let down when it comes to gameplay. If your looking for a run of the mill top down game, 
 then Marvel may be for you. However, im severly warning you that it doesn't feel as if its worth 
 60$ at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdto20
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I am very biased towards this game as I am a huge Marvel comics fan. The huge cast of heroes and 
 villains in the game is truly amazing. The graphics in gameplay are as well as can be expected 
 with the aerial view and the cutscene graphics are fantastic. The game plays very similar to the 
 X-Men Legends games, which is a good thing. The on-line component is seamless and easy to use. 
 The game also offers as much or as little customization as you want, depending on how involved 
 you want to get in the process. There is even some replayability in the fact that after you finish 
 the game, you keep your players attributes when you try to go through again on a harder level setting. 
 I would definitely recommend to any RPG or Marvel fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance does indeed suit the name of Ultimate Alliance, because you can play 
 well over 20 characters, some unlockable. The campaign, also has some of the most minimal villians 
 that lets you take on almost all of them. Another bonus for the game is it has my favourite Marvel 
 superhero, Deadpool. But I know if I enjoy it, then this game will satisfy your gaming crave, wether 
 your a big fan of the comics or you just like engaging beat-'em-up's.
  
  One of the worst things that could happen, has happened in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, while all 
 the superheros have joined up, so have the villians. Under the guidance of Dr. Doom, he has guaranteed 
 them all great things if they help him take over the world. You on the other hand are under the 
 command of Nick Fury, you just choose your superhero and your off to stop tons of villians scaling 
 from well known such as Galactus and Blackheart all the way to Modok and Crimson Dynamo. The story 
 does however do its best to fit the villians in, but it doesn't make a big deal about it, some 
 have cinematics, most however will just appear and die as quick as they came.
  
  You start off using Spider-man, Wolverine, Captain America and Thor. Then when you find a Shield 
 Access Point you can change into 18 other
  superheros, ranging from well known to who the heck is that?. Slowly you will begin to unlock lots 
 more characters, such as Silver Surfer and Ghost Rider. You might want to stick with your favourite 
 characters only because you can collect credits by destroying barrels and fighting bad-guys. These 
 credits can then be used to buy new skills or powers, and enhance your fighting ability like damage, 
 defense and dodging.
  
  As many characters as there are, there is that many levels. A large aspect of the game is viewing 
 the many different places, ranging from a space ship all the way to Atlantis. The bad-guys, or 
 henchmen if you will change like the levels do. Atlantis houses seamen, err. Mermen and mermaids, 
 who are all deranged and controlled by sonic waves and want to kill you, or on the space shuttle 
 where you fight robots and super soldiers and the like. Its truly amazing sometimes to see, how 
 well each super villian fits in with the enviorment, and sometimes there are huge bosses on each 
 level. Dragons in the sky, or large sea-creatures underwater.
  
  Beat-'em-up fans should be instantly familiar to the controls, and people not so used to it could 
 also catch on fairly quick. You can press down the R2 trigger to access your special powers, which 
 generally heal your or do high amounts of damage. You will pretty much just be mashing buttons 
 in order to smash your way to the boss, using projectile attacks and meele attacks and radial attacks. 
 Its suprisingly un-repetitive, even though it seems like it would be.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a game I think every owner of the PS3 should definetly check out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryisda
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I played this game with a friend for the past couple days. After using almost all the characters 
 and learning all their super moves I pretty much just fell back to hacking and slashing everyone. 
 It got a little boring after a while cause it just seemed the same to me over and over, killing 
 other goons hacking and slashing. The graphics were good but nothing incredible. The characters 
 just seems a little too far away. Its a fun game if you have two or more controllers but all in 
 all it was just a medium level game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper_merv
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing Graphics with Mardi Gras lighting effects, excellent Multiplayer, aggressive 
 AI, and energetic voice actors
  
  The Bad: Crappy storyline that depends on the player knowing every character in the Marvel Universe, 
 button mashing gameplay, confusing RPG aspect and friendly AI that resemble a bird vs window situation.
 
  
  
  
  I sort of have a love-hate relationship with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. There are many good aspects 
 that keep me playing it but there are many not-so-good aspects that keep me from playing it.
  
  First, I'll get to the good. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the best offline co-op game there 
 is for the PS3 at this moment. The game is completely geared for playing co-op since: - it has 
 an easy system for entering/exiting players - there are tons of team boosting abilities making 
 players WANT to work together - there is a huge variety of playable characters that everyone is 
 bound to have one character they like - the game has a system that keeps every character's level 
 nearly equal to one another so no character is left behind - there are just the right amount of 
 enemies on-screen at once to make it overwhelming for a single player to take on but a team to 
 overcome
  
  The graphics are amazingly good. Maybe it's just because it's on a next-gen gaming system, but 
 they are good. There are so many lighting effects that they have to provide a epilepsy warning. 
 Now you know it has to be flashy when it can cause possibly-terminal health problems.
  
  Also, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance provides an aggresive AI unlike most other beat 'em up genre games. 
 Soliders will constantly shoot at you, baton-weilding thugs will constantly rush-attack you and 
 mermiads (?) will constantly try to prod you with pointy sticks. Finally, the voice actors are 
 very believable (though I couldn't say the scripts are but this belongs below in...)
  
  Now the bad:
  
  Unless you know the Marvel universe well, the storyline will completely elude 
 you. The story immediately takes off expecting you to know who Radioactive man , Black Widow , 
 and practically every character ever conjured up by a Marvel artist. I did not enjoy the storyline, 
 in fact I was thankful there was a skip button. The story seemed so limited with the traditional 
 good guys vs bad guys routine with a little betrayal ( ! ) . The whole thing is a big yawn and 
 the player, if he hasn't already connected to the characters through the comics, will not give 
 a rat's *bottom* about anyone in the game.
  
  Oh, and just to stuff it in your face that you have no idea what's going on, they've added a trivia 
 mini-game to the game.
  
  The next part I want to address is the incredibly weak single player. It's a fact of life: AI does 
 not compare to one of your buddies. The friendly AI is identical to the enemy AI: they will throw 
 themselves at danger no matter how stupid it is. I find they die extraordinarily easy (but that 
 might be just because I don't give a *fecal material* about their health and well-being) and they 
 rarely use any of their team boosting abilities. So all-in-all, your very alone in the fight. Very 
 alone.
  
  Finally, the gameplay mechanics need working on. The RPG aspect of the game is confusing- the creators 
 never really cared to teach you how it works. Not through tutorials and not even through a decent 
 instructional booklet. Basically, you have to look up an internet game guide in order to figure 
 out what's going on. Next, the fighting system is basic and satisfactory but doesn't do much to 
 amaze. I believe there are four different basic combos (XXX, XOX, XOO, O) and one aerial combo 
 (hold X or O in air) . Add the grabs and that's your basic fighting system. Of course, there are 
 character specific moves but you can only equip four at a time and trying to equip them on the 
 fly is tedious and time-consuming. Basically, it's another button masher game.
  
  
  
  So, here's the rundown:
  
  Gameplay: 7 - Weak combat and RPG system saved by an excellent multiplayer
 
  
  Graphics: 9 - Seizure warnings: indication of excessive lighting effects
  
  Sound: 8 - Good and energetic voice actors working with B rate scripts
  
  Value: 9 - Get your 
 friends together, we're gonna beat the snot out of Dr. Doom and his cronies
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 5 - When your button mashing through a whole game, to get through hordes of enemies 
 and to skip through cliched and predictable story sequences, it's usually not a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  When i got my ps3, it came with 4 games that i didnt get to choose. lucky me, its actually good 
 and i might not have played it if it wasnt for that. The game is the most fun ive had in a brawler 
 game since i played double dragons 2 on nes. The characters are all fun and varried with many costumes 
 and combos. the team creation tool is also cool where you can put your favorit characters on a 
 team. when the teams get reputation points, you can get bonuses like more health or more powerfull 
 attacks and even more experience. The games multyplayer is also good, where you can have someone 
 jump in at anytime in coop and join the battle. the story is intresting but overlookable to everything 
 else in the game. Some of the characters are also not very fun. most of the big brawler types just 
 arnt that fun to play with. The majority of the characters are not that cool too, like electra 
 and black panther. i still wonder why they didnt have more xmen and other such characters. The 
 graphics are prity solid too, with plenty of variety. each environment range from chinese buildings 
 to forrests to icebergs, and my personal favorit is the air ship. all in all, its a great game 
 worth getting, but it feels like another 6 months could have made it one of the most amazing comic 
 book based games in a while, even moare, one of the best brawlers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicon013
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  After playing extremely fun and highly recommended the X-Men Legends series, I was looking forward 
 to this game, the next installment of the X series but this time I will be controlling most of 
 Marvel's best superheroes such as Spider-Man, Captain America and Iron Man to name just a few. 
 First of all, I have to say it looks amazing on the Playstation 3. Despite minor frame rate problems 
 in the earlier stages, it runs very smoothly and properly. I'm glad that Activision and Raven Software 
 to move away from the pixel block look and go for a finer and richer one. They could have done 
 a little better, but all in all they did a really good job. The Gameplay has taken a step forward. 
 Now you can grab enemies and strike them at the same time, you can disarm their weapons and use 
 it against them and using power abilities while flying in the air. Now that sounds like fun.
  
  The Sound, hate to say it, but it sums up to be just mediocre performance. It has it's up and 
 downs but to me, it just doesn't leave me with anything to remember by. Also, sometimes it feels 
 like it was ripped straight of an action movie, which isn't bad but isn't good either. Overall, 
 this game is a very good one. While I'm still disappointed that most of my favorite characters 
 like Hulk, Namor and Venom were not made playable it was still a treat to play this game. I recommend 
 it to anyone who just wants to pick up a game and play and have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmaw128
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  it looks like u r playing gaulent when u r playing the only camera view is on the top of ur heads 
 so but it is cool u can play as all the super heros but i am very disapointed for a game on the 
 ps3 the picture os no good and the game play is even worst spidey is cool but the one who takes 
 the prize is wovlerine and beleive or not collusss and cant forget deadpool the levels are long 
 but good and u fight the same robots all the time it get boring after a while its so easy my 7 
 year old can ply it with eas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipaq1971
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  WOW GOOD GAME THE SIXASIX MOTION IS  
 BUENAS  
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashmodai69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance isnt the flagship game for the PS3. It has its fair share of issues. The 
 gameplay seems very choppy and the sound cuts out sometimes. The graphics are ok, not fully next-gen 
 but they do the job. The game is just darn fun. You cant beat playing as so many of your favorite 
 heros in the battle to defeat evil. You can tell the game is a total port, it could have used some 
 definate polishing in some areas. But i would recommend this to any Marvel fan. We PS3 owners dont 
 have much to choose from right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marksdad1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The review of this game is from two perspectives - a Marvel Fanboy from the 70's that collected 
 every Captain America &amp; Iron Man comic; and a new PS3 owner experiencing a recent action-adventure 
 game.
  
  From a fanboy perspective, it can't get much better than this - most of my old favoriters are here 
 - i wished that there were several other playable characters like vision, or the original avengers 
 as well as the Hulk or SubMariner, but it was great to play with a team of Captain America, Iron 
 Man, Thor &amp; the Human Torch - they all rocked., This game was very reminicent of the older 
 PS2 XMEN series .
  
  As a game, though, it was just OK. I played on Normal and found it really too easy. Early in the 
 game, you can go on some training sessions and improve the levels and attributes of your team. 
 I added about 6 levels for my main team and then it was pretty easy to go through the game and 
 play each level. There wasn't a Boss that couldn't be beaten.
  
  Another annoying aspect is the Button-mashing for some of the bosses - this took away from the 
 game.
  
  Graphics was very good - i played on a 1080P 61 TV and loved that i didn't really see any jagginess 
 with the characters. Downside is that it's mostly a Heads-down display which is typical of this 
 genre.
  
  This was my first PS3 game played on the PS3, prior to buying it, I had played Kingdom Hearts 3 
 - the graphics for this game were far superior; gameplay though, was more superior with KH3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bri294
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Okay I was expecting a lot when I first picked this game up, but seriously after beating the version 
 for the ps2 I saw this and was amazed, Not only were the graphics better but the actual feel was 
 different. I don't really know how to explain it but wow it was awesome. The gameplay is great 
 just like the others and instead of having the create a team (which I thought didn't work very 
 well) they had the two new characters and the created teams for you. The visuals are great just 
 like I said before and the sound is pretty well done too. Multiplayer with your friends is really 
 fun, (you can play with friends and comps together on a sdtv) I dont know what that other guy was 
 thinking. With all three versions sony has to offer (psp, ps2 and now ps3) I have still found this 
 very addictive and fun to play even after about 40 hours of gameplay between them. I highly recommend 
 this game, and if you like mavel superheroes this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vindicatedfoul
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 3/10
  This game is about as generic as it gets. Online is _DEAD_, there is seriously zero people on at 
 any given time. Characters aren't balanced, it's pretty clear whom the strongest are from the offset. 
 If you're playing on a SDTV then you can't play co-op and have computer allies, but if you're on 
 a HDTV you can play with computer and human players.
  
  Graphics: 5/10
  The graphics are decent, but aren't a large step up from the PS2/Xbox/360/Wii versions, if you 
 can get it for a last gen console do it, save yourself $10.
  
  Sound: 1/10
  Prepare to hear the same quotes yelled for hours, yeah it's that bad.
  
  Value: 3/10
  With 
 the inability to play 2 players with computers in coop on a sdtv makes this game a disappointment 
 if you want to bring it to a friend's house who doesn't have a HDTV. The game is just way to easy 
 and short even on hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunAndras1984
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I honestly can't belive that they made this game. It's terrible. Right now I'm on the mobile lab 
 stage and it's so boring I can't go on and play anymore. I think that this game is only for people 
 who like the Marvel comic books and want to play as their favorite heroes. The story is uninteresting 
 and childish. The fighting is boring and it's the same thing over and over again. Even Untold Legends 
 is better than this game. The boss fights are horrible, especialy that big green dragon. The grapichs 
 suck. Comon, 1080p and it looks like this??? Honestly you have to be a Marvel fanboy to like this 
 game. I think it's a waste of money and time. If you aske me.... don't buy it. Rent it first and 
 than if you really like it, than buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great game. Really there is no other way to say it. It was able 
 to make a genre (superhero action rpg) that I had very little interest in and make it quite enjoyable. 
 I will say that the game does throw too much at you at the beginning as far as leveling up and 
 upgrades and so forth. Games of this type should follow the Baldur's gate Dark alliance formula 
 and start you off small and work to more complex. Players need to feel as if they are progressing 
 with the character and not as if they have just picked up an already well developed and quite complex 
 person. Other than this there was only one other complaint: on ocassion you would get stuck with 
 a weird camera angle, which would last until you somehow triggered a new view. This only happened 
 about 6 or 7 times during the entire game. These small complaints are all I have for this game. 
 The characters are modelled well, they voice acting is well-done, the story is somewhat engaging, 
 the locales are varied, the options for heroes is diverse, the music is well-written, and there 
 are lots of options as how to dispense with your enemies. Great game, I would recommend this to 
 action rpg fans with a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says Raven improves upon the great work it did with the X-Men Legends games, creating 
 a lengthy adventure that touches upon nearly every last corner of the Marvel Universe . i say i 
 really dont agree with this too much.
  
  Marvel : Ultimate Alliance is a pretty decent game probably not one of the best launch games but 
 its pretty solid gameplay.
  
  The Marvel universe is packed into this one game you'l see characters from Captain America to Thor 
 (Whoo Hoo. . . . . Syke) the game is extremley short and it may have good graphics but it just 
 doesnt cut it but all in all the characterization and the Gameplay make it a pretty good game for 
 the PS3.
  
  Marvel : Ultimate Alliance takes the entire Marvel universe to a new level of gameing in the next 
 gen world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  I bought this game sunday and I wasn't expecting greatness right off the back but I was expecting 
 this game to keep me here at least until sonic dropped. Sadly... I am at the end of the game ALREADY. 
 I actually got there monday night.... MONDAY!
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is cool. The graphics are very in your face especially with the cut scenes... it 
 looks very realistic. Story- Dr. doom gathers a bunch of villans with plans to take over the world. 
 You'rebasically playing with about 20 of marvels finest and you're facing off in other dimensions, 
 worlds, etc. Graphics- Cool. Music- It seemed as if the same song was being played over and over 
 again.... the music gets you into the fighting, though.
  
  Overall- It's a launch title, so what can you expect? Greatness? No, but the game was fun and entertaining. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  You know Marvel has just started in thier video game endever and they have a pretty good start. 
 I really dont lie cross platform games, they just don't do much for me. Well the game is really 
 not that bad but it isn't anything special either. I really liked that you can create your own 
 teams and that if you get a certian group you get a bounus (like extra life or skills ) but if 
 you have it on anouther system it isnt any thing special. The playstation three version i have 
 heard as exclusive charicters But the Wii version you have to use the controler to throw captin 
 americas sheil or shoot spidermans web. Which some mighht find anoying but i think it is great. 
 The contols are laking and the graphics are desent but nothing great. I give the game a rent, but 
 its not worth owning to me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
