-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor: Airborne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/medalofhonorairborne/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of intense action.
 Strong online multiplayer.
 Levels aren't strictly linear.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 First half of game isn't very interesting.
 Weapons can be tough to aim thanks to excessive recoil.
 Lots of little flaws detract from the overall experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 650 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player campaign doesn't get cooking until the last two levels, but those two levels combined 
 with solid multiplayer make it worth enlisting in the Airborne. 

  It seems you can't read a preview or review of a World War II-based FPS without hearing about how 
 many games there are in the genre. With good reason, too -- it's a crowded one. But just because 
 there are a lot of them doesn't mean there can't be some good ones. Medal of Honor: Airborne is 
 one such game. It starts off really slow, and the whole parachuting hook is little more than a 
 gimmick; but later on the game realizes its potential and gets good.  

  There's not much of a story to Airborne. It's WWII; Nazis need killing and the world needs saving. 
 You're in the Airborne division, so you'll be jumping out of planes and doing your part to swing 
 the war in the Allies' favor. Before each mission you're given a brief rundown on what's going 
 on and list of objectives to accomplish. Rather than spawning on the battlefield you'll arrive 
 in style by parachuting out of a plane. As you fall to the ground you'll want to maneuver toward 
 green smoke, which indicates a safe landing zone. In theory, parachuting into the level is supposed 
 to open up a whole new style of play. You're free to land wherever you want, but invisible walls 
 prevent you from getting too clever, and nine times out of 10, when you do land somewhere other 
 than the safe zone you'll end up dead in a matter of seconds. There are some special landing zones 
 to discover, and sometimes these areas will provide you with an advantageous starting point. But 
 because you find most of these locations when you're already on the ground, they're of little use. 

           Might as well jump.      

  Once on the ground you'll take on waves of Axis soldiers over the course of the game's six levels. 
 Six levels might not sound like a lot, but each generally takes an hour or more to complete, so 
 it'll probably take most people around eight hours to finish the game. Your objectives are shown 
 on your radar and you're free to tackle them in whatever order you choose. Between choosing your 
 starting location and being able to pick what to take on first it might sound like there's a lot 
 of freedom here, but there's really not -- you can't start from many different places, and you have 
 to do the same tasks regardless of the order you start them. Mission objectives range from blowing 
 up AA guns to clearing buildings of enemy soldiers, taking out tanks, and detonating lots of explosives. 
 On their own these tasks aren't anything unique, but because the levels are so long and feature 
 so many objectives you often feel as though you're performing monumental feats rather than routine 
 tasks.  

  The first three levels aren't very interesting. They're fairly linear, take place in unexciting 
 settings, and don't play to the game's strengths. Starting with the fourth level the game picks 
 up since you're given more freedom as to how you want to tackle the levels. You might decide to 
 climb towers to take out snipers (their position is given away by a reflection off their scope) , 
 clear the area of ground troops, and then make your way into a building, while a different player 
 might head to the building first, clear the ground troops second, and hide from the snipers rather 
 than kill them. The game's artificial intelligence isn't very good, but at least it's aggressive. 
 You can pick off guys as they peek around corners, but they won't just take it lying down. They'll 
 spray bullets in your direction without looking, and they're rather fond of blindly tossing grenades 
 over their backs. If you get too close or they get some reinforcements, enemy soldiers will charge 
 right at you and inflict serious damage until you can fend them off with your weak melee attacks. 

           You can pick where you land, but straying outside the safe zone typically means death. 

  The controls are pretty standard for a first-person shooter. A sprint button comes in quite handy 
 when trying to dash from one bit of cover to the next. Once you're behind that cover, the ability 
 to lean and fire is extremely useful, as is the ability to raise your weapon and aim using its 
 sights. As you progress through the game you'll be able to upgrade your weapons, earning bigger 
 clips, faster reloads, and secondary firing abilities. You can carry two weapons at a time as well 
 as a pistol, which isn't very powerful but has unlimited ammo. Grenades are often tough to come 
 by, but ammunition is plentiful, as are health packs, which are scattered throughout the levels. 
 It's a good thing, too, because once you start getting hit your health depletes in a hurry.  

 
  While most of Airborne is good, it does have its share of problems. Many of the automatic weapons 
 have too much recoil, making them extremely difficult to aim -- a problem not shared by the CPU, 
 who is more than capable of hitting you from across the level regardless of the gun. Your fellow 
 soldiers are sometimes quite useful, but other times they don't do anything at all -- or worse, they 
 stand right in front of you and block your shot. We also fell out of the level a few times, though 
 this was usually when we parachuted someplace the game probably didn't want us to. When all of 
 these problems come together the game can be extremely frustrating, as you're forced to try the 
 same part of a level over and over again in an attempt to find the best way to circumvent the game's 
 sometimes cheap tactics. One way in which the PS3 version has seen improvement over the Xbox 360 
 and PC versions is that it seems to take far fewer bullets to take down an enemy soldier on the 
 PS3. It was really frustrating to empty a clip into someone only to have them shake it off like 
 the Terminator, so it's good that this issue is fixed here.  

  Unlike the last Medal of Honor, MOH: Airborne has a solid online component. Up to 8 people can 
 hop online and play ranked and unranked matches on half a dozen maps and a few different game types. 
 The action's always fast-paced and for us, at least, lag-free. Interestingly enough, multiplayer 
 is the one area where choosing where you want to parachute into a level actually lives up to the 
 hype. As you descend you can see both friends and foes and, if you're quick enough, can land in 
 areas that are quite advantageous -- like right behind that jerk camping on a rooftop with a sniper 
 rifle.  

           There are lots of different weapons, and they can be upgraded too.      

  Airborne 
 isn't a great-looking game, but except for a frequently terrible frame rate, the visuals don't 
 hamper the experience. The frame rate wasn't an issue on the PC or Xbox 360, but the PS3 version 
 will often come to a near standstill when the action gets hectic. Outside of a few nice-looking 
 buildings, most structures are simple and look pretty much the same -- not only to one another, but 
 to every other WWII game out there. There are only a few different types of soldiers and while 
 they aren't very detailed, you can tell one type from the next easily. At least, you can if you're 
 up close. It's tough to tell the good guys from the bad guys when you're far apart, and it's even 
 harder to hit them thanks to a lack of transition animation, meaning they might instantly jump 
 from one position to the next. Weapons look great, but explosions look embarrassingly last-gen. 
 Not only do weapons look nice, but they sound great, too. The rest of the game sounds pretty good 
 as well. You'll hear the familiar orchestral theme from previous MOH games, and there's lots of 
 chatter from both Axis and Allied soldiers.  

  Medal of Honor: Airborne is a game that rewards those who are patient enough to stick with it. 
 The first half of the game is dull and just rehashes the same sort of gameplay you've seen countless 
 times before. But about halfway through, things pick up and gradually get better and better until 
 the last two levels, which are quite intense and a lot of fun to play. The multiplayer isn't anything 
 groundbreaking, but it's quite good and adds some value to an otherwise short game. If you're tired 
 of the genre, Airborne won't do anything to change your mind, but if you're looking to fight for 
 the Allied cause yet again, it's a worthy tour of duty.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fullbloodsaiyan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game (borrowed again) I loved it, because its a challenge and you have 
 to think smart, every mission is a long sandbox type of envirement where you have to do multiple 
 objectives, and you can pick what weapon you get in the begining ( Yes!!) . What i love about this 
 game is a cover system you can crouch behind.. well lets say a wall, then peak out and shoot somebody. 
 The thompson submachine gun and other submachine gun's sound very weak and silenced, but the gun 
 upgrade system is awesome! If you fully upgrade a thompson submachine gun it will have a handle 
 grip and a 51 round drum magazine. All the guns can be upgraded to turn them into the ultimate 
 arsenal of weapons! The graphics are pretty good and the physics are kinda bad though, sometimes 
 if you sprint mellee a guy they fly in the sky or slam into the ground as if you are the hulk. 
 The controls are pretty wierd for people who are used to COD or halo. This is my first medal of 
 honor game and this is a good start. The enemy AI is pretty smart and will hide behind things for 
 cover. When they mellee you you're basically dead. What i don't like is the dang health system, 
 it just basically make the whole game harder, scavenging for med packs so you call heal you're 
 puny 4 life bar. I don't have a problem against health bars its just this one is puny, why cant 
 it be like the COD old school health bars or when you get hit it turns red.. that would be cool, 
 but that is my only problem with the game. Bottom line this game deserves being played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlito64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be better then World at War, maybe even Modern Warfare, and I am a huge fan 
 of the CoD series, but this game is just magnificent, with great replay value. I would definately 
 recommend this game.
  Although it is great, it is quite old now, so I wouldn't recommend paying over 30 euro / 25 pounds 
 for this game.
  
  Great game, buy it, and for a bit of a challenge try beating the levels using only melee (with 
 the MP40) its uber fun.
  
  Just typing this to get the 100 hundred words or more thing out of the way. La, la, la, la, la, 
 la, la, la.
  
  
  Oh poops, now the 800 characters thing............ lalal alalalaalalalalalala lalalaalalalalalalal 
 alalalalalalalaalalala lalalalalalala lalalalalalalala
  (really sorry about this) lalalalalalala laalalalalalaalalal alalalalalalaal alalala lalalalalaalalala 
 lalalalalallalaalalala lalalalaalalalalalla laalalalalalaalalla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOHWWII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  This game has it all. The levels are excellent and very fun also. Since there are so many WWII 
 games you have to make sure levels don't repeat themselves and Airborne does a great job to keep 
 things fresh. All the levels are special in their own way and there are lots of objectives so things 
 don't get boring. Especially near the end of the game things really heat up and the action is superb. 
 The weapon design is really good and everything looks great. Also with all the upgrades you can 
 get on the guns it makes it worth it to play again. There are also special drop zones that you 
 can lend on and get some more medals. Not all games have good replay value but this one does so 
 that's an upside. Graphics are very good and you really feel that your there and everything fits 
 into place. Something thats cool about this game is that you don't have to do any of the objectives 
 in order, you just go to where you want to go. The AI is good, I think only maybe once or twice 
 I was right near a guy and he was kinda half turned towards me but just stood there. But besides 
 that the AI was perfect. This game has a little of everything and the action is intense and I have 
 to say the best one in the MOH series, go get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is the latest edition to the MOH series
  
  PROS: the game is suprisingly almost never boring in both single and multiplayer. all the weapons 
 have a different use, sound feel, strenghths and weaknesses. uptodate graphics. enjoyable single 
 player and multiplayer that isn't much but what is there is amazingly fun to play. great edition 
 to the MOH series. multiplayer has no lag
  
  CONS: bugy graphics, short single player and lack of another single player mode like a custome 
 skrimish.
  
  This game grows on you but is a great game for any shooter fan and will not likley make you think 
 twice about picking up off the shelf. recamend to any WW2 fps fan. single player is average. Multiplayer 
 is not much as I said but it is so worth it. very addicting, if you like the other MOH games this 
 is not to similar (exept the great soundtrack) to them. I still would rent it first because some 
 people might find it not worth 60$. hope this helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I started playing games that are related with World War II, I just cant get away from 
 them! This game wasn't the exception and man! I didn't go wrong.
  This game has many hours of fun and I know it's hard to get bored with this game.
  The weapons 
 are awesome and the online playing is just perfect.
  This is the first Medal of Honor that I play so I don't know if this look kinda like the ones that 
 had come out before.
  This game is worth it every single penny you spend on it.
  Graphics aren't the best but almost there, I am not gonna say they are the worse because they are 
 not.
  This game places the gamer in the army boots of Private Boyd Travers, new recruit in the "failed 
 experiment" of the US 82nd Airborne Division. Starting in Italy, Travers jumps, jumps and jumps 
 again throughout the European Theater of World War II, from France to Germany, and everywhere in 
 between. Sound familiar? Indeed, short of the Italian phase
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt the worst FPS I've ever played. Don't listen to anything positive you've heard 
 about this game. It's filled with flaws, terrible gameplay, pitiful graphics, boring story, pathetic 
 AI - should I go on? The bottomline is this game is bad! I suffered through one mission, and that 
 was it! That's all I could handle. The clunky, unresponsive controls are unbearable, and the storytelling 
 was even worse. Now for a breakdown of each individual category of this flawed game.
  
  Gameplay - 1/10 The overall gameplay is bad. It's that simple. If you're expecting anything good, 
 you'll be greatly disappointed. 
  
  Graphics - 2/10 Maybe the best part of the game. Still though, nothing special and certainly not 
 great.
  
  Controls - 1/10 Clunky, and the layout is not user-friendly. The SixAxis integration isn't great 
 either. Overall, they're not great. Very difficult to learn as well as unresponsive.
  
  Story 0/10 One word: BORING
  
  Sound - N/A I didn't even play long enough to notice, but I'm 
 sure they were bad as well.
  
  Overall - 1/10 Bottomline, this game is bad. I know others may think different, and you may think 
 I'm joking, but I'm telling anyone that reads this, if you want to get this game, I strongly recommend 
 you rent it. You may enjoy it, though I'm sure you will come to realize what I've said is true.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Yes, there you have it in a nutshell, this game could have been great.
  
  Why? Because the whole idea of jumping out of planes is wicked, that's why. The experience could 
 have given the player the chance to take in a huge vista of a battlefield before each mission, 
 and in essence make him feel like he's on top of the world before hitting the ground. On top of 
 the shear vertigo of jumping out of a plane, it would also have worked to convey the immense scale 
 of WWII in a very literal fashion, as never quite seen before in the tired (but still fun) theater 
 of WWII games.
  
  Once you do hit the ground, the fighting is pretty darn good. It's fast paced and open ended in 
 the sense you can choose where you wanna land, and then the AI adapts to you in countering your 
 moves on the field. In a way, this feels like a very organic process as the battlefield evolves 
 around you and your choices, but does not feel like a trite rehash of such games like Farcry -- 
 the reason for this, why it feels fresh and new in spite of essentially being the same old open-ended 
 formula, is because it is approached from a very different angle, namely 90 degrees of difference, 
 from straight up in the sky, as you choose what spot you wanna land in. When you buy it (by that 
 I mean die) you parachute down to the ground once more and join the fray. The game does not end 
 and reload from the last checkpoint. This adds to the organic or open-ended feel of the game.
 
  
  But unfortunately the game's potential is bogged down by some technical problems that are just 
 unacceptable on the PS3.
  
  Namely, Airborne suffers from some pretty serious frame-rate issues. Jumping out of your plane 
 often ends up freezing your screen here and there as the game tries to process a million things 
 going on at the same time, from other paratroopers dotting the sky bellow you to flak-gun explosions 
 going off like fireworks to Germans way down on the ground running around like angry ants.
  
  Additionally, large explosions like C4 demo packs slosh the frame rate down to a joke as well 
 as boasting horrible animation, ie the explosion doesn't quite develop per say, it just appears 
 in two awkward chunks as if you had just turned the page in a comic book from spark to big boom 
 with no in between.
  
  But that's all physics and processing. The visuals themselves are no COD4 but they are descent, 
 and if it had not been for the horrendous frame-rate issues it would have ended up a reasonably 
 good looking game, not perfect, but good enough to warrant a purchase.
  
  What Treyarch should have done is to develop a bogus game, like Medal of Honor Hall of Fame or 
 something in which you just replay famous battles from WWII but with no tangible storyline tying 
 the whole thing together, as simply a fluff kinda game just for the sake of shooting your way from 
 one scenario to the next, as a kind of budget title perhaps, but with the very necessary objective 
 of getting their feet wet on the PS3, and then and only then! release Airborne as a magnum opus.
 
  
  Because that's what Airborne could have been -- if they had pulled it off right -- a Medal of Honor 
 magnum opus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zantozzzz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This first-person shooter makes you feel like if you were there like the other Medal of Honor games. 
 But here we can choose where we are going to begin each level, because in each level (from Sicily 
 to the heart of Germany, going through Normandy) we are going to beging jumping from the plane.
 
  
  has some arcade elements, because we will be able to use first aid kits to recover our health and 
 we will be able to improve our weapons.
  
  We will find very strong enemies too, but the game still have a realist ambient, like the better 
 Hollywood production.
  
  According to the graphics, the models are very good done, but the enemies will repeat and the textures 
 doesn't have very good details. A very good soundtrack and sound effects makes this game one of 
 the most realists WWII first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  It's time to take to the skies, and jump into the battle zone in Medal Of Honor: Airborne. What 
 can i say? Not the best in the series, but the most realistic graphics in a WWII game ive seen 
 yet. As soon as you jump out of that plane and get shot at, the party has started!
  
  Neat graphics, all i can say. Land in green flares and acend into the battle field. Great play 
 here, using your gun is just amazing, and throwing grenades is the best ive seen. They actually 
 create a good amount of fire and ruble. So, as ever, you play a army guy, fighting the germans. 
 But this is differant, great locations make it stand out. A good storyline but boring after a while, 
 and makes you want to have a few biscuits at half time. The graphics are good, except some locations, 
 where it looks like a futuristic battle field instead of a olden days war field.
  
  A great game, worth playing and the best in the series. I would rent it first though, as it's very 
 short and not worth the money. If you look you can get it very cheap!
  
  8.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bren451
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor Airborne is one of my favorite games. It has strong multiplayer, the highest quality 
 of graphics, long missions and levels, authentic WWII weapons like the BAR, SGT44, M1 Garand, or 
 the MP40, amazingly textured environments, and classic music from the previous Medal Of Honors. 
 The parachute system allows you to land alone next to your primary objective, near your squad mates 
 in the green smoke so you could have a balanced supply of health, explosives, and weapon ammunition, 
 or in a good sniping position so you could kill most of the enemies. Also, the sniping system allows 
 you to hold your breathe for that perfect head shot. I can't think about anything wrong with this 
 game except that mine sometime lags when there is a lot going on. Also, the game is too short and 
 does not have any storyline or characters where you could connect to and have emotions for. One 
 more thing is that it has texture pop-in which can get annoying sometimes. But still, I am giving 
 Medal Of Honor Airborne a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcooter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was awsome to play and great to be a part of, I felt like I was in the game killing nazis. 
 Beutiful graphics and great scenery ( on the day time levels) . The only flaw in this game was it's 
 aiming which was difficult for me because I was used to crosshairs, but as I got used to it it 
 helped my aim on other games and it seemed real, with a gun and no crosshairs made me feel like 
 a real soldeir in war. The only three games that overall look better than this game is Resistance 
 fall of man, battlefeild bad: company, Resistance2, and two of those aren't even out yet, so I recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes first person shooters.
  I had nothing else to say so,  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  First impressions...
  The graphics were better than I first thought. The blur effects were pretty revolutionary.
  There 
 is a problem I think they should have changed way back. In shooters these days your health replenishes 
 as you find cover. In MOH you need to be extra careful as you use health kits and do not regenerate 
 like most shooters. Its most like Resistance: Fall Of Man. The AI is pretty bad. The Germans almost 
 let you kill them. Its like someone pretending your not there to be honest. The weaponry you can 
 equip yourself with are great. 
  As you jump out the aircraft you are given small objectives to carry out then normally one big 
 one towards the end of the level. The levels can actually be finished quite quickly if you know 
 what your doing. The environments are very detailed and the soundtrack is superb just like the past 
 Medal Of Honors.
  I would probably rent it first. You could even try and lend it of a friend if they've got it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs0411
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  With the exception of jumping out of a plane, there really is notthing really new about this game. 
 However lets try to focus on what this game is, rather than what it isint.
  
  One of the best things I like about this game is the huge battle fields which you enter in the 
 beginning of each level. You have various objectives which you can forfill in any time and any 
 order you want. When you jump out of the plane in the beginning of each level you really get the 
 choice of how you wish to approach the mission. You can either do the sensible option of landing 
 in the instructed spots with your buddies and work threw the mission together, or you can jump 
 straight into action and take on the germans by yourself Ace Rimmer style.
  
  The Graphics of this game are pritty good, not far diffrent from the ps2 games, however pritty 
 decent. The AI of your fellow soldiers on the other hand makes you feel like you are going into 
 battle with complete morons.
  For example on several occations when I have thrown a grenade, one of my superb team jumped straight 
 in front of me as I was doing it, the grenade bounced of the guys helmet and landed straight in 
 my face.
  
  Like most other ww2 games, the missions start of quite easy but get harder as you go along so prepare 
 to die quite alot of times. What is also very annoying is that when you die you respawn back at 
 the jump, so you end up having to reach your objective all over again.
  
  Overall, even though there is nothing really new, this game does deliver the enjoyment which the 
 previous games had to over. What I question though is what is next for the medal of honor series?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  So basically the title said it all.
  
  Good: well the new starting system is pretty interesting. finding new spots to land, landing onto 
 the enimes bases. the shooing part is still as solid or bad (personal opionon) . the shooting is 
 basically like any other Medal of Honor. story is alright but still not very orignial. the fun 
 of landing anywahere only gets started at the last 2 levels though since its is huge maps.
  
  Bad: well the story is not very orignal. the 3 types of landing is already hard on the pc so 
 its very ahrd on the ps3. well i didnt really get it ok. irritating bit where enimies keep spawning 
 til you go to that spot. one very big problem with any fps's now a days. also if you so happen 
 to land on the enemey base or near a patrol, every1 will follow. your team will contuniously respawn 
 at that place well unless you die of course. but if you manage to stay alive long enough for your 
 company to arive, they will basically kill everyone evuntually. also the AI is not exacially the 
 best but still managable. lastly the multiplayer part of the game is not very new. its basically 
 just team deathmatches or deathmatch. the only differnece to other games is that well you start 
 of on your paracute.
  
  Conclusion: its a decent game. like all medal of honors they are over pretty quick. so might wanna 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  True, there are lots of WWII games out there, and there's a great number of them that are duds, 
 such as this game. If a developer can't put out a great game, it shouldn't even bother.
  
  There is no point to the whole Airborne mania in gaming. The only thing that separates this game 
 from the others is that you get to jump out of a plan and land somewhere on a map, that's it. You 
 might as well label it Medal of Honor and slap a number at the end of the title. The cutscenes 
 are poorly done, and training? All you have to do is jump out 3 times and you're done? How about 
 going over the controls? I spent awhile teaching myself how things work on the first level. Even 
 if you land outside of the safe zone, it doesn't mean instant death, you can fight your way around. 
 There are ammo crates scattered in key locations, so you'll never run out of ammo. If you're a 
 gamer who values resource management, such as myself, then this is a title to avoid, you might 
 as way go blasting away - except the accuracy is very poor. Realistic, yes, but at the same time 
 more degrading considering how the graphics don't contribute to making the game look any better 
 when you're peering down your sights. Poor visuals, poor soundtrack, poor gameplay. 
  
  The only positive aspect of the game is that once you've managed to learn how things work, you 
 can run around, duck behind cover, and the game isn't very linear, which is great for gamers who 
 want freedom. If you don't mind buying a game that looks terrible on the PS3, then this may be 
 up your alley, but if not, then I'd advise you to save your hard earning money and look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I will start off with a complaint of mine, the settings of the game is often too dark. Resulting 
 in people with FPS headaches to headache like me. And During the last mission, it's more like a 
 puzzel to solve with all the quest on ur map not indicating which level they're on. The last level 
 was also so dark it's hard to spot any staircase or hidden passage. Else the game is all great 
 BUT there's also quite some annoying issues of framerates, especially during parachute and bombing 
 of objectives. Some improvements i see is actually simulation, each and every bullets actually 
 sounds out. The arsenal of weapons is pretty huge and graphically it's impressive.
  
  Graphics:
  Next-Gen i would say, it's great if not, good. Just that i didnt like the dark settings 
 at times, charactor and guns looks very good just at there's some glitches at times. Level design 
 are very good as well, AI response realistically. 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is about WWII, it isn't too bad. I like the gameplay mechanic of the peep and shoot, it's 
 done better than COD4 did. Parachuting was very nice, except some annoying framerate problems. 
 At any point of time if ur allies dies, you'll get backup in a matter of seconds.
  
  Sound:
  Definately very good. In DTS format, every bullet can be heard. Different weapons has 
 different soundings. You'll also hear clearing shouting of soldiers to forward. Gunfire sounds, 
 rocket launcher sounds are all very accurate. Lip-synching is also very good here. 
  
  All in all, i have to say this game is only a good. EA put in lots of efford to get this game up 
 and playing good. But it wasn't exactly a good port, so some things done great falls to being a 
 good.
  Online doesn't have much people and there's damage delays. i recommand renting it, if not, own 
 it if ur a WWII fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Airborne in my view is a Game that is under Rated, Frist thing with the Aiming the Gun does take 
 sometime to get this down but you can over time when you fire the gun it moves up from the power 
 from the Gun E. A. tryed to make this a true Game best they could and with some people they hated 
 the Aim, Airborne is in my view the most Challenging War Game ever , You will not just blow through 
 this Game you will have to Earn every bit of Gain Ground in my view, I have played about all the 
 War War 2 Games out there and most you can just blow through, Even C. O. D. 4 , i did blow through 
 the Game, The Germens will charge at you they will flank you very hard Game and at times you want 
 to give up, The Graphics are very Good its nice to fight inside Germany see some new ground in 
 a War Game, Over all Airborne is my Favorite W. W. 2 Game. Shame it got such a low score but hey 
 i love the Game and thats what counts in the long run, I Love the Challenge in Airborne and fighting 
 in Germany so thats why i give it my Top Score Great Game. Thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is an excellent game and I cant understand why it is being ignored by the 
 gaming community. 
  
  The game is very innovative, none of the levels are linear, you parachute out of a plane into each 
 zone of battle. You control this, land where you want and infiltrate from there, even choose what 
 objectives you wish to do first. A slightly short campaign but definatley fun enough to replay. 
 
  
  A wide varieties of enemies with great AI, your Teammates have really good AI, telling you where 
 to go and saying things like "nice shot travers" it really adds alot to the game.
  
  Alot of weapons from rocket launchers/shotguns/rifles etc. Along with different types of grenades.
 
  
  Great graphics, really stunning colors and effect, a pleasure to be in. Each of the levels is huge 
 too.
  
  There is just one huge downfall of this game and I dont know if its a problem with me or what but 
 I cant get online to work at all, any help on this would be appreciated.
  
  Im giving this an 8 but if I got online working and it was good then I would consider giving it 
 more. 
  
  Wow! As I was writing this review, it finnaly connected and I had a blast in my first MOH online 
 match, it was so much fun, just wish it was easier to connect to.....8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsbeasts
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  As Call of Duty pushed through the barrier of the WWII time realm, Medal of Honor began to look 
 like an old, out of date type of game. In recent times Medal of Honor had been a great immersion 
 into the storming of Normandy and tough realities of the war. But as COD began to come out with 
 it's third WWII game, and MOH started to come out with an unsurmountable collection of WWII games, 
 they were just getting old. However, Medal of Honor stuck with this game genre and probably for 
 fear of looking like a COD follower. I believe medal of honor accomplished a great feat though, 
 by creating a new and fun World War II game.
  Airborne presents a plethora of new types of playing in the WWII games. The main new ways to do 
 things are jumping out of a plane and starting a mission out from wherever you want, and completing 
 the level anyway possible. Also, something that made these old war games seem worse was the continuously 
 over used guns of this time period. But this game has a fun way to counterweight that fact, by 
 making load outs on guns, so when you do well with the gun, you recieve new equipment to make your 
 gun better. This creates an overall greater game play experience.
  Even though Airborne shows great new ways to play, it seems that EA didn't really care to much 
 on making this game really clean. For instance, the graphics aren't very good. Now, at points you 
 get immersed in an unbelievable rush of shooting jitters that makes you feel in the war, but when 
 you're just walking around a town, it's very undesirable. This creates some flaws that, if you 
 are picky enough, can ruin a game for you. However, MOH airborne is an overall very fun game, and 
 I encourage you to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  medal of honor is the best out of the series and the war battle is good and i like u jump out of 
 the air planes and paricute into the battles the guns are very kool and my favorite gun is the 
 sniper rifle cause i like stay back and blow the H. E. L. L. out there heads i like how u can fight 
 the germans (notceses) and the medal of honor is very very very very very very very very very kool 
 and the koolest out of the series. i hate when snipers blow the H. E. L. L. out your heads and you 
 down dead i like how u can put charges on tanks and blow them up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game not so long before its relsease date but as with most 2007 PS3 titles it 
 was delayed! This got me probably more excited than I should have been in anticipation of this 
 title as the delay does not seem to have made the game any better than its XBOX counterpart 9what 
 is it with EA a bad ports?)
  
  Firstly, the story is quite good and the inclusion of parachuting is enjoyable - as is fighting 
 remarkably good AI soldiers. However, this is all ruined by the unbelievably poor framerate which 
 almost renders the game unplayable in part and can ruin otherwise great set pieces. The weapons 
 are all very realistic (the best out of all games on PS3) as is the voice acting (although it can 
 get predictably pro-American and sounds rather silly at times!) .
  
  The multiplayer is a redeeming feature however as this doesn't suffer from the framerate problem 
 although creating/joining a game can be a bit of a pain due to bad servers. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_stringer27
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  I first entered the MOH scene when I picked up frontline for the ps2 system... I thought it was 
 a great game and as soon as it's sequel came out, Rising Sun, I immediately bought it. Rising sun 
 was the first major letdown the series brougt me. After that game, I hadn't bought another MOH 
 game until airborne.... The only thing this game has to offer is the somewhat interesting concept 
 of landing anywhere in the level you wish. Other than that, the unbelieveably crap-tastic graphics, 
 along with the unimaginably short campaign kill this series.... I'm sure that there will be another 
 MOH game soon that will probably outdo this one in total crapness. Why can't EA just admit failure 
 in the world of FPS? MEDAL OF HONOR AIRBORNE BLOWS! Don't waste your money! I beat this game in 
 approximately an hour and a half..... within 2 hours it was already traded back in to gamestop. 
 
  
  PS to the development team at EA..... Please go buy a copy of Call of Duty 4 and learn what a real 
 FPS should be. Copy them and you'll probably have a game worth playing. Until then.... Don't make 
 another game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-ICE-19
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne, review
  1-1-08 
  
  
  Medal of Honor: Airborne is a decent game, with decent game play. The single player campaign is 
 very short, and if played from beginning to end non stop, should be completed in about five hours 
 of playing on the normal difficulty. The single player is action packed, making for fun, and exciting 
 game play. As you play through, you will start unlocking multiple upgrades for your guns, with 
 each gun being different. The upgrades become permanent for single player, and carry on to online 
 multi-player, varying from gun to gun. The sounds in the game are fantastic, and really give the 
 guns and game some personality. The control scheme isn't the best I've ever seen. The right thumb 
 analog stick that controls the direction of the gun, feels sticky, and not very smooth when trying 
 to aim the cross hairs on an enemies head. For instance, you can never get the cross hairs where 
 you want them without some annoyance from the stiffness of the controls. Also the fire button, 
 which is usually R1 on many other shooters, isn't on this control layout, its R2. Having the fire 
 button as R2 throws off players who are used to firing with the R1 button, and places your hands 
 in a slightly different position, and threw me off when I would go back to play another game that 
 uses the R1 button.
  
  The online multi-player portion of the game is a completely different experience all together compared 
 to single player. There are only six maps to play, and three game modes to play in. The developers 
 have taken a couple of Medal of Honor: Allied Assault maps, and made them larger, and more complex, 
 and created a few new maps based on some single player levels in Airborne. The developers have 
 also added the ability to go in and out of virtually every building and window ass you play online, 
 also adding the ability to climb onto rooftops. In two of the game play modes, you have the option 
 of parachuting out of a C-47, being able to then get a birds eye view of the map, and then steering 
 your chute to a spot of your choice, or landing on top of a roof, if you so choose. The down side 
 to parachuting into a match, is that it is only available to the allies. But, if you play as the 
 axis, you then get the opportunity to snipe the incoming allies from the air, which is very cool. 
 Unfortunately, the game only supports a maximum of eight players online, which means four versus 
 four, and that isn't much fun. They should've stuck with the twelve players online, like the Xbox360 
 version of the game. The multi-player also could have used a few more game play modes, especially 
 non-respawn, because with the three respawn modes the game does have, it just simply is not enough. 
 One example of bad multi-player, is when you kill someone. The kill cam then swoops over head, 
 and shows the player you just killed, exactly where you killed them from. This means you will not 
 be able to stick around without fear of that player going directly to your position, and taking 
 you out as soon as he or she respawns, making that part of the multi-player experience annoying 
 and no fun. Overall the game does have potential in both single player, and multi-player game modes. 
 If you decide to add this title to your library of games, think about renting it first.
  
  Xavier Fazio II
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grayandjo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed with MOH Airborne straight from the start. First thing was that the look of 
 the graphics really looked old compared to some of the titles now out for the PS3 and I know I 
 am not the only one to notice that the graphics come to a halt when anything exciting happens. 
 It does break up the game play, I expect smooth graphics on a next gen console but this is just 
 far too jumpy to get away with the current price tag. It seems that this is only a PS3 problem 
 though.
  
  Hated the fact that it does not save your current progress when you complete an objective. Many 
 times have I had to go back to the start of a mission after completing a couple of objectives. 
 This became very annoying after a while and although I understand why they made it like this it 
 completely takes the fun out of the game.
  
  To me this games just looks like COD2 just rehashed (COD2 did not have such jumpy graphics) . Personally 
 I would save my money and get COD4. Much better and much more entertaining, if you have ever played 
 any of the previous COD or MOH you won't need to play this there is just nothing new in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  MEDAL OF HONOR AIRBORNE is WW2 FPS for the PS3..
  and.. it is 1st MEDAL OF HONOR game for NEXT-GENERATION 
  good things .. its a good single player 
 game, and it has great weapons and sound incredible AI system. very impressive graphics. good controls. 
 the storyline is good. i have seen better. 
  bad things ... 
  online is a bit of a let down, no CO-OP, not much Replay value, AI system gets too hard too fast. 
 
  overall ... it is a good game for the NEXT-GENERATION console. it is the best medal of honor game 
 yet in my opinion. because the other ones always seemed so much alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pachardos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't so next-gen, but it's a great game nonetheless. Lots of action and great sound 
 makes it realistic and fun to play. The aiming system isn't as easy as every other FPS game, but 
 there wasn't and auto lock option for the soldiers back in WWII so we shouldn't complain. Also, 
 the single player campaign is kind of easy until the final 3 stages. The drops take some getting 
 used to and the multiplayer is just right. Overall, a superb game, considering the fact that MOH 
 hasn't delivered a solid game in a while. A great bounce back from the ground. Just .5 off for 
 the poor graphics and the length of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielrobert
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game is the perfect rental. Last-gen graphics and a short-but-sweet story. I mean it's a tipical 
 shooter but once you stick with it for an hour or so you get use to the controls and tactics and 
 then it gets fun. Some of the missions are interesting but then get repetitive. The parachuting 
 is cool for the first 10 times but then gets a little tediouse. The weapons are OK but you'll end 
 up just using the same one over and over again once you've gotten use to it and upgraded it. I 
 rented this game knowing full well that it wasn't that great so I wasn't at all disapointed, in 
 fact it was a little better than expected. So if you want a shooter, that's better than Jericho 
 and BlackSite, get this one. But it's deifinetely not worth the $60 to buy this games, just get 
 COD4 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  MOH: Airborne brings alot of new stuff to the table, and most of it is very good. One of the first 
 things you see is that there is online. I have yet to expeirnce it, so i won't be covering it in 
 this review. Another new thing is a weapon loadout screen, which you can use to pick your weapons. 
 Another new thing is that you can parachute into missions. This is alot better than what EA did 
 with parachuting in MOH: Vanguard, as you can parachute into "Skill Drops." (Example: A blown up 
 tower.) Also, you can get upgrades, which may be extra clips of ammo, a dagger for your meele combat, 
 a attachment that may lead to less recoil, a drum for extra bullets and more. So basically, if 
 you want to make your Thompson sub-machine gun look like a real Tommy Gun, you can here by just 
 killing dudes. Cool! Also, the enemy A. I. follows a unique system, in which you kill dudes based 
 on a 1-to-10 level. So a level one might be a grunt soldier, while a ten could be a hardcore veteran. 
 So basically, you will lead t more expieranced enimies as you move along in the game. But, with 
 the good comes the bad. You will die, and when i mean die, i mean ALOT. But, EA has put in a checkpoint 
 system which when you die, you can just parachute in and continue the objective you were last doing. 
 Nice! Also, EA has changed the controls, now, you dont shoot with R1, you shoot with R2. And it 
 is the same for aiming, you just aim with L2. I was kinda confused with the control scheme, which 
 lead me to die alot, but you get used to it. Also, EA kinda went a little skimpy on the missions, 
 as the game is very short and you can complete in a few hours if you can avoid dieing. All in all, 
 Airborne is one of the best MOH games in ages, and one of the most creative WWII games in a long 
 while. If you like WWII shooters, or if you just want a historical fix of action, this has to be 
 the ticke. But, with an insanley hard diffculty, and some weird ragdoll physics, some plyers will 
 shy away from this. But still, fine WWII action awaits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  this is the first of its kind, where u actually jump off a plane, and get to go wherever u want 
 to go in the battle field. on top of a tank, a church, or in the safe zone. u can kick enemies 
 on ur parachute when u land so u dont get slaughtered as soon as u land. the graphics are pretty 
 good, but not amazingly next gen, and the explosions are pretty bad. there are 6 mission, each 
 1-1.5 hours long. takes u from italy, to normandy, and even to holland. the game has a lot of cool 
 features such as upgrading weapons. the garand can get a gernade launcher upgrade, which is cool, 
 and there is a lot more. 
  
  the game does have faults. explosions, and glitches. the enemies sometimes freeze and lag. and 
 the loading screen doesnt load the game, and u are stuch there. 
  
  despite this, this gmae is great, and has great potential. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
