-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mercenaries 2: World in Flames
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/mercenaries2worldinflames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Co-op play can be a bit of fun.
 Causing mayhem and destruction is entertaining, though the game will often penalize you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dozens upon dozens of bugs and glitches.
 Unsatisfying weapons.
 Awful AI.
 Repetitive missions.
 Lousy story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.2, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,375 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Aug 31, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Broken, buggy, and shallow gameplay leaves Mercenaries 2's world in flames. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" 
        Mercenaries 2: World in Flames Review for PlayStation 
 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =              The Good            Co-op play can be a bit of fun  &nbsp;      Causing 
 mayhem and destruction is entertaining, though the game will often penalize you.               
  The Bad            Dozens upon dozens of bugs and glitches  &nbsp;      Unsatisfying weapons  
 &nbsp;      Awful AI  &nbsp;      Repetitive missions  &nbsp;      Lousy story.                
       After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Bonus Content 
    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 1:20 pm PT      The free "Total Payback" update adds a handful of new features, 
 including six more playable characters, cross-region support for online co-op play, and cheats 
 that include infinite ammo and infinite health. &nbsp;               

  Imagine a game with a huge, open world filled with dozens of unique vehicles and attacks that let 
 you cause destruction whenever and wherever you choose. Now, toss in game-crippling bugs, brain-dead 
 AI, unsatisfying gunplay, a lousy story, and repetitive missions. That's Mercenaries 2: World in 
 Flames. Mindlessly causing chaos can be enjoyable in short bursts, and online co-op play spices 
 things up a bit, but beyond those all-too infrequent bits of fun, Mercenaries 2 is a dud.  

           There are certainly moments when it's fun to blow stuff up.      

  You play as one 
 of three mercenaries -- all of whom have very similar storylines. The game follows your absurd quest 
 for vengeance on a man who hired you to do a job and didn't pay. Mercs 2's story is bad (as is 
 the voice acting) , but it's ultimately inconsequential and all of the cutscenes can safely be skipped. 
 The first few missions are designed to get you accustomed to the game's third-person-shooting action. 
 In the span of 30 minutes you'll shoot several different weapons, use grenades and C4, and drive 
 cars, boats, and jeeps as you secure what will eventually become your home base. After that, the 
 first few contracts you take on are fun, but that's mostly because the gameplay mechanics are new 
 and the thrill of destruction is still fresh.  

  It's after the first hour or so that you'll start to notice something's amiss. For a game that's 
 all about guns, actually firing one isn't terribly satisfying. Weapons feel weak, it's difficult 
 to hit moving targets, and the damage they cause is inconsistent. In fact, it's easier to hijack 
 a tank or grapple onto a flying helicopter than it is to destroy one. Heavier weapons such as rocket-propelled 
 grenades are great and can destroy almost anything they hit, but the amount of ammunition (which, 
 for some reason, you have to hit a button to pick up) is so limited that you won't be able to use 
 them often. Plus, it's tedious to have to go in a shop, purchase a weapon, go outside, call for 
 the weapon, and then wait to pick it up. Why can't you just walk into a store and buy a gun?  

 
  The game's version of Venezuela is enormous, but while technically impressive, its size is mostly 
 a detriment. There's not a whole lot to do, so you'll be tempted to make your own fun by blowing 
 up buildings and cars and terrorizing towns in a tank. While this might be enticing (and fun for 
 a few hours) , it's a bad idea if you're trying to actually make it to the end of the game. Not 
 only are you penalized for harming civilians, but one stray bullet can anger an entire faction. 
 Factions are your main source of income and can be essential to mission progress, but when a faction 
 is angry with you they'll quit offering you work and shoot you on sight. The large world also means 
 that unless you're in a position to use the instant transport option, it takes forever to get from 
 one place to the next. Roads wind aimlessly around the terrain; the GPS often gives bad directions; 
 random friendly soldiers will blow up your cars; and helicopters are frequently shot out of the 
 sky by missiles that rarely miss. To make matters worse, when you're killed after hitting a checkpoint 
 you typically have to go back to your home base or the outpost where you got the mission and then 
 travel all the way back to your target.  

  You'll eventually acquire the services of a mechanic, a helicopter pilot, and a jet pilot. The 
 helicopter pilot is useful; he'll drop off supplies and transport you where you need to go as well 
 as pick up the money and fuel needed for airstrikes. The jet pilot, who is a stereotypical drunk 
 Russian, drops bombs whenever you call in an airstrike. It's too bad that airstrikes are of limited 
 value, because you often can't get close enough or avoid being shot long enough to line up the 
 target. There always seems to be something you're supposed to protect or something stopping you 
 from transmitting -- it's just easier to go in and shoot everyone. The mechanic is just plain worthless. 
 She's supposed to use junk that you find hidden in boxes throughout the world, but unless you actively 
 search for them, you're not likely to find many, and she won't provide anything more than the car 
 she had when you teamed up with her.  

           It only takes one punch to kill someone.      

  Mercenaries 2 purports to give you 
 all sorts of freedom when it comes to how you exact your revenge, but in reality, your choices 
 are few. Yes, there are different factions and groups spread out across the map, but typically 
 only one of them has a contract that will help advance the storyline, and you can get nearly to 
 the end of the game before having to pick one side over another. Most of the contracts require 
 you to take over an outpost for a faction, and when the game does give you the chance to do something 
 else it's limited to annoying escort missions or out-of-place racing challenges. Each faction has 
 a set of high value targets (HVT) . You can earn cash by capturing or killing and then photographing 
 these targets. This is interesting the first few times, but the money you make for bagging someone 
 isn't worth the hassle. Factions get mad when you take out their people, and friendly soldiers 
 will often kill the guy you're trying to extract alive. Capturing outposts is extremely repetitive. 
 While the size and shape of the bases may vary slightly, the way you attack them is the same: Kill 
 everyone inside and call in a landing crew. This can be mildly amusing for a short time, but the 
 fun quickly grinds to a halt as the game's bevy of bugs and problems make themselves apparent. 
 Enemy AI is horrific. If you're injured you can just run behind a building to regenerate -- soldiers 
 won't make much of an effort to find you. They won't even go to great lengths to shoot you if you're 
 right next to them, often standing there oblivious to your shooting them. When you have to destroy 
 a specific piece of equipment or vehicle, sometimes the easiest thing to do is stand next to or 
 get inside of it and let the bad guys blow up the very thing they're supposed to be protecting. 

  The problems just keep on coming. Helicopters will vanish with you in them; turrets will float 
 in midair; people you're supposed to rescue will drown themselves or run face-first into the helicopter 
 rather than get in; and allies will shoot at you for no reason. Combat falls flat because shooting 
 guys takes longer and is more difficult than simply running up to them and killing them with one 
 punch; helicopters will often drop off support troops on rooftops, where they'll either get stuck 
 or plunge to their deaths. Enemy soldiers respawn in gun towers even after you've taken over an 
 outpost; they can shoot through walls and often appear out of thin air, too. Civilians will run 
 right in front of you when you drive, costing you 5 grand each time you hit them; your helicopter 
 pilot will sometimes fail to show up, or will drop your cargo where you can't get to it. You might 
 even be unlucky enough to have the game crash during a load screen; or to be told that you're dead 
 when you clearly have health left, forcing you to restart. You might even lose progress due to 
 a save game failing. The list of bugs and problems really is staggering.  

  Really, the only fun to be had with Mercenaries 2 is in playing cooperatively with a friend online. 
 You can chat back and forth during long helicopter flights, revive the other person when they're 
 killed by an unseen foe, and put your heads together to creatively tackle obstacles. But even co-op 
 has caveats. If either person gets killed, he or she has to be revived before the timer runs out 
 or else the game will end -- a problem when the other person is far away or in the middle of a long 
 hijacking animation. Your buddies can also cause you a lot of grief if they anger factions or kill 
 civilians, leaving you with a big mess to clean up. There are even more bugs than usual when playing 
 online, which is no small feat given the problems evident during the single-player campaign. And 
 lastly, co-op play makes the game (which, cheap deaths aside, is pretty easy) even easier.  

           The graphics have their ups and downs.      

  Mercenaries 2's visuals are inconsistent. 
 The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game are mostly similar, but the PS3 has some ugly 
 aliasing problems. The vehicles look good, and there are a lot of them. Some areas are very attractive, 
 and the varied terrain (cliffs, rivers, rolling hills) enhances the gameplay and will change the 
 way you attack a target. The game's bread and butter -- its explosions -- are generally disappointing. 
 Some of them look fantastic, but it's jarring how one animation transitions to the next when something 
 blows up. There aren't many different buildings to destroy, either, so you end up seeing the same 
 explosions and over again. While you can typically see far off in the distance, what you see isn't 
 very detailed. This isn't a huge problem when you're standing still or on the ground, but when 
 you're in a moving helicopter, the draw-in is obvious to the point of distraction. Clipping, hideously 
 blurry backgrounds in cutscenes, repetitive buildings, enemies that all look alike (right down 
 to the same terrible animation when they get shot) , and a drab color palette round out the package. 

  Mercenaries 2 is filled with bugs and glitches that are unacceptable in a retail release. Even 
 if it were possible to overlook the broken elements, you're still left with abysmal AI, repetitive 
 mission structure, unsatisfying weapons, and a huge world without much to do. Mindless, random 
 destruction provides some thrills, but there are so many better open-world action games out there 
 (including the original Mercenaries for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox) that there's no reason to spend 
 your time and money on this clearly unfinished game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (131 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dlease76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  EA is a game whore. As bad a Microsoft when it comes to gaming. They pump out countless titles 
 all similar to the next especially when it comes to the sequels. I would image little work is done 
 when it comes to a sequel. I'm probably am not even qualified to review this game for I only have 
 played it for a few hours. However I was impressed. Graphics were very pretty on my 50 inch plasma 
 screen and blowing up the environment around me was very satisfying. The game, as far as I have 
 seen is not very challenging so it's fun just running, driving, and boating around the huge environment 
 getting into trouble. I don't take the game seriously I accept it for what it is. My expectations 
 were not very high for this game. Ai is dumb. They should have added rumble to the guns to make 
 it more realistic. The automobiles controls were fake as hell but still easily managed in most 
 cases. Driving tanks are fun due to the devastating horse and fire power. It has kind of a gta 
 feel to it when you are driving about. I recommend anyone to try it. Also is a nice break from 
 all the damn fps's out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  As I said before, the first Mercenaries was a pretty good game and, before the sequel came out, 
 it looked interesting, but, to me it was a total letdown. I played the first game and I liked it 
 so I got this one because I thought it would be better but, I was completly wrong! This game wasn't 
 all bad but there weren't many things that were good in it.
  
  To start off, the storyline wasn't good and I felt it was too set up. The voice was not as good 
 as I thought it would have been and the characters didn't have a lot of emotion. The gameplay though 
 was sort of fun because there were so many choices and things to do like, for example, there were 
 many things to drive around and blow up! There is an extent of different weapons and bombs to use 
 to destroy anything in your path.
  
  The online multiplayer was pretty fun, destroying everything was fun alone but it is even more 
 fun with a friend! Driving or flying around and shooting missles and bullets at everything just 
 adds joy to this game and takes your attention away from the bad parts of the game.
  
  To wrap things up, this game had a few good qualities but the bad things overcome it. There could 
 have been many things that could have been done to this game to make it better. I think this game 
 was a letdown and ,I myself, was expecting something better than this.
  
  5/10 or a C- ( This could have been much better )
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
 
  Storyline:5
  Replay Value: Low ( I didn't even finish the game! )
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto874
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 World In Flames is a game that has been called broken, buggy, and glitchy by gamespot. 
 They are lying. I've played through Mercs 2 three times and never had a glitch. The game is a lot 
 better than some people say.
  Mercenaries 2 puts you in the shoes of one of three mercenaries.
  
  Mattias Nilson: a swedish 
 mercenary who heals health faster in the game, and is a bit funnier than the other 2.
  
  Jennifer Mui: A chinese mercenary who is faster than the other 2 mercs and loves money more than 
 anything.
  
  Chris Jacobs: An american who can carry more ammo than the other 2 and usually carries a cigar 
 in his mouth.
  
  The games is about a mercenary hunting down a dictator, Ramon Solano, because he didn't pay for 
 the contract he assigned, so you will have to work with other factions in order to track him down. 
 The world of Venezuela is a huge area, so it's best to recruit your heli pilot and work with factions 
 in order to "quick travel". Even if you don't have him yet, you can still hijack all kinds a vehicles 
 such as, sports cars, motorcycles, pink scooters, trucks, tanks, helicopters, and more! The game 
 continues to thrill me even after beating it 3 times, offering a free mode where you can do what 
 you want, with no care whatsoever. A must get if you like to cause destruction with a nuclear bomb 
 ever so often.
  
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brickdoctor
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  If you already read Gamespot's review of MERCENARIES 2: WORLD IN FLAMES I'm sure you'll recall, 
 besides the constant nagging about the glitches, but you'll also recall how they said that the 
 'terrible' game ruined everything featuring 3 triggerhappy mercs blowing up stuff around Venezuala 
 causing caos with nothing else to it. Gues what... THEY"RE WRONG!
  
  Fact is, Mercenaries 2 is a great game! Sure half the fun is running around doing jobs for companies 
 that involves getting money for doing combat oriented duties, but isn't that what a mercenary really 
 is? In Mercenaries 2: World in Flames you get to be in the shoes of one of three world class mercenaries 
 bent on revenge on the Venezualan Army and their allies around the oil rich area invaded by numerous 
 factions who all have their own purpose.
  
  There are 5 factions you can team up with:
  
  UNIVERSAL PETROLIUM - The Universal Petrolium (UP) is an oil company who originally owned all 
 the oil until the VZ invasion. They control the second largest city in the game, Maracaibo, and 
 are very wealthy. Dr. Rueben will provide you with contacts that focus on one sole mission: Keep 
 UP in Venezuala. There wealth can provide you with many unique and modern supplies.
  
  P. L. A. V. - The People's Liberation Army of Venezuala are a group of local guerillas hiding in the 
 forest just south of one of the VZ's main cities: Meridia. There main purpose is to rid Venezuala 
 of the UP "pigs" and free Venezuala from their new dictator: Solano. Because of their efforts to 
 root out VZ and UP, the Free Republic of China supplies them with weopons and cash. They give you 
 unusual and outdated supplies but can also provide you with much backup.
  
  PIRATES - Local thugs who do, well, pirate stuff. They can give you stolen VZ supplies, good for 
 disquises and infiltration.
  
  ALLIES - Mainly American forces who invaded Venezuala to secure their oil reserves. Currently at 
 war in Venezuala with China. They give you powerful and modern American weopens and vehicles. They 
 give you missions focusing on getting rid of China. Stationed near Caracus.
  
  CHINA - Chinese army stationed in Venezuala. Gave weopons to P. L. A. V. to root out UP. Unique supplies. 
 One of the only two factions able to supply you with a nuclear bunker buster.
  
  If you are wondering why I posted all that info on the factions, I'll tell you why: The variety. 
 Each faction can and will give you unique missions which supply you with new missions and goodies. 
 As Gamespot mentioned, one of the main types of contracts is taking over outposts. There are dozens 
 of them and will give you something to do for hours. And 95% of each mission and contract is pure 
 fun with a few duds along the way.
  
  Also, everybody has probably told you about the oh so horrible glitches. Maybe I am just lucky, 
 but sticking to the story and objectives will give you few.
  
  All in all, Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is a great game.
  
  
  
  
  
  MY SCORE
  
 
  + 5 for variety of objectives
  + 4 for all the cool goodies available
  +2 for the pure fun you will get
  - 1 for the easiness
  - 0.5 for weak weopons
  - 0.5 for 
 glitches
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volecanick
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This is the ultimate game for anyone for a taste for destruction and the madess missions. merceneries 
 2 world in flames alaws you to play in the wartorn venuzwela were dirrent factions fight for the 
 oil, they can be your freinds or enemys. mercenaeres 2 has a ton of weapons avalible to you of all 
 sorts it alwso has airstrikes from the normal boming run to the devastating nucler bunker buster. you 
 can play as 3 characters each with speacial abilites. there a tons of challenges to compliete to 
 unlock new items. the main part of this game is every thing is destrutible from a simple lamp post 
 to a oil rig. there are also many dirrent vehles that are so mad with high speeds and weapons attached 
 too with lots of diffrent types like  and more. the 
 world is huge you can explore the whole of venizwala through loads of citys and jungles and isalands. there 
 is so much to do in mercenaeries to its to much to say but the main thing about this game is it 
 alaws you to do the missions and the story your way it dosent tell you the way to do it its up 
 to you. this game is imense so go out and buy it now you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks1112
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I have to say I am surprised at all the low scores this game has received. It's 
 far from perfect, including many, many glitches. But, when your actually having fun playing the 
 game, who cares!
  
  I would suggest that if you choose to play this game, take it at face value. It can be very shallow, 
 but there are a ton of minigames and missions to do. 
  
  Without giving away too many spoilers, you begin the game by choosing a character. From there, 
 the entire game world is open to you. You spend time making money and building up your arsenal 
 with a very realistic story that could have easily been straight from the headlines. Almost everything 
 in the game is destructible and the banter between characters is fun to listen to. 
  
  In conclusion, I have to say that I was very surprised by Merc 2, if you can look past review scores, 
 I believe you will actually have a good time, regardless of the numerous glitches. 
  
  P. S. - I love you Jennifer Mui! Laura Croft can kiss my A** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  Whoa. This is a PS3 game? The first impressions of Mercenaries 2: World In Flames aren't going 
 to be dislocating anybody's jaws in amazement. Do not adjust your sets and all that, but this looks 
 like a buttered-up PS2 game on first booting up. But then a friendly airstrike kicks in, and that 
 subtitle, World In Flames, comes alive. At least fire and destruction and choppers fire-balling 
 into big trees is properly this-gen.
  
  It's hard to see exactly why Mercs 2 has been held back for well over a year. The core gameplay 
 has hardly been altered since I played this last July; the missions, general game structure and 
 mechanics were all in place, and they were pretty polished too. Instead, the online options have 
 suffered the cull, with play 'limited' to online co-op and nothing else. It was too tricky to have 
 the original idea of fully free-roaming multiplayer implemented - as it caused all sorts of problems 
 with the rest of the game. When you consider the size of Mercs 2's theatre of operations, full 
 co-op is a hefty achievement. At first it was going to give each player total freedom, but in a 
 map some 64 square kilometres big, that would have been unworkable, so now players are tethered 
 together.
  
  The ties that bind
  There is considerable slack to the leash though, and many of the missions are tailor-made for a 
 twin assault. Early on there's an opportunity to impress the president of Universal Petroleum, 
 the ruthless mega corporation hellbent on taking over Venezuela, by rescuing one of her executives 
 from Venezuelan Liberation Army kidnappers. It involves choppering in radio beacons to three enemy 
 bases and clearing out any opposition. At such an early stage in the game it's pretty tough - I 
 had to restart a couple of times. With another player things were considerably easier. I stormed 
 the gate of one base, blowing watchtowers and gun emplacements to bits, while he blew a hole in 
 the wall with C4 explosives and sneaked in around the back to destroy the barracks. In retrospect, 
 it was quite odd in that mission to find a UP base and a VLA fortress right next to one other. 
 Perhaps rival military factions get preferential tax breaks if they set up shop in the same neck 
 of the woods. Must get a bit hectic when rival squaddies go out for lunch.
  One thing's a constant in Mercs 2 - each side frequently takes shots at the other. A feeling of 
 a country being torn apart from the inside permeates the game. The occasional building is raised 
 to the ground and civilians run around panicked. When you're presented with a seemingly living 
 city, the times when the rules get broken become all the more glaring. Chaos in a war-torn environment 
 is fine, but random behaviour grates. Civilians darting in front of your vehicle are a right pain 
 in the arse, and this even happens when you take it slowly, giving you a $5,000 fine. Sometimes, 
 Forces friendly to you will also inexplicably get under the tracks of the tank you happen to be 
 driving, blowing themselves (and you) up, while incurring the wrath of that faction to boot. Still, 
 for the most part, that thin veneer of realism just about holds.
  
  Balancing act
  Once in the swing of the game, the idea is to get as much work as possible from each of the warring 
 factions without pissing their enemies off so much that they go after you. This is a delicate balancing 
 act, the trick to which is alternating - providing, of course, that you want a more rounded game. 
 You could always just side with one faction for the majority of the game - but then you'd be missing 
 out on blowing the **** out of everybody. And that's half of the appeal knocked out in one fell 
 swoop. Missions vary from picking up VIPs to chasing down dissidents and getting them out of the 
 way so that guerrilla warfare or oil piping is not impeded. In general they follow a similar pattern. 
 You're given your mission, you search around frantically for something to get to where you need 
 to be in, you skitter through one of the many townships trying not to crush civilians (doing so 
 incurs a whopping $5K fine - the cost of paying off news crews to keep it quiet) and then when 
 you get to your destination, you generally blow the living Jesus out of the area with a combination 
 of handily placed tanks, discarded rocket launchers and called-in airstrikes. There's no place 
 for stealth here, just like the first game. Mercs 2 is brash, loud and ultimately, a great antidote 
 to Metal Gear Solid's finesse. Subtlety is nowhere to be found here. The head scratching extends 
 no further than trying to decide whether to order a full-on tank strike over an armoured car supply 
 drop. Aside from the main missions, there are numerous pick-ups to be found and smaller, well-paid 
 odd jobs scattered about the place. You'll come across huge crates of cash and tanks of fuel lying 
 around. Make sure and grab the cash. Drop the pilot
  Once you've completed a certain part of the game, you get to recruit a chopper pilot whom you can 
 call in to airlift such goodies away. Be careful who you pinch it from, though. I made the mistake 
 of chucking a smoke marker down by a fuel tank in a UP compound, thinking that as I was in their 
 good books, they wouldn't mind if I helped myself to some of their supplies. Wrong. A quick call 
 to check that I wasn't supposed to be doing that, and all of a sudden they let me have it. So I 
 jumped in a car and bolted, as you do.
  
  But the longer you spend immersed in Mercs 2's world, the more you become aware of its shortcomings. 
 Dialogue repeats annoyingly fast. Vehicle handling is a little twitchy. The main problems are the 
 missions themselves. They're just not involving enough to really grip you. This is a massive game 
 world with loads to do, yet you'll never find yourself spending hours playing it. You'll dip in, 
 get bored and then go back later. The Co-op mode is fun and certainly helps draw you back into 
 the game, but World In Flames won't set your world alight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I will start out by saying that this game is certainly not as bad as Gamespot and other sites say 
 it is, but it is not everything I was expecting, though overall it is a fun game that mercenaries 
 fans will enjoy. This game is set in Venezuela in the not too far off future with different factions 
 competing for power. You are a mercenary bent on getting revenge and you will have to work with 
 other factions to get this revenge. It was a somewhat addicting game but it seemed to lack much 
 substance or innovation, and not long into the game the gameplay got very repetitive. My favorite 
 part of this game was the vehicles, particularly the helicopters, and the big explosions. I should 
 clarify, however, that this game is rather realistic in that you can't just suddenly get a helicopter 
 with unlimited ammo and run around blowing up everything. I was misguided about this and ended 
 up being discontented when all I wanted to do was blow up an oil rig but there were other helicopters 
 among AA guns among boats trying to shoot me down, and this ends up making gameplay aggravating 
 most of the time and I found myself dying frequently because you really are outgunned by enemies. 
 There were other annoyances and bugs that definitely put a damper on gameplay and made me walk 
 away dissatisfied. I did complete the game and I enjoyed while playing but as soon as I beat it 
 I traded it in, dissatisfied and wondering why I had spent so much time playing fun but ultimately 
 shallow gameplay. 
  
  Graphics: 8.5 The graphics were nothing special but the explosions were flat out amazing.
  
 
  Gameplay: 8.0 The gameplay was fun and mildly addicting but just felt shallow and repetitive. 
 
  
  Story: 6.0 The storyline was entertaining at times, albeit tacky, and the characters were not that 
 interesting.
  
  Replayability 5.0: The game is fun for a while but after you beat it you will found doing the same 
 things over and over isn't that great.
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 7.0 The game was fun while it lasted, but I ended up 
 being dissatisfied by lack of variety and the mediocre offerings. Overall good but not great.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOHWWII
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I played the first Mercenaries and found it very enjoyable. When I played Mercenaries 2, the fun 
 was still there and maybe even more of it. Yes the story may not have been the most "exciting" 
 one but the contracts where still quite fun. First I'll start with the graphics. The graphics are 
 good but not amazing. The guns in the game look a little flat and not detailed enough. People's 
 mouths don't move at the right time and it looks like they're just opening and closing their mouths. 
 The environments look pretty good but not everything is detailed or focused in until you get close. 
 Lets say you're walking and you see a boat in the distance, well it doesn't get perfectly focused 
 in until you're quite close to it. But all in all things look pretty good. There are some glitches 
 in the game but it doesn't really take away from the experience that much. Some of the examples 
 are: A box floating in the air, getting stuck in a reservoir, your car tire partially sinking into 
 the ground, and some other stuff. It doesn't really ruin the game, maybe it will get you a little 
 frustrated but it won't make you go crazy. In the game there are a good amount of things to drive 
 and special vehicles too, after you find spare parts hidden within the world. There are a decent 
 amount of weapons in the game, still, I wish there would have been some more but at least there's 
 more than in the first Mercenaries. The sound of the weapons is really realistic and make them 
 feel a little more real too. When you get to the tail end of the game things pick up a little more 
 and it's really fun. It's here where probably the story gets a little more interesting. All in 
 all the game is quite fun and takes about 50 hours or more for one person. There is good replay 
 value since you can choose a different character and also pick different factions to work more 
 with. I would recommend getting this game because you'll have a lot of fun playing it. I hope Mercenaries 
 3 will be even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  Throughout the bouts of potential massive destruction, the goal of Mercs 2 is to work for a faction 
 to determine the fate of an oil-rich Venezuela in August 2010. After completing work for drug lord 
 Ramon Solano, you are soon screwed over as Solano starts a coup that leaves him as the leader of 
 Venezuela. Bent on revenge, you work with other factions around the country, including returning 
 factions from the original game, to find Solano and make him pay. 
  
  The original mercenaries reprise their roles in this game, so you'll have to choose from Mattias 
 Nilsson, Chris Jacobs and Jennifer Mui. Their standout abilities have been changed around. Mattias 
 can now stand up to more damage, especially when the health bar reads 2, Jacobs holds more ammunition, 
 and Mui runs noticeably faster. Fiona also returns to help run your Private Military Company (PMC) 
 out of a semi-destroyed mansion. 
  
  The PMC is a solid addition to the series. As you complete contracts for different factions, you'll 
 earn access to recruit three members: helicopter pilot Ewan, mechanic Eva, and jet pilot Mischa. 
 Adding these people to your PMC will help you get around the map faster and pick up stacks of cash, 
 oil and weapons. The potential problem with the latter is that if the goods belong to a faction, 
 it will hurt your standing with them. If you don't care, then prepare for a fight. Still, if you 
 really need the equipment, you can always shoot the guy who tries to call you in. 
  
  One of the other big changes to the Mercs series is the open world map. It offers a greater sense 
 of freedom despite not being able to go anywhere from the start. Landing zones, camps, and targets 
 are spread around the Venezuelan map, so be prepared to go long distances to get around. 
  
  Speaking of targets, the Deck of 52 from the first game has been replaced by High Value Targets. 
 Each faction has a specific number of targets in a general area that you will get paid to kill 
 or capture. The tricky thing is that each target is a part of a different faction, so going after 
 the HVTs will both hurt and help your standing with a particular faction. 
  
  Killing random members of opposing factions will also boost your standing, as will destroying targeted 
 buildings occupied by Solano's men. Everything becomes a little easier once you fill up your PMC. 
 If you want to boost your standing faster, you'll need to have Fiona pay off that faction or factions. 
 It costs a lot, but it saves work when trying to advance the story. 
  
  There's plenty of time to be spent in the game, too, and not just because it takes a while to get 
 across the map. Each faction will have different tiered contracts for you to complete. For example, 
 the Jamaican pirates will have you deliver rum to a specific location, and each level will prove 
 to be increasingly difficult. You can go to a few different locations for each faction to gain 
 new contracts. 
  
  However, some of it can creepy very close to being busy work, especially during the middle of the 
 game when you need to complete more and more contracts. Mercs 2 definitely has its exciting moments, 
 with plenty of fires, explosions and chaos. But sometimes general excitement is a bit too far between. 
 The last fourth of the game, though, proves to be worthy enough.
  
  And just like the first game, Mercs 2 isn't without any sense of controversy. The Venezuelan government 
 has claimed this game to a promotion of a United States invasion to overthrow their president, 
 Hugo Chavez. We typically don't get into politics much here in Gamer 2.0, but we have to touch 
 on this. There is a way to twist the story to see that point, but the thing is, you do not have 
 to work with the United States (or Allied Nations, as the series refers to it as) . We won't say 
 too much as to avoid spoilers, but the game definitely is not propaganda to incite a U. S. invasion. 
 
  
  On the technical side of Mercs 2, it does a solid job. The graphics don't completely stand out, 
 but it has its high enough sense of detail. For example, when Mattias moves his head, his hair 
 will shake in accordance. Explosions look good but sometimes the chaotic elements gets to be a 
 bit much and it doesn't look as good as it could. They do, however, sound kick ass. A majority 
 of the voice acting is pretty good but the sayings of random characters gets slightly annoying. 
 
  
  The decision to use drop-in/drop-out co-op play was a good call, though you can only use co-op 
 online. You go into a match through a Quick Match option or you can set it up to play with somebody 
 more to your liking. The blacked-out "option" of using Venezuela as the map brings up thoughts 
 of DLC. 
  
  So between all the destruction, Mercenaries 2 is a solid game that lives up to what it is suppose 
 to be. But because of the dragged out middle section of the game, we aren't going to recommend 
 a buy here. The game is worth a rental and a purchase if you want to keep your destruction going. 
 So if you're looking for a fun game, check out Mercs 2.
  
  Overall, a good enough game, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:48 am PT
Review:  I played the first Mercenaries for the PS2 and loved it! Joy to my ears that a sequel is coming! 
 YA! I go buy it and put it in my PS3 and after the first half hour I'm staring at a pile of crap.
 
  
  Here is why...
  
  1. AI should be called NI for "No Intelligence". I cant tell you how many times I've failed mission 
 because some one ran in front of my vehicle or line of fire.
  2. Kinda Ugly. I have a 720p HDTV. And I can see the relative ugliness of the characters and objects 
 during cutscenes.
  3. Everything sounds the same. The audio isn't necessarily bad, but it sounds like every explosion 
 is an 8-bit recording of a car blowing up.
  4. Bugs, bugs, bugs and more bugs. I haven't seen so many general bugs in a game, well, ever honestly.
 
  5. Lack of creativity. You'd think with a massive map and many factions you would have a unique 
 story line and mission structure, well your wrong. 90% of missions are the same just with a different 
 faction and the story line is very stale. 
  
  I tried to give this every benefit of the doubt but it still disappointed me later on...
  If 
 not for the trophy patch, my score would have been a 5.0 because trophies are the only thing that 
 keeps me interested in this game.
  Unless you are a true die-hard Mercs fan, don't even look at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelofDeath417
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first Mercenaries game, liked it, and were awaiting the sequel you are most likely 
 going to be disappointed. Mercenaries 2 is vastly inferior to its predecessor as it is one of those 
 games where the bad far outweigh the good. The mercenary trio from the original returns, this time 
 the battle ground is Venezuela. Venezuela looks good and is very large and good for exploring and 
 blowing to pieces. Another aspect I enjoyed is they added a few new mechanics to this game. You 
 now can stock pile munitions for air strikes and supplies for air drops. You can by them from various 
 factions, get them as rewards for completing certain contracts, or find them scattered about war 
 torn Venezuela. When you find them you can tag them and have your helicopter pilot pick them up 
 and take them back to your HQ. You can also find bundles of cash that you can extract in the same 
 manner. Fuel is another important part of the new mechanic as you need it to fuel your chopper 
 and jet for supply drops, extracts, strikes, etc. You can swipe fuel from wrecked vehicles or extract 
 tanks like the cash and munitions. It adds what I thought a nice dimension to the game besides 
 just needing lots of cash. Another nice addition is the ability to swim. No longer do you need 
 to avoid water like you are playing an old school NES game where nobody knows how to swim.
  
  But now onto the many unfortunate short comings of the game. The first thing you will probably 
 realize is that the accuracy of the guns is terrible. You'll shoot an entire clip at an enemy that 
 isn't that far away and maybe three bullets will hit him. It's far more effective to just run up 
 to him and give him a good whack with your gun as that will kill anyone with a single hit.
  
  The AI in the game is horrible. Civilians will run into gunfire or speeding vehicles instead 
 of away from them and each civilian casualty costs you your hard earned cash. Soldiers will frequently 
 blow themselves or comrades (including you) up when attacking. The enemies won't follow after you 
 for the most part which means when you take damage you can just hide behind a rock or building 
 and wait for your health to recharge before returning to the fray. You can easily slip past enemies 
 by hopping in one of that factions vehicles or a civilian vehicle as there are no officers to spot 
 you in this game. These last to aspects make the game way too easy. On the final mission I jumped 
 in a VZ vehicle and drove past every single checkpoint and emplacement without a shot fired. The 
 first time I attacked was when I reached the bunker and that was only because I had to get out 
 of the vehicle to laser tag the bunker. But for as terrible as the enemy AI is they have incredible 
 eye sight as they can spot you the second you get out of a vehicle no matter how far away you are 
 and can even see you when you're behind objects.
  
  Aside from the AI issues there are a lot of bugs in this game. Vehicles and characters will just 
 vanish when they are mere feet from your character. Floating cars, soldiers, items, etc are also 
 a common occurrence. Sometimes when you get into a car it will randomly flip up into the air, land 
 on the roof, blow to bits with you in it. Also, the game froze and/or crashed on several occasions.
 
  
  If all of that wasn't bad enough, here's one more, the story. The first one had just enough story 
 fuel the game. Mercenaries 2 tries to come up with a more elaborator story and fails miserably. 
 Money was a sufficient enough reason to hunt down people in the first game and they should have 
 left it that way in the sequel. After the first few scenes you will most likely skip them as you 
 find yourself not really caring. Oh and the voice acting is bad. Also, when you enter an area, 
 Fiona will give you a quick low down of it. Unfortunately every single time you enter an area she 
 says it, not just the first time. The grates on your nerves after awhile especially after hearing 
 about how Lake Maricaibo is the main conduit of the area for the 50th time. Characters also have 
 a small set (and I mean small) of one liners that they will spew out frequently during the game. 
 The first time you hear Mattias talk about a Viking emergency it's amusing, the 100th time it's 
 not. Factor in that the AN forces sound like a bunch of brain dead surfers and frat boys and you 
 will most likely mute the game and provide your own soundtrack.
  
  One last comment, which can be viewed as good or bad dependent upon your view, is that there seemed 
 to be more side missions that actual story missions. A rough estimate would be 60% side missions, 
 as all the bounty heads are optional, as well as many of the outpost reclaiming and building destruction.
 
  
  All things considered Mercenaries 2: World In Flames is a disappointment. If you want to give it 
 a try borrow it from a friend or rent it, don't waste 60 bucks on it. If you want a good open world 
 action game, go with the original Mercenaries or one of the Grand Theft Auto games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-a-a-a-2-24-5-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  i for one loved the game even though there were a lot of glitches in the game i could get passed 
 that and looked at the game play it was easy most of the time and difficult at other time jsut 
 make sure that you have a hand helicopter aroiund another thimg about this game is that it has 
 a lot of hidden trophies but if you play through the whole game you should unlock all of them accept 
 for one witch you will have to look up the trophies are very easy to get but you get easy trophies 
 and you have fun while playing that is a double bonus right there so i say buy it you will have 
 fun you will show your friends up with all the trophies that you get and that platnuim trophy that 
 you should get also pick up alot of munitions because these will help y ou out alot in the long 
 run another thing is if you play online make sure your the guy that isnt driving because you get 
 a trophy for blowing things up in a 2nd hand gun you have to kill 200 objects so have fun i have 
 givin you advice now have fun and to burnout you have to press gas and brake and hold it for like 
 10 secs and you get your trophy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liaququ
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  OMG awesome, cool, etc... great environments, superb explosions. what every gamer wants to see. 
 Then all of a sudden the game ends. What The!! Wheres the story? where is the hours of fun in this 
 game? 
  
  Here's the story, i buy a Mercs 2, and fall in love with the game. the story is pretty simple as 
 you go along, but it doesn't mater to much. it is to be expected from a mercenaries game. i have 
 fun mindlessly killing the VZ (Venezuela's army) , destroying buildings, raiding camps to capture 
 bountied personnel. all is good until i finish all the game missions, witch takes the weekend... 
 ok not to panic i have multilayer function, witch must be the backbone of the game, right? well... 
 it stinks. all you do is repeat missions with someone else who hasn't done them yet. and as an 
 added bonus, makes the game twice as easy! as if it wasn't easy already!! 
  
  don't get me wrong, this game is awesome, you have a open world (sand box) map to explore. have 
 access to many different types of vehicles, as in cars, trucks, APCs, tanks, boats, helicopters. 
 you can extract money, fuel, and airstrikes form the field so you can save money. not like you 
 will ever need any money. blow up anything from trees and bushes to entire cities! 
  
  the down fall of this game is it's repetitive, mindless destruction of armies of AI lacking personnel. 
 multilayer amplifies the fact that the game is too easy to beat. the story has uninteresting characters, 
 and a basic storyline. the weapon choices are not that great. tanks and helicopters are easier 
 to hijack than to destroy. and adding to the list is of course, is the fair amount of bugs. 
  
  this game is awesome for weekend warriors. but lake the replayability for anyone to buy it. 
 no one can justify spending 60$ for the game. if i don't sell the game, i just hope the bugs will 
 be fixed in the next updates.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joegopher
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Crapanaires 2 is a fairly okish type of game. The first few contracts are good then it gets too 
 hard too fast. The thing I hate is the difficulty , some times the game is too easy , others it's 
 just too hard. And one thing that shouldn't exactly be in a PS3 is the graphics. The characters 
 look like their plastic , and there isn't any blood. It just annoys me when you shoot someone and 
 they just fall down with no blood. Which also annoys me is that it's almost impossible to die. 
 You jump out of a helicopter onto rock solid cement you get up like nothing happpend. The good 
 part of the game is blowing stuff up. That and hijacking stuff. The scene is pretty cool when you 
 hijack tanks. So play this if you to KICK @$$. Gamespot did under-rate this game by a ton it's 
 a good game but if you like stuff *realistic* then wouldn't reccomend it for you. But if you like 
 to blow the crap out of things then go right ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Following up to one of the biggest sleeper hits in the history of video gaming was always going 
 to be tough. Pandemic Studios have somewhat pulled it off though. The new setting presents an entirely 
 new graphical style, the addition of co-op is awesome and changes to sound, story and music are 
 fantastic in every aspect. What Pandemic haven't changed though is the incredible amount of fun 
 you have while blowing stuff up. However, it's not all rainbows and daises for Mercs 2. Awkward 
 physics, annoying bugs and glitches, and questionable AI hamper an otherwise completely enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  You can play as one of three mercenaries, each of them having a unique characteristic. You have 
 been betrayed by your boss and are out for revenge in war-torn Venezuela. No awards for best storytelling, 
 but it's great while it lasts. Throughout the game you work for different factions (Guerillas, 
 Pirates, Chinese and more) to ultimately get back at Solano. Almost every mission includes blowing 
 something up, and Mercs 2 excels at explosions.
  
  Graphically, Mercs 2 appears last-gen when you first turn it on. Fret not, because the futher you 
 get on in the game, the better that graphics become! Lighting effects are great, character models 
 are detailed, the world around you looks stunning and explosions are a sight to behold. Cutscenes 
 are a little hazy and jittery, but moving around Venezuela is a smooth, lovely and pleasing experiece.
 
  
  Playing the game is a complete joy as well. You'll be hijacking, shooting, driving, flying, and 
 best of all, exploding in no time at all. The contracts you receive are thrilling and play out 
 like the ultimate blockbuster. Double-crossing and betrayal is the name of the game here. There 
 are an array of weapons at your disposal, from rifles to grenades, C4 to RPG's and airstrikes to 
 gatling turrets. Vehicular sections are great, but some uneven handling and physics make some 'cargo' 
 missions unecessarily tricky. You'll know what I'm talking about when you get to them.
  
  As well as your main objectives, there are a colossal amount of side objectives to carry out, such 
 as capturing High Value Targets, destroying key buildings and taking over outposts. There are wagers, 
 bets, races, challenges and many other odd-jobs which add up to an 80+ hour game. Littered around 
 the world are 100 Spare Parts. Collect them all to reap some very cool rewards. If one thing is 
 staggering about Mercs 2, it's the sheer replay value. 
  
  Music and sound effects are solid. While not as immerisve or epic as the original, Chris Tilton's 
 sweeping soundtrack now includes tropical percussion and electric guitars, in exchange with the 
 choir. Explosions sound nice and with surround sound this game is a blast. Voice acting is very 
 well done but Fiona's repetitive messages get exceptionally grating after a while. There is also 
 a problem with slight overlapping of dialogue which is uncomfortable to listen to.
  
  One other great aspect of the game is its humour. The original contained somewhat of a dark edge, 
 but because of the new setting, many of the jokes are told lightheartedly and with flying colours. 
 Whether it's Mui's sneering, sarcastic tones, Mattias' simply humerous accent or Chris' foulmouth 
 Americanisms, each character brings a new personality and hilarity to the game. Many other characters 
 are a delight to listen to.
  
  Beware though, Mercenaries 2 does have a certain unpolished aspect to it. Things will hang in the 
 air. You may get jammed. Orders will go unnoticed. Civilians will run into your car. The wrong 
 line of dialogue is said. It is one of those games which could have been better if it had stayed 
 in the development process for one of two more months. Having said that, these things happen rarely 
 if at all. Having said THAT, though, some copies of the game are worst than others.
  
  Online was always a goal which the developers had in mind, and they have achieved an excellent 
 co-op mode with panache. Every time you play Mercs 2, you are instantly able to join or be joined 
 by another player from around the world. The inclusion of trophies also adds to that coveted 'community 
 feel'. Although not mind-blowing, online co-op is a success and will definitely give the game an 
 extra pair of legs to its already Buddha-esque limb-count!
  
  Simply put, Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is one of the most fun games seen this year. It has 
 plenty of outrageous explosions and destructive weapons, very good graphics and a fantastic soundtrack. 
 On top of that, we get an nigh-100 hour game (if you want that golden 100%) , an entertaining story 
 and a great collection of hilarious one-liners. If we look past the irritating bugs and glitches, 
 we can clearly see that Pandemic was spot on it's winning and proven formula. And after all, it's 
 the thought that counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skunkynz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  well what can be said about mercenaries 2 for ps3, for one it was not to bad game i liked how you 
 can run, sprint, and slide into cover, that part was pretty cool pandemic keep bringing new and 
 funny ways to have fun :)
  also liked the nuke bunker buster that you slam into the underground bunker, and bust that bunker 
 down :)
  the flight in all types of hellicopters is really cool also and dont worry if you had problem's 
 flying in other game's, this is easy, im 5 year old nephew can fly so you can fly to :)
  cars, trucks and all that are fun and easy to drive
  there are parts in the game were you are 
 left scratching your head looking for direction, because the game and co-horts dont give you absolutely 
 any direction at all , witch was very dissapointing because i really ejoyed the game up to that 
 point : (
  well that's my review thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3d3c3ption
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Story: The game is just simple. Step 1. You get hired by someone. Step 2. Go to the place and do 
 the objectives that they told you to. Step 3. You completed the objective, and now get your money 
 and do something with it, maybe get some drinks, own a house a big house, A really BIG house. Yup 
 that's the way of a mercernary, but in this game you play as three mercs that you choose. In the 
 beginning, you get hired by a Venezuelan president named, Solano. He asks you to save his military 
 freind named, Carmona. When you saved Carmona life and headed back to Solano's house, you wanted 
 to get the money, but he didn't give you the money and uses you for something and you denied it, 
 and made your escape Solano's friend gave you see ya later present, a shot in the you know where. 
 When you made it out alive you swore to have revenge on Solano and his money, and now you did.
 
  Gameplay: It's pretty good except for glitches in the game and the phrases that you pass by some 
 people that kept on saying it the same time geez its really, really annoying when they keep on 
 saying it the same time over and over again. Now I'm not saying it stinks, it's just needs to be 
 tweaked a little bit. That's the bad thing. And another bad thing is when you accidentally kill 
 a civillian it will make you pay their medical bills. And now here's the good part. You get to 
 blow the buildings and other things up into sky high like a nuke for an example on a big building 
 that's heavily armored call in the BIG one and it'll blow it to smitherines. 
  Overall: The reason is why I gave it a 9.0 because of the graphics, gameplay, and the way things 
 blow up. And that's the good thing, and the bad thing is the same phrase over and over again and 
 the glitches. Now that's the bad thing. Thats it for my review.
  ( sorry if it doesn't make sense.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Gaming seems to be going in an interesting direction lately. Before life was simple, games were 
 either good or bad. Then someone decided that the concept of black and white wasn't good enough 
 and a wider spectrum of gaming goodness was needed. At this point, most of us got rather confused. 
 Games could be good and bad? That made no sense. That's why it's always a good feeling when a game 
 like Mercenaries 2 falls on your lap.
  
  Mercenaries 2 proves the point that it doesn't matter how long you take to making something, if 
 it's a bad idea, it's a bad idea. Full stop, end of story, no silver lining, go straight to jail, 
 do not pass begin, do not collect 200 rand. Mercenaries 2 has little to nothing to save it from 
 the depths of mediocrity that it was always destined to reach. For a game that had such promise, 
 it's almost impressive how badly the target was missed. Sure sandbox type games are almost always 
 expected to be buggy in some way, but they normally have features to save them for total failure.
 
  
  Mercenaries 2 has you playing as one of three world famous mercenaries tasked by a South American 
 billionaire to rescue an army general. Once the general has been safely extracted the billionaire 
 turns on you, taking your money and busting a cap in your ass... literately. Being the hard ass 
 killing machine you are, pay back is the only thing you know and so starts a rump through a South 
 American city as you attempt to rain balls of fury on the well tanned, suit wearing bastard. As 
 stories go, Mercenaries 2 isn't winning any best story awards anytime soon, but it does give us 
 a reason to blow things up, which is normally a good thing. 
  
  What Mercenaries 2 lacks in story it makes up for in explosions. Not a minute goes by without a 
 massive mushroom cloud being erected above some rebel stronghold or an enemy base. The blasts are 
 blindingly bright and the destruction left in their wake is truly satisfying. The principle way 
 of dealing out these drops of awesomeness is through the game's airstrike support power. At any 
 point in the game, you can call on an airstrike to carpet bomb the daylights out of a target or 
 fuel bomb a base back to the Stone Age, some very enjoyable stuff. The system works well and the 
 pay off is instantaneous. The only problem is that once the dust settles and the fires stop burning, 
 one can't help but notice that every time a bomb lands, you always seem to be too close to the 
 action. 
  
  The controls are neither here nor there. Driving is a bit weird. Instead of using the triggers 
 to brake and accelerate, the developers decided to use O and X. Normally this isn't a big deal 
 other than the fact that it makes looking around while driving almost impossible let alone driving 
 and firing. Another weird control decision is the use of the L3 button to start sprinting. Every 
 time you try going for a mad dash, you feel as if your analogue stick is about to snap off and 
 considering you'll be running like crazy for most of the time, chances are, you'll need a new controller 
 by the end of the experience.
  
  Visually, the game is rather disappointing. Textures are bland and in all honesty, rather unacceptable. 
 The city feels dead most of the time with NPCs only really found near enemy bases. Character models 
 are rather poor with only the main character having a decent amount of detail. The only saving 
 grace is the explosions. In most cases you'll be blowing things up and just sitting back and admiring 
 the onscreen action. 
  
  Voice acting is okay, but just okay. Your main character only seems to know four lines and just 
 repeats them over and over again. Your Australian assistance barks instructions at you and starts 
 getting annoying after the first hour of play. Other characters have okay performances but nothing 
 to really write home about. In game music is fine, keeping up with the on screen action but again, 
 nothing really special.
  
  In all honestly, the game can be summed up in one word, average. If you look in a dictionary for 
 the definition of average, you'll find a picture of a toasted cheese sandwich and Mercenaries 2. 
 The first game in the series was fun, and so is this one but sometimes it just feels like hard 
 work trying to enjoy the game. At least you can go postal and just blow everything sky high, but 
 you can do that in GTA IV. If you just have to have your fix of third person sandbox games, wait 
 for Saints Row 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  If I could sum up this game in a single word it would be 'Disappointment'. After waiting for this 
 game for so very long and seeing release date after release date slip past you would have thought 
 the game would be more polished than a door knob in Buckingham Palace. Sadly, however, this is 
 not the case as some folk even claim that the game has not changed in the slightest since they 
 play tested it 6 months before the release. The game starts off as quite a hoot as you go around 
 blowing everything and anything up but the small annoying bugs start to creep in until you notice 
 so many you just want to launch the disc into the air and shoot it out of frustration. I have lost 
 count of the times my vehicle has exploded for no reason what so ever. The voice acting is amazingly 
 annoying with various soundbites being repeated until I have actualyl shouted at the character 
 to shut the hell up! The only good thing to say about the voices is it's always awesome to hear 
 Peter Stomare. Cooperative play would have been this games saving grace but they've even managed 
 to mess that up too. You can't travel around the map independantly of one another and this is due, 
 according to the developers themselves, to how much power would be required to do this. If Grand 
 Theft Auto 4 can do it (and in better detail too) , why not this game? There are too many annoyances 
 to list here and while the developers are promising patches to fix this they have already slipped 
 past one patch release date without so much of a comment. This game looks like it'll be great but 
 just falls flat on it's bum (and will probably explode for no reason with any luck) . A lot of things 
 in this game should have been ironed out with basic playtesting and it just feels unfinished. It 
 reminds me of when the last Carmegeddon was released; hyped to eyeball bleeding levels but all 
 that was given to us was an unfinished mess that was as much fun as shaving your grandmother's 
 wayward facial hair. 
  
  The only positive things I have to say about this is that it is fun to be in the Anaconda (Hind) 
 and that the rebel tanks look great. Oh, and you can also switch it off. 
  
  Save youself the hassle of trading this in. Buy yourself something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemanit
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  You know it is Awesome! the fun beatdowns, the fun missions, it is cool! Parents won't let you play 
 GTA? Here is a cleaned up version for you. If you haven't got that far, do not sell this game! It 
 has an awesome explosion towards the end! THE NUCLEAR BUNKER BUSTER POWER! So, the game gets really 
 cool when you get used to it! I do not care what you say, Mercenaries 2 is an awesome game! Jacking 
 Solano's helicopter at the end is awesome! It is hard for me because I used to not be a hard-core 
 gamer untill my dad told me I could gat a M for mature game if it is a war game! Questions or comments? Contact 
 me! My acount is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shurekill_94
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was nothing like what I had hoped for. There are major flaws in the gameplay that become 
 really bothersome. The story line is close to pathetic with very little excitement and run of the 
 mill, repetitive missions. There is an online drop-in co-op feature which to me is a good idea 
 but is poorly executed. Also there is no offline split screen co-op : (. The ending was super easy 
 and anything but epic like it should be. Putting graphics aside Mercenaries 1 was a much better 
 game. A few positives are the spectacular explosions and some of the weaponry and vehicles are 
 cool and fun use. Overall this is not a game that I would recommend to people. If you like the 
 style of Mercs 1 (do what you want, blow up what you want and get paid for it) don't get Mercs 
 2. Instead I would recommend GTA4 and Saints Rows 2 which are only slightly different in style. 
 Im sorry if this is any bad news! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bennexcellent
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I played this around a friends house before buying it myself as i had purchased the first Mercenaries 
 and was highly disappointed with both the old one and this new one. the game is incredibly boring 
 and gets repetitive the moment you've done one mission. The physics are terrible, you can fall 
 out of a helicopter and survive a fall that is no way humanly possible and there are glitches in 
 almost every part of everything too. The only fun thing to do is destroy cities, and even that 
 gets boring. Going back to the characters survivability, you can survive a great deal and it just 
 goes beyond funny.
  
  Maybe its just me, but a lot of people like this game and i am not too sure why. Everything about 
 it just ruins it for me. to be honest id have much more fun waiting for an egg i brought from a 
 corner store to hatch.
  
  Overall, do not buy this game if you not good at sticking to something for a long time. if you can 
 play something over and over and not get bored after doing the same thing again and again for hours 
 on end go for it.
  
  That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Now we all know that this game is mediocre but its just so fun. Many aspects of the game are so 
 awsome that i wont even talk about the glitches. 
  
  
  The best fetaure is how now matter what problem gets in your way you can take it or blow it up. 
 Everyone thinks the worst part is the lack of costumizing you can do for your pmc, but the truth 
 is you dont need anyone else. You get a chopper pilot, a bombing fet pilot, and a Micanic. The 
 micanic is not even that usfull only for your own amusment with cool made cars, The pilot is crutaual 
 but recruiting all of these people isnt hard becuase its actully part of the game its self. The 
 caction and shooting is repeditive but the map is so big every time you go to one place its a different 
 action.
  
  Now becuase im too lazy to keep righting this review i dont care what gamespot says this game is 
 great!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Money, money, money is all you need. In Mercenaries 2: World in Flames you can play as Jennifer 
 Mui, Mattias Nilson, and Chris Jacobs, the best and most expensive Mercenaries the world has to 
 offer. Money is the name of the game here, and when you complete a contract you expect to receive 
 the "dough". After completing a contract for a business man named Ramon Solano, he decides to dispose 
 of you, and leaves you with a parting gift; A BULLRT SHOT IN THE uhhhh.. unmentionables. What 
 makes it even worse is that, dare I say it, he didn't pay, zip, nada, not even a penny. Money is 
 everything to a mercenary, and when you don't receive your pay you decide take revenge on him, 
 even if it means tearing the WHOLE WIDE FREAKIN' WORLD apart. "Everyone pays, they all pay" So 
 to sum it up, the game is pretty much your average "revenge" type plot.. uhhhh. whoopee?
  
  If you're looking for explosions, explosions, and even more EXPLOSIONS, you can satisfy your craving 
 in Mercs 2. Mercs 2 is a free roaming game where you can decide when or how to complete objectives, 
 who or what to drop bombs on, and where you want to go. Sure it sounds really cool by how I'm explaining 
 it right now, but trust me, it's not all that great. To start it off, the A. I. in the game is as 
 dumb as the "thing" I left in the toilet after eating twenty burritos. Mercs 2 also becomes incredibly 
 repetitive and tedious in terms of gameplay. In the game you pretty much follow this 3 step process: 
 1. Drive to location, 2. Accept contract, 3. Blow something up. Now I'm not saying it's a bad thing, 
 but I'm also not saying it's good either. Sure you can call in air strikes almost anywhere, take 
 any vehicle that's in your reach, beat the living crud out of pedestrians, and spray bullets till 
 you're your trigger finger gets blisters, but in these times there are many free-roaming games 
 that have these traits. Mercs 2 is just your run-of-the-mill action game, wellless than average 
 action game.. ummmm just keep reading.
  
  If there was an award for "Glitchiest Game of the Year" Mercs 2 would win it hands down. The game 
 is nicely detailed, it has great level design, and has received a HUGE jump in graphical presentation 
 from its predecessor, but, and it's a HUGE BUT, "hahahaha he said butt." Sorry about that. The 
 glitches in the game pretty much ruin the experience. Everywhere I looked I saw glitches everywhere. 
 I saw lamps making love with the inside of the walls (is that even possible) , I saw people falling 
 from the sky after I took their car, I saw pedestrians running into walls over and over (why don't 
 they just go around the wall?) , I saw helicopters smashing into buildings, I saw air strikes that 
 didn't even work, I saw bushes that imprisoned me during intensive fights, I saw many, many, many, 
 many, okay you get the point. The game should be called: Mercenaries 2: World of Glitches.
  
  The sound design was. hmmmokay I guess. The in-game soundtrack would sometimes get on my nerves, 
 it's sort of like listening to children asking their parents if they're there yet, it's okay for 
 the first couple of times, but towards the end you just want to tape their mouth, sort of like 
 that, did that make sense? Just know that the in-game music was. how do I put it.. dull. The voice 
 acting during cut-scenes was alright, but could sometimes feel a little awkward; the in-game dialogue 
 didn't make sense at times. The people around the town also kept repeating their saying over and 
 over. I couldn't go through any level for 5 seconds without anyone saying "Hey it's the Merc!" 
 Those people make me sick.
  
  Overall: Mercenaries 2: World in Flames isn't a completely bad game, it does have it's positives, 
 likewellI'll tell you the positives once I can think of some. Oh, you can blow up a variety 
 of things, like people, buildings, and vehicles. I guess that's a positive. Oh forget it, I give 
 up. Let me put it simply that Mercs 2 is just your less than average "sandbox" game, it has so 
 much potential but it remains a soft pile of sand. whoa. that did not make sense.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeeyes190
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is a weaker version of the first game in which while still retaining the go any where, 
 blow up anything style, its attempts at story, realism and AI bring down the game on the whole.
 
  
  Welcome to a small South American country rich in oil. You just freed a general who helps to overthrow 
 the country. Rather then get paid for freeing him they decide to try and kill you, now you got 
 a bullet in your arse and have vowed revenge on the people responsible for it. That about sums 
 up the story opening story of the game for the three characters. A story fit for a very bad B list 
 action movie would be an understatement to say the least; the game could have just kept the original 
 story of the first game, go to a war torn region and make a bunch of money a load of cash while 
 blowing up the countryside.
  
  The game does see an improvement in terms of graphics and design with the character seeming more 
 realistic and the environment being richer in colour and lighting, but at the same time it does 
 look like the higher end style of game a person could see on the older generation of system. Don't 
 get the wrong idea for a game of this sizes it does look good it just could look better when compared 
 to games like GTA IV and OBLIVION which both had a large open world design but still looked great 
 as a game's. This game may look good on the older systems like the Playstation 2. And yet on a 
 newer system expecting more then this just doesn't seem wrong.
  
  Looking at the game itself I found numerous flaws in various areas. First there is the AI of the 
 enemies which well was like a headless chicken with ADHD, they took a while to shoot at you, there 
 was a lag between each shot longing enough that a person can just shoot them easily, some would 
 just run against a wall and keep running. The only way they posed a threat was in mobs or had explosives. 
 When the NPCs were driving any vehicle, they were more likely to try running over a person then 
 to use a weapon, unless in a helicopter. Many of these same flaws were also found in allies. 
 
  
  The next major flaw isn't really a flaw but more of a compliant. No more Merchant of Menace, gone 
 is the idea of ordering weapons and equipment online to be delivered in the field. Instead there 
 is the stockpile system in which a person goes to the various factions, buys equipment from them 
 rather then on the black market. The equipment is then added to a stockpile at your home base which 
 you can call up as you need. It is meant as a way to create realism but if you don't haven't purchased 
 these materials and you're a distance from any faction base your now F. O. R. D (Frigid On Rainy Day {not 
 meant as insult to Ford motor company} ) in terms of equipment. 
  
  The other big flaw here is that a person now pays for equipment and the cost of fuel to get the 
 equipment to the field. To balance that fuel can't be bought it has to be stolen in the factions 
 by call a materials pick ups, on the plus side you can find air strikes and money caches in the 
 field to pick up but not supply's and vehicles. There is no way to add vehicles found in the field 
 to a stockpile.
  
  Speaking off of stockpiles and bases the early part of the game is setting up your own private 
 military company by hiring pilots and a mechanic which for the most part fit in to three stereotypes, 
 One: the foreign accented womanizing helicopter pilot, Two: the vodka swilling ever-drunk jet pilot, 
 and Three: the overly violent tomboy mechanic. And Fiona your tech support from the previous game.
 
  
  The mission structure is as simply of the previous game with the missions basically consisting 
 of blow up this objective, capture this objective, get to point x before event y occurs or some 
 variant of these objectives. They really are that simple in design. The game does see the return 
 of capturing the people but rather then just capturing the constantly hostile faction officers 
 your given targets from every other faction that as there captured/kill you are paid by one faction 
 and become hostile by other factions. There is also the addition of the new free roam building 
 destruction mission which is your paid to blow up buildings held by other factions as you see fit.
 
  
  Weapons are plentiful with the addition of pistols. The primary list a weapons hasn't changed since 
 the last game and unless you're using the explosives none of the weapons are particularly powerful 
 in fact the pistols are just as powerful as the best rifle later in the game. Even with the addition 
 of smaller hand weapons which could have been kept in a holster an added as a third weapon slot 
 in the game, there are still only two slots for weapons.
  
  Well as this is an open world game one should speak on the method of transit. Namely the number 
 of different vehicles in the game which while numerous in numbers some of them are basically the 
 same stats just different body depending on the faction. So while there are many different looking 
 standard vehicles they all fit in one class or another. Now what would a game be without some sort 
 of rewards for exploring, in this case there is the ability to unlock vehicles for purchase at 
 your base. The vehicles are not just cool looking but are also armed and are somewhat powerful.
 
  
  Sound wise the game is not something to remember. I can't remember what the music was like over 
 the sounds of explosions cars and general mayhem so I can't tell you if there was a musical score 
 for the game. Well I am joking on the music score for the game but it is generic. Now the actual 
 sound effects of the game are well done and do sound realistic. The voice acting is similar to 
 an imported children's cartoon with bad voice overs, the acting barely conveys emotion or over 
 overdoes it that with the lip-syncing which really doesn't match up for the most part.
  
  The game is nothing new. It is very much a repeat of the previous game and a poorly done repeat 
 when compared to that of other games brought out on the current generation systems. The story isn't 
 fit for a bad movie, the enemy AI can make a person cry from the in competence, missions are one 
 dimensional to such a degree a person can literally predict what will happen, and the sound is 
 well just bland no other way to put it. Here's the five cent tip, rent this on first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exedino2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  The game in all was a complete let down, after spending countless hours enjoying the explosive 
 nature of Mercs 1, World in Flames failed to deliver, the heavily repeated missions drag out an 
 uninspired story (venturing towards a bad version of Just Cause) , coupled with questionable graphics 
 at best, all conjure up a might disappointment. The more powerful weapons on offer, such as the 
 bunker buster, don't quite have the impact or feel of its predecessor. On a more positive note 
 the new features, such as having a base of operations, the need for fuel and finding the people 
 you need to carry out your missions i. e jet pilot, did lend to an improvement in the games character, 
 as well as adding a few side missions and a little humour. Although this run wss not to my taste 
 its still worth a try for anyone whom may find themselves interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Like many a game before it, Mercenaries 2 is big, loud and full of guns. The lead Swedish lead 
 character is the epitome of what an action kind of man should be and quite frankly, the entire 
 game seems to have been built around his enjoyment for things that go boom.
  
  Comparisons to GTA, Mercs 2 can stand alone as its own title, almost. GTA IV is definately far 
 superior technologically, visually, and in about every other area known to man apart from fun. 
 Mercs 2 is a hell lot more daft and sillier than the recently tight and conserved GTA outing. Mercs 
 2 sees you air striking everything and blowing everything to smithereens, with that same boyish 
 attitude of Army of Two.
  
  The thing is you aren't totally restricted to how many air strikes you can use and soon the pleasure 
 of seeing a Venezwalan embassy crumble can grow a bit yawnsome, just remember I said can, which 
 isn't very often. Your given an RPG literally at the very begining of the game, and any game that 
 allows you such an extravagant so early on in order to have more fun, is always a plus. Not to 
 say all games should offer you the best thing from the off, Mercs 2 just wouldn't function right 
 without it.
  
  Though Mercs 2 is a downright fun game, it handles like a sweaty Venezwalan P. O. W. They aren't 
 correctly mapped to the face buttons or something but they just don't feel right. Vehicles are 
 average and handle very last gen-y with accelerate on X, which in these days of trigger acceleration 
 feels totally outright wrong. Bleugh. Objectives are confusing and often difficult to find but 
 once you get used to the whole "idea" of the game, nine out of ten times it involves blowing the 
 mother out of something. Graphically Mercs 2 almost nails GTA IV but in many areas there are severe 
 cases of pop-up, which is totally unbelieveable in this day and age AND on the most superior gaming 
 machine on the market. Horizons lack definiton or any real feel or a distinct city but character 
 models are fairly decent, though cutscene looking surprisingly dull with rubber faced characters.
 
  
  Mercs 2 is broken, you've just got to face that it is, fortunately the amount of pure enjoyment 
 you will get out of this game just makes up for it's shed loads of short comings, but I wouldn't 
 put a 40 price tag on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_XYZ
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Yes, yes. We all know about Mercs 2. According to gamespot, this is another one of those games 
 that has been overhyped this year. Well I'm here to tell you it's not bad. Not good, but it feels 
 nice at the vbery least.
  
  There are three game characters in this game, like the last one. Mattias Nilisson, who has found 
 a new beard style, voice style, and a new attitude problem, so generally became more badass. Jennifer 
 Mui, who has bhanged the least, but became more badass, and Finally Chris Jacobs, who has changed 
 the most from being a skilled sophisticated mercenary to a sereotypical black person who now smokes, 
 jokes and has generally became more badass. You must be thick if you can't see a pattern here.
 
  
  The story is that you accidently help someone take over venezuela, but you don't care because you 
 want to get paid. However the person doesn't pay you, and pops a cap in your ass, leaving you to 
 swim all the way home. Poor you. So now your out for revenge.
  
  The game has a bigger obssession with destruction this time. I found myself blowing up oil rigs, 
 ferrys, parts of buildings, even my own house! However if I can destroy all that, then why the 
 hell can't I destoy the wooden crates everywhere? Meh.
  
  You are also permitted to use Airstrikes, but the majoriy require smoke grenades and beacons so 
 there wasn't much point of doing so. There are laser airstrikes as well, which are the most useful, 
 but the satalite strikes now require money to use, as in you rent a satalite. Bad idea. Also you 
 have to use Quicktime events to use the satalite strike. Worse idea.
  
  Hyjacking vehicles is alot harder now, as you have to use quicktime events for that as well, and 
 the amount of button presses depends on the vehicle. For example, every tank requires 2 buttons 
 to be pressed, whilst attack helicopters require 4 buttons to be pressed.
  
  Here's the game main flaw. It's unfinished. Bugs, glitches and all. I blame EA for this because 
 when Mercs was with Lucasarts, there was no bugs or glitches, so I say EA set a deadline making 
 the game sloppy and unfinished. So there is another reason to HATE EA.
  
  In conclusion, Mercs 2 is a good game, that if it was still being published by Lucasarts, would 
 have been one of the best free roamers of all time. Don't call it a GTA clone because we used to 
 call FPS' DOOM clones, and DOOM does not compare to COD4. If anything, call Splinter Cell and Syphon 
 filter MGS clones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I will be brief with this one. The first mercenaries game is a good, fun and impressive shooter. The 
 second helping however is crap.
  The graphics are not too bad, but bugs and glitches hinder the engine some good bit. And the enemies 
 AI in the game is, what we say, crap. Half the time they just stand around waiting for you to put 
 them out of their misery. Maybe because they don't want to be in such a terrible game. Although the 
 island is enormus, which I like. But will hinder alot of people since it takes so long to go anywhere.
 
  The gunplay on mercs 2 is off balance and every time you fire a gun it seems to do the wrong amount 
 of damage. Except for the RPG, you cant find enough ammo for.
  All-in-all this game is a broken waste of time and does not even warrant a rent. Stay away from 
 this one and play mercs 1. A much better game in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeweapon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game because my brain somehow reasoned that Mercs 2 would be a next gen, slightly 
 improved version of the Mercs 1 experience... I was very wrong.
  
  The game is too short, too easy, and still has cracks showing that the builders forgot the plaster 
 over.
  
  Whether it be from the time you walk inside a rock or green blob of jungle and get stuff forever, 
 from the poorly leveled damage system, or the aimless details in odd places, the small amounts 
 of good things this game has to offer is suffocated in the bad.
  The Ragdoll system is so bad, sometimes its very funny for the wrong reasons. When you think back 
 to playing GTA, you believed that was a new benchmark for games to get close to and launch off 
 of.... the sat nav doesn't work, and flying high above the city, objects such as trees become... wait 
 for it.... SPRITES!
  
  The landmark explosion in the game, this Nuclear bunker buster everyone saw in the previews, walk 
 inside that bunker and you've completed the game.
  
  Just don't buy this game. 
  
  If it was a GTA4 clone with a lick of paint, more war machines and airstrikes, it would have been 
 amazing.
  
  What you actually get is a short, broken game that will make you play through at least once, just 
 to look for the Merc 1 fun. 
  
  I'll tell you now, You wont find it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The original Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction was a pleasant surprise for me. It managed 
 to take the GTA open-world format to a tongue-in-cheek, ripped-from-the-headlines military theater 
 that was essentially an international buffet of stuff to blow up. Mercenaries 2: World in Flames 
 changes the theater from a fictionalized North Korea to a fictionalized Venezuela, but the basic 
 idea is pretty much the same. With the added power of current-gen consoles, this should be more 
 than enough for a good time, but sadly, there's a bevy of design and technical problems that keep 
 Mercs 2 from being all that it could be.
  Your missions will almost always involve traveling to a location, blowing something up, and/or 
 taking out a specific target. The game is at its best when the objectives are simple and straightforward, 
 which is thankfully most of the time. When the game tries to get clever with the mission structures, 
 I often found that I'd end up failing through no apparent fault of my own. For a game that is ostensibly 
 a shooter, the actual shooting in Mercs 2 feels terribly inaccurate, to the point that it's often 
 faster and more practical to just run up to enemies and take them out with a quick melee attack. 
 That Mercenaries 2: World in Flames isn't better seriously bums me out. Even in its current state 
 you can see so much potential for breakneck, anarchic fun, which makes its laundry list of problems 
 that much more frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The first Mercenaries was great. Mercenaries 2 is a huge dissapointment on almost all fronts. The 
 only reason this gets a 6 is because it is fun early on. That's because you have not yet seen the 
 crashes, bugs, and glitches or seen that there isn't much to do. This is one of those games to 
 avoid and stay away from. There are countless awsome games coming out this fall, so you don't need 
 to waiste your money on this one. I pre-ordered this and wanted to like it very much, but I didn't. 
 Games coming out soon like Saints row 2, Far cry 2, Fallout 3, World at War, and Quantom of Solace 
 make this game feel like the Rian Leaf of the 98 draft. Everyone has high hopes, but with so many 
 other good games, it falls flat. If you insist on playing it, rent it. Otherwise, it would be the 
 right decision to STAY AWAY. Well, that's my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinut4life
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  It isn't the best game in the world. Not even close, but it isn't the worst either. I think it's 
 a good game to play in between. When you got nothing to do and wanna play something 'easy', with 
 no hard gameplay. I haven't been playing long, but I've noticed that it is 'easy' to get 100%, 
 I just started and im at 44%. So don't expect a very long story. What I like is that the game map 
 is huge and you can go into any vehichle you come across and hijack virtually everything even flying 
 helicopters. Things I miss in the game is the ability to climb over walls and being able to crouch. 
 Furthermore I think it's a shame that you can't reload your tanks ammo, when your out of ammo then 
 the tank becomes practically useless. Also you can't go through doors except at your HQ. Overal 
 it's a nice game, it misses certain things but it isn't a waist of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hofmarskal
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what all the fus is about. I like the game for what it is. I had no expectations at 
 all, and I really like it... for real:-) . Its a lot of fun to blow a lot of sh*t up! There's a 
 few small bugs, but it looks great and sounds great, and its a lot of fun to pick up and play 
 for a few hours.
  
  How this game could get such a lousy score on game spot is be ond me, this game is a LOT better 
 then IOs action game "Hitman"/Kane and Lynch crapOrama:- (
  
  To be honest I was expecting a very very bad game after I saw the Rev here on game spot. The "journalist" 
 must have had some very high expectations. I didn't, and I like it for what it is. Its a 3. person 
 shooter, with humor where you can blow up almost every thing. Its a lot like GTA, but without 
 the deep story and a lot more action, and BLOWING sh*t UP:-) ... A-lot! But that's it:-)
  
  If you are like me, and you don't have all day to play games any more:- (, then this isn't a bad 
 game for you. It's easy to pick up, and put down again, and it has a lot of funn factor.
  
  Don't believe the angry Game Spot man:-)
  
  In conclusion I would give it a score of: 7.5-8
 
  
  And please keep in mind, that I havn't finished it yet!
  But I will, unlike GTA4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandro27
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  well i write the review once but it should had the munnimum of 100 word ,i was about 80 word and 
 i accidentally quied the page and now i am not going to write that review again, so this game is 
 nice don't believe the gamespot review but this game made me withh a very bad head affection (i 
 don't know how you call it ,but in my language it is called".                               
                                                                                                
                                                       ..                                       
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                              s dsagf h sh hfgj 
 fdhj hadf hd h h jlkh kl hj h/lkn hulk jkl klj kj kjh k; l lkj lk; lk klfjbl fhja; ha opahfj'hafdhadfh 
 hdfhah hdfh ;aofh odh oa; i h ;jh ah 546 8415 34 84 841654987                 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_profeshenal
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  If you played any other shooters at all you'll hate this game. Is it really that bad? Well it's 
 certainly not that good. First of all the graphics look as though they were developed for the PS2 
 none of those beautiful scenes or detailed characters here. Second the game controls are jerky 
 and uneven. It felt like I was playing this game while trying to ride a roller coaster. I couldn't 
 make any smooth movements at all.
  The A. I. ranges from retardly stupid to just plain retarded. I was sniping some guys in a jeep 
 and neither the guy I was shooting or the driver responded as I made body shots. Once I came down 
 they swarmed on me but when I shot them they would just stand there holding their guns. 
  Do your self a favor and if you feel as though you absolutely must play this game rent it. Then 
 go back to the rental store and demand your money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcs0710
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World In Flames is a sequel to the ok game Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction. 
 This is a game about death violence and a sh** load of explosions. There is a story but it's so 
 dull I really did not care. The plot is you are a Mercenary who got shot in the as* and being who 
 you are, you want and need revenge. That is the worst way to make a game, what I mean is having 
 a game where the plot is so simple and non-thought out that you can tell they made the plot just 
 to make a quick dollar. Or million dollars. The gameplay is really good and a lot of fun, but nothing 
 is perfect so you will of course occur a lot of glitches and bugs, a lot! The shooting is good 
 the AI is dumber than most people I know. There is one thing I noticed is that when you walk of 
 a ledge that is 5 feet of the ground, you lose 10% health. But if you set of an air strike right 
 next to you you will be fine. The Driving is okay, I have seen better driving in other games but 
 this is okay. When you are not in a mission and you can walk around on foot, you can go up to cars 
 with people in them and then you will pull the person out and get in and drive away, like Grand 
 Theft Auto. Despite all the glitches and bugs I had a lot of fun. Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvdwhlfnshw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Where to start...... To be honest, when I first put this game in, I was disappointed. The game felt 
 like it threw you into the middle of the storyline, it was not a "new level of graphic excellence" 
 , and you start to see glitches from the start. I felt like many of the "negative reviewers" would 
 feel.
  
  That said, I gave the game a chance and I am so glad that I did. I LOVE this game. First and foremost, 
 this is not a realistic simulation of a Mercenary in Venezuela. If you want this to be GTA IV with 
 bigger explosions, you will be disappointed. This game is meant to be an over-the-top arcade game 
 and in this aspect, it succeeds. 
  
  This game does have some graphical glitches, you may see a barrel floating 50 feet in the air, 
 motorcycles do not have an animation for laying on it's side, so even after a crash, it will be 
 standing upright on it's wheels, and lastly you WILL see a lot of draw-in (plant life and buildings 
 pop-up in the distance as you run the game's world) . Most all the glitches are minor nuances and 
 are not game crippling bugs like GS' review will have you believe. Honestly, these imperfections 
 give the game some charm. If you are like me, gameplay is more important then graphics anyways.
 
  
  The controls are excellent. You can smoothly transition from fighting on foot to fighting in a 
 tank or helicopter. You can even move vehicles around with a melee attack. (Think pushing a boat 
 stuck on the beach back into the water) . All vehicles I have come across; cars, tanks, helicopters, 
 can be "Hijacked". A small mini-game of button presses will ensue, and if you are successful, the 
 vehicle will be yours. This is a nice little touch that keeps you moving around the world easily. 
 
  
  The sound is adequate. The music follows the pace of the game well, but there is not much difference 
 in the sounds of the weapon classes. (An AK sounds just like a carbine and the regular RPG sounds 
 like the Fuel-Air or the Anti-air Gun) . The sound is not awe-inspiring, but it does not take away 
 from the game.
  
  The ability to call in a vehicle, air strike, or weapon supply box anywhere and at anytime you 
 want is one of the things that makes this game great. You eventually will be able to call in tanks, 
 a nuclear weapon, and all sorts of rocket propelled weapons with a flip of the d-pad........ Stuck 
 on an island and do not want to swim to the mainland, call in a wave runner. A sniper got you down, 
 carpet bomb his entire area. The ways to get a job done are plentiful.
  
  To break it down, this game does have its flaws. I have not come across a game-breaking flaw yet. 
 In fact I tend to like the little bugs I see throughout world. I love that the motorcycles will 
 never crash and land on the sides. They are always ready to jump on and go. It is great that you 
 can melee bash a tank off a rock if it gets stuck. Take this game as it is meant to be, a ridiculous, 
 balls-out, highly explosive, and just plain fun action game.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is almost there, but not quite. I was introduced to the Mercs series by the demo on the 
 February 05 Demo Disc released with OPM. I loved it, I was hooked. I didn't buy the game until 
 a year after it came out, because I spent my money on other games. After playing through the first 
 game multiple times, it never got old. And even if I didn't feel like doing a contract, I could 
 just drive around and find some trouble. Mercenaries 2: World In Flames stays true to that great 
 game, but it was overhyped, and suffered because of it.
  
  The graphics are amazing in this game, and the textures have really improved (the textures in the 
 original Mercs were pretty bad, even by PS2 standards) and I won't forget to mention that the water 
 looks very real.
  The gameplay remains fun, and over 1/4 into the game it still hasn't gotten dull. The AI is smarter 
 in this game, and will actually take cover, and can be hard, sometimes too hard to fight against.
 
  Also, the addition of building up a stockpile of weapons and building your own PMC is very cool, 
 and is much better than working for ExOps in the first Mercs.
  
  Now for some negatives. For a game that is supposed to be about blowing stuff up, the explosions 
 aren't all that stunning, and the enviroments have no where near the level of destruction as Battlefield: 
 Bad Company. Originally there were supposed to be two new Mercs introduced. When they were cut 
 out of it, I was disappointed. Another thing that really annoyed me, was the lack of local multiplayer. 
 Why should I have to sit at my house to play co-op with my friend, when I could just take a 5 minute 
 walk to his place? What if the other player doesn't have a mic? It'd be pretty hard to communicate, 
 don't ya think? Also, at times the game's difficulty can ramp up, to a point of just plain annoying, 
 and then go back down. I've had to put the game down a few times because of this frustration. But 
 one thing that may have caused some of these troubles is the changing of publishers part-way through 
 developing the game.
  
  Overall, Mercenaries 2 is a good game, but so much more could've been done with it. If you loved 
 the first Mercs, you will love this as well, but anyone else should rent this game first to try 
 it out. In order to succeed with this game, you must play it like it's supposed to be played. Shooting 
 and blowing everything in sight up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistergoggles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit.. World In Flames isn't as awesome as it seemed like in the trailers. You'll notice 
 right away that this game is filled with tiny bugs and glitches that make the game a bit frustrating 
 at times.
  
  BUT, that doesn't mean the game is bad. The game is still a blast to play. Just like the previous 
 one, you'll get to choose 1 of the 3 Mercenaries. I chose Jen, simply because I used her in the 
 first one and I like Jennifer Hale's voice. :P The story is a simple revenge mission, but you'll 
 need to make some friends in order to get that revenge. The story.. is a BIT disappointing. It's 
 still pretty cool to listen to the story, but it's too short ; not enough. It doesn't help that 
 most of the missions are the same. It's fun at first, but the same mission, over and over again, 
 gets boring after a bit. 
  
  So what's the game like? Simple. You blow stuff up lulz1! It's awesome! It's a bit slow at first, 
 but you'll get a lot of toys to play with. It took me a while to get used to the air strikes, but 
 that was my own fault. I almost blew myself up a few times, but it's a good thing Jen is fast. 
 There's some vehicles, helicopters, tanks, bikes, and some boats.. all very fun to use and blow 
 up. The air strikes you can call in are amazing. Oh, and they've also added cool mini games in 
 his Mercenaries. You'll have challenges like racing and timed shooting ranges. Overall, the options 
 available are much more and better than the first game. Something I found interesting.. the game 
 gets pretty fun after you finish the main mission. There's a lot to explore once you're done, if 
 you haven't finished by the end. 
  
  The graphics.. are okay. Nothing breathtaking, but it's still amazing to see beautiful Venezuela. 
 The sound... it's pretty bad. Not just the voice acting, but the sound sounds weird at times. Not 
 sure how to really describe it...
  
  The bugs small, but enough to make you say, "What the.." Some of them include getting stuck in 
 weird places.., your resource chopper gets stuck trying to pick up things for you, sound vanishes 
 at times too, and the list goes on. It doesn't help that the AI in this game is dumber than... 
 I don't think I've seen anything dumber to be honest. It gets tough when they're on vehicles and 
 outnumber you. There's many I didn't mention, but they don't really get in the way too much. 
 
  
  So don't expect a blockbuster hit when you pick this game up. It a GREAT rental, but as far buying 
 the thing.. it all depends on how much you like to blow crap up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaMOi1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, Mercs 2 is a diasppointment in so many ways. The glitches are disgusting, how anyone 
 could release a game this glitchy i dont kno. But the glitches are like a bad neighbour, you put 
 up with him, try to ignore him and get on with your life, or game in this case...
  
  And when you do just that, Mercs 2 reveals itself to be a highly playable, enjoyable experience!
 
  
  Ive had more fun with this game than i ever had with GTA4, infact this has been one of the best 
 games ive played in a long time, and certainly the most fun ive had playing CO-OP since Crackdown!! 
 (technical issues aside.. Grrr) 
  
  The sheer brilliance of having the player chopper in his own supplies, vehicles and airstrikes 
 as a game mechanic is simply wonderful, and all the more reinforces the notion of freedom and choice 
 this game offers. Like wise within the game world the opportunity for the player to tackle things 
 his/her way has real depth. 
  
  For me its here that the game shines. 
  
  The opportunity to swim across a river to a enemy camp on the other side of the jungle, obscured 
 by one of the bigger patrol boats docked just off shore -- to then swim up to the Patrol boat unseen 
 and sneak onboard, up the ladder, knock down the first guard- to then man the 50 cal, and immediately 
 begin unloding on the enemy onshore is a satisfyng experience indeed. Experiences like this are 
 available to the player in Mercs2, however the execution is not always as smooth as you would like. 
 The AI will often spot you without you necessarily giving away your position. Mechanics like this, 
 im sure would encourage many 'less creative' players to just take the ''run and gun'' approach, 
 and who would blame them? The irony is, that in many ways Mercs2 ecourages creativity in tackling 
 the world, but in others stifles it..
  
  Perhaps even more could have been added. A stealth mechanic is sorely missed, and would have added 
 yet another choice at ground level for the player to strategize. I would have like to have seen 
 a knife for silent takedowns. In a game this rich in player created opportunities, stealth would 
 have added another sweet layer of tactics available. 
  
  The missions could have been more fleshed out, more varied. You start the game with putting down 
 listening posts and then chasing down a van with a UP hostge in. I had my co-op team mate drive 
 close to the back of the escaping van with me standing on the bonnet of the car he was driving. 
 When he got close enough i leaped onto the back of the armoured van, which then inititated a quicktime 
 event, which ended with me kicking the driver of the van out 'Indiana Jones style'. These are great 
 gaming moments indeed, which Mercs2 is in abundance. However, the glorious allowance for creativity 
 in this game is often tapered with a not so glorious execution. But it works, for the most part. 
 But after a promising beginning, Mercs2 does rather decend into one generic mission after another, 
 followed by a story mission. This I point out for the benefit of those who didnt like the Outpost 
 missions and the .. other Outposts missions! But for me, I really didnt mind too much. Even though 
 the generic missions can be almost identical (different local) , i enjoyed very much tackling everyone 
 one a different way. Its worth pointing out at this stage that Mercenaries 1 offered more varied 
 missions than Mercs2 does.
  
  High value targets made great sport! However why none of them attempt to peg it away in a jeep 
 or something is baffling, and rather disappointing. Yet another reason (of many) to scrutinize 
 how far Mercs2 has actually come from the original.
  
  In conclusion, Mercs2 is a ... Great game? Well technical issues aside and theres loads, its a 
 very good game. One that could highly benefit from updates, patches and downloadable content! Because 
 i could play through again, but with everything reset... hmm not so sure. Fresh missions and fresh 
 content would be good. 
  
  Nonetheless, with all the disappointment surrounding this game, Mercs2 has fought off the grave 
 and proved that buried underneath a wealth of bugs is a rather excellent experience to be had. 
 One that deserves the support of its creators!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFG1995
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  the game was certainly fun at the beginning but after the first 5 hours the story began to suck! 
 i am a gamer. i love destruction and i thrive on action, but the game still needs to have a good 
 story. for example: the first destroy all humans game. battlefield: Bad Company was a really good 
 game i loved the story and the gameplay was so good. i hope that if there was anotherpandemenic 
 game there would be less hype. the rocket launcher was not very strong. there are many bounties 
 that go up against the other factions. in fact the dialect was very repetitive. the use of fire 
 was good and i enjoyed the airstrikes. the vehichles were fun to ride it was easy to get money, fuel 
 and airstrikes. you dont get good weapons or airstrikes until you get to the jamacans or americansand 
 you cant use the nuke before you finish americas missions. in my oppinion save your money for october 
 and november. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoon_Of_Dark
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 took all the good things from mercs one and added on it the game play is still the 
 same as the first but it has more of it this time around you can ride boats motorcycles and even 
 call in a nuke they also have new weapons they also added in a few things i found useful like the 
 grappling hook for the choppers so you can steal them from the air or that you can find almost 
 any car on the map (not encluding the custom ones from eva)
  
  
  but if your in it for the graphics you will be sad there not bad but there not amazing there the 
 same as mercs one becasue i didn't see any diffrents between the two but still its not like you 
 are gonna by mercs to look at the landscape and take in the sites nope you just want to blow S%#* 
 up and when it comes to that who cares if a building has texture
  
  
  now for the storyline 
  i think it could have been better but it was still fun to play and it 
 all made sence but the story wan't long enough i find the only part that made it long was the speratic 
 difulcult change in the game if i played it on easy instead of hard i might have beat in in less 
 then two days but if you add in all the other things like HVTs and the Spear Parts it adds up to 
 a long game so over all i would say you should buy it but once you beat it the only think left 
 it to destroy everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlunch2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game with a lot of explosions, Mercenaries has what your looking for. Otherwise 
 the game pretty well misses out on all fronts. It truly hurts me to say that, as there is a really 
 awesome game under all the problems that persist it. The gameplay just doesn't feel right and balanced. 
 As soon as a level starts, bullets fly until it's finished. I found it hard to focus on my objective 
 because I was constantly getting blown to pieces by 3 rocket launchers, a tank, like 10 hummers, 
 a helicopter, and 100 soldiers all at once. The game isn't very realistic either. You can get blown 
 up by 3 rocket launchers and still get back up and brush it off. Blowing things up is really all 
 this game has going for it, which is bad because the environments really aren't that destructible. 
 That problem alone really saps most of the fun out of the only fun thing in this game. Heck, even 
 the graphics look like something on an original Xbox. You might be able to stand to play through 
 this game. If you do, there are a very few moments that might make your day. But very few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noahlee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Whoever does the review for Gamespot has absolutely no clue what they are talking about. I see 
 incredibly low scores that are way below anything any other website or reviewer gives. Whoever 
 is reviewing the games obviously is an idiot and doesn't play video games on a regular basis. I 
 really just don't understand what goes through the heads of the people who work for this website. 
 It has gone down in quality so much over the years. Once I would never buy a game if Gamespot gave 
 it anything less than a 7. Now they give random scores that aren't even close to what the rest 
 of the gaming community things. It's like having a dog teach you how to sparkle paint your car. 
 Completely absurd and ridiculous with absolutely no basis in fact.
  
  This game should not be ranked a 5.0, granted it's not spectacular, but it's a lot of fun. Definitely 
 a must-rent, and if you were a fan of the old one probably a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 has been one of the games I have long-waited for ever since I finished the first 
 one on the Original Xbox. The original held its ground with gripping explosions and amazing combat 
 sequences for you to conquer. It really was a "playground of destruction." However, its sequel 
 does live up to the greatness of the original...
  
  Graphics:
  
  Man, this game is a roller coaster when it comes to visuals, but most of the time it is at the 
 low points rather than the high. The game definitely feels held back because they were making it 
 for Playstation 2 instead of just Playstation 3 and Xbox 360. The draw distance is horrid, the 
 cars suffer from graphical glitches, and cut-scenes are very bland. However, some saving graces 
 are the character models, which go from decent to good, and the explosions, which come in a wide 
 variety. However, even these suffer from technical difficulties, such a large chunk of building 
 falling, but not harming any other buildings. Another defect is how easy it is to get stuck in 
 walls and even roads.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pretty much the same as Mercenaries, but with tons of bugs mixed in. The game mainly is a free-roaming 
 title that allows you to decided who you work for and also what you blow up. If you work for the 
 guerrilla warfare and decide to switch side, you have the choice to blow them up completely and 
 get your contracts from the other teams. As great as this sounds, the game suffers quite a bit 
 from sequences going wrong, such as when helicopters are carrying in boxes for no reason, or when 
 you call for a supply drop and it never arrives BUT counts as a supply drop. Also, sometimes soldiers 
 from a faction decide to hate you randomly, so they open fire and say that you are an enemy to 
 the boss, automatically affecting your relationship with said faction. Yes, this happens quite 
 a bit for a game that has been in development for a long time.
  
  On another note, those mission sequences are full of bugs, some game ending. A good example is 
 the following: one mission provides helicopter transport, free of charge, to the mission. So, I 
 take the helicopter and it loads me up getting off the helicopter at the mission area. I die a 
 few minutes later since I didn't expect the resistance up ahead. The game reloads me to where the 
 helicopter dropped me off. So, I figure "I better call for a souped up vehicle and some supply 
 drops" only to find that the pilot is "Busy" and it said this for the next 20 minutes. Now, wait, 
 his helicopter isn't around and the game never said anything about doing this part without supplies. 
 So shut the system off and turn it on to see if i missed something... and this time the game loads 
 the helicopter drop-off and 30 seconds later, the Busy changes to available. what the.... 
  
  Sound:
  
  The soundtrack is a remix of the original's songs, making the originality fly 
 out the window. The game suffers from cheesy lines being spoken consistently. I don't know how 
 many times I heard "If you get lost, you can always come back to PMC to figure out where to go 
 next," but it got annoying a LONG time ago.
  
  Story:
  
  Man, this storyline is so full of holes, its incredible. The whole story about the oil is completely 
 sidestepped by the story of the Merc not getting paid and getting shot in the behind and wanting 
 revenge. Sure, that story is more interesting, but the timeline to getting their makes no sense 
 whatsoever. There is no real conflict or contact with the main bad guy until the end of the game. 
 But hey, maybe that is the point: you don't care whats going on, you only care about getting to 
 him and killing him the next time you see him... it just feels like the game could have had so much 
 more...
  
  Overall:
  So, if you can't tell by now, I didn't like this game because of its bugs and uneven storyline. 
 Sure, the combat was fun, but it was really standard compared to most shooters these days. I can't 
 really recommend this one to anyone, especially the PS3 version since there is no trophy support 
 and no reward for playing this. If you REALLY want to play this, I would say rent it or wait for 
 it to lower to $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Similar to GTAIV, they are sandbox games. And being a sandbox game, it bound to have glitches and 
 bugs. Even for a very polished title like GTAIV, it still has it's bugs. There's some annoying 
 bugs in Mercenaries 2, but they do not go to the extend of destroying the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  Similar to the GTA series, the game lets u explore the world while doing quests, and 
 at the same time, u can choose the order of doing them. GTAIV was more to the daily life thing, 
 having girlfriends, gangs, cousins. Whereas Mercenaries 2 is more to the "Destroy Everything" type, 
 as so you will see lots of firepower in the game.
  
  Airstrike is one of the major item in the game that makes it fun, you get to enjoy lots of types 
 of air strikes, but the way the buildings collapse remains repeated. 
  
  If your asking what can destroy a building, i would say almost anything that has a gunpowder in 
 it, from bazookas, to tanks, granade launchers and air strikes. This is where some unrealistic 
 things comes in. Would a tall building collapse under bazooka firepower? the answer is probably 
 no, but the game lets u do that, leaving air strikes to be a chore than a necessary.
  
  Similar to GTAIV, you can't pilot a plane, all you could do is summon air strikes. But theres tanks 
 in the game, which disappear in GTAIV. I do see some lanes for planes to takeoff, i guess this 
 game was unfinished, if they were given more time perhaps u could pilot the plane to drop a bomb 
 of ur choice.
  
  Quests, missions are prety repititive, either asking you to kill a person, take a photo, or asking 
 you take over an area. Thanks god theres other side missions that u should do along the way, if 
 not the experience would be quite boring.
  
  Moving on to the bugs, i don't really have a problem with it. What i hate is the grass, tress and 
 leaves. They seems to be sticky tapes, once ur stuck it take some jumping to get out, pretty annoying 
 IMO.
  
  This game focus on destructions, from large bridges to buildings to large ships. You will have 
 a very fun time destroying these things. And thats where the game is unique and shines on it's 
 own.
  
  Graphics:
  Some claim it poor, other great. I will deem it as a good. It's not ur uncharted nor ratchet. But 
 sandbox have the tendency not to have great graphics as with the case of GTAIV, this is because 
 environments are active unlike action games.
  
  Any framerate issues? no, but i do get a little dizzy after my Merc 2 sessions, not very sure why. 
 Airstrikes looks great, so does the buildings, but the way buildings collapse and the way soldiers 
 dies are quite repititive animations.
  
  Sound:
  I was expecting DTS, but it was DD. Nevertheless it's still great audio here, except for some annoying 
 repeated NPC voices.
  
  Other than the voice acting, bombs sounded real good, very bassy. Best played on a HT System.
 
  
  Overall, this is a buggy and definately an unfinished game. But the main gameplay is there, and 
 it's fun. It provides what GTA lovers wanted, destructions, tanks. Althought it has lots of bugs, 
 it should avoid you from getting this title. Since it's still september, why not get it just to 
 tide over until october games arrives? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobgh81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all, we'll get the bad out of the way. BUGS!!!! Whoever was in charge of game testing 
 should be fired. The game has more bugs in it then Paris Hilton's underwear. More than a few times 
 have the bugs caused me to fail a mission. Random charges for killing civilians occur when I haven't 
 fired a shot in 60 seconds. I like the idea of having to steal fuel, but it's very frustrating 
 when your pilot misses the tank with his winch and you have to wait on him to despawn before you 
 can call him to come and try again. Once I fell out of my helicopter and somehow landed inside 
 of a rock. Luckily I had enough grenades to kill myself instead of having to quit the game and 
 start at my last save. While firing on something with my helicopters sometimes the game makes your 
 crosshairs re-center on the screen when you're not even being hit. This sucks cuz you end up wasting 
 ammo. At least I got to experience the life of a beta tester. So when is the finished version coming 
 out? 
  Ok, enough griping about the obvious incompletion of the editing. The storyline is very fun. It's 
 definitely my style of a game. I love the freedom of running around and using whatever vehicles 
 you want to. The hijacking cut scenes were a lot of fun and the different combos of button mashing 
 kept it from getting too old too fast. The high value target aspect of the game was somewhat boring, 
 but at least it unlocks stuff. Once in awhile the target's allies would send a rocket at you killing 
 the HVT, but it wasn't a huge deal to me. The mini games for each faction was also a good idea. 
 I love the idea of different outfits, although the missions to unlock them were by far the hardest 
 part of the game. I don't think that missions to unlock outfits should be harder than the storyline 
 missions, but oh well. 
  All in all, the game has a great concept and is a blast to play (no pun intended) . However the 
 enormous amount of bugs holds that holds the score back. This game was obviously rushed for distribution 
 and should have been tested WAY more. So I give the game a 7.5, but if there were no bugs at all, 
 I probably would have given it a 9 to 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strategist103
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is a typical sand-box game. You are a mercenary who has seen many battles within 
 your life time and even started a couple of wars amongst nations yourself fighting for one purpose. 
 To Get Revenge on the greedy, guy who tried to kill you instead of pay you. Bad mistake. 
  
  The first part of the game introduces the game's controls; a basic part of any game is a tutorial. 
 The mini tutorial was not only informative but it introduces you to the main story-line leading 
 to the events within the game. 
  
  After the tutorial you begin your mission for revenge. However in order to accomplish said mission 
 you will need to get vehicles, weapons, and bombs. Revenge is the central idea in this game, so 
 think big. The game introduces about 2 missions per faction compared to the first, where there 
 were not only 4 missions per faction but there were 2 separate areas of battle. Consisting of a 
 total 8 missions per faction in the entire game. All the missions of a certain faction have to 
 do with blowing something up, killing someone, or delivering something. Although this seems repetitive, 
 the missions itself are not repetitive and can be completed in a multiple number of ways. 
  
  The weapons within the game have indeed lived up to the expectations that many fans looked 
 forward too. There are a large amount of weapons in the game, all having their own different mechanics 
 and sounds. However, most of the weapons within the game such as the two different forms of pistols 
 are really just visually different models which provide no tactical advantage whatsoever. The absence 
 of Vehicle Repair Kits has been replaced with a convenient method of rearmament also known as entering 
 a building then exiting a building. 
  
  The vehicles within the game are impressive; there are still the civilian class vehicles such as 
 the Junker, reminiscent of the Buju cars in Mercenaries. The amount and quality of vehicles have 
 improved, you can unlock not only other faction's vehicles but you can unlock tactical-mercenary 
 grade vehicles which are not only aesthetically pleasing but amusing. 
  
  The air strikes within this game have been down toned, by a moderate fraction. Although some classics 
 such as the Fuel-Air Bomb are reintroduced the blast radius of Fuel-Air Bomb is substantially different. 
 However, the introduction of tactical nuclear weapons is a major improvement not only in terms 
 of personal enjoyment, but in graphics. 
  
  Although this game does have some of its pros and cons, there are some things such as the amount 
 of glitches numerous players have experienced. Although some glitches may be harmful to your game 
 (getting stuck between a building, falling from 60m, etc.) there are some useful glitches such 
 as Ewan's Winching Challenge and the Spare Kit Glitch. 
  
  Overall, this game is huge improvement from its predecessor, despite its numerous glitches and 
 flaws. However the most important thing about this game is that it still maintains the fun that 
 players of Mercenaries enjoyed many years ago.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  The original Mercenaries surprised most of the gaming world. Its combination of fun, challenging 
 gameplay, and open sandbox world made it an addictive and fun game. With the release of Mercenaries 
 2, there is more of the same fun gameplay, but there are so many issues keeping it from surpassing 
 its predacessor and justifying the amount of hype it has received. At times, Mercs 2 can be a fun, 
 exciting game, but at other times its merely a stressful, frustrating combination of cheap, unbalanced 
 AI, and game altering glitches.
  
  When starting Mercenaries 2, you will first be asked to choose which of the three Mercenaries you 
 will use. While each Merc might get his or her own individual ability, each one is the same, and 
 your decision doesn't change any diologue or the format of the story. You will play as your merc 
 as he or she works for a Venezuelan billionaire named Solano. Basically he betrays you, tries to 
 kill you, and even worse... doesn't pay you. This leaves you on a mission for revenge to get back 
 at Solano and his men. While the story isn't the strongest in Mercenaries 2, it isn't half bad 
 either. You'll eventually create a PMC in order to get your revenge on Solano (which, strangely 
 enough only consists of 5 people including yourself) . While Mercs 2's story isn't as fleshed out 
 as one might hope, it still is a decent story that is straightforward and makes sense from the 
 start.
  
  Mercenaries 2's troubles really begin with its gameplay. The series' sandbox gameplay is still 
 here... airstrikes, vehicles, and supply drops are still at your disposal, and the game gives you 
 many ways of completing your contract. However, now all drops require the use of fuel. While this 
 adds a realistic feel to the game, it also makes it frustrating when you're in the middle of a 
 contract and suddenly run out of fuel. Also, there is no more direct purchasing via the internet 
 of your supplies. You must drive all the way to a faction's supply depot and buy it from them. 
 This gets annoying because A. you have to drive long distances to depots, and B. the game doesn't 
 specify which supplies are carried at which depot very well. This means you may run around for 
 a good 30 minutes trying to restock on supplies before actually starting a mission, and with Mercenaries 
 2's insanely difficult and cheap missions, you'll need all the help you can get. Difficulty in 
 Mercs 2 is hard to describe. While basically, the game is easy (people die very easily and can 
 be killed with one hit by melee) , it is also very cheap and frustrating. The game makes up for 
 the poor enemy AI by making you go up against hundreds of enemies at a time. Most often, these 
 enemies carry RPGs and are extremely accurate with their shots, which means you won't last very 
 long if you take a few hits. Also, once you kill an enemy, they respawn almost seconds after. You 
 may think that you've cleared out a building, and then a few RPG soldiers will spawn in the windows 
 and start shooting at you close range. In addition to the difficulty, Mercenaries 2 suffers from 
 quite a few bugs that make missions even harder. For example, one mission you must rescue a Chinese 
 soldier from an Allied Nations base. While fighting through the mass amount of enemies and reinforcements, 
 I suddenly get a Mission Failed message saying the soldier was killed. I wasn't even close to him, 
 and he wasn't caught in any crossfire. This has happened not once, but multiple times to leave 
 me frustrated and fed up with the game. 
  
  Apart from the main campaign, Mercenaries 2 offers a few side missions as well. However, these 
 are just limited to capture and destruction missions, that get very old quick. When you find yourself 
 bored, you may decide to just cause a little destruction. This will often get old after a while, 
 and will also leave faction (s) disliking you. However, this can easily be fixed by paying a sum 
 of money to the faction to instantly become friendly with them again. This is another major problem 
 with Mercenaries 2, you don't feel as though your actions have consequences. If you run over people, 
 you lose a meager $5,000, and like I said earlier, if you anger a faction, it can simply be fixed 
 by paying a small amount of money to them. While Mercenaries 2 provides the same open, sandbox 
 game the first one surprised us all with, there are many glitches, AI issues, and poor development 
 issues that leave it in mediocrity.
  
  Graphically speaking, Mercenaries 2 doesn't impress either. Anti-aliasing seems to be the major 
 problem here as jagged edges can be seen all over Mercenaries 2's world. Also, animation is very 
 poorly done and the physics can be pretty bad too (for example, trees can be smashed through, but 
 you will get stuck in plants) . Another big issue with Mercenaries 2's graphics is the view distance. 
 While the view of Venezuela is pretty good from above and far away, when getting closer, you'll 
 notice rocks and foliage just pop up out of nowhere. This makes the game look plain weird. Overall, 
 there is nothing really positive that can be said about Mercs 2's graphics. While they aren't absolutely 
 terrible, they are far from good.
  
  Sadly, the bad doesn't end for Mercenaries 2 with the sound. Both the music and voice overs are 
 very repetitive. Faction soldiers literally have two-four lines and they vary from "Hey, it's the 
 Merc!" to complaining about the climate in Venezuela. Fiona, your computer analyst will also constantly 
 remind you that there's always a job waiting for you at the PMC, even though that may not always 
 be true. The three mercenaries share the same lines as well, and the lack of variance means that 
 they don't really establish their own identity. 
  
  Overall, I want to like Mercenaries 2. It is fun at times, and the sandbox world gives you plenty 
 of options for destruction and chaos, but all that is marred by glitches, poor AI, bad graphics, 
 and all of the other things wrong with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game was SO over hyped. Yeah there's dozens of vehicles and missions and stuff to destroy, 
 but when all those things lack any quality they get old quick. Most of the vehicles are boring 
 and not fun to drive. The physics in this game are so wack. In GTA when you drive a sports bike 
 you feel like you're driving a sports bike. In this game a bike feals like you're riding a train. 
 This missions are all but interesting. The story is just plain stupid, and I hate how they based 
 it all on oil profits in Venezuala. May as well just thrown it out in the Middle East. You can 
 only hold two weapons at a time, so unless you have a bunch of nice cargo drops its impossible 
 to do any creative killing. The voice clips that play throughout you journies are SO heavily repeated 
 you'd be tempted to turn the sound off so you don't have to hear that crap anymore. The Multiplayer 
 was a good idea, but with the 500 pace tether between players someone can come in and really screw 
 you over. I was racing through a gravel pit with only a few seconds to spare and right before i 
 completed the mission the other idiot ran in the opposite direction and caused me to lose. I never 
 let anyone in my game again after that. So what's the real flare to this game? Running around an 
 endless battlefield that really lacks a whole lot to battle and shooting or destroying whatever 
 you see. This can get a bit mind numbing after a while. YOu will come too hours later and wonder 
 what you just accomplished and it will have been nothing at all. Blowing this up is fun but lacks 
 creativity and gets very old very soon. Beyond that this game has nothing to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: future16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  this has to be the best, worst game ive eva played its glitchy as hell it looks awful the ai is 
 stupid and the game play isnt exactly initive but its the most fun in a game ive had for a long 
 time... by far 1 of the best games of the year to date. ITS highly addictive and just real silly 
 fun.. the added bonus of side missions adds extra depth to the game and the online play is superb... It 
 also has a great sense of humor wich shines througth very well in the early missions when u are 
 asked to get the deverstater wich is not as u'd expect.. so bassicly get up out of ur chair get 
 to a shop and buy if u like blowin stuff up u wont regret 
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaz_attack92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  hell ya. but it. serious . u need this game it u like big bangs u need this game i no i love it. 
 it's just ike GTA minus the languag but come on u can levle a freekin city that is awesome. i can; t 
 begin to discrib how awesome this game is. + its fine for most ages unless ur retarded but it is 
 a good way to get any explosions out of ur system unless ur retarded and decied to blow somtine 
 up 4 real. but realy buy his game. it's so huge u can go anywhere i'd say its bigger then GTA 4 
 i no i havint played any thing els sinc i got it. buy it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firextreme
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Everyone claims Mercenaries 2: World in flames has poor graphics and a buggy story. To be honest, 
 who would buy a game as huge as mercs 2 for graphics? Be reasonable. A game like Mercs 2 with full 
 open ended destructive and explorative environments cant be expected to have outstanding graphics 
 and no bugs. For me, the bugs dont ruin the game, as they are there, but are no where near as bad 
 as gamespot make them out to be. Infact, the bugs make the game more humerous in my opinion. This 
 game boasts over 80% of its environments to be destructable, and has loads of mini games like racing, 
 helicopter flying and weapon practice.
  
  Mercenaries 2 has 5 factions, each with mini games, outpost missions and story-relative missions. 
 It Isn't short to be fair, but can become a little repetative especially on outpost missions. For 
 me, this game isnt a so called "let down" or "waist of time and money", instead this game has changed 
 my impressions of ea, from a poor company relying on sports games who cant get gun games right 
 (Medal of honor Airborne) , to a company who has a good imaginnation, and truly can compete with 
 GTA IV. I really do think this game is bigger and better that Grand theft auto IV. This game is 
 fun and adventurous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaTigre69
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  All right, lets get this straight. Yes, the graphics aren't up to scratch, and there are some bugs 
 and glitches. But in my opinion, unless the game crashes every 5 minutes, glitches like floating 
 debris don't have a huge effect on how fun the game is, and isn't that what games are all about? 
 All in all this is a fun game. I mean, there is just something cool about landing on an island 
 in a stolen helicopter, blowing up a colonial era castle with bombing runs and artillery strikes, 
 jumping off the edge of a cliff, shooting up a flare, and jumping on the jet ski that your pilot 
 just brought you. The guns are inaccurate and the menu system is a bit tedious, but all in all, 
 this is a pretty fun, open world game with nice explosions, that you should buy, WHEN THE PRICE 
 GOES DOWN. Don't pay $60 for this like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo-Base
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply a game. That's what it is. A game is suppose to be fun and be something you 
 can bring out when your friends are over. THis game is just that. Its simply fun and very addictive.
 
  
  To be honest, i have had this game reserved for 16 months. The second i heard of a sequal for the 
 original Mercs (which remains a guilty pleasure) , i went to my local store and reserved it.
  
  I did get this game AFTER the review was posted and it worried me greatly. However i gave it 
 a chance. I put the disk in and was, unfortunatly, put into an update screen. This was short and 
 i was then shown the typical load up screen with EA and Pandemic. This team seemed odd to me however 
 many times i have seen it. I was than sent to choose my character and was pleased to see each of 
 them with more personality. Each character possess one special attribute either faster sprint, 
 faster health regeneration, or more ammo.
  
  The story began simply with a revenge plot. The characters, although far from perfect, are impressive. 
 The intro mission introduces you to all key movement and gunplay mechanics. The guns all feel the 
 same, with the exception of PRG's and Anti-Air Missle Launchers. However this is not bad because 
 the game is mostly about explosions.
  
  The quick select system is minimally different, but the shop options are very different. To shop 
 requires going to each of the different factions bases, which is ok if you were one to upset the 
 Mafia in the first game, now you can still have weapons, airstrikes, and vehicles as long as you 
 are at a neutral standing.
  
  The next section you reach will lead to the rest of the game, in which you will collect members 
 for your "team". Each member is useful and comes with thier own personality. The lines spoken between 
 you and your team are hilarious at times but annoying at others. But the original Mercs was not 
 about dialouge, but more about contracts. Each contract offers a greater amount of money than the 
 first letting you get multi-millions faster in the missions than waiting a length of the game for 
 one million which give you more of a hitman feel.
  
  AI is terrible in terms of fighting back, HOWEVER they are smart when it comes to know where you 
 are and when to call in backup. Vehicles are much more challenging to take this time and require 
 timed button presses ala God of War or Conan. Although these become repeatitive, they are humorous 
 to watch.
  
  The world is also impressive and shows an array of colors and lights. This may become bothersome 
 during travel, but it is fun to create missions and goals for yourself and friends. The game includes 
 Co-op which has minimum lag for high connections and average for the lowest working. The game can 
 easily be enjoyed by yourself or with a friend. However the world of this size is not without glitches, 
 and you may experiance dissappearing allies or airstrikes, stuck enemies or vehicles, and/or levitating 
 objects. These appear frequently but do not effect gameplay severly.
  
  Lastly, the fire, meyhem, and explosions of the game are the main hook and are satisfying. The 
 fire is intense and gives of bright lights and spreads. The explosions feel meaty and are very 
 satisfying to watch. The meyhem these factors cause is obvious in the reactions of citizens are 
 they run to a car, bike, or to shelter.
  
  What Mercenaries 2 boils down to is a glitchy game with fantastic explosions. The game is a larger, 
 longer, and more explosive version of the original with a new story and area. This is not bad in 
 anyway and I encourage anyway with a desire to create meyhem or witness explosions to pick up the 
 game as soon as possible.
  
  A solid 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbborger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  10 out of 11 users doesn't even know who Aaron Thomas is.
  
  You know whats alot of fun? Blowing crap up, and that's what this game is all about. The game is 
 not perfect, but it definitely is not a 5.0. The guy who reviewed this game (Aaron Thomas) looks 
 like he should get back to leveling up his hello kitty character on his pink game cube. Look and 
 see what most of the users are rating it and go from there. Between PS3 and 360 around 2,500 users 
 gave it an average of 8.0. Im not a mathematician, but I would say a lot of people would agree 
 that Aaron Thomas should get back to to hello kitty's island adventure. I would agree in a heart 
 beat that the AI is brain dead, but it's entertaining when you're going around dropping bombs on 
 everything. I cleaned my review up so hopefully I wont receive another email about offensive content.... 
 ive been a member since 2003 and this is one of the worst reviews ive seen on gamespot.... So in 
 the end if you liked mercenaries 1 you'll probably love 2. Forget gamespot; s review on this one 
 go with the critics or users.
  
  1 out of every user who read this now knows who Aaron Thomas is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madnavigator
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the first game, I came into "Mercenaries 2" with a lot of hope for the same kind of 
 tank-jacking, building-bombing, hostile-capping, air-striking action I remember (if not better) . 
 While "Mercs 2" does bring some improvements befitting it's transition to the next generation as 
 well as some extra bells & whistles, it was mostly the same as the last go-around. That, in itself, 
 isn't a detractor to this game. Neither are the bothersome glitches (ie: your helicopter pilot 
 freezing up instead of gathering resources, extraction choppers and air strikes never showing up) , 
 the spotty AI (ie: "Durr, let's stand in the open and get shot!", "I can't see the mercenary, BUT 
 HE'S RIGHT OVER THERE!", et al) , the corny dialogue, nor Fiona's incessant yammering.
  
  Surprisingly enough, "Mercenaries 2" overcomes its' handicaps by being a solid game of destructive 
 combat, open-world warfare, and the pursuit of the almighty dollar. Despite the somewhat short 
 story mode, the varying characters and factions to play bring replayability while the open-world 
 environment stretches your play time considerably. Some of the side-quests are frustrating and 
 sometimes reminiscent of "Superman 64", but can be beaten unlike said N64 game.
  
  Whether or not you're a fan of the "Mercenaries" series, you'll find something to like about this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall
  
  I feel this game doesn't quite live up to the hype that was built up, but you can't help but enjoy 
 blowing the hell out of the country 
  
  I can see why gamespot had given the game a 5.0 because they will have be critical about what they 
 see where as we gamers can make allowences for a few bugs see past the flaws for the game beneath 
 it all. 
  
  The major fun comes from storming into an area completely full of enermys and drop one huge nuke, 
 or fuel bomb in the midsts of them all and watch all the carnage unfold, i must admit i have noticed 
 a few bugs that have cost me my life once or twice but this saves system that has taken a slamming 
 does a really good job of keeping you from taking the same steps over and over again. 
  
  The amount of things that you can discover all the diffrent types of tanks, cars, helicopters, 
 boats and bikes and to add that touch of hollywood magic you get over the top vehicles kitted out 
 with guns, missiles and booster jumps. The "deck" makes a return but not as i had hoped, i feel 
 that the deck should of continued using card suits but the only card suit you see is spades, but 
 as a compermise you also get targets that are buildings that need to be blown up. But this can 
 be frustrating when the targets are located on a part of the map that isn't unlocked, all games 
 that boast open maps all forget to say that the map isn't unlocked from start.
  
  There are a quite a few bad points about the game that can get anoying like the woman loacted at 
 base will radio you if you stop still for longer than 2 minuits saying "if you are lost come back 
 to the pmc's and i could make a few suggestions" she get anoying and when picking up resorces your 
 hellicopter piolt can get stuck and your resources won't get picked up or he will crash and blame 
 you saying the area is hot. A couple of times i have been told i've got C4 but i haven't got any 
 and been blown away. Sometimes supplies get droped into water or unatainable possitions considering 
 he surpose to be the best behind a winch he misses the target alot.
  
  Vehicle handle like a shopping cart that could be down to the lack of camera movement when driving 
 it's stuck to you like white on rice. Other vehicles handle fine but when winching the havok engine 
 must make a strainge calcuation because your helicopter keeps spining back on it's self making 
 it hard to fly around.
  
  The lack of deathmatch or other online modes may dampen some shoes but not to worry the co-op has 
 a few switches you can fiddle with to have a laugh with your friends or random people who want 
 to give you a hand is more than welcome laugh it adds a whole new dimention to attack formations 
 and plans.
  
  A few things the hidden parts are located in orange boxes doted over the map my self hadn't realised 
 and missed tons of them. Also there are some hidden costumes to unlock but you've gotta play nice 
 with the pmc's gabling habbits ;) ;) to unlock them
  
  So in overview i feel that you shouldn't be put off by the bad press about the bugs and stuff, 
 look past all the dirt and dust to find a game that give a whole new meaning to destruction
  
  There are a few bugs in this game, but don't let them cover over what is a game that is worth 
 a play through it is a good game worthy of the title Mercnaries, give it a chance if you can over 
 look bugs and a few glitches from time to time
  
  Thanks for reading 
  
  Blood Diamond
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacUser511
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries is a different kind of monster. Most likely you've read the IGN or GameSpot articles 
 detailing the "shallow gameplay, weak story, and myriad of glitches and bugs", and I am in complete 
 agreement with that conclusion on most levels, but DAMN if it isn't ludicrously fun.
  
  Have you ever read Game Informer? Then you are probably aware of how they grade the games they 
 review -- on a graphics, sound, presentation, and fun factor score, with a cumulative score on a 
 scale of 1 to 5. That is precisely how I will be reviewing Mercenaries 2: World in Flames, albeit 
 a bit different from how you may have seen it on the aforementioned sites.
  
  First and foremost, the graphics. They suck for the most part. Imagine somewhere between "Just 
 Cause" for the X360 and "GTA 4". The environments are nice, but the models are occasionally jaggy 
 and poorly textured. However, cars, explosions (more on those) , and character models, especially 
 your own, are really good -- some of the best. Something to note is that this game is more or less 
 unplayable on a SDTV -- in order for the sky and water to display correctly, it requires an HDTV 
 with an output of at least 720i or 720p. Explosions look pretty. Fire is fun. Debris is always 
 amazing. Can you get an idea for how this review is going to go?
  
  Sound... really good, actually. Gamespot cited poor voice acting, but I completely disagree -- any 
 character you play as has a great Voice Actor, and all of your recruits are always hilarious, although 
 for the most (e) xtreme of playthroughs, be sure to go with Matthias -- the combination of Badass, 
 Swede, and hilarious suits the game well. Car sounds could be better, but other than that I have 
 relatively no other gripes.
  
  Presentation is where the game falls apart for a lot of people. The bugs can definitely destroy 
 the experience, but beyond that the game's UI is really good, the mechanics regarding aiming, firing, 
 balance, and mission structure are really good.
  
  Fun Factor -- my favorite part. This game is just fun. It reminds me of playing a NES game where 
 you have screen tearing, bugs, greyscale, and a kickass game -- think Bionic Commando. Although the 
 number of glitches is enormous (I can't use the sniper without getting pissed off enormously when 
 the sights won't dissipate for a few seconds) , the magnitude of explosions and pure action (PANZERBIKE!!!) 
 outways pretty much everything else. I'd be willing to bet you haven't had this much fun since 
 Jet Set Grind or Metal Gear Solid (1, 3, or 4 [sorry Raiden ;_;] ) . Simply put, you need to play 
 this game and launch a few tactical nukes.
  
  Mercenaries can't be assigned a number value. If I judged it on the sum of its parts, it would 
 surely be a six or seven, but the fact remains that this game could be too much fun. Planting C4 
 or cars, mid-air grapples, tank battles, bridge demolition, faction genocide, and a wealth of ways 
 to do these things just outweighs everything bad about his game. Please Pandemic -- release a patch. 
 I really want to be able to convince my friends of how incredible your game is, but I'll be unable 
 until you fix the issues!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ediehunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  personly after i read the intial reviews on this i was going to hold back till later. with this 
 game. but im glad i didnt. yea theres a few bugs not alot as as far as the AI is about avrage to 
 me. wich makes it still challaging but easy at times. the biggest complaint i got is so far is 
 lack of difrent things the characters say. so anybody reading this review of mine. get ready to 
 hear certian lines from the characters repeatly over and over agian. to bad the game isnt like 
 GTA 4. were your charcter and other npc's and the allied guys your good with or eniemes say the 
 same things over and over agian. and as far as bugs mostly it dealing with certian things like. 
 certian man gunned bunkers with opening you cant enter at all even with the opening. so if your 
 trying to kill a guy in there you have to improvise a way to kill them. and theres a bug were you 
 use a certian big cannon guns in certian man bunkers if you accidently hit the side. you can litterly 
 be stuck in the man bunker. or even sometimes blow into a nearby building and cant do any thing 
 to get out unless you destroy that building or some how lwt the enemies destroy it. and even though 
 i dont call this a major but more a small bug you ask your choppper guy to pick up suplies and 
 you can watch him pick it up but it will regisister as picked up. but then it will say no supplies 
 picked up? and there some supplies by your base also were he can pick up if you call him he pick 
 it up but he say he getting attacked and took dam from what i never saw. since i dont think theres 
 any hostiles near your main base. but other wise great game for a open world merc blow up stuff 
 kill enemies game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2..... i don't even know where to start.
  
  It definatly looks like it was aiming to be a fantastic and fun experience, but is held back by 
 some annoying gameplay glitchs and cheap tactics involved in the firefights.
  
  Mercs 2 is not exactly your average sandbox game in the sense that everyone whos head of the mercs 
 game will agree that it focus' on pure destruction of whatever gets in your way, another weird 
 clash is how hurting civilians will cause you a penalty of currency so while you are able to destroy 
 virtually anything in mercs 2 sometimes you'll have to pay attention to just 'what' your aiming 
 your laser sighted nuclear strike at.
  
  Starting off, in the ps3 version, you like most ps3 games have to wait for an installation to finish 
 up, now I haven't played any other versions so i wouldn't know how much it helps but I can at least 
 assure you that the loading times are hardly present in the ps3 version and when one does pop up 
 its usually only for around 3 seconds at most.
  
  You then can start a new game on your own or maybe just join someones else game.
  
  Sticking 
 with the single player for now, you are then tasked with choosing one out of three mercs who all 
 are very different in terms of their appearance and personality but don't really offer any difference 
 when playing through the game as another merc. They all do at least have 'one'.... yes only.. one 
 difference between them:
  Mattius may regenrate health faster.
  Chris can carry more ammo.
  And Jennifer can sprint faster.
  Again just like you'de expect 
 from that list besides the very different personalitys of the mercs theres not a whole lot of difference.
 
  
  Even the story sadly is almost identical... as whoever you choose your given a rescue contract by 
 Roman Solano. Simple enough, your sent in on on island and equipped with alot of heavy firepower 
 to really give a taste of what to expect. It is of course rather easy and does help you learn the 
 new controls from the first mercs (if you played the first mercs of course) and also gives you 
 a good first impression of the destructive quality and quantity there is in mercs 2.
  
  Anywhoo job done, you return to Solano and he refuses to pay and even trys to kill you. You of 
 course escape but with a loss of dignity though as (no matter who you play as..) you'll be shot 
 in the ass amidst your escape, a predicament that never seems to go away with everyone always bringing 
 it up, probably for some humor but it wasn't exactly hilarious when it actually happened so being 
 reminded it off in like every cutscene really wears the joke down.
  
  Then the free-roaming gameplay begins, your first tasked with a mission to take Solano's Villa 
 which again is simple enough. The start of the mission you'll at least be treated to a motorbike 
 which is new to the mercs series with the predessecor only having cars/tanks/apcs and helicopters 
 available.
  
  Once taken over then you are free to take on contracts or just blow the crap out of whatever you 
 please.
  
  Now thats all good fun but a few gameplay perks can really stand in the way and replace some sadistic 
 fun with aggrivating frustration.
  For one the vehicles all feel really loose and can be rather hard to control at times, there reliable 
 though in getting around, they all have good acceleration and top speed but what is annoying is 
 how you can simply bash through whatever comes in your way such as lamp posts and TREES!! YES FINALLY 
 lol.... but something like a curb or a small rock will send your car flipping all over the place 
 and also losing around half its health.
  
  Vehicles are surprisingly weak in mercs 2, while they can sustain some moderate gun fire a small 
 bump into a wall and that will leave you with around 20 points of health less off...
  
  Still on vehicles though its nice to see it caught up and added in boats, bikes and in general 
 a hell of lot of vehicles to choose from. From your simple vans and motorbikes to even gigantic 
 cruisers. The boats are pretty decent and are easy to handle, but bikes while speedy as they are 
 just don't give you the feel of like your actually zooming around in a sports bike. For one theres 
 no stunts or anything like that, you can do a wheelie but its laughably plain and looks like a 
 simple animation added on just for the sake of having a wheelie available. Again bikes also can 
 be hard to control, not in the speed sense but how delicate they are in simply turning to the left 
 or right slightly can almost send you a whole 45 degrees.
  
  But it won't matter too much since the unarmed vehicles are mainly there just to get you around, 
 and they get the job done well enough just its not quite as fun to drive around as say GTA4. Tanks 
 however are just as reliable and fun as they were in mercs 1. They can sustain alot of firepower 
 usually, but again you happen to bump into a few too many pebels well your tank won't last very 
 long. Helicopters too are of course back and handy as ever, but as handy as they are they won't 
 last long considering as soon as they become available you'll notice a hell of alot of SAM sites 
 popping around and men equipped with anti-air missile launchers.
  
  In battle though that is reliable enough for some insanity inducing fun! Just like the original 
 you'll have alot of different weapons at your disposal from assault rifles and RPG's to pistols 
 and submachine guns this time around. You may also sprint now which is incredibly usefull for getting 
 out of a hotzone or just dodging bullets left n right like they were BB bullets. The jump move 
 is still here and this time actually looks like a jump instead of the weird pully animation from 
 the original.
  
  When in a firefight or all out war, you'll have an easy enough time going against whole armys of 
 troops. Your accuracy at a distance is pretty off though so on foot equipped with an assault rifle 
 its best to get up close n personal for some quick head shots, or a well struck melee attack. Actually 
 the melee attack is so effective when combined with the sprint you could basically take on a whole 
 squadron just by sprinting and barrel butting each of them one at a time, they can melee attack 
 you to but doesn't do all that much damage unlike the one hit kill it counts for them.
  
  On foot though you are actually surprisingly weak and will find your health pouring down to single 
 digits pretty quickly, not like you'll die alot though because your health regenarates almost as 
 fast and this time will carry on until it reachs maximum health. What you'll usually find killing 
 you is.. just like the original... the most over-powered enemies of all.... the RPG men. They again 
 will have infinite ammo and the blast radius for their shots is almost ludicrous, while again even 
 on low health a quick RPG shot may not kill you because of your quick regeneration, you'll be up 
 against so many RPG dudes that'll you won't even have a chance to regenerate. 
  
  You'll also go up against tanks and the like, and while there easy enough if your equipped with 
 an RPG, manning a recoiless rifle gun or in a tank of your own going against so many you will easily 
 find yourself bing overwhelmed and greeted with a 'contract failed' notice on your screen.
  
  So yeah your on your own most of the time, but to make up for it you will have a whole nuclear 
 armory at your disposal to unleash on whatever gets on your nerves :P. From simple cluster bombs 
 to all out nukes theres a huge varity to match every type of enemy.
  
  But then again, you could always have a go at some co-op. Yupp as we all know the whole entire 
 game can be played through with a buddy... or random stranger. Whats weird is how the game itself 
 isn't affected whatsoever. Yes of course you'll now have an extra gun to tag along and the contracts 
 will be easier at least, but theres no specific co-op actions or activites, your co-op buddy will 
 basically have the same actions as an NPC friendly. He/she may join you in a vehicle or man a turret 
 of a tank. He/she may also get you in some serious s*** aswell. Whatever they do in your world 
 will stay that way, they launch an air strike on a factions HQ thus having them hostile to you... well 
 its going to stay that way as if you done it yourself, so its definaly a good idea to have on the 
 multiplayer options set to friends only since simply allowing anyone to join can cause you some 
 greif.
  
  Now how the contracts that you'll be accepting plays out are pretty simple, the objectives don't 
 vary all that much besides go to an area, blow up everything in sight, payday... there will be some 
 slight varients like maybe having to destroy/kill a certain target or maybe having to escort someone 
 through all this mess. But its overall the same deal. Not likes its a bad thing since the explosions 
 and all out chaos for me at least doesn't get boring. Besides the main contracts there are a few 
 side missions to undertake. Being on your own this time stead of an official merc company like 
 you were in Playground of Destruction, you will now be able to recruit some members into your PMC, 
 you'll start out with Fiona only, she is there to offer you introductions to the factions and to 
 give you advice ovr a radio just like in P. O. D. But you'll soon enough get yourself a mechanic, 
 heli pilot and jet pilot to give you... well all the same stuff as you had in P. O. D really. Through 
 the tips encountered in the loading screens you'll notice they say for example to do BLANK you 
 will need to recruit 'A MECHANIC' trying to imply that theres more than one mechanic that can be 
 recruited, but sadly no matter how you play you game and with whatever character you'll always 
 have the same team of mercs working for you. But anywhoo at your PMC camp your allies may offer 
 your wagers usually involving some standard races or targeting challenges, they reward you with 
 money, if you win of course, and can even open up new types of vehicles and costumes.
  
  Besides the challenges from your mercs you'll also find some tid bits around VZ to collect, such 
 as fuel, some air-strikes or money even. Theres also 100 'spare parts' to be found that when enough 
 have been found unlocks you customised vehicles to purchase off your mechanic. The bounties have 
 returned but at a much less prominent rate at that. There scattered around but unlike P. O. D they 
 don't neccasirly matter besides getting good with a faction and earning money, you don't need to 
 capture them for intel or anything like that and theres no specific profiles for them etheir on 
 your PDA.
  
  Onto to graphics, its sort of mixed really, some aspects look brilliant like the explosions as 
 you'de expect, but others like the vehicles occasionally will show off some incredibly ugly textures. 
 The character models are fair but the animations are awful (but hilarious) in some cases such as 
 falling of a bike will generally have your legs literally bending all over the place. Cutscene 
 graphics however aren't up to speed with what next-gen should look like, they do like 'ok' but 
 probably as a ps3 launcher title instead of two years on with graphical masterpeices such as MGS4.
 
  
  The sound too is sort of a gray area, the voice acting for most is generally pretty good giving 
 a humourous and light hearted take on war and mercenarys, though Peter Stormware (Mattius) is surprisingly 
 bad though in comparison to his performance in P. O. D. At least Phil n Jen do likable performances 
 as always though. On voice actin still the NPC's voices will sadly drive you to insanity. There 
 seems to be only one or two single voice for each faction and around 4 different phrases for each. 
 You will hear them give each other orders at least, like if you hide behind a building you'll hear 
 the enemy shout 'He's behind that building' but it literally sounds like its just one guy talking 
 to himself the voices for each faction sound so damn similair.
  Sound effects are fantastic with the explosions giving off an 'explosive' feel, very loud as you'de 
 expect and match up to the weapons with each firearm having there appropriate weapon sound be it 
 a loud n rusty assault rifle to a one of a kind american made Light machinegun.
  
  The main faults though from what i've read is the uncountable amount of glitches all around the 
 whole game, but for me besides some typical clipping issues and some rather brain dead AI I didn't 
 have many problems, sure the explosions radius is a little large and the vehicles don't handle 
 so well and can be flipped as easily as a toy besides those shortcoming I didn't notice much in 
 terms of game-ruining glitches and I certaintly wouldn't go as far to say its broken.
  
  No for me what stops it from being superb is a few other things such as limited options for co-op 
 and mixed reactions to voice acting and graphics. The gameplay while somewhat flawed is still incredibly 
 fun and the overall game should last you some time completing the story mode and doing all the 
 challenges. And with three characters to play through, as almost identical as they are in gameplay 
 terms there radically different personalitys and costume unlockables for me is enough to start 
 again with a different character.
  
  Overall though this is definatly not a game for everyone to add to their game collection but I 
 do at least recommend a rental for any type of gamer, people who despise GTA4 will love it for 
 its freedom and much more fun gameplay while anyone just simply after some mindless destruction 
 to share with a friend this game is right up their alley.
  Final Score 7.7
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaRrEtT95
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has sucky graphics considering it's a PS3 game and has quite a few glitches. If you can 
 look past the bugs and the lack of graphics it can be a very fun game. The vehicles, co-op, and 
 the number of enemies makes this game really addicting. Even though the AI isn't that impressive 
 the sheer number of enemies makes up for it. The longer you play the better it gets because you 
 can unlock better vehicles. This game isn't worth $60 it's probobly worth $40 so buying it now 
 would be a mistake.
  
  All in all it's a fun game but you should get it after Christmas, so they have time to make updates 
 for the glitches and so the price goes down a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eskimo630
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is all around a pretty awesome game. I personally thought the storyline was interesting, 
 it might seam repetitive at times but its really fun. The online is awesome if you have a friend 
 that you know. When I play with my friend we usually just goof of. But I like to check out the 
 missions when I am playing by myself. The explosions look very amazing. And there is a whole lot 
 of bugs and glitches but that really ads to the fun when playing with a friend. I do say that I 
 was a little disappointed when I found out that you can only play with one friend online instead 
 of two others. The driving isn't as satisfying than Grand Theft Auto, but it gets you around. Now 
 I can't say that I'm a Mercenary veteran, I actually have never played the first one before so 
 I can't compare it to the first one. but what I have heard the fist mercenaries game had bigger 
 explosions, and that is what this game is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDumb1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  While the game has a few bugs, and the graphics aren't terribly great, Mercs 2 is still an awesome 
 game. From the explosions, gameplay, and story being somewhat more interesting than the first, 
 this game does it for me. The main thing I like better in this game than the first is the fact 
 that it's not as moody. There really isn't any dark, depressing scenes/areas. Everything is bright 
 and sunny. The guns feel weak in the begging but as you get farther in the game they pack more 
 of a punch. While the AI is terrible near the begging, the game makes up for it near the middle/end 
 because they are given more power and numbers. The driving feels a little akward, but you'll get 
 used to it. Explosions are truely awesome and it is erally easy to flatten a city in a matter of 
 minutes if you have the materials, and while you only get to use the nuke once, it does look awesome. 
 Overall, Gamespot's review is a totall shock, as well as completely idiotic, and i give Mercs 2 
 an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termin8
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  No, this isn't a groundbreaking sequel that will have you raving at the local internet cafe... 
 However, it lives up to it's original counterpart by providing the open ended helicopter hijacking, 
 air strike bombing, tank blasting fun that we all love so much...
  
  The graphics are better but could have utilized the PS3 capabilities much more than they did.
 
  
  Personally, I love hopping into a chopper and calling down hell upon whomever I choose and no other 
 game out there provides that experience quite like Mercenaries 2.
  
  The controls are easy and only get somewhat complicated when you are moving something with the 
 chopper but you get used to maneuvering quickly enough. 
  
  I understand that there must be a criteria for scoring games but once in awhile you have to drop 
 an awesome score for the kind of game that makes you forget about how long you have been playing..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highking
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game looks like chimpanzees programmed it. What did it look like before the delay? The story 
 is completely asinine, the weapons are pathetic, and the enemies are cardboard cut outs. EA and 
 Pandemic should be embarrassed. I have never been so disappointed in a game in my life. The first 
 game was so much fun, I've finished it at least ten times. Mercs 2 has nothing of the original 
 except some voices. They totally destroyed the series. It seems like everything EA touches turns 
 to crap, sort of King Midas in reverse. I guess I'll play the original another ten times. The bugs 
 and glitches are a joke for a big budget game. It's quite boring, the PDA interface is totally 
 blah in terms of color and info it provides, and the GPS is awful. Go back to the drawing board 
 or look up Mercenaries. This game is an abysmal failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  okay i don't understand why gamespot would rate mercenaries 2 only a 5/10 and rate grand theft 
 auto 4 a 10/10. This game was just like gta only with better gameplay and a a lot better story. 
 tons of sub missions that you can do. plenty of guns. you can even call in air strikes. which one 
 just amazing. tanks. jets. boats. helicopters. you could get into anything. land sea air. unlike 
 grand theft auto you can choose more then one character. each one has there own special ability. 
 either way if you like games like grand theft auto your going to love this one. trust me this game 
 was worth way more then only a 5. it took a little more then 20 hours to complete the story mode. 
 i was only 75% done because this was a rental. with every side mission in the game it would be 
 near 30 hours to get 100% i loved this game. by far one of the best games that ive played for the 
 Playstation 3. and i pretty much beat every good tittle that has been released. you should get 
 this game. your going to enjoy it just as much as i did. oh yeah plenty of explosions. you should 
 either rent this one or buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  i brought this game on release in britain so we was about a week late. i saw some reviews and seemed 
 resonable. so i brought the game and hat do i think its a blast to play literally. though if you 
 take out the chaotic explosions and destruction then it is quite mediocre but its like dark sector 
 take out the glaive then a adverage gears of war clone. uncharted take out the amazing presentation 
 and graphics then you got adverage gears of war, indianna jones clone.
  
  it is a little repetitive mission types but there are numbers of ways to complete it. and while 
 it shorts you are alble to go co-op then their is extras like costumes and new bombs to unlock. 
 visually texture pop in is my main issue if your not in an area full of forests then you can see 
 very texureless grounds. though explosions and destruction are very good. the destruction of building 
 made me curious before it was released some games like incredible hulk where buildings collaspe 
 they basically sink with abit of smoke in the ground. it is alittle bit the same with this game 
 but improved to make it a little less fake like a quarter of it might be blown up with bricks and 
 rumble going everywhere that made is great. and the nuclear bunker buster, MOAB and daisy cutter 
 making it amazing.
  
  glitches and bugs are in here and are more common compared to others but i still had not been bothered, 
 there were all little things that i experienced. overall very good game with some flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I rented this game because it looked good on the advertisements and since I had not played Merc 
 1 it seemed a good choice. I am a fan of FPS's and Wow was I dissapointed.. this is one of the worst 
 games I have ever played. EA games has reached a new low by putting the same driving system from 
 God Father into this game. Cars are difficult to control and use of handbrake to turn is mandatory. 
 Add in the horrible AI where enemies actually wait for you while you get an aim on them and it 
 makes for one amaturish, boring and repetitive game play experience. The once proud EA Games is 
 now a shadow of what they used to be .. and light years away from where they could be considering 
 the resources. I am so glad I rented this game .. Please do not buy it !
  Mercenaries 2 World in Flames as a rental is a giant rip-off . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastiffchild
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  So Mercs2 arrives with the promise of the biggest bangs ever, freedom beyond imagination and, probably, 
 being a bit better than the first game. And I can safely say there are some bangs-a few of which 
 are actually impressive.
  
  That aside I found this game inferior to the last gen original by some way which can't have been 
 the intention in any way. The Venezuala presented is undeniably big and pretty impressive but that 
 just leaves it sparse and makes the gaps between the action way too long. Also I'd say that after 
 hearing about the great big bangs for the past year or so I expected more than one in three to 
 be in any way convincing but that's all you get.
  
  Then there's the woeful weapon balance where I found some guns worthless while it was always easy 
 enough to kill with your mits (why?) . To be honest some of the weapons (but yeah, mainly the biggest 
 you can carry) are every bit as destructive as you'd hope but in the main the shooting is too weak 
 for a game based around weaponry.
  
  Lastly (I could go on with some of the awful technical issues but the thought of the time wasted 
 on thid game already makes me ill) , just how did the story get through in the condition it's in? 
 did they make it up as they went along and just ho [pe it'd be fine? well it isn't and it stinks 
 and it'll be a cold day in hell before I waste another second on the pile of the proverbial.
  
  Biggest game of the summer? Biggest F-up more like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kar_91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant and is better then the original. Do not listen to game spot they don't know 
 what the're talking about. 
  
  After 10-20 hours of playing i have only came across a few of the bugs that gamespot have mentioned... 
 and it's easy to overlook and even forgive these bugs when you realise how fun it is to play. 
 
  
  Yes a few missions are repeatetive, but each time you play a mission you can play it in a different 
 way. For example... you could go in guns blazing or you could find a hidden spot and snipe... you 
 could steal an enemy vehicle and sneak in un-noticed... you could go in with a tank or helicopter 
 or you could call in an airstrike and blow everything up.
  
  Also, the co-op play is brilliant and completly seamless. All you need to do is to be connected 
 to ea nation and you can either join somebody elses game, or you can play your camplaign game and 
 leave it open for another player to drop in and help. 
  
  When you get into a co-op you see that it is the exact same expercience as offline only with twice 
 the fun and destructive mayhem, absolutly nothing is compromised. The only restriction is the seperation 
 distance but this is rarly a problem as it is quite large and you'll want to stick with your friend 
 anyway otherwise what's the point in playing co-op in the first place.
  
  Overall this is a great sequel and a brilliantlty fun game to play. Afterall, lets face it, no 
 one can deny how fun it is to blow stuff up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  Definitely better than the last Mercenaries, but considering the games that have been released 
 earlier this year, this one pales in comparison. The draw distance is better along with improved 
 textures on buildings when you bring destruction on them, but not a big overall move from the last 
 game. There are some very odd animations as well. For instance, when you're driving a motorcycle 
 and you get thrown off, your character's body goes completely limp as if your body was made of 
 jello. Then miraculously, the bones return and he gets up, the same exact way every time, regardless 
 of what structure or slanted hillside he lands on. 
  
  Sound: 
  Nothing too memorable here too. Explosions and gun fire don't seem to be balanced. I would think 
 a tanker explosion would be louder than squeezing off a few from an AK47, but I guess the developers 
 thought otherwise. Music was nothing stand out along with the cheesy voice acting. 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is probably the only saving grace. If you like to blow things up or the idea 
 of overall chaos, then this is why you bought/rented the game. The added destructibility of the 
 buildings and environments make you feel as if there might be a speck of realism to this game. 
 Also, the ability to jump into nearly any vehicle and take control in land, sea, and air is definitely 
 a plus. The open world environment is more than expansive, although some places are harder to get 
 to without the proper mode of transportation. Overall, the gameplay hasn't changed much except 
 the layout of the way you call in support. I'm not a big fan of this 3 support list limit since 
 you have to routinely go back to your stockpile list just to equip a new airstrike or vehicle delivery. 
 There's also a new element of online multiplayer were anyone can just jump into your world and 
 play alongside you. I'm not exactly sure if anything can be earned in terms of storyline progression 
 for the person jumping into a game, but it still adds a fresh way to go on a rampage.
  
  Fans of the series and myself alike were probably expecting more from this game given the amount 
 of time of development and the jump to the next-gen console. It wasn't much of an upgrade to the 
 first game, but sometimes a few extra bells and whistles are all a game needs to fresh enough to 
 turn a few heads. All in all, if you just like general destruction and random shoot 'em up fun, 
 then check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentSxht
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries is pretty much filler at best. Graphics are competent and explosions are nice however 
 all that remains is a shallow bland by the numbers GTA clone. The developers really need to muster 
 up the balls and bring this series into M territory, for no other reason then the line that's straddled 
 is just annoying. The vehicles and enemies combined make up a total of what 10 different variations? 
 The repeated dialogue is a nuisance, the enemies present no threat other then their numbers, and 
 the world is just really bland. This isn't a completely horrible game I just can't find any reason 
 why its release was justifiable, you can easily find many other titles that exceed every aspect 
 this game try's to employ better and cheaper. Make it a rental, the fall is upon us with many offerings. 
 Save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weegie01
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I rented Mercenaries 2 just to try it out and it was actually pretty fun. 
  
  I just love blowing things up whether I'm using an RPG, tanks, helicopters, etc. The sort of mini 
 games where you can wager money for completing the mission given by your crew is fun especially 
 since this could be a means of cash resource but just doing the regular mission will give you enough 
 cash to buy everything that you need.
  
  Pandemic definitely could have improve the game with wider selection of weapons and vehicles and 
 an ability to store the weapons and vehicles in the headquarters. They could have resolve some 
 of the bugs & glitches before release and clean up the game a bit. The graphic could have been 
 improved as well. If Pandemic spend more time with this game this could have been a major blockbuster 
 hit.
  
  Note that I didn't pay for the game and just rented it so if you are not sure if the game is for 
 you just rent it and then you can decide. The game is actually pretty short so you can probably 
 finish the game in 1 or 2 Hollywood Video or Blockbuster rentals.:)
  
  Overall Mercenaries 2 entertained me and thats all that matters to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratoes_Weber
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Before getting this game i saw the reviews on here I genuinely trust gamespot for it's honest reviews 
 and fair scoring system that is until I saw tis game 5.0 ARE YOU INSANE i though to my self this 
 is a mercs game for crying out loud (justified however when i saw the EA symbol) .
  
  now after the second day of my owning this game I decided to fight it's corner Awful A. I i think 
 not i storm a little base and yet no one runs in to the neared fence or jumps off a cliff not the 
 greatest A. I but still good in comparison to some games ( timeshift if thats a compliment ) teaming 
 with bugs and glitches I have only encounterd 1 jumping rpg possibly because it was lodged in some 
 ones face. and finally the voice acting nothing as crist as gta 4 or as well placed in lair but 
 still it is mangerable it's not like they've recruited the cast of hollyoaks to rape the sequal 
 in to submission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spud-myster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I'll talk you through the first 2 hours of playing if you are a casual gamer. Turn PS3 on, Install 
 game, Blow the **** out of a big gate. Get in a tank, Blow the **** out of a load of small buildings, 
 Blow up a mansion, Get shot in the arse, Raid a villa, Rob a pretty pink car, Find a RPG, Find 
 some C4, Blow the **** out of more buildings, Call in an airstrike, Take over an outpost, Drive 
 a fast motorbike, Steal a helicopter, Carry on blowing things up which never gets tiring. What 
 more could ask for than a Man with a beard and an RPG blowing things up. Perfect.
  
  Can i also just say that i think the vehicles handle really well. The motorbike feels fantastic 
 when you handbrake turn around corners.
  
  My score 9/10  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooklynsez
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  What to say? I guess Pandemic should have left well enough alone and gone out with Mercenaries 
 1 as the winner! "Mercenaries 2, "built from the ground up" presented a poor showing for a game 
 that has been two plus years in the making! Why do we continue to buy into these sequels? Because... we 
 want more of what we had only better and M-2 was a huge disappointment. The graphics, albeit acceptable 
 were not earth shattering, the handling of the characters were manageable but came with multiple 
 limitations... stand out in the open and get shot! Run and crouch were your only options.
  
  The story line was sketchy and hard to follow, either that or it was boring and one got lost in 
 the rhetoric. The music almost drove me crazy, swaying back and forth between head banging mind 
 blowing guitar whining to nauseating lounge music. The voice acting? What voice acting? "Low budget" 
 is what you call that! Take poorly scored music and add three different non-stop quotes to play 
 incessantly through out the Mercenary experience and you have a recipe for a HEAD ACHE! 
  
  My next complain is the lack of realism. I know this is a game, I know I am not a Mercenary for 
 hire, taking life and limb... but I also know that neither my "Raven" nor my motorcycle can sheer 
 off trees! I know that when I do a face plant on the pavement at 160 Kms I will
  not live. I could go on and on, but if you have played the game, you know what I mean. The whole 
 idea behind playing a game is to be able to immerse yourself into another reality.... just for awhile.
 
  
  Needless to say, I am totally disappointed in the ort that Pandemic threw us on this one. It isn't 
 awful by a long short, but it isn't great by a longer shot! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for Mercenaries 2. I absolutely loved the first Mercs, and played it over 
 and over again. Mercenaries 2 is an extremely shallow, buggy game that is only worth a rental at 
 best.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is simple, run around Venezuela shooting enemies, calling in airstrikes, 
 and destroying everything in sight. The shooting is decent, but none of the weapons seem to have 
 that visceral POP! that many shooter's guns have. The airstrikes are cool for awhile, but they 
 get old very quickly. The driving is decent, but after you get access to helicopters, you basically 
 abandon all other forms of transportation. 
  The thing that really bothered me about Mercs 2 was that there was basically no story missions. 
 There were maybe 15 of them, and only a handful were very fun. Come on, you get 1 or 2 main missions 
 from each faction, and the rest is stupid little races and shooting challenges. No value there. 
 You can blow up buildings and capture high value targets, but they seem like something that was 
 tacked on at the last minute. It wasnt like in the first Mercs where your HVTs had something to 
 do with the story.
  The glitches are also bad. Helicopters not being delivered, people being stuck in rocks and shooting 
 at you, allies not doing what you want them to, npcs running endlessly at walls, its pretty annoying. 
 I even ran into a bug at the end of the game where the final "boss" fight wasnt even visible because 
 the camera was stuck rotating and clipping inside of the helicopter. The glitches in this game 
 are unacceptable.
  The shooting is done pretty poorly. I can shoot an enemy from two feet away multiple times before 
 he dies, and the guns all have terrible accuracy.
  
  Story- One of the good points of Mercenaries 1 was the story. The story in Mercenaries 2 is EXTREMELY 
 half assed. The story basically is revenge with about 2 or 3 plot twists that arent shocking at 
 all. Terrible
  
  Graphics/sound- Also, not very good. The explosions look good, but they all look the same. The 
 character models are decent at best. If you look at the sky on foot, even the clouds look extremely 
 pixelated and blocky. The sound isnt very good. Your Merc only has a few lines, there are only 
 a few songs in the game as well, and the predominate one is basically a guitar strumming out of 
 tune. The npcs have basically one line per faction, and they yell it at you ad nausem about 98,000 
 times.
  
  Fun/value-This game starts out fun. Blowing things up is really cool, but gets old quick. The side 
 missions are very repetitive and boring. The story missions are few and far between, and only a 
 few are actually fun. Honestly, the game peaked about one third through the campaign, then everyting 
 that occurred from then on was expected almost. The story can be blown through in 10 hours at most, 
 and the side quests most likely wont keep your attention.
  
  Summary- I had very high hopes for Mercenaries 2 after playing the first game, but this game disappointed 
 in almost every way. While blowing things can keep your attention, bad glitches, a terrible story, 
 almost no main missions, and an overall lack of detail ruin the Mercenaries 2 experience. I would 
 not buy this game if I were you, it is a rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bswimr127
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I know you may have heard ghastly things about this game. Multiple glitches, horrid AI, repetitive 
 gameplay, weak weapons, corney story, and annoying voice acting. I know this sounds bad but it 
 works in this game. The "glitches" you hear about are few although it sucks when your going for 
 that record time and have a million dollar bet with the pirates that you can do it and get stuck 
 IN a rock! but that only happened once and only a few other times some even helped me! (how did 
 that guy with the RPG just disappear?) I know the AI is terrible but it just makes the game that 
 mush easier! and because it is easy, it allows you to be creative! (just go in with a pistol? or 
 use the MOAB? OR BOTH?) and the repetative gameplay allows you to try a bunch of different weapons 
 and stuff. Story doesnt matter in this game . . . bottom line, and the voice acting . . . there 
 is this thing called volume on the TV (i usually listen to my iPod when playing.) I will say that 
 the first one was better no doubt! the whole oil thing and going to the HQs to buy stuff is inconvenient 
 (what do you mean im out of helicopters! cant i just buy another? NO!) but i do like the  
 system, and blowing up skyscrapers is just as satisfying as it was before. So in summary this is 
 not a mediocre game and is definately worth a go if your into blowing junk up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plasma-Dog
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Hey. Mercenaries 2 World in Flames was an ok game. It had a kind of bad story lots of glitches. 
 Lie I said it needed about 2-3 more months in a sop to work out all the glicthes and stuff. It 
 has more glitches than an E-Bomb plus another E-Bomb. It had C4 sticking on your hand when you 
 didn't even have it there. It had little markers on the ground saying that a C4 supply drop was 
 coming even though the C4 supply drop already came 2 days ago when you called for it. The AI is 
 also kinda crappy I mean hell you can be spotted the go and walk aroud the corner to hide and they 
 won't even try to find you. Besides all the glitches and AI problems it is actually a pretty good 
 game. The explosions are phenomanal. There are tons and tons of veicles. There are over fourty 
 different heli-copters in the game. The weapons are ok. They aren't very accurate but they are 
 extremly stong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eagleamf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  is a lie. 5.0 who knows this game suck. is gamespot suck this game is kick ass i say this game 
 fun
  The vietnam style game is flooded with nice charming explosion effects and has a vast range of 
 vehicles for you to find, unlock test drive and blow up yourself! ranging from Bikes, Cars, Buggies, 
 Jeeps, Boats, Helicopters, tanks and lots more! with a non linear script and story line you can 
 chose who you want to make friends and enemies with etc.
  
  So yes you can go into a fight hells blazing! or pick them out from a distance anything you can 
 get your hands on you can use to your own advantage, everything in the game can more or less be 
 Destroyed to like Vehicles, walls, trees, even Buildings and bigger Building have their weaknesses 
 (Bigger Explosives)
  
  Trust me if you liked the first one then this one is better its even bigger than all the maps of 
 the first game put together thanks to Next-gen Technology, although its not one of the best looking 
 next-gen games of today it is on par with GTAVI in visual terms if not slightly better.
  
  So its a great game to play on while waiting for others, and I find it sad when some games get 
 slated for no REAL reason like what was that stupid excuse on the photo "You can kill enemies in 
 one hit" well yes in close combat! like you can do in lots of games! like Splinter Cell! etc and 
 lets not forget... I'm a Mercenary! 
  n and 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ticklethis275
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  In this sequel to one of the best PS2 games ever comes Mercs 2. A giant world, many guns, diffrent 
 vehicles, jokes, and a mixs of online offline play makes this game a perfect predosesor. 
  
  Yes, this game has some glitchs but they are minor. In 30-40 hours only two floating guns. 
 WOW!
  
  When you start they game you chose your merc. Then you do a basic walkthough and you do a contract 
 and dont get paid, plus you get shot in the butt. So starts the journey to get revenge.
  
  Your second mission is basically claim your HQ fight through a villia wich becomes your new HQ. 
 From here on in you have a place to be sent back to when you die.
  
  The other missions go in 3 formats.
  
  1. Take a base
  A. Kill everyone
  B. Take out any 
 AA or jammers
  C. Destroy any spawn points (buildings that produce enimies)
  
  2. Verify HVT
  A. Scout out HVT
  B. Kill or Capture HVT
  
  3. Destroy Target
  A. Scout 
 area
  B. Use any number of attacks
  
  Yes it sound like it repeats many times but it is fun to do each one. If you do just one type over 
 and over yes it is boring but you have to do each in moderation. 
  
  That is one reason this game got a low score because they rushed through one section at a time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mustang99Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game should have been better. Maybe if Pandemic worked on it a little more and got some bugs 
 out, it would rule! Too many bugs, too many things taken out, a lot of graphical glitches, Pandemic 
 really messed up a game that could be a GTA t rated. Story too short. On the bright side, you can 
 swim, ride motorcycles, new and improved airstrike and vehicle system, large map, many factions, 
 new customization options, secret red boxes, other funny easter eggs. Many hoped for a lot more, 
 but were sadly disappointed at the "seen it, done that" gameplay that has been in so many games 
 before its time. Pandemic said it was built from the ground up, and they were right. Never, I repeat, 
 NEVER build a new engine on a game that was highly anticipated. Should have been a little similar 
 to other engines, little less bugs, and little better mission criteria. Thanks Pandemic, you screwed 
 up a really great game because you allowed EA to publish it for you, thereby screwing all of us 
 out of a great game!!
  The Good: Water gameplay, huge map, motorcycles, a lot of vehicles, weapons, and airstrikes, greater 
 gameplay.
  The Bad: Missions seem too repetitive, vehicle physics are not real, soo many graphic problems, 
 and story is too lacking.
  Worth it? You decide! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanoFantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how this has got 5.0! cause that's a lame rating for a great explosive action 
 game that's as good and much better than the first one on PS2, I hate it when games come out out 
 and get judged by other titles that may have been tested first or better similar titles that are 
 one the way.
  
  The vietnam style game is flooded with nice charming explosion effects and has a vast range of 
 vehicles for you to find, unlock test drive and blow up yourself! ranging from Bikes, Cars, Buggies, 
 Jeeps, Boats, Helicopters, tanks and lots more! with a non linear script and story line you can 
 chose who you want to make friends and enemies with etc.
  
  So yes you can go into a fight hells blazing! or pick them out from a distance anything you can 
 get your hands on you can use to your own advantage, everything in the game can more or less be 
 Destroyed to like Vehicles, walls, trees, even Buildings and bigger Building have their weaknesses 
 (Bigger Explosives)
  
  Trust me if you liked the first one then this one is better its even bigger than all the maps of 
 the first game put together thanks to Next-gen Technology, although its not one of the best looking 
 next-gen games of today it is on par with GTAVI in visual terms if not slightly better.
  
  So its a great game to play on while waiting for others, and I find it sad when some games get 
 slated for no REAL reason like what was that stupid excuse on the photo "You can kill enemies in 
 one hit" well yes in close combat! like you can do in lots of games! like Splinter Cell! etc and 
 lets not forget... I'm a Mercenary! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is an open world awesome rampage shooter. The gameplay is focused on your ability 
 to reek havic.
  
  Short Story: This game is fun if you ever find your self between games with not much to do you 
 can play it and feel satisfied. I say buy it
  
  You start out picking one of three characters, once you do so you jump straight into the action. 
 The story this punk venizalin president didn't pay you and shot you in the ass. Clearly that can 
 not stand, so you imbark on an epic rampage though the small South American nation.
  
  Even though your given formal missions it always seems like your just randomly rampaging around, 
 and its fun. There is no where you can go where you can't blow stuff up and kill people. You are 
 penalized for killing innocents and rewarded for killing the different factions.
  
  Gameplay: Basic Third person shooter controls and feel, and it works well with the ps3 controller 
 except, the gas for vehicles is X instead of R2 so you can't move a turret and move at the same 
 time at times its quiet frustrating.
  
  Graphics: terrible, but you can still see all the destruction in all its glory
  
  Story: almost 
 no existent
  
  Pros: it does what it set out to do, its fun
  Cons: not technically impressive in any way
  
  This isn't the kind of game that trys to be 
 an all round game. In the end this game knows what it is and thats the best part. Mercenaries 2 
 succeeds in what it set out to do, make a fun game where you engulf the world in flames. (hence 
 the name)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexudos
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game turned out to be a huge disappointment to say the least. I pre ordered it and it arrived 
 today morning, but my excitement didn't take very long to fade away.
  
  So, what make this game incredibly disappointing? It's previous-gen, and suitable for only consoles 
 support low resolutions such as the Xbox and PS2. The graphics and environmental texture quality 
 in this game is sub-par and comparing with other titles such as GTA4 and COD 4 is out of the question. 
 The cars still handle like they used to in Mercenaries 1, the player still movies like a block 
 of wood, and the destruction effects, while occasionally impressive at a distance, often resemble 
 those that may have been used on the PS1 or GameCube for example. The water textures are also disappointing 
 in detail and far too repetitive enough to be a sore sight rather than sweet. I could really go 
 on and on but if you've played games in the likes of Uncharted Drakes Fortune, GTA 4 and Call of 
 Duty 4, It's not even necessary for me to elaborate on how much of a step back this games takes 
 in terms of the environment and visual appearance.
  
  The in-game dialogue is cringe-worthy at best and is easily demeaned by GTA 4, and you can easily 
 see why. You often hear the same lines over and over again, and in terms of having a comical value, 
 the dialogue fails. It doesn't impress at all, and if anything, it adds a negative value onto the 
 game. It's the sort of dialogue I suspect only hippy Americans would be impressed by. If Pandemic 
 wanted some inspiration, they could always have a look at "Uncharted, Drakes Fortune" of which's 
 dialogue was top notch throughout the whole game. The sound effects are mediocre and don't really 
 add much to the experience. They do their job, and nothing else can be said really.
  
  Is this game fun? No. It's repetitive. You kill people, you blow up things and you blow up more 
 things. I'd have expected something more out of a "fun" game than just repetitive play like this. 
 So many people have drilled games like GTA 4 for bad gameplay, but this game should give them something 
 alternatively new to complain about. I got bored of this game right from the first few contracts. 
 The experience doesn't leave you with a desire to return and I suspect many people will will feel 
 cheated to have bought this or at least inclined to sell it back to regain at least a fraction 
 of the money lost. 
  
  Perhaps the only unique aspect of this title in terms of gameplay features is the solid co-op mode 
 and the ability to buy vehicles and other military services. However, this positive aspect combined 
 with the hundreds of other let-downs this game offers inevitably makes this game mediocre at best. 
 Only buy it if you like constantly blowing things up, and nothing else. I'll be listing this on 
 ebay shortly, back where I bought it; It's not worthy of a placement on my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveKishi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Blowing the tar out of buildings and other objects is a blast. The storyline is nothing special, 
 similar to the first iteration. Voice acting is average, nothing special as compared to most voice 
 recorded video games. If you haven't played the first iteration, I would recommend that you play 
 it fist. The original was better in terms of fun factor and storyline, plus had fewer bugs and 
 other issues. I would recommend that you first rent the game to see if you may like it, and if 
 you don't mind its faults buy a copy. I personally don't focus on the bugs as they don't bother 
 me. I understand that most games have their case of bad coding, so I look past this unless the 
 coding makes the game unplayable.
  
  Overall I gave the game a 7.5/10 because its average on many levels, it would have been lower if 
 it wasn't for the option to destroy pretty much anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-boy
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, I love it doest have repetive gameplay like GTA 4, you do diffent missions, like 
 campture bases, asssassuiins, blowing enemys base and etc, there lot vechiles to pilot, and lots 
 to equimt,
  The graphics are great is coloful the maps are big and there no slow frame rates. get this game 
 if you love actions games, and love blow stuff.
  This game is kinda easy, this game needs more aggressive AI, bigger explosives, more objetive to 
 make game longer, and multiplayer gameplay.
  GTA 4 has repetive gameplay, MERC 2 doesnt have
  graphics are better tha gta 4
  I can't wait 
 for merc 3
  buy this game dont belime gamespot they are always score bad on every good game, and sometimes 
 they over score and bad games, this game has lots actions kill everybody on you path, it doest 
 have repetive gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The game was great at the start but exactly what game spot says afful AI even Affuller then crysis 
 ore what game ever made they shoot there own men down there boss. And when you get Missha (Jet 
 Pilot) you think you can just drop happenly airstrikes RONG!!!! misha always misses his target 
 even in the challange he misses and the sniper god 3 shots too the head before 1 man is dead this 
 is soo afull i like this game for the humor and that you can destroy every thing. But 65 euro's 
 for this game i demant they come with a super patch (a patch that fix more then 50000 bugs) i mean 
 look when you fall your like a dead guy. but i have too disagree with the missions they are fun 
 like when you need too pickup the devisator *SPOILER* *You go too the place and you will expect 
 something toch and strong and you just get a girl scooter hahaahahahahahah and the comments from 
 viona hahahahahah that was the funnest mission ever* but i think they defnatly chouse there beta 
 tester wishly ore just test it them selfs. Ok it is a very very assome game but its too weird stuff 
 any way actuly i will recommand this game afther a patch will be revealed and i will change the 
 scores too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshIGGY
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I bought it the day it came out and was exited to see how it was from the first, i got home played 
 on it, and the first thing i noticed is that the graphics sucked. It seemed like there still usisng 
 the same engine from the first mercenaries! The story is really quick, theres not enough main story 
 missions and it get repetitive. The detail on the characters is really bad, the mouth is in no 
 way in sync with the voice over, and it looks like somthing from the PS2. The game is also really 
 unrealistic and stupid at times, I jumped down a whole mountain and survived, got kicked off a 
 helicopter at god knows what hight and still survived. Basicaly don't buy this game, RENT it, its 
 not worth 40 for PS2sih graphics and 6 hours worth of main story play!
  
  My final say is that the developers were doing somthing else than developing this game, because 
 from what i have experianced is that its not much different from the old one, and the developers 
 have had such a long time to finish it and make it up to date like most PS3 games, they defiantly 
 did not even half of the PS3's power! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggsmoke420
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Rent it first. The game play and graphics are mediocre. There are a lot of glitches and lagging. 
 If you are looking for an in-depth shooter this is not it. It is repetitive and the story line 
 is really weak. The coolest part of the game is that you can blow up and destroy almost anything. 
 But after an hour or so it starts to get boring. The graphics could be smoother and more realistic. 
 The gameplay is weak. Basically an extensive overview of the storyline is; Objective: go to this 
 point kill these people. Next objective: go to the next point blow this up defeat remaining enemies. 
 Next Objective: get in the tank and destroy area. MISSION COMPLETE $200,000. Game Over. That is 
 basically what you are looking forward to when getting this game. Go to Blockbuster or Netflix 
 and save yourself roughly $53. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyKilla7000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Blow up anything, pull of some "Mission Impossible" moves, make friends, make ememies, drive any 
 vehicle... You can't go wrong. You'll spend hours glued to your seat in front of the screen. There's 
 nothing like the feeling of flying into enemy territory swarming with bad guys and using every 
 weapon, vehicle, and airstrike at your disposal to single-handedly annihilate every person and 
 object and level every structure within a five block radius. And as far as the 5 out of 10 rating, 
 I don't know what that's all about. I've never met anyone who doesn't LOVE the game yet. Just ask 
 around. Find as many friends as you can who have actually played the game and see what they say. 
 Usually I'm pretty confident in Game Spot's ratings, but this one is just B. S. In fact it almost 
 kinda makes me mad lol. I think they should just base their rating for a game on how addicting 
 it is. Mercenaries 2 is SUPER addicting and AMAZINGLY fun to play. This game will make you wish 
 every game had explosions this big. Absolutely beautiful.
  
  -Squid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coruscant
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  You start by doing a mission for a wealthy businessman (called 'Salano') who wants to rescue a 
 General, in order to rule Venezuela. However, at the end he betrays you, but you escape with little 
 to show for it except for a bullet in your bum - literally! Of course, this sets up the plot - 
 you want to exact your revenge on said persons.
  
  Therefore you decide to take over his guarded villa to use as you base of operations - it becomes 
 your own 'PMC'.
  
  From then on you must establish relations with various factions in order to gain information about 
 his whereabouts, performing missions for them.
  
  Factions include Universal Petroleum, a powerful oil company, the P. L. A. V, a Communist resistance 
 faction, the Pirates (the name speaks for itself) and the AN and Chinese from the previous game. 
 Each faction has it's own broad set of goals which the missions reflect. The missions can include 
 easy challenges such as a race around a course, or the more serious main missions, which usually 
 involve taking over one of the many capturable outposts around the world.
  
  In addition, there are Venezulian Army-occupied building around the map which you can destroy for 
 cash, as well as targets which you can capture. These are risky as it always involves the member 
 of a faction you need to work with. Quite often you'll have to bribe the factions to get back on 
 their good side. But these, again, are optional. They are good things to do if you want to stay 
 of missions for a while.
  
  In the world you can pick up airstrikes and cash bundles which you need to have recruited a helicopter 
 pilot to pick up. Along with this you can recruit a mechanic and a jet pilot, but these are only 
 1 stock character, rather than choosing from many candidates. This may seem annoying if you think 
 of this, but if you don't, you won't have a problem with it.
  
  
  You can climb in practically every vehicle you see, including helicopters, cars, military vehicles 
 and boats. The hijacking of enemy vehicles are more interesting than in the first game because 
 of the addition of a hijacking mini-game. The vehicles look superb, as do the explosions and the 
 scenery.
  
  The only faults I can find with this game is the very-occasional glitch and the slightly stupid 
 AI. But they can still give you a run for your money.
  
  I would seriously recommend this game to anyone who likes open-world games (GTA especially) , third-person 
 shooters or just blowing stuff up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matinee909
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  The combat and driving takes some getting used to but some may think of it as a challenege. Zooming 
 in with a sniper rifle doesn't do a lot and when driving, it constantly feels like you are driving 
 on an icy road... in central America.
  
  Tanks and rockets will take you down to 2 health out of 100, perhaps closer to real life than some 
 games but being forced to run away or die can be quite irritating. There is the option to hijack 
 the tank that just hit you however, but even then, a couple of bad hits will destroy the tank in 
 no time. If you don't like being on the brink of death with another building full of enemies to 
 destroy, you won't like this game at all.
  
  You can take some decent equipment and vehicles into battle and you can also carry a few men to 
 offer some support, but this is also flawed, as soon as you get out of the car, the men jump out 
 of the back or get off the machine gun and walk off somewhere, without the co-op mode, you are 
 always going to be a one man army. You can opt for some air support in the form of a drunken jet 
 pilot you eventually hire about a qurater of the way into the game, the idea of which is fun but 
 pressing a few buttons to complete a mission takes away the whole point of playing.
  
  Although I have a lot of criticism for this game, I still found it quite enjoyable. My last PS3 
 purchase before COD5, a worthy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game to come out for a long time and finally i got it today played it 
 for an hour and i have to say i really hate it ! first of all the story is stupid and doesn't make 
 any sense and the cut scenes are long and boring, all the missions i played are the same you go 
 you kill some people without any challenge its sooo easy to kill them and the funny thing is that 
 all the enemies are dressed the same !: D and when they're shooting at you its like they're throwing 
 fireballs at you in all directions u see alot of fire balls flying in every direction last time 
 i checked bullets dont look like that ! the most ridiculous thing is that if u can get close enough 
 to an enemy all it takes to kill him is just one punch and he's dead. The cars in this game suck 
 there are only about 6-7 kind of cars in the game and they look like they're from the 80's and 
 controlling these cars thats a whole different story. Voice acting in this game is a joke all the 
 characters sound like they have a cold !. The only good thing about this game is the explosions 
 and the graphics are OK. I dont think i'll ever play this game again.
  anybody played it feel free to share your experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi-kaho
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game as i put in my Classification, just a little to hard in some parts but most of the 
 time its just right.
  
  Graphix 8/10
  Nice graphics, trees fall, rubble from the buildings, and cars reacions to the enviroment.
  
 
  Gameplay 10/10
  Perfect gameplay, get hired to capture or varify a importit fracions leader's or smugler's death 
 by a photo (to bad you cant take the photo yourself) Hyjaking veicals, and much much more.
  
  Dificulty 7/10
  not the best. some parts are too hard and others way to easy.
  
  Hyjacking 
 100/10
  Incredable, you must first take out the gunner on tanks and stuff before though. then you have 
 to do the pop-out buttons like triangle then you must press triangle fast or else you dont sucsed. 
 it doesnt matter on tanks you can just hop up and do it again, but on a helicopor you nearly die 
 if you fail.
  
  Totaly a buyer
  
  Any questions PM me at Kakashi-kaho or email me at b_chugg@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXModern_MythXx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, Where to start with this game. I had high hopes for this game as I really enjoyed the first 
 one. The first one was innovative for the PS2, but is this innovative for the PS3?.. Sadly Not.. I 
 really didnt want to bash this game because I was looking forward to it so much and I havnt really 
 played much of it yet....
  
  Im writing this review after only playing less than 2 hours of the game. Its basically everything 
 we have done before, there is nothing new... Blowing things up is only fun for a while. Im not going 
 to go into too much detail, but to start off, you choose between 3 mercenaries, being the same 
 ones from the original game. I chose the guy on the cover. The story rushes through pretty quickly 
 (they didnt wanna be like MGS4) and your sitting there thinking... what just happened? - I this 
 game was trying to be epic, it pretty much fails....
  
  Then you get the option to drive to an objective. The driving needs fixing as its very frustrating 
 to control aswell as random people shooting at you for no reason as you drive past. Now onto the 
 shooting, its just plain. There is nothing to it, you cane roll, duck, wallhug or go into bullet 
 time... its just.... nothing. Thats pretty much all I can say at this stage, I think ots definetly 
 a rent before buy game....
  
  Pros - Explosions, Great Idea, Free roam, Multiplayer is fun, Variety is the spice of life...
 
  
  Cons - Naff controls, Frequent camera glitches and bugs, Annoys me that it could of been something 
 great, The water isnt very... PS3 like, lame A. I PS2ish graphics, Story rushes too quick... been 
 there, done that...
  
  Do developers even play games anymore or realise the standard we expect from next generation gaming. 
 It basically makes me state, "Hideo Kojima is really one of a kind".... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarlemzProdigy2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Mecenaries 2: World In Flames is WAY Over Antisipated, Things are way too easy to blow up, Pretty 
 Lengthy but not worth it, AI is probably the 3rd worst AI I've ever seen, getting money IS WAY 
 TO FREAKKIN EASY it annoys me, character models are good but not to my exspectaoin for the next 
 gen systems, to many glitches, physics pretty good but not as exspected, the civilians are really 
 stupid and pretty rare besides in cars considering how big the map is, the swiming is wierd because4 
 ass soon as you get into the water your gun disapear until you get out ov the water, and there 
 are NO freakn police in the game cosidering that it is and open world game... pisses me off not 
 2 much but just a lil bit, overall its a pretty crappy nock off of GTA IV and the game is probaly 
 only good for about 4 hours after that missions start to get really repetative... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtneya3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is clearly another example of games that ultimately fail to live up to the hype. 
 The first game, though slightly repetitive in its mission structure, was ultimately very rewarding. 
 The objective was clear, and though there were side missions, odds of you getting distracted or 
 feeling overwhelmed with several different tasks wasn't likely. 
  
  Pandemic seemed to have thought that more is better and decide to give mercenaries 'depth'. The 
 depth however, consists of a piss poor story, piss poor voice acting, and piss poor mission structure. 
 
  
  Yes, I know most games delve into the realm of fantasy, but the story mercenaries offers is almost 
 as ridiculous as the one liners that the characters offer at random intervals. 
  
  The controls feel either too loose, or too tight. The civilian casualties penalty is annoying, 
 and the list goes on and on. 
  
  Gamespot is right in giving it a low score, but shame on them for building the bandwagon that Mercenaries 
 so proudly rode on up until its release. 
  
  Mercenaries is god awful, rent it, play it, curse and swear, and if you are as angry as i am, break 
 it and simply pay blockbuster the fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhokusmiro
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  First things first... The game is cool. But it suffers from a lot of ill managed controls and mediocre 
 graphics. The missions are all about the same (tedious side missions easily get boring) and the 
 A. I is ridiculous! What is the use of bringing an NPC to shoot the 50. cal while you're driving? 
 No use at all! Most of the time these NPCs are non-responsive. It seems that it didn't help that 
 this game was pushed back for "improvement" cause the graphics look like they used next gen on 
 the character models (barely) , and just lazily rendered the environments with the PS2 version. 
 Most gamers get into a game not only for the game play, but for the story, and this game has a 
 pretty lame one. However, this game is a little better with a teammate. The online co-op is pretty 
 neat. You can drop in and out of the host's match at anytime. As to what system you should RENT 
 this game on? I would go with 360, cause at least you get some pretty awesome "achievements" while 
 you endure the excruciating pain of playing this game. Sorry PS3, no trophies... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshkid927
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I would agree that its not a 9 or ten but come on, a 5? Gamespot just lost some credibility with 
 me. This game is definitely entertaining with all the blasts and explosions. And also yes, it does 
 have some bugs in it but why does everyone point out the tiniest bad things. You dont even notice 
 any bugs unless you go looking for them. This game is definitely meant to have fun, not be GTA 
 IV and have the best graphics ever. If you are a man and like to watch stuff blow up, then I highly 
 recommend this game. The side missions and story is a bit intriguing as well. I have only played 
 as one character so far but there are some pretty funny parts in the story. And talk about multiplayer! 
 Get one of your friends to join you and I promise you are going to have a blast blowing crap up 
 and killing everyone. The chopper with the wench is pretty awesome, especially when you have your 
 friend in a tank at the end of it shooting people. lol. I recommend this game only to people who 
 aren't graphics whores about everything and people who just want to have some fun blowing crap 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smith447
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Okay first of all, i want to say the game is buggy and repetitive at times. But in no way is it 
 "broken" like gamespots review said. It's a very addictive game and even if you like blowing stuff 
 up just a little you're going to want to play this game. The review also said that the weapons 
 are bad? are you serious? If you compare this one to mercs 1 they are way better, the rpg is awesome.... and 
 so is everything else. The AI are poor by themselves but when they get together in a base and are 
 shooting at you all at once, they're awesome and its very challenging to survive. They've fixed 
 most of the annoying things in the original mercs like not being able to swim. In no way should 
 this game be bashed, it has its flaws but 5.0 is lower then some games that have been reviewed 
 on the site that i personally found very crappy. Whoever did this review needs to take more time 
 to study the game before you write up a negative review. If you notice most of the other critics 
 give it an average or like IGN's a "good". which is what i think this should get: a 8.0 8.5. Fun, 
 addictive, buggy. and someone please tell me who honestly thought that Mercs 2 was going to have 
 an awesome story line? Anyone who read up on mercs 2 before it came out should have realized that 
 off the bat. They're concentrating on blowing crap up, not a blockbuster movie story. Geez. Anyways, 
 worth a couple of rents, or at least wait to buy til the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_mgs2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Ok so Mercenaries 2 is a sandbox action actventure game and is the sequal to the first game Mercenaries 
 Playground of Destruction. You can play as either of the 3 mercenaries each with their own special 
 ability. the story has you chasing a guy named Roman who screwed you over and didnt pay you and 
 you have to work for a varity of actions to get info on him. So here's a breakdown.
  
  Graphics: Some people say there not next gen and GS says they have their ups and downs well i can 
 tell you now there are braillant. Whats not to like about them great looking explosions and fires 
 tress look great and ooooooo that water NICE! the merc models look good but could have been better 
 and the AI seem to be the same but the beatufiul envirnments make up for that.
  
  Sound: The sound is also great from the LOADS of vehicles in the game to the voice acting. Yeah 
 so the AI can say the same stuff again but then you just blow em up with a air strike.
  
  Gameplay: Again whats not to like its a sandbox game where you (or even a friend) can do whatever 
 you want and go wherever you want blowing everything and everyone up you see fit. GS mentions the 
 missions are repetive NO THERE NOT i didnt find any missions repetivite since you can apprach them 
 in different ways (blow everything up, sneak around ect.)
  
  Coop: This game lets two people play the entire game together isnt that great! You don't have to 
 do missions you can just free roam (but you have to stay close to each other) you could go around 
 collecting all the extras or just do your own thing its never gets old (stupid GS) . You can also 
 do some weapon challenges at the PMC to unlock costumes if there too hard to do by yourself
  
  Value: WTF GS 'huge world without much to do' what is wrong with this reviewer?!?!? Theres 
 endless side missions to do 100 spare parts to collect and loads more.
  
  Glitches/Bugs: i think when GS says 'dozens' thats going a bit far. theres not that many and can 
 be easily overlooked.
  
  OK thats the main things mentioned but here's the lowdown 
  
  Good =)
  . Got to love that great looking water (good graphics) 
  . Lots of different vehicles 
 to choose from and order including civilan ones (bikes, pick ups junkers ect.)
  . Most things you can blow up
  . funny at times
  . great use of the menu system
  . Surprisenly 
 steady frame rate
  . Fun co op play
  . Lots of stuff to do (unlike what GS says)
  
  Bad = (
  . yeah a few gltiches nothing majour
  . Could have been a better story
  . No online 
 deathmatch
  . AI could have been improved slighty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastaMule
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Okay, so when I first popped this game in I got mixed feelings. 
  
  The graphics are a slight letdown since I know the PS3 is capable of so much more, but given the 
 amount of destruction you can unleash, and the fictional, "unrealsitic" gameplay approach, it works. 
 
  
  Dialogue wise the AI is not very exciting, they keep repeating the same phrases over and over given 
 their faction which can get a little annoying, but what they say is rarely important, so you can 
 ignore them.
  
  The AI itself works, since the game encompasses a war zone; who cares if the AI is not that clever, 
 at least it gives you something to shoot at that will shoot back at you, and the AI is smart enough 
 to have one faction fighting the other, etc. The air strikes and airdrops work flawlessly, and 
 I've encountered no problems in completing my missions.
  
  The sound is fine. Guns sound like guns, explosions sound like explosions, etc...
  
  Game play 
 once again really depends on the player. You are given "simple" missions to complete; IE go here, 
 blow this up, take this guy out, etc..., and you complete them to earn $, items, etc. If you're 
 into destruction, this game is for you, as you can destroy virtually anything you see (except rocks 
 and things like that...) although there are some issues when it comes to collisions when driving 
 vehicles etc.. Of course, this game is not attempting to be excessively realistic so don't expect 
 anything mind blowing out of it.
  
  The replay value is there if you enjoy blowing things up and killing people in factions (killing 
 pedestrians subtracts $) plus the online coop adds a twist. It's always fun to play with your friends 
 or strangers online and unleash destruction or beat the game together.
  
  If you can get past the minor bugs and the unrealistic nature of the game, then this game is for 
 you. Of course, you may want to rent it first to make sure it's what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetlagoon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Hands down: this is the worst game I've played on PS3. I expected this to be GTAIV in a war zone, 
 but instead it is Mercenaries (yeah, the first one) with more bugs and worse graphics.
  
  I don't even know how it's possible, but this looks worse that first one. Plays worse, sounds worse 
 and ... and... well it's just worse in every way.
  
  I'm sure none of the EA/Pandemic people will ever read this, but just in case; here are some _general_ 
 guidelines of how to make a good (or even "ok") game:
  
  1. When there's a loading screen that lasts more than 5 seconds (not to mention 5 minutes) , have 
 a progress bar there. It's not difficult to do, I can send you source code for that in any language 
 you prefer.
  
  2. When building a sequel from GROUND UP! (as you advertised) , please make sure that the new one 
 is better than the first one - especially if you are building it on a platform that has "somewhat" 
 more power to handle, say, better graphics (?) .
  
  3. Ummm... I can't believe I'm saying this, but hey: TEST THE GAME before releasing it. There are 
 some fine QA-houses out there if you lack one of your own. Again I can send you some contacts if 
 you want.
  
  4. Hire some artists, don't let the programmers do the textures, animations and such.
  
  5. 
 The Goomba-AI from Super Mario Bros was pretty good. The genius was coming right at you! People 
 would freak out and jump for their lives! That's a good place to start.
  
  These are just some, but they should be found helpful.
  
  As a closing statement: Well done 
 EA, you're in the same field with Ubisoft with these "could've been good"-games. So sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalepretzels
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Seriously, pick it up at the store and buy it. I cannot agree with Gamespot's 
 review. They are obviously biased to GTA and can't get over the fact that maybe just MAYBE there 
 might be a better game out there.
  
  I think that gamespot was right about the story, if anything, though. It was a bit basic and uninspired. 
 However, despite Gamespot's accusations, the graphics are much better than your average ps3 game, 
 and the sound effects were just awesome and I'll come back to those later. The AI was okay, but 
 didn't render characters completely useless at any time like in oblivion or Assassin's Creed. Nobody 
 was just standing around saying "Hello."
  
  As for the sound effects, they're better than GTA4. They have a nice, loud feel. No doubt Gamespot 
 overlooked the fact that this game is a good change of pace from all the sci-fi first-person-shooters. 
 Or they just like sci-fi first-person-shooters and nothing else.
  
  Overall, this game is waaaaaaay underrated. End of story.
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is an open world game from Pandemic, the studio that brought us the Battlefront games. 
 While the shooting itself play out similarly to the Battlefront games, this is overall the most 
 ambitious project that Pandemic has taken on. The end result, while very solid, suggests that maybe 
 Pandemic should stick to more focused genres. 
  
  Just like in GTA, players are free to roam just about anywhere in the open world of Mercs 2. It 
 is possible to steal cars, boats, motorcycles, helicopters, jeeps, tanks, and more, and there are 
 plenty of weapons to keep players satisfied. The most common weapons, and thus the ones that players 
 will use the most, are the assault rifles. I've barely seen shotguns, grenade launchers, sniper 
 rifles, and surface to air rocket launchers, among other things, but they are much less common. 
 All of the open world components are executed pretty well, but not as well as, say, GTA 4. For 
 example, the cars feel okay in Mercs 2, but they seem to lack shock absorbers. 
  
  This is where the complaints end, for now at least. Mercs 2 just isn't like other open world games, 
 because everything in the game except for the terrain itself is destructable. The rampant destruction 
 in Mercs 2 instantly makes the game about five times more fun, and it is often awe inspiring. Want 
 to take out and entire city block with an artillery strike? No problem. You can even level skyscrapers 
 and oil rigs with the right equipment. The feeling of smashing through a city in a heavy tank, 
 leveling buildings left and right, is not one that can be matched in any other game, and quike 
 frankly it's thrilling. This is why Mercs 2 succeeds, and this is the biggest reason why it is 
 really worth $60. 
  
  There are also a number of unique factions in Mercs 2, so enemies in one mission may be allies 
 in the next. This is kind of a cool feature, but the factions are still kind of easy to manipulate. 
 Still, each one has unique equipment and vehicles that make it worth working with each of them.
 
  
  In an open world game, there are bound to be a few flaws or glitches. Mercs 2 is no exception. 
 Characters will get stuck in bushes and shrubbery. Seriously, you can't walk through bushes, and 
 one time I almost had to restart the game because I was stuck in the middle of one and couldn't 
 do anything. It's not like this is a game breaking issue, it's just weird. Also, and this was probably 
 an intentional design decision but I still find it odd, it is possible to drive straight through 
 trees while on a motorcycle. As long as they're not huge trees, they'll snap right in half, essentially 
 breaking right over the Merc's face. Lulz will ensue. 
  
  The graphics in Mercs 2 aren't terribly impressive. Much of the game looks like a slightly souped 
 up Xbox or PS2 game. Some of the texture work is just plain sad. The explosions, on the other hand, 
 look great. The sound fares worse than the graphics, mostly due to the voiceovers. The Mercs repeat 
 the same stupid lines ("I'd love to stay and chat, but time is money, and money is money," "I hate 
 getting hurt!" etc.) over and over again, but they're not as annoying as the NPCs. For some reason, 
 every armed NPC seems to think that I'm an enemy, even when we are clearly on the same side. That 
 is the only explanation I can come up with for them shouting "It's the enemy!" while standing inside 
 of their own home base, sealed off from the outside world. Gunfire is crazy loud, as are explosions, 
 and while they're not the best I've heard they are a lot better than the voices. 
  
  And that pretty much sums it up. Mercs 2 is a pretty good open world made better thanks to the 
 extremely destructable environments and its focus on guns and cash. The story is simple, the characters 
 are stupid, and the AI is repugnant, and that barely even matters when you're blowing the crap 
 out of a city. Honestly, Mercs 2 is just plain fun. Whether or not the fun of blowing **** up can 
 last for over five or six hours is another matter, though. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10: Crappy textures, decent character models, great explosions. It's a fairly big world, 
 too, so I'll give the graphics the benefit of the doubt. 
  Sound: 5/10: SHUT UP!!!
  Gameplay: 8.5/10: The shooting feels Battlefront-esque, which is a pretty good thing, and driving 
 vehicles is solid. Selecting airstrikes and other stuff from the D-Pad menu is kind of obtuse, 
 though.
  Entertainment: 8/10: Blowing **** up is fun. Period. Unfortunately, the somewhat vanilla shooting 
 and the clunky controls shorten the lasting value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAKISALL
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  After no more than 5 minutes of play I had fell through rocks found out that no matter what I do 
 to a bike it somehow stays standing perfectly straight and moving. Found many invisible walls and 
 barriers that made playing the game seem like someones first attempt. I'll admit I like watching 
 beautiful explosions as much as the next guy but too much time was put on appearance. The fires 
 in the first game a PS2 title (supposedly an "inferior" title would move realistically when a helicopter 
 came nearby and would look real. In this game the flames act like the bikes; standing totally erect 
 and stretching straight up to the sky. The turrets have a limited amount of ammo that is not nearly 
 as enjoyable as the if not real but more fun turrets from number one that had an infinite ammo 
 supply. Realistic? No. BUT WHY AM I GONNA PLAY A GAME IF I WANT IT TO PERFECTLY REFLECT WITH THE 
 REALITY THAT I AM TRYING TO ESCAPE BY PLAYING SOMETHING TO TAKE MY MIND OFF OF THAT REALITY? It 
 doesn't have to be that real. I'm no mercenary, I would never kill an actual person but I would 
 like some parts that would make a game more enjoyable to stretch reality just a bit. 
  The "humour" that keeps returning, about the character Mattias Nilsson getting shot in the butt, 
 is forced and doesn't seem to have the same flair to it that the original game did. It would have 
 a casual joke that could pass you by if you don't get it, or be hilarious if you do, and seemed 
 more natural. The physics also have slight problems, for example grappling onto a helicopter and 
 the line doesn't actually connect to the character or the tow cable from the helicopter that mysteriously 
 float about 2 feet below the actual aircraft. The worst i think is that when I was speeding down 
 the road on a motorcycle, broadsided a car and Nilsson fell off as if he had casts over every limb 
 of his body and that he was full of lead. Leading to a generally disappointing experience and has 
 made me realise that Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction all though older was probably the best 
 of the too, and that Mercenaries: World in Flames only improvement is look. So, overall the game 
 looks amazing (except when I stand on nothing or pass through a rock) but has serious polish issues 
 and could stand for a redo on the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfriend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  this game was surprisling good i saw alot of bad reveiwes and good the bad ones worried me but 
 i took a chance and bought it and im impressed with it i loved the vehicles and cars and stuff 
 but turning was very sad but th cars sound good lol the weapons are fun but the explosiong is perfecto!!! 
 awsome awsome and the helicopter is great well i like how bout you? i cant wait for.... MK VS DCU, Dead 
 Space, Prototype, Star wars The Force UnLeash, RFOM2, COD World At War, The OverLord2, Resident Evil5, Infamouse, FallOut3, Kill 
 Zone2, The Legenday Pandoras Box, Rise Of THe Argronauts, The Darksiders If It Comes To The PS3, and 
 i think thats all i can think of... idunno wht to say anymore i dont like of how many words u have 
 to say this suck who eles dont like to do it?, but in mortal kombat new game i think im gonna be 
 the best at the joker sub zerio and scropion hopefully reptile is a character in the game cuz hes 
 my favorite idunno batman looks kinda weried to play as but i wanna see his brutaility thogh i 
 guess i will play as him sumtimes but i hope there some really awsome characters in it i wished 
 that wolverine is init but hes marvel so ehh or venom that wouldve been sick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan1117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that this game was going to be multiplayer, I did soooo much research to see 
 if there was going to be a multiplayer splitscreen mode. Some websites said it did, and some said 
 it didn't, and was completely disappointed when it wasn't. The whole thrilling idea about this 
 game for me was that my g/f could actually join in instead of just watching me play and getting 
 pissed off. It just doen't seem as it would be as much fun if someone else was joining in remotely. 
 
  
  All in all, the graphics are incredible and the sound is great. As far as the gameplay goes, it's 
 pretty much exactly the same as the first one, except much more complicated. The addition of the 
 gasoline amounts adds an unnecessary level of complication to the game. Also, the fact that you 
 can only buy certain items from certain factions gets to be quite annoying, especially once you've 
 turned that faction hostile. 
  Nevertheless, the incredible amount of side missions and hidden items to this game allows the player 
 to pretty much play forever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoaMo121
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 sets you in war-torn Venezuela as 1 of 3 mercenaries that you choose. The story is that 
 your screwed over by this guy after you do a contract for him so your character decides to go after 
 this a-hole while blowing the crap out of everything that stands in your way. Now in the process 
 of doing this you will control dozens of vehicles including  
 trucks, APCs, tanks, boats, and helicopters. You'll also wield weapons such as sniper rifles, assault 
 rifles, RPGs, shotguns, submachine guns ,and turrets. You're able to access countless air and artillery 
 strikes including a FRIGGIN' NUKE!! All these can either be bought from different factions or found 
 out in the field you can have these goodies delivered to you in the field by your own personal 
 Irish helicoter pilot whom is also able to pick up things that you cant carry and deliver back 
 to your home base such as money, bombs, and fuel which is essential to getting everything you need. 
 Now what makes this game so good is that is truly fun you'll never find yourself getting bored 
 cause theres always something to do whether its destroying targets capturing bounties and outpost 
 even when not on a contract its fun exploring the world in seach of supplies and cash. There are 
 some bugs every now and again but they are to minor to make give Mercs 2 anything less than a 10/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demon01-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Having played most of the original Mercenaries, I was already somewhat prepared for what Mercenaries 
 2 World in Flames had to offer. At first glance Mercs 2 seemed to have everything I was looking 
 for in regards to the title. For the most part that turned out to be true but, as with most games, 
 there's an issue or two that make you wonder.
  
  When I first fired it up I was already a bit put out when I had to sit through an install but hey, 
 it's just one of those things right? Once that was done I chose my merc, Jennifer Mui, and started 
 my new game. I liked the look of the game once it started as I found myself in a rather mean looking 
 speed boat, taking in an eye full of the graphics which were pretty good, even on standard def... (I 
 know, shame on me) . Once I got to shore though, my opinion was somewhat different.
  
  While the game functions fairly well, and the graphics on your merc look pretty good, some of the 
 other little things start to show themselves. I noticed pretty much right away that just about 
 every enemy was saying the same damn thing. Over and over. The second thing that should be noticeable 
 right away is the lack of blood. Even though it has a T rating, no blood. Now, I'm not all about 
 violence but I do enjoy realism... At least some realism. I find it hard to believe that after 
 half a clip, as it seems, of high caliber AK-47 rounds pumped into a persons center mass that you 
 wouldn't see even a hint of arterial spray. Or perhaps a pool of blood. Maybe that's asking too 
 much. Either way, it 's something you'll overlook after you drop your first wave of poorly dressed, 
 non Venezuelan sounding soldiers.
  
  While some of the game play is fairly repetitive, there are no shortage of things and people to 
 blow up. Watching buildings come down after being hit by artillery shells and knowing it'd still 
 be standing if you hadn't come along is somehow satisfying... Every time.
  
  Even though there is still more left to do, I feel that I have experienced pretty much all of what 
 Mercs 2 has to offer. If you're a fan of the series or this type of gaming is your cup of tea, 
 I'd say get it. If you're not sure, rent it anyway. You may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xolivierx
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's start. First of all, this is supposed to be a shooting game, and nobody can argue there. 
 Can somebody explain to me why the precision shooting is NON EXISTENT? I personally don't find 
 it fun to aim at a target, empty 2 or 3 magazines and then finally hit it. Even the 1st SOCOM game 
 had better gameplay and shooting and it was released in 2000 if I'm not mistaken. That is the 1st 
 let down of the game. The 2nd is how you control the various vehicules in the game. Again, we have 
 seen better.
  
  Sure the graphics look good, the explosions are great, there is a huge variety of vehicules to 
 use. But none of that actually matters when there is no AI, when you can't aim properly, when your 
 character is invincible and when you can't actually control the vehicule you are in like you should 
 be able to.
  
  This is a poor game and it prooves people just buy anything. Any experienced player will tell you 
 this game is broken. I don't understand how they could release it with so many flaws. Isn't there 
 supposed to be people TESTING the game before it's released? And don't tell me the creators of 
 this game didn't know how to create smart AI, how to add the aim function, and how to design good 
 vehicule controls, because they are supposed to be paid professionals, and there is no excuse whatsoever, 
 for releasing game this flawed and expecting people to buy it.
  
  Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3k1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  If I could say one thing about Mercs 2. I would say it is fun, despite a few bugs here and there. 
 Both the single player and multiplayer will offer hours of gameplay.
  
  Single player:
  In the single player you can pick from one of either three charactors. I've picked the guy with 
 with the crazy hair do. You are sent on a mission to rescue this guy and then you get back stab. 
 The rest of the game involves you getting revenge on the bad guy. Overall the story isn't important 
 because the whole point is to blow things up. The game play can be repatative, but you wont care 
 because you are to busy blowing things up. There are some bugs, which makes the game annoying at 
 some time. Once I've had complete a mission only to get stuck near the end and so I had to restart 
 it again.
  It makes you wonder if they even played the game all the way to the end because of the number of 
 small problems. Also the game does get a little fustrating at the end. There was this one moment 
 when I was trying to destory a SAM missle system, but there where tanks around. So what do I try 
 to do? I try to grab one of the tanks to blow the other one up. I tried, but the button sequence 
 had me tap X at the speed of a jack hammer. So I was stuck trying to get the tank over and over 
 again because if I didn't, I will get shot to death. This brings me up to the most annoying aspect 
 of the game. The button sequence. Yeah I remember a few years back when button sequences use to 
 be fun. Now they are just a choir to do. You can litterly be stuck trying to get one tank over 
 and over again until you finally memorise the button sequence. The most annoying thing is that 
 at the end you have a button sequence, and if you mess up, you need to repeat a small portion of 
 the game just so you can try again. It was very annoying.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is something that is hooked on to the single player game. Either they can join 
 your game, or you can join theirs. If you are lacking resources, you can easily join a game and 
 aquire a few 100K's that way. The gameplay is fun, but there are a few parts in the game which 
 isn't made for multiplayer. For expample you can't go a certain distance from your partner. I was 
 in a race, and my partners car blown up. So near the end I got stuck because I my partner couldn't 
 get near enough to me for me to complete the race.
  
  Quick summary:
  Pros: Fun to play, good graphics, fun multiplayer, emersive, driving, and you can blow everything 
 up.
  
  Cons: Glitches, annoying button sequences, short, a little repetative, and multiplayer if you have 
 a bad partner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thereaper1981
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great so far because the shooting, driving, fighting, and more, is pretty cool. 
 Your able to do practically anything you want. Mercenaries 2: World In Flames should be even better 
 than the first one and every one had liked the first one. The cool part about it is that you can 
 drive motorcycles, cars, and more cool vehicles to destroy anything in your way in the game. The 
 game has great controls, the way of running is ok, but still it is great. The aiming is not too 
 small and not too big either, it is just right for people that like games like that. The game sounds 
 like it has a great story to it. The awesome part is how vehicles can explode and much more things 
 blow up in Mercenaries 2: World In Flames. The game deserves to have a high score. Everyone im 
 sure will like this because you can do practically anything you want. This is what I think of the 
 game Mercenaries 2: World In Flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunjabiIce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is a sequel to one the great blow em up games. This game is a great game for people 
 who are fans of over the top explosions. People who are looking for a captivating storyline and 
 dialogue should look the other way because this game is not Metal Gear Solid 4 in terms of story. 
 The game plays great abut have minor glitches that tend to get annoying. The games AI is pretty 
 dumb but its fun to contemplate different ways to kill a enemy because of the great selection of 
 weapons and vehicles. The game is great when playing with a friend because you are not linked together, 
 this allows for objectives to be completed easily and creativly. The graphics on both versions 
 are great but i found the PS3 version to be better because the 360 version tends to drop in frame 
 rate at certain points in combat and in movement. This is a great game if you like to blow stuff 
 up and is great buy for fans of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midevilatheart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries2: World in Flames is all about the money. You're a mercenary who got stiffed on his 
 last payment, but not before they try to kill you. The game is set in Venezuela and its your mission/job 
 to either get revenge on the new president or get paid. Whichever comes first. There are three 
 people you can chose to play as, all of which have their special "merc" abilities. The game environment 
 is awesome! There is a great abundance of weapons and various fire power. The best thing about 
 the game is that if you blow something up, it stays blown up. Buildings fall, trees can burn and 
 people fly through the air after being blown apart. You can drive and/or steal any vehicle on the 
 road, run people over and do wheelies, etc. Rely on your PDA it helps you focus on your factions 
 and keep in contact with the main base of operations. You have the ability to recruit mercs for 
 your "clan" and help on side quests that will build your cash and experience. I haven't really 
 gotten into the co-op on-line play, but it only allows 2 at a time, which is a little disappointing. 
 I haven't played it a whole lot because it just came out yesterday, but that will definitely change. 
 Overall: good game to play and definitely worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellthetruth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is a very good game when you put the whole game playing experience togeather. The graphics 
 was very good and good at certain points. Sound was excellant, but there were alot of repeating of 
 certain phrases which will bother you after a while. Story was interesting you knew what you were 
 fighting for. The game as a whole was solid and very good. Where they could have done better is with 
 the shooting, you could not shoot with your back to a wall. Most of the time shooting had to be done 
 by stepping out into the line of fire and jumping back in before you became a vegetable strainer. They (ea) should 
 take a look at tom clancy's ghost recon advanced war fighter games if they want to see how a master 
 does it. All in all this game is enjoyable and fun to play, its not perfect by no stretch of the 
 imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darion350
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I really want to like this game. I really do. There's plenty to do, from destroying anything in 
 sight to collecting all sorts of things in order to destroy everything in sight. The world is quite 
 big and there's never a stop in the action for the most part. 
  
  There are a few glaring problems though. The physics could use a major upgrading. The vehicles 
 handle like you're back to playing Pole Position on the Atari. Compared to what I've come to expect 
 because of games like GTA4 and Metal Gear Solid, the physics is just plain awful and makes my head 
 hurt just trying to navigate from one place to another. Gone are the precise controls and expected 
 reactions your vehicle has with the terrain. It seems to have been dumbed down to fit the PS1, 
 and even then there were plenty of games there that had better physics than Mercs. The big instance 
 of how the vehicles fail is the first mission you get from the mechanic. She has you race around 
 in a hopped up monster truck (with some weird hydraulic turbo boost option) . Now, when you hit 
 small rocks that you expect to be able to drive over, they act as though they're brick walls and 
 cause your vehicle to crash as though you're driving a lowered sports car and not some truck with 
 humongous tires. There are plenty more gripes I have with the vehicle physics, but then I'd be 
 rambling. :P
  
  The run-and-gun part of the game is mediocre at best. You basically just point and shoot without 
 any real aiming option or ducking option or anything else that would make this game more appealing. 
 You just stand there and fire your chosen weapon. That's it. No fancy stuff here. Oh, you can jump 
 and sprint. *sigh*
  
  The highlight of the game, however, are the explosions. They are quite fantastic to watch and cause. 
 Though they're sometimes cumbersome to execute, the end result is satisfying enough. However, the 
 visuals of GTA4 explosions blow this game outta the water.
  
  Yes yes, I know I keep comparing this game to GTA4, but you have to admit, this game has a lot 
 of the same things as GTA4 (vehicle hijacking, etc) and I only wish it had the same polish. It 
 would make this game so amazingly good that I wouldn't be able to put it down. As it stands now, 
 however, it only serves to give me a headache after a few hours of getting my expectations crushed. 
 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Lugubre
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  I got in on PS3, the game visual quality looks good, the water isn't that good. Big explosions, 
 rockets hits hard!! And I saw a glitch in terrain of a mountain that looks like a line between 
 squares, but after a sec didn't saw it. I also saw 4 npc enemies stuck in the sand bag barrier, 
 but you can help them with a grenade or RPC (rockets) to be out of there in matter of seconds... 
 I noticed that when I saw a bomb for pick up and the Helicop pick it up, says that I got a new 
 item for stock and also says that no item added to record, weird, but that's what it says.
  
  I got right now like 35% of the game in like 5h I played. I haven't done many of the side missions 
 to get more items to help you to explode something, just tried 3 or 4 of them, everything else 
 was just going by the main missions, now I got the Helicop, Jet, and mechanic to do some nice BOOM... 
 I picked Mattias. 
  
  One of the HVT (High Value Targets) thas the kill them or kidnap them, they are like Mattias says... 
 squishy... gotta clear a bit b4 you pick him with Helicop. 
  
  As far from now, I like the game a lot, love the gas bomb when burn a big area :)
  
  Hope you 
 like the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RekeHavick
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  What a disappointment - the graphics leave a great deal to be desired (clouds!?!?) , even the cut-scenes 
 are sub par. Grenades bounce around like lacrosse balls, but that is OK since you cannot throw 
 them any further than 10 feet. Driving is poor for a game that puts so much into vehicle variety. 
 Shooting is ... I can't even explain. There is no grouping to speak of - if you are a shooter veteran, 
 even a seasoned rookie - you will give up on shooting most enemies and simply run up to them and 
 melee kill. Of course the explosions look great - we've all known that for over a year now. Did 
 they spend 2 years on explosions and 2 weeks on the rest of the game?
  GLITCHES GLITCHES GLITCHES!! 
  I expect more from Pandemic - from EA not so much - but still.
 
  I gave it a higher score than I wanted because there are some elements that show some innovation 
 - the drop in drop out is fun and they really did spend a huge amount of time on explosions looking, 
 sounding and rumbling very well. Plus they gave me a free hat at the store even though I didn't 
 pre-order (I just needed some more words to fill out the review) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marty20000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  ---------------------------------------------------------
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  its a good overall game but all 
 those glitches... like if you melee a cargo container... its gonna move by a meter... that's impossible 
 by man.
  
  it doesnt beat the first one tough but its worth buying. with the co-op online mode. its short 
 i played maybe 3 hours ive done 38%. and some missions are hard to understand even with 2 people. 
 and the Mics when you play online i had to take the music and sound effects volume WAAAAYYY down 
 to hear my friend...
  
  so yeah its worth buying if your a hardcore fan of this series. like me :D
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  Q ('-'Q) Marty :D lolzorz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseystryker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed, obviously, were that the game's graphics were decent. Nothing to write 
 home about, but they get job done, though at times there is just a tad too much bloom which is 
 something I can't stand. I did notice that if you flip over a vehicle you do get some serious screen 
 tearing. It's nothing that hinders the overall game-play, but it can be annoying. The character 
 animations could be better. They seem somewhat stiff to me, and the physics are pretty bad considering 
 this is a game based upon destroying anything you want. Soldiers fall virtually the same way no 
 matter what unless you blow them up.
  
  Controlling your character is easy enough and is executed well. The main problems lies within the 
 vehicle controls. The game-play from what I've experienced so far is sub-par. Driving any type 
 of vehicle feels like you're trying to control a semi on ice, and the motorcycles are a joke. Vehicle 
 velocity isn't pressure sensitive from what I could tell which is unforgivable in this day and 
 age. Vehicular damage is pretty much nonexistent aside from losing you hood or trunk, that is until 
 your car catches fire which is your signal to bail out before is explodes. The AI is pretty lame. 
 They're unable to take cover and attack in any tactical fashion from what I've experienced. They 
 basically see you and go guns blazing. You want stealth? Forget about it. Enemy soldiers have a 
 6th sense and know when you've entered an area no matter how quiet you've been.
  
  The story is pretty bad. Just your typical revenge story which in it of itself isn't necessarily 
 a bad thing, but the execution is terrible. The story feels rushed with little to no build up and 
 the transitions are performed very sloppily leaving you wondering what in the hell is going on. 
 Fortunately by this point you don't really care.
  
  The best thing about the game IMO is the co-op mode. So far I've encountered little to no lag and 
 it can be pretty entertaining blowing up stuff with your friends. Is that by itself enough to justify 
 spending $60 on this game? No way in hell. Keep in mind that I've only spent about 3 hours playing 
 it, so my perception may change, but I doubt it.
  
  OVERALL 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sortacanadian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  In my initial review of the first few hours of mercs2, I gave the game an 8.5 and in the first 
 few hours it does indeed deserve that score. However, it's after you get to the mid-way point and 
 further that things about the game start to upset you. By the halfway point you will have experienced 
 at least one game-altering glitch and will realize the repetitive nature of the gameplay. Accept 
 a mission, buy some airstrikes, attack the target, proceed to kill everything easily with small 
 arms and vehicles, take the fuel, and then repeat. There's a certain paradox here: airstrikes are 
 the main appeal of this game and since the cool ones aren't cheap, you often save them for the 
 right moment. Unfortunately though for a lot of them you have to throw a marker by hand only several 
 feet away and in order to get to that spot in the enemy base you will have had to kill everything 
 before hand to make it safe thereby eliminating the targets of your airstrike. So essentially your 
 saving up airstrikes for a situation that likely wont present itself. Usually, the airstrikes aren't 
 even neccessary for achieving an objective and you can totally just hijack vehicle after vehicle 
 until you've destroyed everything. That aspect is quite fun at least the first few times as buildings 
 and land features react quite nicely to your violence. Actually taking down human enemies though 
 isn't rewarding at all. You go through, soldier after soldier, without flinching or enjoying a 
 second of it waiting to use your airstrike, and then realize there's no point in it after you've 
 killed everyone with your very uninteresting run-of-the-mill assault rifles and bouncy-ball grenades. 
 Games like this that emphasize violence and shooting people (though this sounds unpleasant) should 
 make sure it's fun to do it. That's what the game is built around. Personally I think it's going 
 to take more and more developer effort in T-rated shooter games for me to appreciate them. Hard 
 to have a game with that much shooting and no blood or gore. The reaction there between the bullet 
 and victim is what makes a good shooter interesting. If it's just like cartoon/old movie-death 
 than how can it hold your interest?; come on, it's 2008 and this is the NEXT GEN. If you loved 
 the first game and believed it needed very little improvement, as I did, than you may eventually 
 get annoyed with this game. If you never played Mercs1 than you have no comparison to make and 
 dont know what was missed here so this game will either be total crap to you or great. For me it's 
 an initial rush that slowly deteriorates into near indescribable disappointment. I had such high 
 hopes for this and it was something I had hoped for since finishing the first game a few years 
 back. This disappointment has set me back in gaming and has left me more cynical than ever about 
 the industry and upcoming games that everyone can't stop talking about. From now on, I'll believe 
 the hype only when I personally have tried and tested it and I suggest you do the same. So if you 
 want to play this, I highly recommend you rent it, have some fun and stop there, or wait for it 
 to decline in price as it inevitably will. These days, what with new games being 60$, more homework/research 
 is required on the part of the potential buyer. Beware overly positive reviews and do as much as 
 you can to spend as little money as possible to tap into what small portion of fun can be had here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  i got this game the day it was released, so i got it today. i haven't been able to play it through. 
 at the moment, i am at the part where you get your jet pilot. from what i have seen so far, this 
 game is going to be one of the best action games of the year. one cool thing about it is it is 
 a open-world just like the first game. this game has a better story than the first. you can still 
 call in air strikes, new weapons and vehicles. you can now do more, cooler things. you can now 
 steal ANYTHING that is drivable. you can use a grapple hook to hook onto a helecopter. now, to 
 steal a tank or helecopter, or any big vehicles, how have to do a button pressing mini-game. anyway, 
 this game is a must have for anyone who liked the first game or likes action games. this game is 
 one of the best of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurupSoldr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Dont believe the haters, i have had no crazy issues with this gaeme like stated. sure you see yourself 
 go through stuff here and there but you did in GTA4 too and it got a 10 so... this game is a blast 
 AI is not as dumb as i have been hearing. YOu will love blowing S*** up all day its very addictive. 
 I just played for 7hrs straight and didnt even realize it cuz i was so lockd in. GIve it a try 
 if you liked the 1st one you will love this one just as much. At least try it to get your own opinion, 
 dont blow it off based on the bad i almost did and am so glad i didnt. Framerate looks good, sure 
 the talk is repettive but who cares if i wanted to talk i would get a sims game or something. the 
 missions are cool so far, and it has plenty of challenges to keep your busy as well. Now stop reading 
 go get this game and start blowing some S*** up!!! You will love the Devastator!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradyonly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Corpses that don't stay and the fact that bodies disappear after a few seconds (meaning you can't 
 'play' with them.) kind of takes away from the realism. The aiming that you would assume a "Mercenary" 
 doesn't seem to be there either. Most guns take numeral shots before hitting your target from about 
 50 yards. Head shots are pure luck in this game. I'd expect a bit of a grouping but that grouping 
 should not be 20 feet on a billboard in front of you. Kind of like how aiming was on Kane and Lynch. 
 The fact that you can duck or hide behind cover that isn't 6 feet tall really gets annoying if 
 you're a Gears of War, Call of Duty or Rainbow 6 fan. I constantly found it quicker to run towards 
 someone zig-zagging and melee them than to try to pick them off from the distance.
  
  The visuals are fairly nice though, and the whole blowing up buildings adds to some fun. 
  
 
  The story kind of moves a little slow at the beginning, just as a warning.
  
  All in all, I'd rent it before buying. It's worth a try if you're not looking for corpses to abuse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdood333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games iv played in my days. its so good they should make sieries of 
 moveis like lord of the rings or something like that. when you get in that chopper you can totaly 
 tell that your guna have a good action filled day. mercenaries 2: world in flames is the rambo 
 of the 21st centery. i went to the game store earlyer today and i was lucky i got the last one. 
 now all i need is a kick ass sterio system to make all the explosions to sound real or basicly 
 shatter the window. all the vehicles come from a selection from a slow ass jeep to a helicopter 
 loaded with missles, rockets, and cal. explosive round. i think you get my point. anyway i think 
 this game is a blast. you may die acouple time but that just gives you another reson to kill them 
 again! well the rest of this is just to set the limit to 800 charecters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yichun4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever!! I seriously mean this. From topdown this is awesome! Now to the review. 
 The game is pretty good sure the graphics look old but the gameplay and explosions are great! I 
 dont know why some people would call it bad. The game is great from the dowhatever you want to 
 the missions its always fun. I was a big fan of the first so I was hoping it was going to be like 
 this and it is. The multiplayer is great! You can always have someone join in and out! But the 
 great part is there are more combos of vehicles with coop. Also the world is big and fun! and there 
 is nothing better in my opinion than running someone over with nilson, and killing civilians. Now 
 the pros and cons
  Pros: THere is always something to do. Multiplayer is great. Gameplay and missions are always fun! 
 doing whatever you want is great.
  Cons: Graphics are just a little old
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
